23-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal's coronavirus count reaches 16,28,980; 516 new cases add to tally||West Bengal's COVID-19 tally rose to 16,28,980 on Thursday as 516 more people tested positive for the infection, a health bulletin said. The state's coronavirus death toll rose to 19,702 as six more patients succumbed to the infection, it said. Kolkata reported two fresh fatalities, while North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, and Darjeeling districts registered one death each. Of the new cases, 178 were reported from Kolkata, followed by 88 in North 24-Parganas. The state now has 7,433 active cases. A total of 16,01,845 people have recovered from the disease so far, including 519 on Thursday. The recovery rate stood at 98.33 per cent. The health authorities have thus far tested over 2.11 crore samples for COVID-19, including 36,231 during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government and SEC requests permission to conduct 111 municipal body election by February||Bengal government and the State Election Commission (SEC) told Calcutta High Court on Thursday that there are plans to hold election to 111 municipal bodies where it is due by February in two phases. The state and the SEC submitted before the division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj a plan to hold election to five municipal corporations on January 22 and to the rest of the municipalities on February 27, 2022. The division bench had directed the state and the SEC to disclose a tentative time schedule for holding the poll to the 111 municipal bodies at the earliest in minimum number of phases. The court during the day also took up petitions alleging violation of its directions during the December 19 Kolkata Municipal Corporation poll. Opposing petitions by a CPI(M) candidate and two others alleging irregularities in the KMC elections and violation of the court's directions to hold peaceful, free and fair polls, state Advocate General S N Mookherjee submitted that the poll was peaceful barring some stray incidents. He said, such allegations can only be brought before the court through an election petition and not a writ petition. FIRs had been registered in case of violence on December 19 and that alleged troublemakers had been arrested, he said. The State Election Commission counsel submitted that it had complied with the court's directions and steps for building people's confidence, including route march and police patrolling were held. Drones were also used for surveillance. The bench fixed the matter for further hearing on January 6. The HC had turned down a prayer by the state BJP seeking deployment of central forces for the KMC poll after assurances by the SEC, the state police and Kolkata Police of all arrangements for holding peaceful, free and fair election. The court had left it to SEC to take a call on deployment of central armed police force if required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
23-12-2021||India||Trinamul Congress negates Mamata-Kishor rift||Trinamul Congress took to Twitter on Wednesday to clarify that there were no differences between Mamata Banrjee’s party and Prashant Kishor’s Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC). The open declaration came a day after its senior party leader and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien on Wednesday while distinguishing between TMC and I-PAC, said that the party had hired the political consultancy agency for five years and they have certain deliverables to do. On Thurday, TMC through it’s verified Twitter handle declared that both will continue working as ‘one team’. “There is absolutely NO MERIT in the hugely speculative and unsubstantiated reporting regarding the difference of opinion or working relationship between the TMC (Trinamul Congress) and I-PAC. Under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, we work as one team and will continue to collaborate in the future,” tweeted TMC, which was retweeted by I-PAC’s offical Twitter handle. Kishor, India’s top poll strategist had played a key role in lead Mamata to a massive victory in the Bengal Assembly elections earlier this year. I-PAC is a political collaborator and it is distinct from the party, the TMC floor leader in the Rajya Sabha said. Without naming Kishor, O’Brien suggested that I-PAC has certain tasks to do for TMC but the agency or any of its officials do not necessarily reflect the party’s opinion. “TMC is the first political party who have hired I-PAC for five years and they have certain deliverables to do. I-PAC has reach-out on the ground, communication and social media. All this is evaluated by the national working committee chaired by (West Bengal Chief Minister) Mamata Banerjee,” O’Brien had said. He further had mentioned about TMC focusing on those states where the opposition to BJP is weak or that space is vacant. “Therefore, the TMC will not enter Tamil Nadu where the DMK is a pre-eminent force or Maharashtra where the Shiv Sena and NCP are there,” he had pointed out. This made many speculate if there was an uneasiness within TMC over Kishor taking credit for the party’s hardwork in the West Bengal assembly polls and in other states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Didi loyalist Firhad Hakim is mayor again ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced  Firhad Hakim as the next mayor of Calcutta in what is likely to be a resurrection of one of the most trusted lieutenants of the Trinamul chief. At a meeting held at Maharashtra Nivas, Mamata iterated  that she would keep the Calcutta Municipal Corporation under her control. Hakim’s reinstatement is likely to strain  ties between Harish Chatterjee Street, which is Mamata's preferred work station, and Camac Street, form where Trinamul’s heir apparent Abhishek Banerjee holds fort. Abhishek, appointed as the national general secretary of the party after Trinamul won a third term in the state Assembly elections, was in favour of replacing many of the sitting councillors including Hakim, who was arrested in May for his role in the Narada bribery sting operation. Along with Hakim, Mamata has also retained his deputy, Atin Ghosh, who  is also not favoured by Camac Street. The Calcutta South MP, Mala Roy, will be the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. While speaking with  councillors, Mamata once again brushed aside all complaints of intimidation and coercion levelled against the Trinamul during Sunday’s poll. "Didi said this was the most peaceful election. There was no disturbance anywhere,” said a Trinamul councillor. Mamata has warned the newly-appointed board she would seek performance reports every six months, again making it clear that at least in the running of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation she will not tolerate any interference. The board under Hakim will have a 13-member team of mayor-in-council members. Out of the 16 boroughs, Mamata has decided nine will have women as chairperson. Though Hakim was retained in the cabinet, he had to settle for a lesser department than his preferred urban development, which also allowed him control over not just  development projects in Calcutta but the rest of the state. Before the candidates' list was announced, Hakim had requested the chief minister to relieve him from the ministerial responsibilities, but retain him as mayor. Abhishek was  opposed to this. While Camac Sreet preferred the late minister and first mayor from Trinamul Subrata Mukherjee’s sister Tanima Chattipadhyay from his ward, the ticket went to someone else. “Though Tanima di was assured she would get all support from certain quarters, the seat was finally won by Didi’s preferred candidate,” said a Trinamul source. With Calcutta firmly under her thumb, Mamata is now preparing for  elections to the remaining 111 civic boards across the state, voting  for which is likely to be held in January and February next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Two foreign returnees test positive for Omicron in Bengal||Two foreign returnees, who had tested positive for COVID-19, on Wednesday were found to have been infected by the Omicron variant, a senior health official said. One of them had returned from Nigeria and the other from the United Kingdom, he said. "We have received genome sequencing results for three samples today and among them, two were positive for Omicron strain. The other was suffering from the delta variant," he said. One of them, a 19-year-old boy, came from London on Sunday, said an official of a private hospital where he is admitted. "His condition is stable, he has cough and cold," said the official. The other patient is also a minor, sources said. Earlier, a seven-year boy who had returned to the state from Abu Dhabi via Hyderabad, had tested positive for the Omicron strain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Waterways minister visits Haldia refinery over damages||Contract workers of the Indian Oil Corporation on Wednesday morning protested outside the gates of the company’s refinery in East Midnapore’s Haldia, a day after a fire at one of its units killed three workers and injured 44 others. Protesters were prevented by the CISF personnel from entering the premises, ostensibly to prevent violence. However, a contingent led by state irrigation and waterways minister Somen Mahapatra and Trinamul trade union front INTTUC’s district leader Tapas Maity later went to the IOC’s corporate office in Haldia and held a meeting with its officials on compensation and safety measures “The protesters are contract workers who are angry over Tuesday’s incident (the fire at the machine-spirits quality unit) and want justice for the kin of the deceased and the injured,” said an INTTUC worker. One of the points of contention was an alleged delay in emergency response services on Tuesday when the fire broke, he added. Following the meeting with IOC officials, including Haldia refinery’s chief general manager (technical) Debasish Dutta, minister  Mahapatra said Rs 10 lakh had been demanded for the kin of each deceased and full medical coverage and future employment arrangements for the injured. The deceased were identified on Wednesday as Pargat Singh, 39, and Sarabjit Singh, 29 from Punjab, and Shamshad Ali, 35, from Bihar. “The future of their families need to be secured," said the minister, who later visited the site of the accident. Speaking to reporters, INTTUC’s Maity again spoke on the need for better emergency response in future. “Safety measures and communication gaps will need to be bridged in order to prevent such incidents in future,” he said. On Wednesday, the state government’s assistant director of factories, Haldia, Debayan Dey, issued a letter to the IOC asking them to cease all undergoing maintenance work until further notice. “I visited the accident site on Tuesday evening. Any further work is to be held in abeyance pending investigations and an official explanation,” Dey said on Wednesday. Sources at Haldia refinery said an IOC expert team from Delhi arrived on Wednesday morning and started investigation into incidents leading to Tuesday’s flash fire. An official statement put out by Sarbari Jana, senior human resources officer, Haldia Refinery, on Tuesday commiserated with the victims, promising medical coverage and “necessary support”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
23-12-2021||West Bengal||All eyes on Trinamul meet: Mamata to pick mayor today||Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to chair a meeting of Trinamul Congress’s 134 newly elected councillors of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation at Maharashtra Niwas here from 3pm on Thursday to pick the people to occupy the three key posts of the civic body. Although, on paper, it is the councillors who would pick the mayor, the deputy mayor and the chairperson, they are certain to throw their weight behind the names suggested by the chief minister. The members of the next mayoral council are also likely to be chosen at the meeting. This is the first time since Trinamul’s formation that the party went to the CMC polls without clarity on who the mayor would be. Ahead of the terms of the deceased Subrata Mukherjee or the estranged Sovan Chatterjee, there was no suspense over the mayoral face. “That is why there is so much interest in this exercise this time,” said a Trinamul vice-president. Whom Mamata would pick for the three top posts this time has been the subject of intense speculation for months, especially against the backdrop of recommendations for sweeping changes by Trinamul-hired poll consultant Prashant Kishor, purportedly endorsed by the party’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee. However, since Mamata’s retention of 87 outgoing councillors in the list of candidates on November 26, the likelihood of Firhad Hakim and Atin Ghosh being named for two of the posts is deemed a foregone conclusion. Besides those of former mayor Hakim and former deputy mayor Ghosh, the third name in conjecture has been that of Calcutta South MP Mala Roy, a councillor since 1995 and a former chairperson of the body. “There are recommendations from Team PK, with backing from Abhishek, to bring changes at the top, but whether she accepts them will not be clear before 3pm tomorrow (Thursday),” said a senior Trinamul MP. “Unless she (Mamata) springs a last-minute surprise, Bobby (Hakim) and Atin are going to get another term at the helm, with Mala added to the team,” added the MP. “One thing is for sure, she will bring in several new faces to the mayoral council.” Besides MP Roy and MLAs Hakim and Ghosh, there are four other city MLAs among the councillors this time — Debashis Kumar, Debabrata Majumdar, Paresh Pal and Ratna Chatterjee. Sources in Trinamul said the three Independents who won were also likely to join on the sidelines of the meeting, taking the ruling party’s floor strength to 137 in the 144-seat body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 440 more Covid cases, 451 recoveries and 12 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday logged 440 new Covid-19 infections, 451 recoveries and 12 deaths, causing a dip in the total of active cases by 23, to 7,451. Calcutta reported 177 new infections, the only one among the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day, and three deaths on Tuesday. North 24-Parganas also reported three deaths. However, 18 districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 339 or 77.05 per cent of the new infections detected on Tuesday. Twelve districts reported a single-digit figure of new Covid cases detected in a day. New cases reported on Tuesday indicate people infected between December 12 and 16. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate was 1.34 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.4 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. In the 87 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day fall in active cases on September 26, the total of active cases rose on 36 days and fell on 49 days. Over these 87 days, there has been a net fall of 223 in the total. Bengal now has nearly 16.28 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes around 16.01 lakh recoveries and 19,688 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Government makes Omicron test compulsory for foreign travellers||The Bengal government has decided to send all Covid-19 positive international passengers arriving at the Calcutta Airport to separate isolation facilities in an effort to prevent the spread of the omicron variant. “International travellers, who are tested positive for Covid-19 by RT-PCR at the airport on arrival in India, are not allowed to move to the respective destination. These passengers must be put in separate isolation in any of the health facilities identified for this purpose,” said a notification issued by the state health department on Tuesday. The directive also mentioned that the same procedure had to be followed for any passenger detected with Covid on a later date. The state government has also laid down a specific isolation strategy for the passengers detected with Covid on arrival. According to the strategy, the authorities of the isolation centres should send swab samples of the patients to the School of Tropical Medicine for genome sequencing. Besides, the separate isolation facilities for the positive travellers should not entertain other Covid patients. The facility should have toilets exclusively for the positive international passengers so that they don’t come into contact with other Covid patients. All caregivers should enter the isolation facility wearing PPE and follow stringent infection control protocol to protect themselves. In case the patients need to be taken out for diagnostic procedure, the stay should be as minimum as possible and it has to be ensured that they don’t mingle with others. In case a patient is found to have the omicron variant, he or she must not be released from the facility until two successive negative Covid-19 RT-PCR (in a gap of 48 hours) results are received. The patients without the omicron strain can be discharged according to the discretion of the physician treating them. Sources said the steps were initiated to ensure that the omicron variant didn’t spread rapidly in the state. “We are trying to ensure that omicron cases don’t spread rapidly in Bengal at a time when the state is slowly returning to normalcy in many sectors,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal|| Exporters and importers of India and Bangladesh meet over trade ||Exporters and importers of India and Bangladesh, respectively, who trade through the Mahadipur land port in Malda district, on Wednesday discussed measures needed to expedite bilateral trade through the route. Every year, a trade summit is held between these two countries on January 15 on aspects of border trade. Wednesday’s meeting at Mahadipur was a preparatory talk before the summit, said sources. Representatives of Mahadipur Exporters’ Association and Mahadipur Clearing and Forwarding Agents’ Association represented India, along with an assistant commissioner of Customs. From Bangladesh, a deputy commissioner of Customs and an official of the excise department and representatives of Sona Masjid Land Port Importers’ Association attended the meeting. Sona Masjid is on the Bangladesh side of Mahadipur. “At the meeting, we spoke on increasing goods trucks to Bangladesh. As of now, 300 to 350 trucks enter Bangladesh via Mahadipur every day (except Friday). We want at least 500 trucks to go every day,” said Prasenjit Ghosh, secretary of the Mahadipur Exporters’ Association. According to him, among these trucks, some 200 loaded with stone chips head for Bangladesh daily. The rest of the trucks carry items like onions, fruits and food grains. Bhupati Mandal, secretary of the clearing and forwarding agents’ association, said trucks carrying items other than stone chips get stranded in Bangladesh for over a month. “If prices of these items (onion, fruits and food grains) are low in Bangladesh, exporters don’t unload them (fast). Trucks are stranded for weeks. Ideally, goods should be unloaded within 15 days so that trucks can return to India faster. We said so,” said Mandal. Importers from Bangladesh, on the other hand, demanded export of spices, stopped for months now, should resume via Mahadipur. “Exporters are not interested in Mahadipur land port as the waiting period is longer. Trucks with spices have to wait for 40 days,” said a source. A discussion was held as to how trucks with spices could be sent via the border within 10 days after vehicles reach Mahadipur from various places of the country. “We believe the issues raised by importers and exporters should be raised at the upcoming summit for decisions to expedite and augment bilateral trade,” said an exporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Three HMI mountaineers unfurl Tricolour on icy continent||Three mountaineers from the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI), Darjeeling, went to Antarctica to display a giant-sized Indian Tricolour, performed yoga, cycled on a glacier, climbed the white continent’s highest peak Mount Vinson, and even managed to skydive over the Andes. “The multi-feat expedition named Mission Antarctica 2021 was aimed at promoting patriotism through adventure among the youth and countrymen,” said Group Captain Jai Kishan, principal of the HMI and leader of the expedition. “The expedition had been approved by defence minister Rajnath Singh on August 17.” Group Captain Kishan was accompanied by Mahendra Yadav and Sumendu of the HMI in the expedition, which was fraught with uncertainty till the last moment because of Covid-19 pandemic. “Till November 18 (two days before the team’s scheduled departure to Antarctica) we had not received our visa. Indian officials at various levels worked really hard to make this expedition a success given the Covid pandemic and various restrictions in different countries,” said Kishan. “This is the reason why we kept the expedition team small.” However, once the team reached the Union Glacier in Antarctica on November 26, 2021, there was no stopping them. Union Glacier is the landing point for all flights to the white continent. Without taking a break, the team again flew to the base camp of Mt Vinson, the highest peak in the continent situated at a height of 16,050 feet, and unfurled a 7,500 sqft Indian flag, on November 27. Temperature there was hovering around -25 degree Celsius then. “This flag had been unfurled at Mt Rhenock in the Sikkim Himalayas on April 25, 2021, to commemorate 75 years of India’s independence,” the air force officer said. The team then started their climb to conquer Mt Vinson and hoisted India’s flag — not the giant-sized one — atop the peak on November 30, 2021, only to be greeted by a polar storm. “For three nights, we had to brave and survive the storm. There were only around 12 people in the peak at that time. We were instrumental in rescuing two German climbers and getting them down safely to the base camp,” said Kishan. On December 4, the Indian team performed yoga at the base camp and two days later, the team once again displayed the 7,500sqft national flag at Union Glacier, with a Russian team agreeing to take drone shots of the event. They brought back this flag with them. The team decided to cycle on the Union Glacier on December 7 before moving on to Santiago, Chile. The HMI principal and his team successfully skydived over the Andes in Chile from an altitude of 13,500 feet, displaying a banner of 75 years of Indian Independence on December 12. They reached Darjeeling on December 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Tagore abode looks set to host unofficial Pous Mela||The Visva-Bharati authorities have stepped away from Santiniketan’s tradition of Pous Mela this year, but an alternative fair bearing the same name will be held in Bolpur from Thursday with the state government’s support. While the state government is using its machinery to ensure a flawless fair, the local leadership of the Trinamul Congress has stepped in to make the event successful in a bid to “show the Visva-Bharati authorities and its Chancellor Narendra Modi that the tradition of hosting the fair can continue even without the varsity’s support”. The five-day fair will be inaugurated on Thursday morning in the presence of members of Santiniketan Trust, the official organisers of the event since the time of Rabindranath Tagore, descendants of Tagore’s family, Santiniketan old-timers and varsity alumni. The fair, which will be held at the Dakbungalow ground in Bolpur, will have around 800 stalls and cultural programmes held in keeping with tradition of Pous Mela. “We can’t allow Tagore’s tradition to die, something that the BJP and the varsity’s vice-chancellor want. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the varsity’s Chancellor and we are not ready to believe that he is unaware of the goings on in Santiniketan. We decided to help in holding the fair as it is a matter of tradition and also an event that boosts local economy,” said Chandranath Sinha, who is an MLA from Bolpur and minister in the department of medium, small and micro enterprises. Descendant of Rabindranath’s family Supriyo Tagore will be present at the inaugural programme of the fair. Atig Ghosh, the varsity’s spokesperson, did not take calls or reply to a text message asking why the varsity did not organise the fair.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal||BSF beat BGB 2-0 in a match to mark 50th year of Bangladesh War ||A friendly football match was played between the Border Security Force (BSF) and Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) at the local grounds of Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar district on Wednesday to celebrate the 50th year of the Bangladesh war of liberation and the golden jubilee of Bangladesh Independence in 1971. Both the teams played well, but finally the BSF team won, 2-0.  After the match, mementos and trophies were presented to the teams. Ravi Gandhi, the inspector -general of the north Bengal frontier of the BSF was the chief guest at the event along with Paresh Chandra Adhikari, the minister of state for education, who was the special guest of honour. On behalf of the BGB, a team of senior officers led by Colonel Mohammad Zakaria Hussain, the deputy region commander of Rangpur region, was present to witness the football match.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal|| Leader behind Cooch Behar royal palace restoration no more||Prasenjit Barman, former Rajya Sabha member of the Congress, a political veteran and lawyer of Cooch Behar who was also instrumental in the restoration of the royal palace, died on Wednesday morning. He was 90. Barman, who was also a two-time MLA and a prominent social worker of the district, was also known for his efforts to conserve the Rajbanshi language. He had been under treatment for a while for age-related ailments. A few days back, his condition deteriorated and he was admitted to the MJN Medical College and Hospital, Cooch Behar. He died at around 6am on Wednesday. The veteran lawyer was also the first chairman of Rajbanshi Bhasa Academy that was constituted by the Mamata Banerjee government for the conservation and promotion of the Rajbanshi language. “In Cooch Behar, he was  known for being instrumental in the restoration of the palace. By the early 1980s, the palace had turned dilapidated. He was then a member of the Rajya Sabha and it is because of his consistent efforts that the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) had acquired the palace and restored it. Prasenjit Barman’s name will always be mentioned in the history of Cooch Behar,” said Debabrata Chaki, a researcher based in Cooch Behar. A document of questions asked in the Rajya Sabha in 1982 cites a question raised by Barman — who was a member of Cooch Behar Debuttor Trust and Cooch Behar Heritage Committee — that shows his concern for the restoration of the palace. “The document also shows that in reply to his question, the central government responded, citing that on March 20, 1982, the palace has been notified as a national monument and that the ASI will start its restoration work. It is because of him that the palace stands in grandeur even today,” said a senior citizen of the town. Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan and royal head priest Hirendra Nath Bhattacharya paid homage to him. Leaders of various political parties also came to his residence to pay their last respect. “He was a sincere politician, involved in a series of social activities. His demise is a major loss for Cooch Behar,” said former minister and Trinamul leader Rabindranath Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh ‘smuggler’ dead in BSF firing after intrusion attempt||An alleged Bangladeshi smuggler was gunned down by troops of the Border Security Force (BSF) in the wee hours of Wednesday when a group tried to sneak inside India and attacked one of the BSF jawans on duty with sharp weapons and sticks. Sources in the BSF said around 1.40am, when their personnel of the 70th battalion were patrolling on the India-Bangladesh border near the Nawada border outpost in Malda district, they spotted 15 to 20 suspected smugglers on Indian territory. As a BSF jawan challenged them, the group attacked him.. The jawan lobbed a non-lethal stun grenade, but they kept advancing, sources said. This prompted the jawan to open fire, which left one among the group injured while others fled. The injured youth was rushed to the Malda Medical College and Hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. So far he has only been identified as Ibrahim, 24, of Dhulipara village, Chapai-Nawabganj district of Bangladesh. The BSF found 197 bottles of cough syrup, a cell phone and some blunt weapons. The south Bengal frontier of BSF issued a statement that the deceased lived some 6km away from the international boundary in Bangladesh. A BSF protest note was sent to the Border Guards Bangladesh, asking the latter to stop smugglers from approaching the international border. TMC supporter shot at Hamid Mian, a Trinamul supporter of Bhagnitari village under Gitaldaha-I panchayat under Dinhata police station was injured when some people fired at him on Wednesday. The bullet grazed his head and hit one of his cattle. Hamid has been admitted at the sub-divisional hospital in Dinhata while vets are trying to extract the bullet from the cow. The incident, locals said, is fallout of an inner clash among two lobbies of Trinamul. They said the groups had clashed on Tuesday night, prompting police to intervene. Three persons were arrested during the clash. On Wednesday, while Hamid was working in his field, some members of both sides clashed and it led to the firing. Policemen have been deployed in the area. Additional report by our Cooch Behar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
23-12-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh camp points finger at leadership over CMC rout||The Dilip Ghosh camp in the BJP on Wednesday raised several questions on the party’s decision to keep the former state president and his close associates away from matters related to Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. The party's civic polls campaign was led by state BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar and leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari. Ghosh was hardly visible in the campaign phase. “Almost all candidates wanted Dilipda in their campaign. Yet, he could campaign for a handful of candidates.… It was clear that the party leadership was unwilling to give any space to him,” a source close to Ghosh said. “Now after these horrendous results, the natural question is whether it was right to keep him away,” this person said. The supporters of Ghosh said their questions couldn’t be wished away as the BJP registered unprecedented organic growth in Bengal under the leadership of Ghosh. During Ghosh’s tenure as the state president, BJP’s count of MPs rose from two in 2014 to 18 in 2019. In Calcutta itself, where the BJP never had a proper organisation, the poll percentage in favour of the BJP zoomed to about 30 per cent in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In the 2021 Assembly polls, the BJP received almost 29 per cent of votes in Calcutta. “It is true that many of Dilipda’s comments had embarrassed the party but it is beyond doubt that he has been the biggest crowd puller and the workers trust him. He should have been asked to be more involved in the party’s poll campaigns,” a state BJP functionary said. When Ghosh was contacted by this newspaper, he refused to comment much on the electoral outcome and parroted the party line saying there was large-scale rigging in the CMC polls. But on being insisted, he opened up. “Those who led the party in the CMC polls didn’t have any experience of doing politics in Calcutta. One would need to understand the pulse of the city for that,” Ghosh said. Although not everyone in the BJP was as vocal as Ghosh or his aides about the poll debacle, the discussion in the saffron circle revolved around how the party’s vote share plummeted in the absence of a proper leadership. Ghosh’s question on whether there was any leader who could lead the party in Calcutta sparked another speculation in the BJP camp as several party old-timers are now sceptical on whether Sajal Ghosh, BJP’s newly elected councillor of ward 50, would be given a higher space in the city’s politics. Some of these leaders, on condition of anonymity, told this newspaper that they were apprehensive of Sajal’s rise in the party hierarchy. “We know Sajal won in his own strength and didn’t need the BJP to back him. This is why he will now be placed above our heads,” a senior leader said. “Meena Devi Purohit and Vijay Ojha have also won on their own might. But they will never be given importance.” The central leadership of the party is also unhappy with the civic poll results. Majumdar, Adhikari and state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty have been summoned to Delhi to meet national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh on Thursday. Ghosh will also be present at the meeting, where the disastrous outcome of the civic polls will be discussed. New state committee Bengal BJP announced its new state committee on Wednesday. While MPs Locket Chatterjee and Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato have been retained as general secretaries, Sayantan Basu, Rathin Bose and Sanjay Singh have been replaced by Jagannath Chattopadhyay and MLAs Agnimitra Paul and Dipak Barman. MP Saumitra Khan has been replaced by Dr Indranil Khan as the youth wing chief, while Tanuja Chakraborty is taking over as the chief of the women’s wing. Veteran BJP leader Pratap Banerjee, along with Basu and some others, have been dropped from the committee altogether.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
