24-12-2021||West Bengal||Meet the Trinamul's 'top of the pops',  those who cornered 90% vote share ||Several councillors from the ruling Trinamul, it would appear, are more popular than their indomitable party chief  Mamata Banerjee after the just concluded Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls as they have been elected by overwhelming majorities, garnering vote shares higher than what the Bengal chief minister earned during her last election victory. True a civic election cannot be compared to Assembly polls. One, the electorate is far larger in the case of the latter and two, the nature of people's concerns are widely varied. Yet reduced to voting percentages, the numbers tell their own, at times, peculiar stories. Elected to the state Assembly in a by-election from her home turf of Bhowanipore after losing from Nandigram during this summer’s Assembly polls, Mamata had received 71.9 per cent of the total votes polled, miles ahead of her nearest rival, Priyanka Tibrewal of the BJP. The CPM nominee, Shrijeeb Biswas, received only 3.56 per cent of the votes. Mamata’s margin till date is the highest winning margin held by any chief minister, besting the previous record held by her predecessor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. After Sunday’s polling for the 144 wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Opposition parties have described it as a "farce"  with allegations of widespread electoral malpractices, including intimidation of, and assualts on, voters, polling agents, and political rivals _  all eyes are on five councillors who contested on the Trinamul symbol. They are Ashutosh Das (ward 35), Amiruddin (ward 54), Manzar Iqbal (ward 61), Jiban Saha (ward 57) and Shammi Jahan Begum (ward 64). All of them received over 90 per cent of the votes, indicating that in their respective wards, they are higher in the popularity charts than the chief minister is in her home constituency. In fact, there are 29 other Trinamul councillors who have surpassed Mamata’s vote share by polling 80 per cent or more. And in 44 other wards, Trinamul nominees received 70 per cent or more votes. The story is somewhat different in Mamata’s own ward where social worker Kajari Banerjee polled lesser votes than what her more illustrious sister-in-law had got in the Assembly bypoll. Kajari Banerjee could get only 68.96 per cent of the votes. Among those who breached the formidable 90 per cent mark, Shammi Jahan Begum’s nearest rival from the Congress could manage only 3.48 votes. A glance at the summary results of wards reveals the huge gap between the Trinamul and the party that has come at the second spot, be it the CPM,  Congress or the BJP. The Left has been reserved about its climbing the vote share ladder and replacing the BJP in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area. While the Left  emerged in the second spot in 65 wards, the BJP has only 47 wards where it is ahead of the Congress and the Left. Despite getting a combined vote share of 11.89 per cent,  Left nominees had to forfeit their deposits in as many as 97 wards. A look at the two seats that the Left has won this time (one each for the CPM and the CPI), the difference between the vote shares of the Left and the Trinamul is not as glaring as it is in the wards where Trinamul has won. For example, CPI’s Madhuchhanda Deb got 56.38 votes, while the Trinamul nominee got a respectable 37.56 votes. Likewise, CPM’s Nandita Roy had a vote share of 44.15 per cent, just marginally ahead of the Trinamul candidate who received 43.46 per cent of the votes. On the other hand, in ward 17, Trinamul nominee Mohan Kumar Gupta polled 11,097 or 87.07 per cent votes. CPM’s Srabani Chakraborty, who came in the second place, received 5.45 per cent votes. In  the adjoining ward 18, Trinamul nominee Sunanda Sarkar got 89.07 per cent, votes while CPM, again in second place, managed  9.66 per cent votes. In some of the wards, for which booth-wise break ups are available, other parties have mostly received votes in single digits or even zero, while Trinamul’s vote is either above 1,000 or just below the four figure-mark. Trinamul's popularity in Bengal is undisputed. Yet, percentages pertaining to individual vote  victory margins tell their own story.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
24-12-2021||West Bengal||Former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang joins TMC||Months ahead of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) election, former GJM leader Binay Tamang, who had quit the hills-based party earlier this year, joined the ruling Trinamool Congress on Friday. Former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) MLA Rohit Sharma also joined Mamata Banerjee's party. Tamang and Sharma were handed over TMC flags by state ministers Moloy Ghatak and Bratya Basu. When asked about his stance on the Gorkhaland statehood issue, Tamang said the development of Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills is his top priority. "Development of the hills is my top priority. The BJP is trying to use the statehood issue to fool the people of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. Since 2009, they have been saying that they support the Gorkhaland demand but have not done anything towards it," he said. Tamang, who had broken away from Bimal Gurung-led GJM in 2017 and led a faction of the party, quit the hills-based outfit in July this year. Election to the 45-member GTA is likely to be held early next year. The last election to the semi-autonomous council was held in 2012. Tamang's joining the TMC comes at a time when a section of BJP leaders have renewed the demand for Gorkhaland state and also sought to carve out north Bengal as a centrally-administered Union territory, citing disparity in development and injustice to the people of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
24-12-2021||West Bengal||BSF kills 2 villagers in Cooch Behar ||Two villagers were killed when the Border Security Force opened fire on a group of people who were allegedly smuggling cattle into Bangladesh early on Thursday. This is the second incident of BSF firing in Cooch Behar district in the past one-and-a-half months. An Indian and two Bangladeshis had been killed in BSF firing on the border on November 12. Cooch Behar superintendent of police Sumit Kumar said the BSF troops had spotted a group of alleged cattle smugglers on the Bangladesh border in Kashimghat under Dinhata police station around 2.30am on Thursday. “Reportedly, the smugglers scuffled with the BSF team and tried to snatch their Insas rifles. This made the troops fire six rounds. One man suffered injuries and he was brought to the MJN Medical College and Hospital (in Cooch Behar) where he died later. A BSF jawan was injured in the scuffle,” Kumar said. The deceased was Lutpar Rahaman, 33, a resident of Purba Jaridharala Baraibari village of Dinhata. Later in the day, the Guwahati frontier of the BSF issued a statement saying the body of another person identified as Jahidul Miya, who was from Jaridharala village, was found in the Singhimari river that flows through the area. Trinamul condemned the Centre’s decision to expand the BSF’s jurisdiction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
24-12-2021||West Bengal||516 infections, 519 recoveries and six deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday logged 516 Covid-19 infections, 519 recoveries and six deaths, resulting in a drop in the total of active cases by nine to 7,433. Calcutta reported 178 infections and two deaths on Thursday. In the past 89 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the total rose on 36 days and fell on 51 days. Over these 89 days, there has been a net fall of 241 in the total. The number of new infections reported on Thursday is indicative of people that got infected in the December 14 to December 18 window. Calcutta reported 178 new infections, the only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Twelve districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 404 – 78.29 per cent – of the new infections detected on Thursday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.42 per cent on Thursday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.4. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported two, while North 24-Parganas reported one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 16.29 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes around 16.02 lakh recoveries and 19,702 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
24-12-2021||West Bengal||29 students test positive in Nadia Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya||Panic broke out among students and officials of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya here when 35 persons, including 29 students, tested positive for Covid-19 within a week of a parent-teacher meeting. School authorities claimed two students had tested positive last week, prompting the school to organise an RTPCR test camp on campus on December 20 and 21. Sources said school authorities had sent affected students to home isolation, however, they were yet to make any decision about continuing classes. On the first day, 215 persons, including students, teachers and non-teaching officials were tested, of which 29 students tested positive. On the subsequent day, six more persons tested Covid positive. “This should be decided by the district administration,” an official of the school said, adding that a meeting in this regard is underway. A medical team led by CMOH Nadia Swapan Das visited the school and instructed authorities to ensure standard protective protocol so that the disease does not spread further. "We have spoken to the school authorities and are monitoring the condition of the affected students who were sent to home isolation. All the students are fine and asymptomatic," Das said. The school resumed offline classes, complying with the Bengal government’s direction from November 16. 324 students of Classes IX, X, XI and XII joined the residential school run by the centre’s Department of School Education and Literacy under the Ministry of Education. School principal Mausumi Nag said, “It is not clear how the students got infected”. The principal, however, did not rule out the possibility of the virus being spread among students during the parent-teacher meeting on December 7. “A good number of parents from different areas of the state attended the meeting, the principal told The Telegraph, adding that protocol had been followed. In the backdrop of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid spreading across the country, health officials and doctors expressed concern about so many students testing Covid positive. “We have asked the local administration to scan the history of the affected students and others if they had come in contact with persons who might have arrived from suspected countries where the Omicron variant has been spreading,” a health official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
24-12-2021||West Bengal||KLO welcomes peace talks move by Centre, Assam government ||Proscribed terrorist outfit Kamtapur Liberation Organisation has released a video welcoming the initiative by the central and Assam governments to hold peace talks with it so that KLO members shun the armed struggle and return to the mainstream. “The KLO appreciates and supports the proposal of the government of India to hold peace talks with us. We thank the Prime Minister, the Union home minister and the chief minister of Assam and want a permanent solution to the political problem through the talks,” Koch Pavel, the self-styled foreign secretary of the outfit, was seen saying in the video. This is the first time that the KLO has come up with a formal response after Assam’s BJP chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said around 20 days ago that the KLO wanted to hold peace talks and his government would reciprocate. Trinamul leaders and a number of Rajbanshi organisations had then demanded that the Bengal government be involved in the talks. The separate state that the KLO and those Rajbanshi organisations have been demanding includes six north Bengal districts. In the video, Pavel referred to the merger agreement signed between the India government and the then princely state of Cooch Behar in 1949. “It was supposed to be a full-fledged state but eventually, the entire area was included in the states of Bengal, Bihar and Assam. That is why our organisation was formed,” he said. The outfit’s representative also made it clear the KLO would closely monitor the entire process of peace talks and its terms. “We would also ask the Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) population and mass-based over-ground organisations like GCPA, KPP and AKRASU to monitor each and every step of the dialogue process initiated by the government of India,” the KLO representative said. Pavel didn’t utter a single word on the Bengal government in his statement. “A number of cases, including charges under the UAPA, are pending against KLO members, including their self-styled chief Jeevan Singha. Unlike Assam, no official statement has been issued by the Bengal government. Maybe because of that, Pavel didn’t refer to the Bengal government. But no decision can be reached unless the Bengal government is included in the parleys,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
24-12-2021||West Bengal||Protest hits Adani plant, contract workers gherao officials ||Contract workers of Adani Wilmar Ltd’s refined-oil production unit in East Midnapore’s Haldia gheraoed management officials for over a day from Wednesday with their list of complaints that included “arrogant behaviour” by officials as well as “nonchalance” towards their charter of demands submitted a few months ago. The workers aligned to Trinamul Congress trade union, INTTUC, said they had submitted the charter to authorities shortly after the Assembly polls. Following talks among the workers, INTTUC leaders and Adani Wilmar officials, the picket ended on Thursday evening but approximately 1,000 contract workers will reportedly remain absent from the plant till disagreements are resolved. Adani Wilmar’s Haldia plant produces 1,800 metric tonnes of the Fortune brand refined oil daily. But sources said a whole day’s production was thwarted by the strike on Thursday. “Matters have come to a head because of the high-handed attitude of management towards us,” said a protesting worker. Sixty-five factory officials were confined to the plant from Wednesday afternoon. On Thursday morning, INTTUC district leader Tapas Maity was also heckled after the protesters accused him of being a “conspirator”. “Our charter of demands, which included a plea for respectful behaviour as well as timely remuneration of provident fund, has all but been ignored despite the INTTUC’s assurances prior to the Assembly polls,” said striking labourer Ashish Sheth, adding that fixed salaries of Rs 18,000 had not been honoured in full for the past several months. On Thursday, Adani Wilmar officials submitted a formal request to the Haldia labour commission seeking intervention. District labour commissioner (personnel), Biplab Majumdar, said the joint labour commissioner would be on-site at the Adani Wilmar plant on Friday. The INTTUC's special observer (Haldia), Sanjay Banerjee, visited the plant on Thursday with municipality chairman-in-council, Azizur Rahman and Maity for talks but no developments were reported as of Thursday evening. Maity, instead, alleged a political conspiracy by INTTUC workers who “were actually with the BJP”. “We will take action against the persons who locked up Adani Wilmar officials overnight,” he said. Rajat Subhra Mukherjee, deputy general manager of Adani Wilmar in Haldia, said the packaging unit was closed at 2pm on Wednesday, after which the whole plant was shut down by protestors. “Negotiations are still in the preliminary stages, but we are hopeful work will resume on Friday. Labour issues exist in most units in this area,” he said. In a similar development, the fertiliser factory of Indorama India Private Limited that had been similarly closed down by workers in regard to labour issues on Monday, reopened on Thursday following negotiations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
24-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata says she'll skip Modi meet on Aurobindo||Mamata Banerjee has said she will not attend a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday on the 150th birth anniversary celebration of Rishi Aurobindo. The decision seems to be her way of protest against the Centre for not allowing her to speak during Wednesday’s meeting chaired by the Prime Minister on the celebration of the 75 years of Independence. “I will not attend the meeting tomorrow. The meeting is on one subject and we are already working on this subject,” said the chief minister during a meeting held at Nabanna on Thursday where the state government’s plans on how to celebrate 75 years of Independence were discussed. Mamata asked chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to attend the meeting on her behalf. “You just say that we are already working on this subject... I attended the three-hour long meeting yesterday (Wednesday), but they did not allow me to speak,” said the chief minister. In the meeting held at Nabanna, the cultural clan of Bengal condemned the decision of not allowing the chief minister to speak in a meeting that was held to celebrate 75 years of Independence. They said Bengal’s contribution to the Independence was huge. “I condemn the manner in which our chief minister was not allowed to speak at a meeting held to celebrate 75 years of Independence... Bengal's contribution to Independence is immense,” said Jogen Chowdhury, artist and former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. Other eminent personalities attending the meeting echoed Chowdhury. The chief minister then rolled out an elaborate plan on how to celebrate the 75th Independence day in Bengal. Mamata announced that the Independence Museum, which would come up in the heritage part of erstwhile Alipore Correctional Home, which has now been shifted to Baruipur, would have a light and sound show. It would also have a section depicting the history of Independence. Besides, she requested Jogen Chowdhury to paint a wall in the city to capture the history of Independence on  the lines of murals created by several renowned artists in Santiniketan. Sources said a wall of erstwhile Alipore Correctional Home could be dedicated for this purpose. In addition to these, there will be a number of musical programmes to be organised by the state government next year to celebrate 75th years of Independence. Mamata also said the Centre might not allow any special fund for the programmes, but the state would not think twice before spending on this purpose. “The Centre does not give us any funds for this purpose. But our departments will hold programmes on their own... I would not think twice before spending for the programme,” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
24-12-2021||West Bengal||Govt didn’t respond, so no fair, says Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor ||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Thursday accused the state government of not replying to three letters written to the health secretary and cited it as one of the reasons behind not organising the century-old fair this year. “We are sorry as we could not organise Pous Mela this year despite our efforts since October this year. The central government directed us to communicate with the state government for Covid related protocol but a letter and three reminders to the health secretary of the state government were not answered. So, at last we came to a decision that we would not be able to organise the fair amid this (pandemic) situation,” said Chakrabarty from a cultural event on the campus. Chakrabarty’s comment regarding the traditional fair was the first public statement from the varsity authorities as no official notice or statement was issued till the fair was begun.  Many varsity insiders think that Chakrabarty had tried shifting the blame on him for not organising the fair by passing the ball to the state government. “It is ridiculous what the VC had said today because he never called a meeting with the local bodies like municipality or the district administration whether he had the desire to organise the fair. Actually he is of RSS-mindset and working to ruin the culture of Rabindranath Tagore as per direction of his bosses in Delhi. If he had the wish, why did he not call a meeting earlier? Local bodies and state government help varsity authorities to organise the fair and other festivals,” said Chandranath Sinha, who is an MLA from Bolpur and minister in the department of medium, small and micro enterprises. “We don’t know whether he wrote to the state government at all,” Sinha added. This year, Visva-Bharati did not organise the fair and Bangla Sanskriti Mancha arranged an unofficial fair at Dak-Bungalow ground in Bolpur which was inaugurated on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
24-12-2021||West Bengal||Women take up cudgels against Trinamul’s pro-coal mine rally||Around 100 women armed with brooms and bamboo sticks from Dewanganj, a village that falls in the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine, on Thursday resisted a procession by Trinamul leaders in support of the project. The protest, sources in the administration admitted, surprised the 300-odd people in the procession as it was the first such spontaneous resistance from the villagers after the state government announced a rehabilitation package and initiated a process to get consent in favour of the coal mine. “Trinamul leaders and a group of tribal people today (Thursday) took out a procession in support of the coal mine.... The rally was brought out to counter the December 18 rally against the project by Save Democracy forum and a group of Opposition leaders from Calcutta. The sudden attack on the ruling party-led rally was unexpected. Many rallyists fled leaving their motorbikes at Dewanganj village. The situation got tense and a large police force reached the spot to take control of the situation,” said a villager. According to the source, a group of local people, including Trinamul leaders and some prominent tribal heads, took out the procession around 2.30pm. Several banners hailing the project and criticising outsiders, who are allegedly trying to instigate the villagers, were carried by the rallyists. “All prominent local leaders, including members of Trinamul-led Hinglo gram panchayat, were present in the procession.... The attack on the procession came as soon as it tried to enter Dewanganj village,” said the source. Birbhum police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi, however, said it was a procession by local tribal people and they took the permission. “A group of women tried to resist a procession by a group of tribal people at Dewanganj village. Police went to the spot and brought the situation under control.” Trinamul leaders present in the procession said the women were from Mudipara of Dewanganj village and they attacked them without any valid reason. “We took out a rally today to protest against external provocation by a few organisations like Save Democracy Forum. We suspect the women who launched an attack to resist our peaceful rally were instigated by outsiders. However, we would sit with the villagers and try to understand what they want,” said Kali Shankar Banerjee, Trinamul youth president in Mohammedbazar, who was present in today’s rally. Sunil Soren, a leader of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, had lodged a complaint with Mohammedbazar police, accusing a group of unknown people of attacking the rally. The police have started a case. A Dewanganj resident said most of the villagers were against the coal mine and the women protested Trinamul’s attempt to bulldoze local resistance. “We have already formed a committee to save our land and today’s incident proved how Trinamul is desperate to show its power on us. Today, women from our village were first attacked when few of them asked Trinamul leaders to ask why such a procession was arranged,” said a villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
24-12-2021||West Bengal||Poll panel fixes civic polls dates on January 22 and February 27||The State Election Commission on Thursday told Calcutta High Court that polls to 111 civic bodies across Bengal would be held in two phases on January 22 and February 27. The SEC informed the court that elections would be held to five municipal corporations — Bidhan Nagar, Howrah, Chandernagore, Asansol and Siliguri — on January 22. The remaining 106 municipalities will go to the polls on February 27. In response to separate petitions filed by the BJP and the CPM, the division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj had asked the SEC to inform it when and in how many phases the commission wanted to hold the polls to the 111 civic bodies. In response, the counsel for the SEC, Jayanta Mitra, on Thursday informed the division bench that it had decided to hold the elections in two phases. The SEC had during a previous hearing informed the court that it might hold the polls to the remaining 111 civic bodies in six to eight phases with a target to end the entire process by May 31. The bench then ordered the SEC to hold the elections as immediately as possible and in minimum possible phases. As the SEC declared its schedule before the bench and concurred with the court’s directive to hold the elections as early as possible and in minimum phases, the judges did not oppose the panel’s decision. Apart from the issue involving SEC’s schedule for the remaining civic polls, the bench also heard cases filed in the aftermath of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections. Three petitions filed by the Left parties came up for hearing before the court on Thursday. The CPI in its petition sought production of CCTV footage before the court to prove its allegation that gross malpractices had taken place during voting on December 19. The CPM, in its petitions, had alleged that the party had got no votes in many of the booths and claimed that it proved irregularities in the polling process. But the SEC’s counsel told the court that only two candidates had lodged complaints and police had taken immediate action to arrest the goons. Security Justice Rajasekhar Mantha of Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed Calcutta police chief and Burtola OC to provide security for one week to Ravi Saha, the Congress contender from ward number 16 of the CMC. Saha was allegedly heckled by Trinamul Congress workers on polling day. The judge also asked the police to take Saha’s secret deposition and act against the offenders. Saha had moved court after the election and produced a video clipping showing how he was tortured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
24-12-2021||West Bengal||Hakim gets mayoral post, Atin to be deputy & Mala Roy chairperson  ||No last-minute surprises were on offer as Mamata Banerjee picked Firhad Hakim as Calcutta’s mayor, Atin Ghosh as deputy mayor and Mala Roy as chairperson. Although sweeping changes at the top were advised by Trinamul Congress-hired poll consultant Prashant Kishor, the chief minister went with the intent to largely rely on time-tested loyalists who have delivered, preferring the experience and loyalty of the veterans to surveys and reports in favour of the new and the young. “In the corporation, you need experience. Without experience, the work cannot be done properly. There are many technical points to this,” said Mamata, in apparent justification of the decisions. When Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi announced the names of Roy and Hakim to applause from the gathering, comprising the 134 councillors of the party from the 144-ward Calcutta Municipal Corporation, besides senior leaders and elected representatives from the city, Mamata asked — citing her party’s adherence to democratic principles within — if anybody had an objection. Bakshi said: “When she (Mamata) is here and has said it, there is no question of objection.” She went on to announce the names of the mayoral council members and the borough chairpersons, where a few new names were accommodated. Mamata’s nephew and Trinamul’s Number Two Abhishek was conspicuous in his absence. Although several seniors in the leadership refused to read too much into it, some pointed out that this was how the Diamond Harbour MP had reacted in the oath-taking ceremony of the second Trinamul-led cabinet in 2016, when his purported objection to the inclusion of some — including Hakim and then mayor Sovan Chatterjee — had gone unheeded. “He (Abhishek) went to Delhi yesterday (Wednesday), although he was supposed to be present here. As a passionate Young Turk with a vision for the future, he is a bit of a radical romantic, when it comes to politics. She (Mamata) is far more pragmatic,” said a Trinamul insider. This was the first time since Trinamul’s formation that the party went to the polls without clarity on who the mayor is going to be. “It remains unclear whether Bobby (Hakim) would now be asked to give up his ministerial berth, because of the policy. Knowing him, he would gladly sacrifice his seat in the cabinet to continue as mayor. But given the way things have been going over the past month or so, it appears quite unlikely that he would be asked to choose,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. The chief minister hailed the people for the victory and warned the councillors against underperformance and laxity, ordering them to get to work right away. She assured the people that she would personally oversee the work of the historic body, thoroughly reviewing performance every six months and taking firm decisions accordingly, if the need arises. “The more we win, the humbler we must become. There is no place for vanity in Trinamul Congress,” she said to loud cheers from the audience. She thanked the state election commission and Calcutta Police for “very good work” and said: “Such a peaceful election, nobody in India has been able to show.” Mamata was apparently referring, dismissively, to the numerous complaints by the Opposition of vitiation of the poll process on Sunday, which she and Abhishek had previously warned the party’s rank and file against. The only element of surprise at the event was in Mamata’s declaration that the three victorious Independent candidates -- Rubina Naaz of Ward 135, Purbasha Naskar of Ward 141 and Ayesha Kaniz of Ward 43 – who had expressed their desire to join Trinamul would not be allowed in at the moment. “They had ties with the party in the past and they contacted us after winning. But I do not want them in the party right away…. If some think they will sabotage the party’s cause, win (against the party’s candidates) and then get into the party, they will have to wait. The game is not that easy,” she said, vowing to stand by the 10 defeated candidates of her party, besides some former councillors who were not fielded this time, assuring them that they would be involved in various capacities in the work of the corporation. Sources in the party said Mamata did this to deliver a firm message to nip such tendencies in the bud, with polls to 111 other civic bodies likely to take place early next year. “Had she not done this, it would’ve opened the floodgates and caused mayhem in those 111 bodies, where those denied candidature would’ve felt encouraged to fight as Independents,” said a Trinamul vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
