25-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Speaker writes to PM and President against Governor ||West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay, who has had several run-ins with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in the recent past, on Saturday said he has written to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to apprise them of Dhankhar's "interference" in legislative matters. The speaker had earlier expressed anguish over Dhankhar's insistence to administer oath to TMC MLAs, including CM Mamata Banerjee, after the September 30 elections. He had engaged in a war of words with the governor over appointment of Mukul Roy as Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman. The two have also sparred over a bill seeking separation of Bally Municipality from Howrah Municipal Corporation. The bill has been passed by the Assembly and is waiting for the governor's assent. "I have written to the PM and the President to complain against his (governor's) tendency to violate constitutional conventions, and interfere in legislative matters. His conduct does not befit the constitutional head of a state," the speaker told PTI. Bandopadhyay recently alleged that polls to Howrah Municipal Corporation were getting delayed with the governor taking time to give his assent to the bill. Dhankhar on his part said he was yet to get documents that he sought pertaining to the bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Not given assent to Howrah civic body amendment bill: Dhankhar||Dismissing media reports that claimed he had approved exclusion of areas of Bally Municipality from the jurisdiction of Howrah civic body, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday said it is under consideration as inputs from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee are awaited. The governor had earlier accused the TMC government of not providing information he sought on Howrah Municipal Corporation amendment bill sent to him for his assent. Taking to Twitter, Dhankhar said, "Reports in media that West Bengal Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar has put his seal of approval on the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 are not correct. It is under consideration under Article 200 of Constitution as inputs @MamataOfficial are awaited." Article 200 of the Constitution empowers a governor to either give or withhold assent to a bill or reserve it for the consideration of the President. The Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that proposed to separate Bally Municipality from the jurisdiction of the HMC, was passed by the state assembly recently. Meanwhile, West Bengal State Election Commissioner Saurav Das called on Dhankhar on Friday and discussed issues related to pending polls to civic bodies in the state, amid allegations of rigging and intimidation against the ruling TMC by opposition camps during the just-concluded Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections. Elections to 111 municipal bodies are due in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Doctor, stabbed trying to protect hospital staffer, dies in Siliguri||Sanjay Upreti, a cardiologist at STNM Hospital in Gangtok who was critically injured while trying to save a worker from a knife attack by a mentally challenged person on December 14 succumbed to his injuries in a hospital in Siliguri on Friday. He was 45.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Twin facilities in Siliguri for to ease traffic congestion ||Siliguri Metropolitan Police have opened a traffic guard and an office for the additional deputy commissioner of police in the northern and southern ends of the city for better traffic management. On Friday, Gaurav Sharma, commissioner of police, inaugurated a traffic guard at Canal Road in Nowapara under New Jalpaiguri police station. “Canal Road is one of the busy thoroughfares insouthern Siliguri. It is also the main road that connects Bhorer Alo (mega tourist hub). That is why the traffic guard has been opened to facilitate safer and better movement of traffic,” Sharma said. Bhorer Alo has been developed by the state government at Gajoldoba near the Teesta Barrage. Located under Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district, it is barely 25km away from SIliguri. The commissioner said a sub-inspector of police would be in charge of the traffic guard that would have its jurisdiction from Murder More to Gajoldoba and its surrounding thoroughfares, all in southern and south-eastern outskirts of Siliguri. “There are plans to install more traffic signals and kiosks to streamline traffic,” said a source. Earlier on Thursday, Sharma had opened an office of the additional deputy commissioner (traffic) of Siliguri Metropolitan Police off NH 31 at Matigara on the northwest end of Siliguri. “Police officers and other personnel posted at this office will take care of traffic along NH31 in Matigara, Khaprail More, City Centre and Uttorayon township, which are on the way to Darjeeling More, the principal entry point to Siliguri,” an officer said. Siliguri Metropolitan Police have its jurisdiction spread over an area of 640.62sqkm, covering eight police stations which are in Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district and parts of neighbouring Jalpaiguri district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Picnics banned near seven tiger spots in Alipurduar & Cooch Behar ||The state forest department has decided to stop picnics in seven locations, six near the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Alipurduar and one in a Cooch Behar forest, prioritising wildlife over merrymaking. Picnics won’t be allowed in at least six picnic spots which are on the fringes of the BTR on the outskirts of Alipurduar town, where a royal Bengal tiger has been sighted after some three decades. This apart, no picnic will  be allowed in Salbagan, another patch of forest developed by then royals of Cooch Behar outside district headquarters. “A royal Bengal tiger has been recently sighted in Buxa. Thus, we cannot take a risk and allow picnickers in spots which are on the fringes of the reserve. Anybody found violating the ban has to pay a hefty fine and can even face legal action,” said Budhwaraj Sewa, the field director of the BTR. In the past, thousands of picnickers would gather at Sikiajhora, Uttar Poro, Pampu Busty, Panijhora, Raimatang and Phaskowa, which are areas on the fringes of the tiger turf during the winter months. Such visits would usually start from Christmas Eve and continue till January-end. “Not anymore. Our focus is on conservation of wildlife, especially tigers. Tigers prefer silence in the forests and there is always an apprehension of sound pollution if picnickers are allowed. Added to it is the pollution of leftovers and garbage. People will have to scout for other picnic spots but there is no question of allowing picnics in these locations,” said a forester, adding that public announcements on the picnic ban are being made since Thursday. The decision is a financial blow toself-help groups based in the forest villages of BTR. During winter months, these SHGs charge entry fees and site maintenance fees from visitors and also earn through cultural performances. “It is true that our earnings will be affected. However, we are ready to bear it for the sake of tiger conservation,” said Lal Singh Bhujel, convener of the north Bengal committee of one such group, Ban Shramajeevi Manch. At Salbagan forest on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town, the department hung posters and made public announcements banning picnics “It is a restricted area and so we have stopped picnics that pollute the site,” said Sanjib Kumar Saha, the divisional forest officer of Cooch Behar forest division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Didi’s ‘choice’ Anindita Mukherjee takes charge as Durgapur mayor||Anindita Mukherjee on Friday took charge as Durgapur’s first woman mayor after her predecessor Dilip Agasty resigned last week citing ill health. Mukherjee had been Agasty’s deputy. Sources said Mamata Banerjee picked Mukherjee, the wife of veteran Trinamul leader in West Burdwan and former Durgapur mayor Apurba Mukherjee, because of her “clean and honest” image and her acceptability among rival factions and councillors. The term of the current Durgapur civic board will, however, end in four months. The civic election is scheduled in April 2022. Trinamul insiders said Mamata was annoyed with Agasty and described him as “good for nothing” last year. She had reportedly asked transport minister Firhad Hakim to remove Agasty from the post in an administrative review meeting at Nabanna last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Couple’s mushroom recipe to change lives of tea workers||A couple in Siliguri are helping women residents of closed tea estates across Siliguri subdivision and families who lost their principal earning members to elephant attacks, to mushroom hope amid hardship. Anirban Nandy, a rural development researcher from IIT-Kharagpur and co-founder of “Live Life Happily”, and his wife Poulami Chaki Nandy, are regularly visiting the tea estates to train women on growing mushrooms for sale. As of now, the couple are training around 1,000 women of tea estates, including some from closed gardens, on how to grow mushrooms regularly and in large quantities. “Mushrooms have a huge demand in the hospitality industry nowadays. We are trying to develop market linkages so that women can sell the mushrooms they grow smoothly, not just in Calcutta but in the local markets of Siliguri and the hills. A kilo of mushroom fetches at least Rs 120,” Anirban said. The couple got this idea by interacting with the mothers of children, especially girls, in the closed tea gardens, whom they were helping to study amid the outbreak of the pandemic last year. “When we taught the children, we met the mothers too, and learnt about the financial constraints their families were facing. That’s when we got the idea to train the mothers in cultivating mushrooms so that the families can afford to let their children study,” Anirban said. Anirban added that in some tea estates in Siliguri subdivision, the intrusion of wild elephants is common. “In Merry View, a tea estate at the Naxalbari block of the subdivision, there are around 120 families who have lost their principal earning member in elephant attacks in recent times. The women in these families are facing a huge financial crisis. So for them too, the training to grow mushrooms has proven useful. Some of these women have already started to earn by selling their produce,” said Anirban. He said that these people did not have land rights and were not legally entitled to use the land where they live for agricultural and other purposes. “It stops them from applying for bank loans too. So we are now creating self-help groups of these women in the gardens,” he added. Poulomi added mushroom was a good choice in this backdrop. “Mushroom cultivation does not need much space. We have brought women together into self-help groups. Each group has 10 members who cultivate mushroom  in their own huts,” she said, adding there are 50 SHGs of women at Gangaram tea estate and 40 groups in Merry View. The SHGs send mushrooms to wholesale markets in Howrah and Burrabazar in Calcutta. “We are also working in some more tea estates near Bagdogra and Bidhannagar (both in Siliguri subdivision,” Poulami added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Tourist dies of allergic reaction after eating crab meat in Digha||An 18-year-old tourist  died in Digha on Thursday night owing to an allergic reaction to crab meat she had eaten from a seaside shack hours before, prompting a cry for better hygiene in eateries on beaches. Deceased Ritwika Bhagat, a resident of Birbhum’s Rampurhat, had come to Digha with her family on Thursday. The incident comes barely a month after Soumyadeep Sikdar, 24, from Calcutta’s Behala died in Digha under identical circumstances. “Both post-mortems are identical and show clearly an underlying, undetected allergy in both victims that causedheart failure. But these incidents can be prevented if vendors adopt better public health measures,” said Digha hospital superintendent Sandip Bagh. Residents of the area said they had seen district officials raiding unsanitary shacks a few years ago after it was found that crabs were being soaked in chemicals, but added the initiative had “waned”. “We have asked the food safety department to resume these checks and take stringent action against errant shacks,” said Buddhadeb Mal, officer-in-charge, Digha police station. Hospital officials added that they were used to seeing frequent allergy cases in their hospital among unsuspecting patients. “It does not always turn fatal, but better public awareness is required,” said a source. “Whatever happened to her happened very quickly. Ritwika was suffering from allergies to certain food and had been undergoing treatment. She had tasted very little crab meat but soon fell ill,” said Rajib Pal, a neighbour who had accompanied the girl and her family on the trip.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Land near New Jalpaiguri on lease for industry and housing||The Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA), a wing of the Union railway ministry, has offered a four-acre plot in a railway colony near the New Jalpaiguri (NJP) station on a 99-year lease. The move appears to be a part of the Narendra Modi government’s bid to push ahead with its plan to monetise national assets despite resistance from the Opposition. A recent tender issued by the RLDA mentions that the Barrack Colony in NJP — a portion of railway land that has abandoned quarters — has been offered on lease against a sum of Rs 26.7 crore. “Altogether, 21,963sqm (around 5.42 acres) of land is available in the colony. Of that, 16,222sqm (around four acres) will be offered on lease. The company that secures the bid can develop commercial and residential facilities there. On the remaining 1.42 acres, the company will have to build 96 quarters for railway employees within two years,” a source said. Earlier this year, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had unveiled the ambitious National Monetisation Pipeline with a target to generate Rs 6 lakh crore by monetising assets in different sectors. According to the plan, around Rs 1.5 lakh crore could be raised by monetising railway assets. From Rajasthan to Tamil Nadu, parcels of land have been offered on lease. For example, a plot at Jhusi of Uttar Pradesh has been offered on lease against a sum of Rs 79.40 crore for residential development. The railway sites up for grabs include plots at a number of locations in Bengal, such as Asansol and Howrah. “It is not only the land. The railways are also offering multi-functional complexes (MFCs or multi-storied commercial buildings) that had been built at various stations across the country. In Bengal, the MFCs located at stations in Balurghat, Malda town, Dhakuria, Siuri and Jhargram have been offered on 45 years’ lease,” said a source. Soumen Nag, a researcher in Siliguri, said: “The identification of probable assets which can be offered on lease has started and the RLDA has been entrusted with the responsibility to find out prospective investors. That is why, a four-acre plot at the NJP has been offered on lease.” A retired railway employee said the people of the country and the Opposition would not allow all national assets to be sold. “They (the centre) are bound to face resistance,” the employee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Virtual solution: Holy dip in the Ganga, from home||For those who had planned a visit to the abode of Kapil Muni at the Gangasagar Island this year, but later decided against it in view of a renewed Covid threat, the South 24-Parganas district administration has come forward with a virtual solution. This year, the mela will last from January 10 to 15. The district administration has launched the “Ghar baithe punya snan” initiative through which devotees can offer puja sitting at home and   take a bath with the holy water of Gangasagar sent by the authorities to their homes. To help devotees who can’t make it to the fair in view of the growing count of the omicron variant of Covid in the country, South 24-Parganas district administration has launched the “eSnan”, “ePuja” and “eDarshan” services under “Ghar baithe punya snan” Using the online service, devotees can join the spiritual journey from the comfort of their homes by paying a nominal fee that will enable them to take a bath with the holy water, offer puja and have prasad while watching the fair live on social media platforms. To book the service, devotees have to visit the dedicated portal www.gangasagar.in or use WhatsApp number +91700396110. Even those who make it to the Sagar Island but would like to enjoy the online service can book it offline at kiosks en route to the island. “This is an innovative initiative piloted by the district administration to provide devotees the real taste of Gangasagar mela at home,” said district magistrate P. Ulaganathan at a media briefing on Thursday. South 24-Parganas ADM (general) Siyad N. explained the offer. “The eSnan and ePuja services are free of cost. The district administration is just charging the courier fee to deliver the items at home. The courier fee for the eSnan pack is Rs 100, while  those opting for the ePuja will have to pay Rs 150,” he said. Once the fee is paid online, the devotees will be sent an eSnan pack that will contain Ganga water, a booklet, soil lifted from the Ganga riverbed and prasad. Similarly, those who want to perform ePuja will receive prasad and puja flowers from the Kapil Muni ashram. The package has been prepared by Sundarini, which is a self-help group run by women of South 24-Parganas. This apart, for the convenience of devotees, the district administration has also launched an eDarshan service to give a feeling of being at Gangasagar. While the eSnan, ePuja and eDarshan will work on virtual platforms, the district administration has planned to help pilgrims physically present at Gangasagar with “Sagar Bhraman” programme, again a free service under which they would be picked up and dropped at a fixed point with access facilities such as wheelchairs for those who need them, including the ailing and the elderly. There will be dedicated caregivers for people to help witness the mela in a hassle-free manner. “To access Sagar Bhraman facility, devotees will again have to visit www.gangasagar.in to register themselves,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Tough time for bakery owners, Xmas cakes catch price rise chill ||For several bakery factory owners across Bengal, this Christmas and New Year season is no cakewalk. Reason: prices of most raw materials such as dry and fresh yeast, whipped cream, chocolate, jelly, sugar, flour, refined oil, margarine, cream and eggs have shot up by 10 per cent to 30 per cent this festive season. “Last year the price of a 200-gram fruit cake was Rs 50, which now I am forced to sell at Rs 75. As the incomes of many people have shrivelled owing to the pandemic, the rise in the prices of cakes and cookies isn’t going down well with customers,” said Sajal Dey, owner of Cakes & Snacks at Chittaranjan in West Burdwan. Before the pandemic, Dey would sell cakes and cookies worth around Rs 1 lakh per day. “I am not able to sell cakes worth Rs 40,000 to Rs 30,000 per day now,” he said. Dey had to reduce manpower by half since last year. “Earlier I had 45 employees but now I have only 20,” he said. Another bakery owner, Atanu Kumar Das of Haldia town, said he lost business by half this year because of the rise in the prices of raw materials and fuel. “Transport cost has increased because of the hike in fuel rates and so our business has been hit. People want cakes for cheap, which we are unable to provide. I used to sell cakes worth Rs 4 lakh a month during the Christmas-New Year season but this year it has been reduced to half,” said Atanu Kumar Das of Bidyut Bakery. Debasish Das, the business development executive (east) of a Kerala-based raw materials supply chain for bakeries, said the prime business season of bakery products is Christmas-New Year. “We earn most of our annual revenue during this festive season but I am not getting adequate orders,” he said. Debasish Das pointed out the extent of inflation. In 2020, the price of refined oil was Rs 1,660 per 15kg container but it is selling now for Rs 2,060. An egg that sold for Rs 4.40 last year is now priced at Rs 6. The price of bakery fat was Rs 1,960 per 14kg container last year but now costs Rs 2,360. “Prices of raw materials of bakery products have suddenly increased in the past two weeks,” said Debasish Das. The owner of two bakery factories in Bankura, Nabendu Singha, said the demand for one-pound cakes and heavier cakes was almost zero. “Most of the cakes we are selling now are small and within half-a-pound. People are avoiding bigger cakes because of the price,” he said. Sources said Bengal had some 4,500 bakeries that give jobs and livelihood to around 10 lakh people. “The big ones are somehow managing but local and small bakeries have been hit hard. Many small bakeries have already closed since the pandemic last year,” said Ismail Hossain, secretary of the West Bengal Bakers’ Co-ordination Committee and owner of Paradise Bakery at Sodepur in North 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Options lean, ex-GJM leader Tamang opts for Trinamul||Former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leaders Binay Tamang and Rohit Sharma on Friday joined the Trinamul Congress, underscoring the lack of options for hill politicians in the sharply bipolar politics of the region. Tamang said he had decided to start the “third chapter” of his political career with Trinamul “to serve the common people”. Sharma, who had been Kurseong MLA twice, echoed Tamang. In the Darjeeling hills, most parties are either aligned with the BJP or Trinamul. The only outfits who have charted an independent course are Ajoy Edwards’s Hamro Party and the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati camp). On July 15, when Tamang decided to quit the Morcha faction that he had formed and headed since 2017, the leader had categorically stated that his rivals were floating rumours of him joining either the BJP or Trinamul. “Rumours are being spread that I am in touch with the BJP. Some said I would join hands with Bimal Gurung while another theory was that I would opt for Trinamul,” Tamang had said. However, after joining Trinamul on Friday, Tamang said: “I would like to seek forgiveness from my supporters as I had to keep my political moves a secret in the interest of the common people. In politics, war and love, one has to sometimes keep secrets for success.” Sharma said he switched to Trinamul “to serve the people”. Many in the hills, however, are not surprised with Tamang’s move as there were whispers about his plan to join Trinamul. These people believe that since Tamang’s rival Anit Thapa, the president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, had started growing close to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the best bet for Tamang was to join Trinamul to counter Thapa. Tamang too hinted at such a possibility. “My third chapter is also a fight against the current politics of lies and false pretensions,” he said. All the three prominent hill leaders — Anit Thapa, Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang — have joined forces with Trinamul now. Thapa and Gurung are Trinamul allies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Rallies held in Birbhum & Calcutta after ‘cops attack tribals’||Political parties, including the CPM, and several tribal outfits on Friday took out rallies across Birbhum and one in Calcutta to protest against alleged police atrocities on tribal women in Birbhum’s Dewanganj village that comes under the site of the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine. A group of women in the tribal hamlet of Dewanganj accused the police of Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar of brutally beating them up after dusk on Thursday to “take revenge” for the resistance they had put up against a pro-coal mine rally organised by local Trinamul leaders. On Thursday afternoon, around 100 women armed with brooms and bamboo sticks from Dewanganj halted the procession. After dusk, the police allegedly raided the village and targeted women who had taken part in the resistance. “Police officers raided our homes and showered lathi blows on us. A few cops kicked us in the lower abdomen and many were left bleeding. The reason for the attack was our decision to resist the government’s plan to set up a coal mine by evicting us,” a protester said while getting treated at a local hospital. The CPM-backed Adivasi Adhikar Mancha took out a protest march in Mohammedbazar on Friday afternoon against the alleged police atrocities on women. “Police in uniform went around Dewanganj village, torturing innocent tribal women. There were no women cops when they raided the homes of tribal villagers and assaulted protesters for daring to halt a Trinamul rally. The pro-coal mine rally was nothing but a show of power to grab the land of tribals. We are protesting against such atrocities and will not allow the government to force the coal mine on people living there,” said Sushil Dhangar, secretary of the Paschimbanga Adivasi Adhikar Mancha. CPM cadres also marched through the streets of Bolpur, Suri, Rampurhat and other places in Birbhum demanding a probe against the alleged police attacks. “The government is claiming that people will not be forced to give up their land and the police under the same government are beating up women. This can’t go on. We will side with the indigenous people of Deocha-Pachami,” said Gautam Ghosh, the CPM’s Birbhum district committee secretary. In Calcutta, the CPI-ML organised a rally to protest against the alleged atrocity on Dewanganj villagers. A Save Democracy Forum team headed by Chanchal Chakraborty will visit the village on Saturday afternoon. “We will speak to the villagers to know what happened to them on Thursday,” said Chakraborty. Sailen Mishra, the CPI-ML’s Birbhum secretary, said they would hold protests in the district soon and an APDR team would visit Dewanganj on January 28 to assess the ground situation. While the Opposition piles heat on the government, Birbhum Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal said party leaders would talk to the tribal women. “All the women who protested on Thursday are our sisters and people of the district. We will talk to them and solve their issues,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Yuletide carnival brings trade cheer to Darjeeling ||Christmas has come a day early in Darjeeling with the Gundri Bazar bringing food, music, art and most importantly, hope among people in these troubled times. Gundri Bazar is the name of Darjeeling’s old market which no longer exists. However, social outfit Vik-Run Foundation and event management company Decibel have set up a swanky three-day Gundri Bazar, starting on Friday, at Chowrasta, the third such edition of the carnival around Christmas. Its success can be gauged from steps young entrepreneurs like Kabya Lama, 26, have taken. A photo-journalist in Mumbai, Kabya returned home in the hills last year when Covid-19 shut the country. “Last year, I set up a stall, Kurseong Fresh, here at Gundri Bazar. I sold mushrooms and organic turmeric. This platform gave me the confidence that my products will sell. I now have a shop in Kurseong,” said Kabya, who added soap, tea, local food products and plants to her list at Gundri Bazar this year. Kusum Rai, 31, who moved from Dimapur, Nagaland, to Salbari in Siliguri, has set up Axone, a Naga food stall.“I want to be in the Naga food business and am testing waters,” she said. Young graduates like Riwaz Pradhan, and his school friend Jorden Sherpa, both 22, said Gundri Bazar could be “life-changing”. Riwaz has graduated from St. Joseph’s in Bangalore and Jorden from St Xavier’s in Calcutta, but both want to explore baking as a career. The duo termed their initiative Baking Therapy as baking was their “therapy during lockdown.” “People from Darjeeling who settle outside the region ultimately want to come home. We want to start from here and then expand outside,” said Jorden, whose rasmalai cake cups were quite a draw at Gundri Bazar on Friday. Organisers will hold a seminar with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in Darjeeling on December 27, after carnival to “enhance business outreach”, said Vikram Rai, founder of Vik-Run Foundation. Mohanish Lama, the owner of Decibel, said Gundri Bazar will be held in Siliguri in January-end and Calcutta in mid-February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
25-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal pads up for war on omicron: Authorities asked to hike tests||The Bengal government has directed the district magistrates to upgrade healthcare facilities to the levels achieved during the second wave of the pandemic in May, amid fears that the omicron variant might drive a fresh spike in cases over the next “25 to 30 days”. During a meeting with DMs and other senior officials on Friday, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi told them to lay stress on readying public and private hospitals that had acted as dedicated Covid units during the second wave or had set aside beds for coronavirus-infected patients, spruce up testing and ensure that those whose second vaccine doses were overdue take the jabs. Officials said there was an apprehension that demand for hospitalisation would increase within weeks as the highly contagious omicron strain runs through the population. “It is apprehended that 10-12 lakh people could be infected everyday across the country during the peak of the expected third wave. Although initial research from multiple countries suggests that omicron may be causing milder disease than the earlier variants, we have to be ready as the pool of infected people could be larger, pushing up demand for hospitalisation,” an official said, recalling that India had reported over 4 lakh daily cases during the delta-driven peak earlier this year. Sources said that although Bengal now officially has 23,947 Covid beds, a number similar to that during the second wave, the actual picture could be different as some of the hospitals earmarked by the government for Covid treatment had been released as cases steadily declined over the past few months. Beds set aside for Covid patients might also have been opened to others, the sources said. “The chief secretary told the DMs to ensure that these hospitals are up and running once again,” an official said. The chief secretary is also said to have directed focus on increasing testing once again. “During the second wave, the state had on days conducted 63,000 tests. That figure has almost come down to half now. The chief secretary wanted the DMs to ensure that the number of tests are stepped up immediately,” an official said. The government also directed the DMs to see to it that those who were due for the second dose of Covid vaccine rolled up their sleeves for jabs so that the eligible population could be inoculated without delay. Till Friday, 6.42 first doses and 3.68 second doses had been administered in the state. “They should be made aware that within 25-30 days, a fresh wave of the pandemic is expected.… So, getting the second dose of vaccine is very important,” a DM quoted the chief secretary as saying. A section of officials said that as a third wave seemed unavoidable, the state government should reconsider its decision to lift the nocturnal restrictions in the run-up to Christmas and New Year. “As thousands of people are already converging at Park Street, unmindful of Covid protocols, it could light the spark for the third wave in the state. The government should re-visit its decision to lift the night-time restrictions that were in place between 11pm and 5am,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
