26-12-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal Tiger strays into Kultali area again, injures one||A man was injured on Sunday morning after a tiger lunged at a group of people when they were looking for the big cat inside dense bushes in West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district, forest officials said. Forest Minister Jyotipriya Mallick told reporters that a full-grown Royal Bengal Tiger was first sighted by the villagers inside the thick bushes near a river at Garankathi hamlet of Kultali on Friday. Pugmarks were also found in the area, and the locals claimed to have roars of a tiger for the past three days. The incident happened on Sunday when the villagers along with forest department personnel were searching for the animal inside the thick bushes. "The person received leg injuries and was being treated at a local health centre. If necessary, he will be taken to a hospital in Kolkata, another official said. “Though he had severe blood loss, he is conscious and stable,” he said. "We have fenced off the entire area on the side of river Piyali separating the bushes from human habitation and putting up cages with goats inside them as baits,” said the officer. Villagers have been asked to have patience and to avoid the particular spot for sometime. Hundreds of villagers gathered around the spot holding lathis, but the forest personnel prevented them from approaching the place. On December 7, a Royal Bengal Tiger had strayed into a village in another pocket of the Kultali area of the district from the Sunderbans forest. “It was captured using a goat in a trap cage, and then released in the Sunderbans a day later,” the official said. “It is not clear if the same tiger had strayed into the village,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
26-12-2021||West Bengal||Need to bring back Covid curbs in Kolkata: Experts||A day after the city saw huge crowds of mid-night revelers thronging the eastern metropolis's busy Park Street to celebrate Christmas, health experts and doctors cautioned the state government against allowing more such gatherings especially during the New Year festivities, pointing to the rising number of Covid cases in the country and emergent threat from a more virulent Omicron strain. Experts pointed out that the state authorities which had earned kudos for managing crowds during Durga Puja two months back, should not have relaxed their guard during the Christmas festival which is also a popular festive occasion given the fact that people are suffering from "Covid fatigue" and were likely to dispel with safety norms. Virologists and public health experts felt an urgent clampdown is needed to avoid a repeat of such mass gatherings with Covid inappropriate behaviour during the New Year celebrations. It seems the administration failed last night. There has to be a strict approach given that there are expectations of a surge in COVID cases especially with the advent of the Omicron variant. We expected the government as well as common people to be more responsible," Dr Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, Associate Professor of Burdwan Medical College, who has been handling COVID cases told PTI. Such revelry, throwing Covid safety protocols to the winds, would give a big push to the number of daily Covid-19 infections, he believed. India reported some 6,987 fresh Covid cases on Saturday with West Bengal accounting for 552 cases. Beliaghata ID hospital Principal Dr Anima Haldar also held the government and the police administration responsible for letting people gather in such large number on Christmas night in Park Street. The government must should have adopted a stricter attitude. The Delhi state government has successfully done so, we could have easily replicated that, Dr Halder said. The state government has relaxed night curfew restrictions for nine days during the Christmas and New Year festive season. Not only did large crowds surge through the central business district of Park Street, most clubs and hotels had full houses during Christmas lunches and evening entertainments. Observers said the state government's move to relax curfew norms which had forbidden travel after 11 pm was "good for business" but "bad for public health" as the number of gatherings were bound to go up given the fact that people living through two years of strictly enforced Covid norms were suffering from "Covid fatigue" and wished to socialise again. The euphoria witnessed at Park Street by gathering of crowd during Christmas night can have far flung repercussion. We all know gatherings with Covid19 inappropriate behavior causes surge of cases, Dr Subhrojyoti Bhowmick MD (Pharmacology) of Peerless Hospital said. One of Kolkata's top rheumatologist Dr Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, however, said blamed people who seemed to believe the danger from the pandemic has ended. Celebration should be coupled with wisdom ... You cannot expect everything from the government. If such a large number of people start gathering what can the police administration do? You cannot lathi-charge such a huge crowd during a festival, Dr Bandyopadhyay told PTI.The West Bengal government has relaxed the movement of people and vehicles between 11pm to 5am for nine days from December 24, 2021 to January 1, 2022. The night restrictions and other Covid measures, however, have been extended till January 15, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
26-12-2021||West Bengal||Four UK returnees test Covid positive in Bengal||At least four returnees from the United Kingdom on Sunday tested positive for COVID-19 upon their arrival at Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport here, following which they were placed under isolation at a city hospital, a senior health official said. Two men aged 44 and 24, a 31-year-old woman, and a five-year-old boy are among the new patients. They have been admitted to Beliaghata ID Hospital, he said. Their samples for genome sequencing will be collected on Monday, the official said. So far, six people, including a medical practitioner, have tested for the Omicron strain of coronavirus in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
26-12-2021||West Bengal||Tamang in TMC: Acceptability factor could be questioned||Trinamul’s decision to induct former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang ahead of civic polls in Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong may raise an “acceptability” question, many insiders believe. “Tamang has backed Trinamul from outside since 2017, but the question is if his inclusion in the party will be accepted,” said a Trinamul source. Tamang earlier this year severed ties with Anit Thapa, another prominent hill leader and close aide for years, to quit the Morcha faction he had formed with Thapa and headed since 2017. Tamang had revolted against Morcha founder Bimal Gurung to form the faction. “While Thapa’s clout in hill politics has grown over the years and he is now an ally of Trinamul like Gurung, Tamang has become a part of the ruling party in Bengal. A lot will depend on how the Trinamul top brass balances the aspirations of these three hill leaders,” said a source. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had called both Thapa, president of the Bharaitya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGP), and Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, to an administrative meeting in Kurseong in October, which showed her willingness to accommodate both allies. Mamata had also asked both Thapa and Giri to submit their proposal for “a permanent political solution” to the state government soon. “It is clear that the Trinamul chief is keen on strengthening ties with her hill allies and she definitely would not want to antagonise them. This balancing game could be tricky even for the supporters,” the leader added. Hill Trinamul leaders are keenly waiting for the announcement of the post that Tamang will get in the party. “I can’t disclose this right away,” Tamang said when asked. Some Trinamul leaders believe there is every chance of factionalism following Tamang’s induction. In the Assembly elections, hill Trinamul leaders such as Darjeeling (hill) district president L.B. Rai, who chairs Mirik municipality, and Kalimpong district president Shanta Chhetri, who is a Rajya Sabha member, had publicly supported Gurung’s candidates in the three hill seats and not Tamang’s. Gurung’s candidates, however, lost all three seats. Tamang’s candidate won in Kalimpong. The BJP won the Darjeeling and Kurseong seats. An observer said these issues need to be ironed out. “Trinamul, which had won the Mirik municipality in 2017 cannot afford to have any of its leaders walking out of the party because of Tamang’s induction,” he said. N.B. Khawash, Trinamul coordinator, however, said Tamang’s induction would help the party in the hills. “We welcome his induction, and this will help the party as he has his own supporters in the hills. As far as his post is concerned, the decision will be taken by the state leadership,” said Khawash. Tamang’s supporters will receive him at NJP station on Sunday morning. On reaching Darjeeling, Tamang will visit the Trinamul office at Judge Bazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
26-12-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: Series of projects launched ahead of civic polls ||The board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), the largest civic body in north Bengal, launched and inaugurated infrastructural projects worth around Rs 2.5 crore on Saturday, within 48 hours of the state election commission filing an affidavit in Calcutta High Court mentioning the dates when polls would be held to the SMC and other civic bodies. The poll panel affidavit mentions that elections will be held to five municipal corporations on January 22 and to the remaining civic bodies on February 27. This prompted the SMC to launch and inaugurate the projects in a hurry because the state election commission is expected to issue the notification for polls soon. On Saturday, BoA chairperson Gautam Deb, along with other members, inaugurated a number of upgraded roads, sheds for vehicles at the dumping yard of the SMC, a beautification project at the Tenzing Norgey statue area and also a police assistance booth at Darjeeling More, the principal entry point to Siliguri. “We don’t have enough time as the dates of the civic polls may be announced soon. We have to work fast. We will approach people with a report card of the development work done in the past seven months (since he was made the BoA chairperson),” said Deb. He was speaking on the sidelines of a Talk to Chairman event, an interactive session with residents of the city over phone which he holds every week. During the hour-long session, Deb attended 30 calls and listened to the residents who spoke about various civic issues and sought his intervention. “One of the callers made an allegation against the building cell of the SMC. This prompted him (Deb) to order an inquiry and also instruct officials concerned to act on the complaints of people and ensure that necessary steps are taken,” said a source. The SMC is the sole civic body in the state where Trinamul has never been in power. This time, the party is desperate to secure the municipal corporation and is putting in all efforts to secure the majority of the 47 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
26-12-2021||West Bengal||South 24-Parganas: Tiger’s roars halt Xmas picnickers in their tracks||Several groups of Christmas picnickers had to be evacuated from the banks of the interconnected Piyali and Matla rivers at Kultali in South 24-Parganas on Saturday morning after they claimed to have heard the roars of a tiger. Around 10am, panicky tourists huddled on the river bank and numerous boat rides had to be halted when the roars of what sounded like a royal Bengal tiger were heard in the vicinity. Forest department officials cordoned off the area on receiving reports about the presence of a tiger in the area and began a search. Local sources said a tiger had strayed into Gopalganj area of Kultali on Thursday. “Fishermen spotted pugmarks on the banks of the Matla (the Piyali flows into the Matla). Two women, fishing for crabs, also noticed the animal but the tiger still remains untraced,” said a local. As of early Saturday evening, foresters had not been able to trace the tiger. Sources said the tiger might have sneaked into the Nos 5 Garankathi area of Kultali on Friday. “We tried to lay a trap using a goat. But the tiger appears to have moved into the adjacent riverbank, which came to light when villagers spotted more pugmarks,” said a forester. On Saturday morning, forest officials alerted residents of Dongajora-Kella area about the possibility of a tiger in the vicinity, which was confirmed soon when tourists sailing on the river heard roars. A forest official explained that they had discouraged the tourists right at the start. “We had told the tourists not to visit the area and to move elsewhere for their picnic. The villagers also made them a similar appeal. But  most of the picnic groups paid little heed to our appeal till some groups sailing on boats first heard the roars of the tiger,” the forester said. As soon as the roars were heard, tourists panicked. Forest officials acted promptly to prevent the chaos from escalating and evacuated the picnic spot. Ashim Samanta, a member of one of the picnic teams that heard the roars, said they had not imagined their much-anticipated Christmas picnic would take such a turn. “We were visiting this spot after a gap of about two years owing to the pandemic. But  we were compelled to return. We were going to a spot on the Matla river when we heard the distinct roars of a tiger,” Samanta said. Senior forest officials of the Baruipur range, led by additional divisional forest officer Anurag Choudhury, monitored the development s in coordination with villagers.  “We have arranged a nightlong surveillance in the area and are hopeful of trapping the tiger soon,” said a senior official. “We think the tiger has taken shelter inside the dense bushes at a delta near the riverbank because of the presence of a large number of tourists. We are hopeful it will come out soon when things quieten down,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
26-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 552 new Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Saturday logged 552 new Covid-19 infections, 536 recoveries and four deaths, leading to a rise in the total of active cases by 12, to 7,458. Calcutta reported 197 new infections and three deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
26-12-2021||West Bengal||CMC debacle is past: BJP gears up for upcoming civic polls||The Bengal BJP on Saturday announced an extensive organisational reshuffle across districts in the run-up to civic elections early next year after its grand plans for the state were left in tatters by successive setbacks at the hustings this year, but ended up raising the hackles of several elected representatives and leaders. The BJP has replaced the presidents of 30-odd organisational districts, bifurcated organisational districts and brought several RSS pracharaks to the forefront in the districts. The changes, following a recent restructuring of the state committee and the frontal organisations, came within two days of the state election commission informing Calcutta High Court that polls to 112 civic bodies would be held in two phases next year — on January 22 and February 27. “The structural changes are sweeping as the presidents of 30 of the 39 organisational districts have been removed. Most of those replaced in the reshuffle belonged to the Dilip Ghosh camp,” a BJP functionary in Calcutta said. Ghosh is a former Bengal BJP chief. “The new leadership in the state has also decided to form new organisational districts in Malda, Birbhum and South 24-Parganas,” the source added. The overhaul, multiple sources said, was necessary in view of the back-to-back poll debacles in Bengal, a state ideologically crucial for the BJP and one where the party needs to make a mark to strengthen its presence in eastern India. After the drubbing in the Assembly elections and the even poorer show in the bypolls, the BJP suffered a body blow in the recently held Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections, where its vote share was even less than the beleaguered Left. “It is a challenge for the BJP to prove its strength in the districts. After the Assembly elections, many local leaders and workers who had made a beeline for the party returned to their old camps. The new office-bearers have a lot of responsibilities, including finding good candidates for the upcoming civic polls and also working towards making the organisation stronger,” a party insider said. He pointed that in regions like north Bengal, where the BJP had won 30 of the 54 Assembly seats, and some parts of south Bengal such as Nadia, North 24-Parganas and Purulia, it was necessary for the party to win municipalities to retain its support base. “If we fail to take control of the civic bodies, our support base will erode further and the contest will become tougher in the panchayat elections scheduled in 2024. We cannot afford to lose the civic polls in districts such as Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Darjeeling and South Dinajpur. We hope these organisational changes will help the party. Most of the new district presidents are younger than the earlier office-bearers,” said a BJP leader in Siliguri. As part of the plan, the BJP has nominated leaders associated with the RSS as the in-charge of several districts. They will work as observers along with the district presidents, the BJP sources said. “It is evident that the party is trying to piggyback on the RSS’s support base, keeping in mind that many districts and civic areas have a mixed population. Also, hardly any of these leaders have been deputed in his their own districts,” a political observer said. Apart from the change in district presidents, the heads of the five zones in Bengal have also been replaced. Sayantan Basu, who was the zone head in north Bengal, has been removed and Locket Chatterjee has been drafted in as the party in-charge in Burdwan and Purulia. A section of BJP MLAs are unhappy with the overhaul. On Saturday, five BJP MLAs of the Matua community, from Ranaghat South, Haringhata, Gaighata, Bongaon North and Kalyani, quit a social media group of the party’s lawmakers. The BJP sources said the MLAs were angry with the state leadership over the recent changes and claimed that the Matua community, which is said to have supported the BJP in recent elections, does not have adequate representation in the state committee. “The number of dissidents seems to be on the rise in the BJP, particularly after these organisational changes. It is yet another issue that the party will have to handle ahead of the civic polls,” said an observer. “It is true that all the MLAs from the Matua community are upset with the recent reshuffle of the state committee. It is quite surprising that the section of voters who played the key role in the success of the party in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and also won a good number of seats for the party in the Assembly polls, has no representative in the new committee. This has obviously irked our MLAs, who vented their grievance to me and also quit the party’s WhatsApp group”, said BJP MP Santanu Thakur, the head of the All India Matua Mahasangha. “It is unfortunate that although most of the MLAs have been accommodated in the committee, all the Matua MLAs have been ignored. They were not even accommodated in the district committees”, he added. “I met (BJP president) J.P. Naddaji over the issue and appraised him about the grievance of the MLAs. I am hoping he would offer a suitable solution. I have, however, not spoken to the state president on the issue since all the changes were made by the central leadership,” Thakur told The Telegraph. The MLAs who quit the party’s WhatsApp group are Mukutmani Adhikary, Ambika Roy, Subrata Thakur, Ashim Sarkar and Ashok Kirtania. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
26-12-2021||West Bengal||Repatriation of minor: HC instructs Indian high commission to arrange ||Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the Indian high commission in Dhaka to coordinate with its Bangladesh counterpart for the repatriation of a minor girl from Nadia who had been trafficked to the neighbouring country earlier this year and sexually abused at a shelter home after her rescue. The girl could be brought back through the Gede check post on December 28, according to a request from the court. The court has directed the inspector-general of the BSF, the superintendent of the Krishnagar police district and other authorities concerned to receive the girl. The 16-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped by a Bangladeshi infiltrator and taken to Rangpur, where she was kept in a hideout. She was later rescued by the police in Bangladesh, after which her repatriation order was issued. The Indian authorities had got in touch with their counterparts in Bangladesh after coming to know about the whereabouts of the girl that emerged following the arrest of three aides of the prime accused, Milan Miyan. Lawyers could not recall an earlier instance of a girl trafficked to Bangladesh being repatriated on the orders of Calcutta High Court, which also involved the Centre in the matter. “The progress in the case has been made possible by the sincere and proactive initiative of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha, who involved central agencies for the rescue and repatriation of the girl,” said advocate Susmita Saha Dutta, who fought the case free of cost for the girl’s mother. The police and family sources said the girl, daughter of a domestic help, was reported missing on June 23. Krishnagar police began a probe and it emerged that she could have eloped with Milan, a worker at a steel furniture manufacturing unit in the Nadia headquarters. Advocate Niladri Saha, who jointly fought the case with Dutta, said: “The police (in Bangladesh) arrested three of Milan’s associates, who during the interrogation revealed that they were all Bangladeshi nationals and that Milan had lured the girl with a false promise of marriage and trafficked her to Bangladesh through the porous border.” Once the police in Bengal ascertained the girl’s location, the CID took over the case and contacted the Bangladesh authorities. The Bengal government put up the girl’s name in the National Status Verification Report through the immigration, visa and foreigner’s registration office. “We were told that the detective department of Bangladesh police had rescued the girl. She had been kept at the Sheikh Russel Child Training and Rehabilitation Centre in Rangpur,” a CID officer said. However, speaking to her mother over the phone from Bangladesh after being rescued, the girl said she had been sexually abused at the home. The mother then filed a petition before Calcutta High Court, seeking help from the state and central governments for the repatriation of the teenager from Bangladesh. “Justice Mantha, hearing the petition, expressed serious concern and directed the Centre to take necessary steps to get the girl back home in India. We also involved the BSF and the NIA. Justice Mantha also requested the Bangladesh high commissioner in India to shift the girl from the Rangpur-based home to a safer place,” advocate Dutta said. “Since the date and time of the repatriation are yet to be finalised despite an order being issued by the Bangladesh authorities, the high court has directed the Indian high commission in Dhaka to coordinate with its Bangladesh counterpart for her repatriation on December 28 between 11am and 3pm, if possible,” Dutta added. “It is a major success in rescuing a trafficked girl. Calcutta High Court has played a positive and proactive role. The state police also tried their best. This case will provide a ray of hope for those families whose daughters have been trafficked to Bangladesh,” the advocate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
26-12-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati: Protesting students put up handicrafts stall||Some 50 Visva-Bharati students who have been against varsity authorities and vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly saffronising the campus have set up a handicraft stall at the “alternative” Pous Mela in a bid to raise funds for their protest movement. These students are selling cotton bags, ceramic cups, teapots, handmade calendars, scarves and several decorative items in styles of artwork native to Santiniketan. “The varsity is closed so we have a lot of time on our hands. So we decided to make handmade items on a large scale and sell those in a bid to raise some money to use for the next phase of our ongoing protests," said Subha Nath, one of the students. In September this year, these students had gheraoed the residence of the VC for days after three students who were prominent dissenting faces against saffronisation were suspended. The trio continue to be under suspension. Somnath Sow, one of the suspended students, was seen on Christmas manning the stall and interacting with customers. “We are openly requesting visitors to buy our products and we will use the profits to intensify our movement against the VC who not only ruined our culture by stopping the century-old fair but is also intentionally trying to saffronise the campus.” Students have also put up a hand-written banner on the stall saying that buying the products from this stall will help them in the ongoing protest against the saffronisation of the varsity. Students such as Ritam Kar and Swapnanil Mukherjee said they made calendars and ceramic products for sale at the stall. Dipanjan Sarkar, a student of fine arts, sat on the grounds sketching live portraits of interested visitors. They all said that response from buyers was “favourable”. “We are selling items worth Rs 8,000 a day,” one of them said. Visva-Bharati officials said this year the fair was backed by the Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a social organisation supported by the state government. “We welcome students in the fair as they play an integral part in protesting the goings-on in this varsity,” said Samirul Islam, president of the Bangla Sanskriti Mancha. The alternative Pous Mela started on December 23 and will end on December 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
26-12-2021||West Bengal||Deocha coal mine: 155 villagers agree to give up lands||The Birbhum administration has received the written consent of 155 villagers who are willing to give up their land for the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine project, amid protests by sections of residents that has received the support of the Opposition and social outfits. The Bengal government has assured that it would first provide jobs to each affected family and rehabilitate them before taking over their land. “We have already received the written consent of 155 villagers (from Dewanganj and Harinsingha) who are willing to give up their land. The administration will first provide government jobs and rehabilitate them before taking over their land. A section of people from outside is trying to provoke villagers. We will find a solution through continuous discussions as the people of Deocha-Pachami are like our family members,” said Bidhan Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate. District officials said the first phase of the project would come up at Dewanganj and Harinsingha villages. According to the officials, a large number of people support  the coal mine project. The administration has started distributing three types of forms from a temporary office of the Power Development Corporation Ltd and local gram panchayats. While one form seeks details of land, the other seeks consent from the landlords on accepting the government’s job offer. The third form records the name of the person who will get the job. The 155 willing villagers have filled up all three forms. The officials said district magistrate Ray and Birbhum police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi held a meeting with a group of locals at Deocha-Pachami on Friday evening where many of them expressed their willingness to give their land to the government. Although the government is trying to enlist the consent of all villagers for the project, protests against the proposed coal mine continued on Saturday. At Harinsingha village, a group of women armed with sickles, bows and arrows and bamboo sticks took out a protest rally. They gathered at a ground and held a meeting where they protested against alleged police atrocity at Dewanganj late on Thursday. “We don’t want any coal mines here. Women of all the villages will raise their voices against police attacks on us,” said a woman who took part in the protest. Government officials claimed that some political parties were trying to stall the project by instigating villagers. “The government has already got consent from a good number of villagers and many others are waiting to give their nod in writing. We are not worried about the sporadic incidents that are the result of provocation by outsiders,” an official said. CPM MP and Save Democracy Forum member Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, who had attended an anti-coal mine meeting at Dewanganj recently, in a Facebook post on Saturday criticised the district magistrate and the police chief over the claim that “outsiders” were instigating the villagers. A member of the Save Democracy Forum said they had cancelled their proposed visit to Dewanganj on Saturday because of Christmas. “We will visit the area soon,” he said. Sources said a large number of tribal people had misgivings about the government’s intent to hire them as junior constables. A state government official said a section of people had spread rumours that all tribal families would be shifted to urban colonies although the administration had assured that they would be given pucca houses in neighbouring areas. “The tribal people will get their houses in a place that is identical to their present location. There will be a house and courtyard. Those who have been given us their approval are satisfied with our package. There is a demand to increase the area of a 600sqft house and we have communicated with the state government in this connection. We hope the demand will be negotiated,” district magistrate Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
