27-12-2021||West Bengal||Will work towards securing Gorkha votes for TMC: Binay Tamang||Former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader Binay Tamang, who recently joined the Trinamool Congress, has said that he will work towards securing Gorkha votes of the hills and adjoining plains for the ruling party in West Bengal. Tamang, along with former GJM MLA Rohit Sharma, met Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) Board of Administrators' Chairman Gautam Deb before returning to the hills on Sunday. "We will work towards strengthening the TMC in the hills, and also in several Gorkha-inhabited wards of SMC," Tamang said. Deb said that matters related to the development of the hills and strengthening of the TMC's organisation were discussed with Tamang and Sharma. Election to 47 wards of SMC, which was won by the CPI(M) in 2015, is likely to be held on January 22, along with four other municipal corporations in south Bengal. Tamang, who had quit GJM in July this year, joined TMC along with Sharma, a former Kurseong MLA, on December 24. Picking up the TMC flag, Tamang had attacked the BJP accusing it of fooling the people of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts over the Gorkhaland statehood issue, and described Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as a "visionary leader" whom he would like to see as the "prime ministerial candidate in 2024". Election to the 45-member GTA is likely to be held early next year. The last election to the semi-autonomous council was held in 2012. Tamang's joining the TMC comes at a time when a section of BJP leaders have renewed the demand for Gorkhaland state and also sought to carve out north Bengal as a centrally-administered Union territory, citing disparity in development and injustice to the people of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Howrah civic body: No idea why Guv not giving assent to bifurcation bill, says Speaker||West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee Monday said he cannot fathom the reason behind Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar not giving his assent to a bill for bifurcation of the Howrah Municipal Corporation. He said the elections to Howrah Municipal Corporation and Bally municipality could have been held together with polls to other municipal bodies in the state where these are due, had the governor given assent. "I cannot comprehend why the governor is not giving his assent to the bill," the Speaker said in his assembly chamber. Asked about her view on the delay in getting assent from Dhankhar, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said there are constitutional bindings and I will do what I am supposed to, and he will do what he is supposed to. Mamata was speaking on the sidelines of a meeting at the assembly premises on selection of the state's Human Rights Commission members. Dhankhar and the Mamata Banerjee government are on a collision path over the bifurcation bill that seeks to carve out the erstwhile Bally municipality out of the Howrah Municipal Corporation. The governor had said on Sunday that he sent back the bill to the state government with queries on November 24, but is yet to get the necessary clarifications. The State Election Commission and the West Bengal government have told the Calcutta High Court that plans are afoot to hold polls to five municipal corporations on January 22, and for the remaining municipal bodies on February 27. Elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation were held on December 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||FCRA: Missionaries of Charity renewal application not approved||The Union Home ministry has said that it did not freeze any accounts of Missionaries of Charity but that the Mother Tersesa founded charity had itself sent a request to State Bank of India to freeze its accounts, its statement  issued on Monday evening after the Bengal chief minister and the state CPM tweeted that such a freeze had deprived over 20,000 patients and staff of food and medicines. The home ministry also said that the Missionaries of Charity's renewal application under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, was declined for not meeting the eligibility conditions under the law and the foreign contribution regulation rules. "While considering the MoCs renewal application, some adverse inputs were noticed. In consideration of these adverse inputs on record, the renewal application of MoC was not approved... MHA did not freeze any accounts of MoC. State Bank of India has informed that MoC itself sent a request to SBI to freeze its accounts," the Union home ministry release said. The registration of Missionaries of Charity is valid till December 31, 2021. Soon after, the Missionaries of Charity came out with a  statement. Sr. M Prema, Superior General of MOC, said, "We would like to clarify that the FCRA registration of the Missionaries of Charity has been neither suspended nor cancelled. Further there is no freeze ordered by the Ministry of Home Affairs on any of our bank accounts. We have been informed that our FCRA renewal application has not been approved. Therefore, as a measure to ensure there is no lapse, we have asked our centres not to operate any of the FC accounts until the matter is resolved." Earlier, state CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra posted a tweet claiming that the MOC's accounts had been frozen. “Yesterday, Christmas Day the Union Ministry FROZE ALL BANK ACCOUNTS of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity. The Govt has frozen all the accounts in India, including cash in hand. Their 22,000 patients, including employees, are left without food and medicines,” tweeted CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra.  Fifteen minutes later chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, “Shocked to hear that on Christmas, Union Ministry FROZE ALL BANK ACCOUNTS of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity in India! Their 22, 000 patients and employees have been left without food and medicines. While the law is paramount, humanitarian efforts must not be compromised."  Neither the chief minister nor the CPM state secretary provided any other details regarding the action. But Vicar General, Archdiocese of Calcutta, Fr. Dominic Gomes condemned the government action against the Missionaries of Charity. "We are appalled by the timing and lack of empathy to consider the humanitarian disaster this decision will cause," he said. "In freezing the bank accounts of Missionaries of Charity Sisters and Brothers congregations, government agencies have given a cruel Christmas gift to the poorest of the poor.  Besides over 22,000 direct dependants and beneficiaries at their centres across the country, MC Sisters and Brothers reach out to uplift thousands and are often the only friends of the lepers and social outcast no one will even venture near. "Overlooking the fact MCs of St. Mother Teresa give up all worldly goods, sleep on the floor and earn no money – giving whatever they have in service to the poorest in every corner of the earth, especially our poorest of Indians - this latest attack on the Christian Community and their social outreach is even more a dastardly attack on the poorest of India’s poor, who the MC congregation serves." About two weeks ago, an FIR was filed against the Missionaries of Charity in Gujarat under the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003 for allegedly hurting Hindu sentiments by forceful conversion. The District Social Defence Officer Mayank Trivedi, who lodged the complaint at Makarpura police station, claimed during a visit accompanied by the Chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee of Vadodara district, had found that girls residing in the home run by the Missionaries of Charity were forced to read the Bible and wear the cross, reported The Indian Express. “The institution has been involved in activities to hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus intentionally and with bitterness… The girls inside the Home for Girls are being lured to adopt Christianity by making them wear the cross around their neck and also placing the Bible on the table of the storeroom used by the girls, in order to compel them to read the Bible… It is an attempted crime to force religious conversion upon the girls,” the FIR reads, according to the Express report. It’s not yet clear whether the Union government’s action was a follow-up to the complaint in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state of Gujarat. The alleged government action comes close in the heels of attacks on churches in different parts of the country. On the day of Christmas, the Holy Redeemer Church in BJP-ruled Haryana’s Ambala, constructed in 1848, was vandalised. A broken statue of Jesus Christ was left on its boundary wall. Goons allegedly owing allegiance to Hindutva outfits stormed into Christmas services and celebrations at several places including Gurgaon and threatened members of the Christian community including children. In October 2020, Amnesty India International had announced that it was shutting its operations in India, after the Centre froze the bank accounts of the rights watch body accusing it of violating India’s foreign funding laws for non-governmental organizations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri under watchful cameras,  project Nazardari launched||Siliguri Metropolitan Police launched its surveillance project named Nazardari on Sunday. “ Under the project, in all 400 CCTV cameras in and around Siliguri will keep tabs on criminal activities and traffic. “So far, we have installed around 100 CCTV cameras which are operational. But there are many shadow zones we want to cover. This is one of the major objectives for launching project Nazardari,” said Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of police. Hence, 300 more cameras will be set up. Sharma added that before installing the new surveillance system, a scientific assessment had been done to identify locations in association with the north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai). “We have conducted the assessment to identify the locations to set up the cameras under our community-based combined project. We expected that installation of all cameras would be complete in the next three-four months,” Sharma told the media at the police commissionerate on the locations of the 400 CCTV cameras. Senior police officers said intense CCTV surveillance  in Siliguri was needed as the city is strategically important. Located along the chicken’s neck, the slimmest stretch of the Indian subcontinent, Siliguri is near the borders of Nepal, Bangladesh and China. “It a major commercial hub of east and northeast India and is a transit hub. Millions of people, including tourists, move into the city every day. CCTV cameras can give us comprehensive coverage of prominent locations as well as help us draw up plans for better traffic management,” said an officer. The new surveillance system, he said, can help ensure safety of the residents and speed up police investigation via live footage, especially in case of traffic-related violations and crimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||NBSTC launches bus service between Siliguri and Kathmandu ||The state-run North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC)will introduce a new bus service between Siliguri and Nepal’s capital Kathmandu from January, NBSTC chairmanPartha Pratim Roy said here on Sunday. “From January 2022, we will launch a bus service between Siliguri and Kathmandu. The idea is to increase the revenue earnings of the NBSTC. Also, buses will be introduced in a number of new routes to connect north Bengal with other parts of the state and neighbouring states,” Roy, who was put in the post in August this year, said. He added that as of now, the NBSTC makes a profit of Rs 15 crore annually and they had set  a target to increase it to Rs 20 crore. “For example, in Alipurduar depot, the monthly earning is around Ts 1 lakh, which we want to increase to Rs 1.3 lakh,” he said. On Sunday, Roy resumed two bus services to Assam from Alipurduar. The buses will ply to Bongaigaon and Dhubr in Assam, he said.   “The bus services were available earlier but had stopped owing to the Covid 19 pandemic.  The resumption of these services will largely help the traders of Alipurduar as well as of Assam,” said a source in NBSTC. The transport agency, sources said, has also decided to run buses to Purnea in Bihar and Ranchi in Jharkhand from Alipurduar. This apart, new services within the state will continuously be added, Roy added. “Recently, bus services have been launched from Malda to Cooch Behar and Mathabhanga. There is also a plan to run Volvo buses between Malda and Calcutta,” said the NBSTC chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||70-year-old man killed over son’s affair in Cooch Behar||A 70-year-old man, Binod Adhikary, from a village in Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar was hacked to death allegedly by his neighbour, Sushanta Barman, on Sunday. Police sources said they fought over a family matter that led to the murder in Hokadaha village. Sushanta, a farmer, has been arrested. Reportedly, Sushanta’s wife had an affair with one of the victim’s  sons. Things had soured between the families since then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar police seize cannabis from truck, 2 arrested ||Acting on a tip off, Alipurduar police found  230 kilos of cannabis from a truck on Sunday and arrested its driver and cleaner. According to police sources, the truck with a registration plate of Nagaland was coming from Agartala. It was intercepted on NH31C by a team of Samuktala police station in Salsalabari area. “Our men found 23 packets, each with around 10 kilos of cannabis, concealed in the truck’s cabin. The cost is around Rs 25 lakh,” said a police officer. The police arrested the driver and the cleaner and seized the truck.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul's Tamang keeps mum on Gorkha statehood||Former leader of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha Binay Tamang, who recently joined Trinamul, on Sunday said he will work for development of the hills while dodging a direct reply on the  statehood issue. Tamang, along with former Kurseong MLA Rohit Sharma, returned from Calcutta by train on Sunday, two days after the duo joined Trinamul in the presence of two state ministers. “The demand of Gorkhaland is not the demand of All India Trinamul Congress but that of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha.  Today, since I am a member of Trinamul, this (speaking on Gorkhaland) would be (considered) outside the (ambit of the) party’s discipline,”  Tamang told newspersons at the Trinamul office at Judge Bazar in Darjeeling. Earlier in the day, the duo reached New Jalpaiguri station, to be welcomed by hundreds of Trinamul supporters. From there, the duo were taken to the INTTUC office in NJP and felicitated there. The INTTUC is the Trinamul workers’ front. Tamang, who quit the Morcha in July this year, lashed out at the BJP for “fooling” the people of Darjeeling hills. “BJP leaders have fooled hill residents by dangling a lollipop called Gorkhaland and have won Parliament elections three consecutive terms. They, however, did nothing for the Gorkhas. People have realised it now and will give a befitting reply to the BJP at the Lok Sabha election in 2024,” he said in NJP. Asked about his decision to join Trinamul, the hill leader said he did it for the “betterment of hill people and development of the region.” “People in the hills now want development and employment for youths. There are ample good human resources and natural resources in the hills. We need to explore these aspects and work together,” said Tamang. On his political aspirations, he said his only aim was to consolidate the support base of Trinamul across the region, including the Terai and the Dooars. On his electoral ambitions henceforth, he said that was up to the party leadership. “When I was heading a party, I had decided not to contest elections to focus on organisational matters. However, since I have joined a new party, I will abide by the decision of the party leadership,” he said when asked if he would contest polls. In 2019, Tamang contested the bypoll of Darjeeling Assembly seat butlost to Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader who had contested on a BJP ticket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Army rescues over 1,000 tourists in Sikkim stranded in snow||Over 1,000 tourists stranded  in heavy snowfall at the Tsomgo (Chhangu) Lake and Nathu-la on the upper reaches of East Sikkim near the India-China Border on Saturday afternoon were rescued by the Indian army in a few hours, kept overnight at a military camp and safely shifted to Gangtok on Sunday. Owing to the snowfall, the  Sikkim state government on Sunday stopped issuing permits for Tsomgo Lake and for any place beyond Yumthang, which is in Mangan district (erstwhile North district) of the Himalayan state. “Altogether, 1,027 tourists  got stuck in severe snowfall in areas of Nathu-la, Tsomgo Lake and adjoining areas on Saturday afternoon. It brought down the temperature to sub-zero levels. After the heavy snowfall, vehicles started skidding on the Jawaharlal Nehru Marg that connects these areas with Gangtok. The tourists in around 120 vehicles got stranded over a stretch of 15km,” army sources said. Army personnel of the Black Cat Division posted in the area  intervened. They rescued the tourists in army vehicles and shifted them to the military camp near the 17th Mile. All the tourists were given hot meals, warm clothing and critical medical support. They stayed at the camp overnight. On Sunday morning, tourists were sent to Gangtok. “The tourists were brought to 13th Mile in army trucks and then transshipped to Gangtok in taxis. By late Sunday evening, all stranded tourists were safely evacuated to Gangtok,” said a source in the state police. A tourist from Bangalore, who got stuck due to the snowfall, narrated his experience. “We had plans to visit Tsomgo Lake, Nathu-la and Baba Mandir but we got stuck a little short of Tsomgo Lake from about 11.30am to 5pm on Saturday in snow. The Indian army came to our rescue. It is because of them that we are safe,” he said. Another tourist from South 24-Parganas said had the Indian army and Sikkim Police not come to their aid, they would have been in dire straits. “We walked down a kilometre or two from where our vehicle was stuck. It was very difficult to walk on snow. I slipped and fell many times,” he said. The Sikkim government is taking no risks. “We will start issuing passes only after the weather improves and the snow clears,” said a Sikkim tourism official on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Omicron fear looms: Safety priority for edition 3 of Duare camps ||District authorities are finding it difficult to find out spacious venues to set up the third edition of Duare Sarkar camps scheduled from January 2 amid fears that the omicron variant of Covid-19 could cause a fresh of wave of the pandemic. “In the first two edition of Duare Sarkar, we had held a majority of the camps in the premises of high schools. But as the high schools have reopened with Class IX to Class XII, we are trying to find out alternative places. The problem is that we have to find out spacious places for the camps for proper Covid protocol (social distancing) as the fear of a third wave of the pandemic is looming large,” said a district magistrate. Sources in the administration said the districts are trying to find out if camps could be set up in primary schools, if available, for camps. “The primary schools are yet to open, so can use them for camps. The problem is that many primary schools don’t have enough space to set up camps,” said an official in West Burdwan. The district authorities have decided that in those places where suitable primary schools are not available, camps would be set up under temporary structures erected on grounds or fields. “If temporary structures are set up on open fields, there would be enough space to follow Covid protocols, but would put additional burden on the state exchequer. Moreover, the temporary structures could turn into a headache if it rains,” said a source. According to sources, the state government is expecting fewer footfall this time as most people have already received welfare schemes during the first two camps. “In the first two camps crores of people had visited the camps across the state seeking benefits of different welfare schemes. As most people are already getting the benefits, it is expected that fewer number of people would visit the camps this time,” said an official. In the second edition of Duare Sarkar camps, there was a huge rush among women to get enlisted under Lakshmir Bhandar. As already 1.5 crore women have been enlisted as beneficiaries of the scheme, it is expected that footfall would be fewer this time. “This could be a blessing in disguise as maintaining Covid protocol is very important this time. The government cannot flout rules when apprehension of a third wave has gripped the country,” said a source. The state government has asked to set up medical camps in all Duare Sarkar camps. “The medical camps would be set up to ensure that all those need medical help after coming to the camps get the support. Moreover, they can generate awareness among people about the pandemic," said another district magistrate. In the third edition of the Duare Sarkar camps, the government has decided to give identity cards to fishermen. “This new scheme would not draw lakhs like Lakshmir Bhandar did. So, it is expected that we can hold camps by maintaining Covid protocols,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Video shows TMC MLA Humayun Kabir's invective against cop||A video circulating on social media has shown Bharatpur Trinamul Congress MLA Humayun Kabir lashing out a police officer for “setting with” three local party leaders, who according to the legislator, owed secret allegiance to Opposition parties and had “fixed” to get him defeated in the recent Assembly polls. The video was recorded in Trinamul’s Bharatpur 1 block office on Saturday and the three leaders who faced Kabir’s wrath were Mohammed Azharuddin, Noor Alam and Sanjay Sarkel. Sources said the outburst was likely to be the culmination of a long-standing tiff dating to Kabir’s tenure as Rejinagar MLA, where Kabir, a native of Shaktipur, was reportedly browbeaten for being an outsider to the area. “Kabir has a standing resentment against these block leaders and has claimed he has sufficient proof that they have been conspiring with the Opposition, namely the BJP and Congress,” said a local source who was present during a meeting of Trinamul workers in the Bharatpur party office on Saturday. Kabir accepted the authenticity of the video and explained to reporters that his demand was for the party to remove the trio from the block committee during the upcoming overhaul. “I am waiting for a formal declaration from the party stating the same, as I have put my claims in writing,” said Kabir. “I am stating in no uncertain terms that the administration will be held responsible for any future problems stemming from this trio unless they are acted upon soon,” he added. In his diatribe against officer-in-charge at Bharatpur police station Raju Mukherjee, Kabir said his “dalaali (profiteering)” was “unbefitting” of a cop. “I am demanding a reasonable response from Mukherjee within 48 hours,” Kabir is heard proclaiming in the video, adding that Bharatpur police station would be picketed otherwise. Mukherjee and senior Murshidabad district police officers declined comments. District Trinamul functionaries said the leadership in Calcutta would react to Kabir’s remarks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
27-12-2021||West Bengal||TMC’s Mamatabala invites BJP's five Matua MLAs to join her party||Mamatabala Thakur, who heads a faction of Matuas, on Sunday invited five BJP MLAs deemed close to a rival camp of the community to join the Trinamul Congress, a day after they had all exited an official WhatsApp group of the party. Mamatabala said Bongaon BJP MP Santanu Thakur and his brother and Gaighata MLA Subrata Thakur were welcome to Trinamul, along with four other BJP MLAs from the Matua community. Santanu, who heads the other Matua faction, and Subrata are nephews of the deceased husband of Mamatabala, former Bongaon MP. “They are all most welcome.… It is always good to work together, being the members of the same family,” said Mamatabala, adding that the decision on such inductions were taken by the Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee and the party’s Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee. If the five MLAs leave the BJP and join Trinamul, it would certainly help re-consolidate the Matua vote bank, deeply divided since 2019 between the two rival factions of the family, one with Trinamul and the other with the BJP. The shuffle in the BJP’s organisational districts in the wake of the party getting trounced in election after election this year has triggered resentment among those denied portfolios, including the five Matua MLAs. One of them, Kalyani MLA Ambika Roy, has already put out feelers to the BJP leadership that he wants to be back in the WhatsApp group, said sources in the party. “It is good if they realise that the BJP has done nothing for the Matuas. The entire section of the Matuas, which supported the BJP, has realised that they committed a big mistake by supporting them. It is only Mamata Banerjee who is concerned about the development of the community,” said Mamatabala, who heads the Sarbabharatiya Matua Mahasangha. “I have no objection if Mamata Banerjee decides to induct them into Trinamul. But, first of all, they should quit the BJP,” she added. The BJP’s Gaighata MLA, however, refused to entertain the invite from his aunt. “It would be better if she does not concern herself with us. If there is anything for us to say, we will do so on the right platform,” said Subrata. State BJP president Sukanta Majumdar said: “We are a big family. There is misunderstanding in every family.” “The Matuas are never ignored. Take the example of Ranaghat South MLA Mukutmani Adhikari, who has been given responsibility at national level,” he added. “There are posts vacant on the state committee…. We are attached to the Matuas from the core of our hearts.” Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 544 fresh Covid infections, 547 recoveries & five deaths||Bengal on Sunday reported 544 new Covid-19 infections, 547 recoveries and five deaths, resulting in a drop again in the total of active cases by eight, to 7,450. Calcutta reported 219 new infections and three deaths. It was the only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Fifteen districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 443 or 81.43 per cent of the new infections detected on Sunday. Twenty districts reported zero deaths. The number of new cases reported on Sunday indicate people infected in the December 17 to December 21 window. In the past 92 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in the active cases on September 26, there has been a net fall of 224 in the total number of Covid patients. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.41 per cent on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.4. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.3 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 16.03 lakh recoveries and 19,716 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal Tiger avoids forester trap, attacks villager  ||The royal Bengal Tiger that strayed into human habitat on the banks of the interconnected Piyali and Matla rivers in South 24-Parganas’ Kultali three days ago stayed elusive on Sunday, but attacked and injured a villager. Forest department personnel camping in the area failed to nab the tiger that did not  venture close to the goat  used as bait. However, on Sunday morning, the tiger made a sudden attack on villager Motaleb Mollah when the latter was busy trying to put a net around the residential area of Sekhpara along with forest department workers. “I was putting up a net when the tiger jumped on me from the other side. I fell on the ground and got injured”, Motaleb said. Local sources said the tiger strayed into Gopalganj of Kultali on Thursday, shortly after fishermen spotted pugmarks on the banks of the Matla. Two women also noticed the animal while fishing for crabs. The villagers informed the forest officials, who arrived with nets and cages. On Friday, the tiger sneaked into No 5 Garankathi area of Kultali, prompting officials to set up a trap. But the tiger seemed to have moved to the adjacent riverbank, which came to light when villagers spotted fresh pugmarks. On Saturday morning, officials alerted residents of Dongajora-Kella about the possible presence of the tiger, which came to light when groups of picnickers reportedly heard roars of the animal. Forest officials laid a trap on Saturday night, but the tiger again appeared to have moved away. On Sunday, the tiger was spotted in the jungle adjacent to Sekhpara. The tiger’s lack of interest in the bait has created concern among forest authorities. A senior forest official claimed the goat’s bleats probably did not reach the tiger. Forest officials are requesting residents to stay at home but villagers are turning belligerent. On Sunday, some reached the area armed with bamboo poles and sharp weapons. “It is unbearable staying at home for days without work,” a villager said. Forest minister Jyotipriya Mullick appealed to villagers to be patient and promised help for the injured villager.  “The forest department is trying its best to nab the tiger. We are hopeful of trapping it soon. Anything done in haste will invite danger,” Mullick said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
27-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government targets one crore minors for Covid shots ||The Bengal government has directed the administration of districts to gear up for Covid vaccination drives aimed at minors from age 15 and above, in addition to booster dose drives for healthcare and frontline workers, and others aged 60 and above, without hampering the ongoing drives aimed at completing both doses for all adults. Based on a guideline issued by the Centre, the Bengal government has fixed vaccination for adolescents starting January 3 and booster doses starting January 10. Health officials said preliminary estimates suggest around a crore minors above age 15 would have to be vaccinated in Bengal. Senior health officials said stress was on “good preparation” by means of increasing healthcare staff in vaccination centres in view of the additional pressure that any new target group will bring. “As soon as the vaccination for adolescents starts in Bengal, there will be an additional pressure on vaccination centres. Within a week, booster doses will start. We have asked all the districts to take appropriate measures so the ongoing vaccination drives are not affected,” said a senior state health department official on Sunday. The senior health official added that the Union health ministry would hold a video conference with nodal officers on vaccination in the states on December 28. According report of the health department, there are around 5 lakh health workers and around 1.10 crore persons above 60 years of age. “As the vaccine for adolescents is most awaited, there will be a rush at the centres over the first few days. So, we have alerted all districts to take care of vaccinations, mainly for those whose second doses are overdue,” said a senior health official. Bengal has around 19 lakh people whose second dose is overdue at the moment. Bengal has so far vaccinated 6.44 crore people with the first dose and 3.78 crore with the second. A senior health official said that the government has estimated reserves of around 1.5 crore of vaccine doses, including Covaxin and Covieshield. The Centre is yet to give a guideline to the state about details such as dates. “Primarily, we have been told that we can administer the booster dose after six weeks of the second dose. However, we are waiting for the final guideline from the Centre. Children will get Covaxin as first doses,” said a senior health department official. Asim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer, said on Sunday: “We (in Bengal) are completely ready to start the vaccination from January 3 for adolescents and for people aged 60 and above from January 10. We are just waiting for the final guideline from the Centre.” The state government has also asked all districts to increase the number of Covid tests as the omicron variant has become a threat. The districts have also asked to keep isolation wards ready and to increase the number of beds in Covid hospitals in case the number of infections shows a spurt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
