28-12-2021||West Bengal||Congress will regain old glory, return to power in Bengal: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday asserted that the party will regain its old glory and also return to power in West Bengal. Chowdhury claimed that non-Congress governments have never been able to steer the country on the path of development. Addressing a programme on the 137th foundation day of Congress at Baharampur in Murshidabad district, the state party president said, "There are ups and downs in fortunes, it does not mean Congress will continue to remain weak. The party will regain its old glory and definitely return to power in West Bengal." The Congress ruled West Bengal since Independence till 1977, with a brief gap of a few years. It was unseated from power by the Left Front which ruled the state uninterruptedly till 2011. However, both Congress and the Left parties failed to win even one seat in this year's assembly elections. Chowdhury alleged that neither the Janata Dal nor the V P Singh government could run the country, and the BJP also failed to deliver during its rule. "Hens lay eggs but they cannot make omelette. These people come to power but can't run the country," Chowdhury quipped, while asserting that only the Congress, which has ruled India for 54 years, can take the country forward. Alleging that the BJP has taken recourse to divisive politics after failing to deliver, he asserted, "People are again thinking of Congress." Senior Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya asserted that India can't be imagined without the grand old party, and called for a fight against both BJP and Trinamool Congress, which is trying to project itself as the main opposition against the saffron camp in place of Congress. Addressing another function at Congress' West Bengal headquarters Bidhan Bhavan, the Rajya Sabha MP said, "If anyone thinks that India can be taken forward on the path of progress by abandoning the Congress, he/she is living in a fool's paradise. It is not possible. India can't be imagined without Congress." The TMC, of late, claims to be the only force opposing the BJP, and accuses "war-weary" Congress of failing to put up an effective fight against the saffron brigade. Bhattacharya, a former Congress state unit chief, said that some people are attacking the grand old party to "secure applause" from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and asserted that a party that has existed in national politics for 137 years cannot be wiped out. "I urge you all to fight against the unholy forces of BJP and TMC. We will certainly emerge victorious one day. Some are attacking the Congress to get the PM's applause. But it is impossible for any force to wipe out a national party that has existed for 137 years," he said. The Congress has accused the TMC of effectively helping the BJP through its expansion drive in Goa, Meghalaya and other states. The ruling party in West Bengal has recently emerged as the main opposition party in Meghalaya after 12 of the 17 elected Congress MLAs joined Mamata Banerjee's party en masse. Bhattacharya said that the recently concluded Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, in which Congress won only two of the 144 wards, show that party workers are not afraid and can fight back. A Congress candidate had alleged that he was beaten up by TMC workers after the conclusion of polling on December 19. He alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi "does not have any clue" as to how to bring down the prices of essential commodities or give jobs to crores of unemployed people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Raj Bhavan-Nabanna spat brewing over recruitment of govt consultants||The acrimony between Raj Bhawan and Nabanna, the state secretariat on the other side of river Hooghly, is likely to spill onto the approaching year as Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has raised questions and sought clarifications from chief minister Mamata Banerjee and state chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi over recruitments of consultants and senior consultants to various departments of the administration. “Serious issues have been raised from several quarters regarding this matter in respect of the lack of transparency, accountability and modalities of the selection process of these consultants,” Dhankhar wrote on Tuesday in a letter to the government referring to the November 26 government advertisement listing the jobs. The advertisement for the jobs was issued by the personnel and administrative reforms department, which is under the chief minister’s control.  The last date for submission of applications was December 20. The remuneration for the two posts, without dearness allowance and house rent allowance, was decided at Rs 2 lakh per month for senior consultants and Rs 1.5 lakh for consultants, with a government vehicle provided for the selected nominees for two years, which could be extended. Applications were sought from people from different fields between the age of 35 and 70, with a minimum ten-year experience in a particular field. The Governor has remarked the upper age limit for the recruitment was “unusual”. “The mechanism spelt out leaves all to be desired from the perspective of transparency and fairness. The declared selection mechanism is ex facie subjective, sketchy and arbitrary and does not appear to be fair, equitable on account of absence of specific details relating to this in the public domain. This tailor-made mechanism has all the trappings of extending favouritism and patronage,” the Governor wrote. Chief secretary Dwivedi has been given a week’s time to give his reply. The notification issued by the state government says the candidates will be judged on the basis of the information and supporting documents they provide with the application and those eligible will be called for a personality test. The ties between Governor Dhankhar and the Trinamul, particularly the chief minister,  have remained testy throughout his tenure spilling over from Mamata Banerjee’s second to third term. Earlier this month, the Governor had flagged a Bill passed by the state government at the Assembly bifurcating the Howrah Municipal Corporation and Bally Municipality. The tussle has forced a delay in announcing elections to the Howrah Municipal Corporation which was scheduled to go to polls along with Calcutta Municipal Corporation on December 19. While elections to Siliguri, Chandernagore, Asansol and Bidhannagar Municipal Corporations have been declared for January 22, 2022, Howrah will have to wait till the matter is resolved. Dhankhar was also vocal about post-poll violence after the Assembly elections and even visited families of some of the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal Tiger captured after a week long chase ||A Royal Bengal tiger, which strayed into a locality in West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district, was captured on Tuesday after nearly a week-long chase, in a relief to the locals, officials said. From clearing a forest and wrapping an area with nets to flying drones for surveillance and clamping prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, forest personnel chased the tiger for six days as it prowled from one village to the other, besides crossing a river to evade being captured, they said. Pugmarks were first spotted by locals in the Maipith village, following which forest personnel were informed. However, the tiger could not be found. A day later, pugmarks were seen in Kultali village. As forest personnel tried to rescue it, the tiger played hide-and-seek over the next three in the Purano Kella jungle, officials said. Even as the forest was cleared, the tiger could not be sighted. Later, it was found that the tiger crossed the Piyali river and entered the jungle adjoining Sheikhpara in Dongajora, they said. The tiger went incognito over the next two days, but often made its presence felt as villagers heard thunderous roars at night. Curious villagers climbed up trees and mobbed the areas adjoining the jungle for one glimpse of the tiger. At one point, the frenzy led to such a level that one villager got critically injured after falling down a tree, prompting the authorities to impose prohibitory orders in the area. Since Monday, the search operation was intensified with drones being used to spot the tiger. The forest area was surrounded with nylon nets, while a barricade was set up with boats on the Piyali river, officials said. The net was found to be ripped up in some areas, signalling that the tiger tried to get away, they said. At first, the barricaded area was 200 hectares, but later it was brought down to 200 square feet, they said. After sunset on Monday, forest personnel along with senior officials started combing the area on feet. As the tiger started roaring frequently, it gave away its location, besides indicating that it was hungry and tired, officials said. As the day broke, the tiger was finally spotted on the bank of the river. Fire personnel, who were on standby, started showering water on the tiger as it got into the river. When it turned back for heading into the jungle due to the gushing water, the tiger was shot with a tranquiliser dart, officials said. The tiger was taken to a rehabilitation centre after being rescued, they said. A team of vets will be examining the animal over the next three-four days and if they permit, it will be released into the wilds of the Sunderbans, the home to the Royal Bengal tigers, officials said. Locals said people of the area could not sleep for the last one week in fear of the tiger. Small groups were formed to guard the villages at night in case the tiger attacks, said a villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Derek O' Brien tests positive for Covid||Senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O' Brien Tuesday said he has tested positive for COVID-19 and is presently at home isolation. Brien ,who is TMC Rajya Sabha party leader, requested those who have come in contact with him in the last three days and have symptoms to seek medical advice. "Have tested positive for #COVID Moderate symptoms. Isolating at home. If you have come into contact with me in the last three days, and have symptoms, please seek medical advice. (Was always ultra-careful. Yet.)," he tweeted. The news comes after BCCI president Sourav Ganguly was admitted to a Calcutta hospital after testing Covid positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
28-12-2021||West Bengal||BJP mum on civic poll debacle, Santhosh avoids discussion||BJP’s national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh here on Monday met the new office-bearers of the party’s state unit on Monday but skipped speaking either about the party’s poor performance in the CMC election or protests by some of its MLAs against its internal overhaul. While three BJP councillors — Meena Devi Purohit, Vijay Ojha and Sajal Ghosh — were felicitated at the meeting, no effort was made to dig deeper. Multiple party leaders said they hoped Santhosh would at least refer to the civic poll results and ask the state leadership to wake up from slumber. “Our leaders never do self-analysis. It did not happen after the Assembly poll debacle, nor after the civic polls. However, we had hoped that since Santhoshji is here he would at least call out the state leaders for the underperformance,” a BJP leader said. “Surprisingly, he didn’t refer to the results.” In the Calcutta civic polls, the BJP managed to wrest three wards, four down from the seven in 2015. A bigger shock for the saffron camp was the dip in its vote share, to around 9 per cent from 29 per cent in the summer Assembly elections. “Six speakers lectured us for hours on how to develop the organisation. But none of them tried to see their faults,” another source at the meeting said. Santhosh apart, the five other speakers were state unit chief Sukanta Majumdar, his predecessor Dilip Ghosh, leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty and the party’s co-minder for Bengal Amit Malviya. Santhosh reportedly also remained silent on the protests by nine party MLAs against the recent internal rejig. On Monday, four MLAs from Bankura, Niladri Sekhar Dana, Nirmal Dhara, Amarnath Shakha and Dibakar Gharami, quit an official WhatsApp group of the BJP over the appointment of new district chiefs in Bankura and Bishnupur. On Saturday, after the new district committees were announced, five MLAs from Bongaon quit an official WhatsApp group of the BJP complaining that the Matuas hadn’t been adequately represented in the state committee. The only reference to dissidents in Santhosh’s speech was when he reportedly said: “The party has to be disciplined. Speak less, listen more. Everyone will be given a responsibility; no one will be left out.” Santhosh announced no one aged above 35 can be a member of the party’s youth wing from now. Earlier, the age limit was 40. He instructed the newly appointed office-bearers to set up new district committees by January 10. BJP sources said party president J.P. Nadda will visit Bengal in January. Home minister Amit Shah may also visit the state by January-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Talking app from mjunction for students with no or poor vision||Stepping away from traditional Braille, visually-challenged students in Bengal now have a new option to access textbooks with Project Jyoti, a “talk back” mobile app developed by e-commerce company mjunction, in collaboration with the state government. The initiative Project Jyoti was first launched in Chhattisgarh as a pilot project in 2018. An mjunction official involved with the initiative said it signified a long-awaited freedom from Braille, which is tedious and time-consuming, and “transformed the lives of more than 400 visually-impaired students from Class VII to X in Chhattisgarh”. In Bengal, in the first phase, nearly 45 special educators from Calcutta, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, and 30 students of Classes IX to XI with low vision from East Midnapore district were trained in accessible reading of the West Bengal State Board textbooks using Android devices. After the first phase, which started in September, mjunction is preparing for the second phase at the end of January next year with 200 students from those districts with special educators. A primary study carried out for the project says there are around 2,500 visually-challenged students studying in Classes VII to XII in government schools in at least 10 districts of Bengal. “We will reach out to these students in various phases to help them with smartphones with pre-installed apps and downloaded textbooks. When a beneficiary accesses the phone through the talk-back mode, the student can direct the phone to open the desired app. Then, the user can ask the phone to read out the desired text,” an official involved with the project said and added the project intends to make studies easier for visually-challenged students. As a part of the project in Bengal, mjunction will give all participants one smartphone each. Each smartphone will have the app preloaded to help students read the textbooks. Managing director of mjunction Vinaya Varma said the entire programme has been geared around “the two pillars of right to education and inclusion” “After Chhattisgarh, we hope to make a real difference to the lives of the visually-challenged school students of Bengal. I would like to thank the education department of the Bengal government for giving us the opportunity to do so,” Varma said. “mjunction will provide on-ground support to the special educators and students when the second phase begins,” Varma added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
28-12-2021||West Bengal||439 fresh Covid infections, 446 recoveries & 10 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Monday reported 439 new Covid19 infections, 446 recoveries and 10 deaths, a drop by 17 in active cases, to 7,433. Calcutta logged 204 new infections and one death. It was only district with a threedigit figure of new cases detected in a day. Seventeen districts reported a single digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 370 or 84.28 per cent of the new infections detected on Monday. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths on Monday. However, North 24-Parganas reported three. New infections reported on Monday are indicative of people who got infected between December 18 and 22. In the past 93 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day streak of fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the total of Covid patients rose on 38 days and fell on 53 days. Over these 93 days, there has been a net fall of 241 in the total. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.4. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.52 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.31 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 16.04 lakh recoveries and 19,726 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Encroach finger at Trinamul Congress leader’s son in Malda||A section of residents from Ratua in Malda district hit the streets on Monday and blocked a state highway for four hours, alleging that the son of Trinamul’s district president Abdur Rahim Boxi had encroached upon a plot that belongs to a local market committee. “Babu Boxi, the son of the district Trinamul president, is misusing the political power of his father. He has encroached around seven decimals (4.23 cottahs) of land of a local market here in the last month and is making civil constructions on it. This is completely illegal,” said Sheikh Alam Choudhury, a local resident. According to him, for decades now, a daily market has been held in the Hatkhola area of Ratua. “Had it been private property, how could a market run on it for over 40 years? He has blatantly encroached upon a part of the market land and plan to raise a commercial complex there,” Choudhury added. Abdur Rahim Boxi, when asked about the allegations, appeared unperturbed. “The land is in the name of my daughter-in-law. That is why my son has taken up construction work there. There is nothing illegal in it,” the district Trinamul president of Malda claimed. Son Babu could not be contacted. However, aggrieved traders under the banner of the Ratua Dainik Hatkhola Bazar Samiti blocked the Malda-Harishchandrapur state highway around 10.30am to protest the alleged encroachment. A number of students of a local madarsa also joined the protest. The demonstration halted traffic as protesters wielding placards and shouting slogans demanded an immediate halt in construction. “Babu Boxi does not have any document to prove he owns the land.  On the other hand, we have proper records of the plot. We approached the local police and block administration but they did not take any step so far. That is why we were forced to block the road,” said a protester. A police team spoke with protesters. Finally, after four hours, the blockade was withdrawn around 2.30pm after the police promised to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Elephant herd stuck on way to Jalpaiguri forest||A herd of around 15 wild elephants, including some calves, got stranded in a locality between Binnaguri and Banarhat in the western Dooars under Jalpaiguri district on Monday. The herd drew hundreds of curious onlookers, locals and tourists, prompting foresters and policemen to stand guard near the site to prevent them from getting close to the elephants. Sources in the forest department said in the morning, some residents spotted the herd in the Airfield area near Binnaguri and informed the wildlife squad stationed there. “As the herd could be sighted from adjoining roads, hundreds of people started turning to catch a glimpse of the wild elephants. In fact, some enthusiastic youths even climbed on trees for a better look. To prevent them from getting closer to the herd, our men have been deputed on the spot, along with police personnel,” said a senior forest official. He said that in the morning, an attempt was made to drive the herd to neighbouring Moraghat forest but eventually, it did not work. “The herd was moving along the elephant corridor from the Reti forest to Moraghat. But the animals got stuck at a point for some reason or other. We will try to steer the elephants into the forest once it gets dark,” the official added. Gaur attack A resident of Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district got injured by a gaur on Monday morning. Sources said Dudhia Roy, the victim from Niranjanpath village, had taken his cattle to Sonakhali forest under Moraghat forest range next to his village, for grazing when the gaur came and attacked him. His screams alerted others to his rescue and he was taken to the rural hospital in Dhupguri and then the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri. Foresters said it was illegal on Roy’s part to enter a reserve forest area with cattle. “Time and again we alert people who stay on the fringe areas not to enter the forests. What the villager did was illegal. Cattle cannot be taken into forests for grazing. They should understand that elephants, gaurs and leopards live in these forests,” said Rajkumar Pal, the range officer of Moraghat forest range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul to filed Binay Tamang in its campaign ahead of civic polls||The Trinamul leadership in Siliguri will field Binay Tamang, former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader who is the latest entrant to the party,  in its campaign ahead of the elections of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), he has said. He also said he will soon speak with Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung, also an ally of Trinamul, to “work in a united manner for Mamata Banerjee”. In Siliguri, civic polls  will be held on January 22 with three other municipal corporations of the state. In 2015, when the last municipal elections were held, the total number of voters in all 47 wards of the SMC was 3.46 lakh. On Monday, Tamang, along with former Kurseong MLA Rohit Sharma who has also joined Mamata Banerjee’s party with him, reached the SMC office and met Gautam Deb, Trinamul veteran and chairperson of the board of administrators. Though Deb called it a courtesy visit, Tamang, after meeting him said that he will join the campaign. “We will campaign for Trinamul candidates at the SMC elections. We will visit those wards with a sizeable population of Gorkhas,” Tamang said. In Siliguri, close to 60,000 Gorkhas dwell in different wards and in localities like Champasari, Pradhannagar, Bagha Jatin Colony, Mallaguri, Ektiasal and Bhanunagar, said sources. “We will talk to Bimal Gurung soon so that we can work in a united manner for Mamata Banerjee. It is necessary to initiate political activities as we want to see her as the Prime Minister of the country in 2024. We want to start with the civic polls here,” said Tamang. “Among the four civic bodies where elections would be held next month, the SMC is the sole civic body where Trinamul has never been in power. The party is desperate this time to reach the majority mark here and the plan to field Binay Tamang for campaign is yet another strategy to secure the support of Gorkha voters across the civic area,” said a political observer. “There are around six wards where the support of Gorkha voters decides the fate of candidates in municipal elections. It is evident that every political party, including Trinamul, will try to gain their support,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Ahead of January 22 polls, Left, Congress rehash Siliguri Model||The poll season is here, and the “Siliguri Model” is back in contention. With the state election commission on Monday announcing January 22 as the date for the Siliguri Municipal Corporation polls, the Congress and the Left leaders in North Bengal have begun negotiations on electoral understanding known as “Siliguri Model”. “We held a meeting yesterday (Sunday) where it was decided that we will share the seats in the upcoming civic polls. It does not matter which party contests in how many seats but the basic intention is to stop Trinamul and the BJP from gaining majority in Siliguri Municipal Corporation,” said Sankar Malakar, the Darjeeling district Congress president. Senior Left leaders have also confirmed they held meetings with Congress leaders. “But as there has been no decision at the state level (that the Left and Congress will join hands), we are not ready to call it an alliance. It is rather an adjustment of seats,” said a CPM insider. The term “Siliguri Model” was coined by political pundits back in 2009. In the civic polls in Siliguri, the Congress and Trinamul had contested as allies, but the agreement suffered a jolt post-election as there was no consensus for the posts of the mayor and the chairman. Amid the trouble between the then allies, the Left got into a tacit understanding with the Congress and the Left councillors voted in favour of Congress’ candidates for the posts of mayor and chairman, effectively halting Trinamul from securing the civic body. Again, in 2015, the Left secured the board but in due course, due to the demise of an independent councillor and defection of a Left councillor, the Left, led by veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, turned into a minority. Then, the Congress saved the day. “The Congress councillors, who were also in the Opposition, did not join Trinamul to table no-confidence against the Left board. In fact, there are instances that the Congress councillors had backed the Left to pass the annual budget and some other resolutions at the civic body,” pointed out a senior Trinamul leader. Now that both the parties (Left and Congress) have started talking, the “Siliguri model” would be back in contention again, he added. According to the preliminary discussions, the Left will field 23 candidates and the Congress 10, sources said. “The decision about the remaining 14 seats would be made soon through talks. The list of candidates will also be finalised,” said a source in Congress. In 2015, the Left had secured 23 seats, followed by Trinamul with 17, Congress four and BJP two. Arabinda Ghosh, an Independent, had also won.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal|| Next phase of civic polls  on January 22,  eyebrows over Howrah omission ||The State Election Commission on Monday announced four municipal corporations — Bidhannagar, Asansol, Siliguri and Chandernagore —  will go to polls on January 22. Counting ofvotes will be held on January 25. The state government had submitted in Calcutta High Court that polls to the Howrah Municipal Corporation will also be held on the same day. The commission neither cited Howrah among places where polls will be held on January 22, nor the reason. The state poll commission said polling will be held for 47 wards in Siliguri, 33 wards in Chandernagore, 41 wards in Bidhannagar and 106 wards in Asansol. The combined strength of voters at these four corporations is over 19.36 lakh and there will be 2,078 polling stations, the panel stated. Though Opposition parties had criticised Calcutta Police  for its handling of the CMC poll on December 19, poll panel sources said the state police would be in charge in the upcoming polls as well. A poll panel official said that candidates can file their nominations from Tuesday till January 3. Nominations will be scrutinised on January 4. January 6 is the last date to withdraw nominations.  Any repoll, if needed, will be held on January 24. Saurabh Das, state election commissioner, said that starting Monday the model code of conduct would be in force at the four municipal corporation areas. Prior to Das’s news meet, he had convened an all-party meeting. However, the BJP walked out of the meeting as the state poll panel decided to hold polls at these four places and not Howrah. The Left and the Congress also walked out soon after for the same reason. “Is this some kind of a joke? You are submitting to court that there will be polls at five places, now you’re saying four,” BJP leader Sisir Bajoria said. CPM’s Rabin Deb at a news meet later in the day presented a letter claiming it was sent by the state government to the commissioner that mentioned polls to Howrah Corporation would also be held on January 22. “On what grounds is the commissioner not announcing the (Howrah) polls?” Deb said. State election commissioner Das, however, said the poll body announces civic polls in “consultation” with the state government. Since no proposal on Howrah had yet come from the government, polls couldn’t be announced, he said. “If it (the proposal) comes by tomorrow (Tuesday), we will announce it tomorrow itself,” Das said. The state government has decided to bifurcate the Howrah Corporation into two and separate 16 wards of the erstwhile Bally municipality. However, the bill that enables the bifurcation awaits governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's nod. The commission will adopt the electoral roll published by the Election Commission of India on November 1, to which the Opposition objected, saying this would not allow new voters — who will be included in the new draft electoral roll to be published on January 5 — to participate. Das said he was bound by law to go by the EC’s electoral roll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Camera cover for North Bengal Medical College & Hospital ||The patient welfare committee of the state-run North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH) in Siliguri has decided to install more CCTV cameras on its 104-hectare campus. The decision was made at a recent meeting of the patient welfare committee headed by former minister Gautam Deb. “There are allegations that some touts are active in the NBMCH area and they misguide and fleece patients and their family members. We will prevent such practices... To keep a steady surveillance, it has been decided to install more CCTV cameras so that the entire campus can be covered,” said Deb. NBMCH sources said that as of now, the hospital campus has 40-odd CCTV cameras but some don’t work. Deb also stated that a meeting will be held with the Siliguri Metropolitan Police soon over proper police arrangements on hospital campus. Deb, while talking to newspersons, said they are approaching the state government to categorise the super-specialty hospital that is coming up at NBMCH as a level-III hospital. At the new hospital, there will be eight medical officers. Also, a chartered accountant firm will be engaged to conduct an internal audit. Sources said as of now, around Rs 5.32 crore is available with the patient welfare committee. “It has been decided that the CT scan machine will be made functional round the clock to ensure better patient services. The committee will also repair a portion of the corridors damaged in tremors earlier. It will also work for development of a cancer care facility at the radiotherapy department and will expand facilities at the outpatient departments of medicine and surgery. An elevator for 20 persons will also be set up in the Covid block,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal Tiger evades traps, drone cameras in Kultali||A royal Bengal tiger evaded traps set up by the forest department and remained elusive till Monday evening, at least four days after straying into a human habitat on the banks of the Piyali river at Kultali in South 24-Parganas. The wait by foresters to tame the big cat with tranquillisers continued as the animal did not come out of its hideout in the dense jungles. Forest department authorities have now involved the fire brigade in the operation. Firefighters will use jets to spray cold water in the dense forest on Tuesday with the hope that this will enable the tiger to come out of its hideout. Unable to track and trap the animal, forest department officials on Monday used drone cameras to spot it and crackers and drums to try and  make it come out of its hideout, but nothing worked. The tiger had sneaked into the Gopalganj of Kultali on Thursday. A few local fishermen had spotted pugmarks on the bank of Matla river on Thursday and alerted forest officials who arrived with nets and cages to trap the tiger. While not venturing towards the traps, the tiger continued to move around the area and sneaked into the No.5 Garankathi area on Friday. Forest officials laid a trap but by then the tiger appeared to have moved to the adjacent riverbank. On Saturday, it was spotted near Dongajora-Kella when a group of picnickers heard its roars while on boat ride on the Piyali and interconnected Matla rivers. A new trap was laid on Saturday night, but the tiger moved further. On Sunday, it was spotted in the jungle adjacent to the Sekhpara area when forest officials cordoned off the area enclosing it with rubber and nylon nets. It was spotted once when it attacked and injured a villager who was fixing nets along with forest department workers. The delay in trapping the tiger has created resentment among residents in Sekhpara as they are forced to stay indoors and miss out on work. Aware of the resentment, forest authorities on Monday engaged trained personnel to tranquilise the tiger and deputed them on temporary towers. Forest authorities and local administration have now engaged around 200 trained personnel in the operation. “We zeroed in on an area in Sekhpara village and enclosed it with nets. We expected to capture the tiger with tranquilliser guns but it did not come out,” a senior forest official said. Fearing the possibility of the tiger escaping from the netted enclosure, forest authorities with help of the administration evacuated the area. Forest minister Jyotipriyo Mullick again urged the people to have patience and cooperate with forest officials. “Our officials and personnel of the department are trying their best to trap the tiger by risking their lives... I am hopeful that the tiger will be trapped soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||A student’s gesture towards street dogs  wins animal lovers' hearts||Swapna Poddar, 21, a college student from Raiganj town, has made a kennel for street dogs, especially puppies, near her house. “I have seen how helpless these puppies feel during winters, and at night, they huddle even in garbage for some warmth. That is why I made this kennel with my pocket money,” said the BA second-year student. Her initiative has drawn appreciation from animal lovers. “It is good that a college girl has come up with such an initiative for street dogs. We will help her if she wants to make more such kennels in the town,” said Gautam Tantia, the general secretary of North Dinajpur's People for Animals. Tollywood actress Sreelekha Mitra, who is known for her love for animals, has also appreciated Swapna for her initiative. Report and picture by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Car drowns in Bhagirathi river with bedridden patient in Murshidabad||A 61-year-old bedridden patient died trapped inside a car that fell in the Bhagirathi river when its driver lost control while driving it on a boat in Murshidabad on Monday afternoon. In the absence of a bridge at Rejinagar, vehicles are loaded on large boats at Shaktipur ghat to cross a 300-metre stretch of the river. Here, the driver, it is being assumed, did not put brakes on the car after getting on the boat and instead drove through its length to land in the river. In a split second, the driver opened the car door to come out and swam away. The vehicle sank with the immobile patient. Police found the body of patient Sarathi Mondal, and the car one-and-a-half hours later. The body has been sent to Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. The driver is traceless. “We are probing why the car lost control. The driver has fled after the incident,” said K. Sabari Rajkumar, the Murshidabad police chief. Sources said as Mondal was bedridden there was no way for her to come out of the car. Sources said Mondal was a resident of Dangapara village in Murshidabad. On Monday morning, she had gone to Berhampore to consult an orthopaedic surgeon She was on her way back home when this accident happened. Dangapara villagers said Behrampore could also be reached by road but the poor state of the thoroughfare forces them to avail of the ferry service and then take the highway to reach the district headquarters. “If the existing road was in a good condition, then there would have been no need for us to take a boat to ferry vehicles. It was unfortunate that an ailing woman had to die helplessly trapped inside a car like this,” said a villager of Shaktipur. Shyamal Ghosh, the owner of the car, said: “The condition of the car was good and the driver efficient. I guess the accident happened because instead of the brake, he pressed the accelerator by mistake.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata orders branding  of govt schemes at Gangasagar Mela||Mamata Banerjee on Monday directed chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to carry out extensive branding on various state government schemes in Hindi on the way to Sagar Island and on Gangasagar Mela premises. The instruction has captured the ruling Trinamul’s plans to showcase the “Bengal model of development” to expand its base in other states ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “Many people want to know about the various schemes of our government.... A lot of people from other states will come for Gangasagar Mela. So, put up hoardings on our government’s schemes in Hindi on the way to Sagar island and on Gangasagar Mela premises,” the chief minister told Dwivedi during a preparatory meeting held at Nabanna on Monday. Mamata’s instruction to the chief secretary followed a comment by one of the participants in the meeting, who hailed the state government’s initiatives in creating proper facilities at Gangasagar. “We want to see you as the Prime MInister of India in 2024,” said the participant. The chief minister, who was chairing the meeting, didn’t offer any comment, but after a brief pause, passed the instruction for extensive branding to Dwivedi. The Gangasagar Mela — undoubtedly the biggest pilgrimage fair in eastern India — would be held from January 8 to 14. Lakhs of pilgrims from across the country turn up at the southern tip of Gangetic Delta every year on the day of Makar Sankranti and take a dip in the holy water with a belief that it will wash away their sorrows and sins. Since coming to power in 2011, Mamata took special initiatives to create proper facilities for pilgrims, who visit Gangasagar, about 100km from Calcutta. The next edition of the pilgrimage fair, however, will for the first time witness branding by the state government on how its welfare schemes changed the lives of people in Bengal. Some Trinamul insiders this correspondent spoke to said the plan to use the pilgrimage fair for branding of state government schemes was a “smart idea”. “We are projecting the chief minister as the next prime minister of the country. We have witnessed that people of other states are eager to know about the schemes rolled out in Bengal, which helped her win three successive elections. As lakhs of people from other states would come for pilgrimage to Gangasagar, the decision to use the occasion to highlight government schemes would spread the word on how she has changed Bengal,” said a source. In view of the large participation of people from north India in the fair, it has also been decided to put up Hindi signages across the fair premises and along the route to Gangasagar. During the preparatory meeting, Mamata made it clear to the civil and police administration that the pilgrims should not face any hardship in Gangasagar. “We will also keep a strict vigil to ensure that no one can create any mischief or play divisive politics during the Gangasagar Mela,” she said, before adding that Bengal would show the path of inclusiveness. The government will put a 51km-long barricade on Sagar Islands to avoid any kind of chaos. Moreover, the government is deploying more than 2,500 state-run buses to ferry pilgrims from Calcutta to Gangasagar. The government is also keeping a 600-bed Covid hospital ready for the Mela purpose in addition to 11 safe homes and 5 isolation centres. Besides, three water ambulances and two air ambulances would be deployed during the fair in January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
28-12-2021||West Bengal||Governor Dhankhar ought to do his work, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday virtually expressed displeasure over governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s reluctance in giving approval to proposals or legislations sent to him by the Bengal government or the Assembly. Mamata on Monday met Speaker Biman Banerjee at the Assembly — parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee joined them virtually — to pick three names for the state human rights commission and the state Lokayukta. Although Suvendu Adhikari was supposed to attend the meeting as the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, he gave it a miss. After the meeting, responding to questions from journalists on the possibility of delays in approval from the Raj Bhavan occupant given the testy ties he had with Nabanna, Mamata said every judicial directive and central guidelines were adhered to in the processes. “This committee picks the names, the governor gives his approval, following which they are sworn in. That’s how it works,” said the chief minister. The doubts linger against the backdrop of a taut relationship between Nabanna and the Raj Bhavan since Dhankhar’s appointment as the governor in July 2019. More so in the wake of delay by him in giving approval to the name of a state information commissioner, besides friction before clearing several recent Bills passed by the Assembly. While Dhankhar has been a fierce critic — often in virtual echoes of the BJP and other constituents of the saffron ecosystem — of the state government and most of its initiatives, scores of Trinamul Congress leaders right up to Mamata have repeatedly accused him of being a BJP stooge. “What does one say…. I believe everybody has their own constitutional limitations. I did my work, he (Dhankhar) ought to do his,” said Mamata on Monday, adding that she had nothing more to say on the matter. The committee picked three retired Calcutta High Court judges for three posts on Monday. The panel decided to give another term to the outgoing state Lokayukta, Justice Ashim Kumar Roy, while former Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya was picked as the chairperson of the state human rights commission. Justice Shivakant Prasad was picked as a member of the commission. The BJP’s Adhikari had wanted to know from state chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi last week about the names being considered for the state human rights panel and the Lokayukta. Adhikari had said he would not attend the meeting of the committee if he was not duly informed. “We informed everyone a week ago, in writing,” said Mamata on Monday. In his recent meetings with Dhankhar, Adhikari had “raised issues” regarding those appointments and the governor had tweeted on Friday that he had assured the Nandigram MLA of looking into them. Dhankhar is yet to give his approval to an anti-lynching Bill passed by the Assembly in 2019, besides one on the segregation of the Bally municipal area from the jurisdiction of the Howrah Municipal Corporation. The latter has caused complications in conducting the pending civic polls to the corporation next month. On Friday, state education minister Bratya Basu had said the state government would examine the Constitution to find out whether the chief minister could be made the chancellor of state universities in place of the governor. On Sunday, Dhankhar reacted bitterly to Basu, suggesting that the state government attempt making Mamata the governor as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
