29-12-2021||West Bengal||Civic elections: Sukanta urges poll panel to reconsider date ||West Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar Wednesday urged the State Election Commission to reconsider the date for the upcoming poll to four municipal corporations on January 22 next year given the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the state and a threat of a possible third wave of the pandemic looming large. This drew a sharp retort from the ruling TMC, which wondered whether the BJP-led government at the Centre will also postpone the assembly election due in five states. On Monday, the West Bengal SEC had announced that polls to Siliguri, Chandannagar, Bidhannagar and Asansol municipal corporations will be held on January 22. "The SEC has announced dates for civic polls to four municipal corporations. But presently, COVID-19 cases are rising in the state. So we request the SEC to reconsider the dates of the civic polls. It can discuss the matter with health experts and then decide on the dates. We fail to understand what is the hurry in holding the poll and that too when there is a threat of a third wave," Majumdar told reporters here. Asked about the party's readiness for the coming civic poll given its dismal performance in the December 19 Kolkata Municipal Corporation election, he said, "BJP is ready for the polls. We are just asking the SEC to at least reconsider its decision once". Reacting to Majumdar's comment, the TMC wondered why the party pressed for eight-phase assembly poll in West Bengal during the second wave of COVID-19 in April-May. "It seems the BJP is afraid of facing the election sensing defeat. It is for the SEC to decide whether it will postpone the dates or not. But we would like to ask BJP whether it will postpone the upcoming assembly polls in the five states or not? They should first answer this," TMC leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said. State election are due in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Goa and Punjab next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
29-12-2021||West Bengal||34th Industrial India Trade Fair at BNCCI Fair Ground, Rajarhat||Kolkata, December 26, 2021: In the process of building a New India, Skill development and Entrepreneurship are the two necessary keys. To address this, the Bengal National Chamber of Commerce & Industry in association with Sister Nivedita University had organized the Skill & Entrepreneurship Conclave at the 34th Industrial India Trade Fair with the theme “Future of Innovation & Entrepreneurship”. To grace the conclave, the panelists present were Shri Meghdut Roy Chowdhury, Director, Techno India Group, Shri Charanpreet Singh, Praxis Business School, Shri Bikram Das, NSDC, Prof Suman Chatterjee, Sister Nivedita University and Dr.Subrata Chattapadhyay, University of Engineering & Management (UEM). Welcome Address was given by Shri Suman Chakraborty, an Executive Committee Member of BNCCI and Keynote address had been given by Shri Ashoke Kumar Banik, Honorary Treasurer, BNCCI. There was a wonderful panel discussion on the topic ‘Future of innovation & Entrepreneurship Conclave’. Dr Subrata Chattopadhyay began the session with his speech. In his speech he briefed that innovation and entrepreneurship is always there but the transformation to digitalization and upgradation is required to make ventures sustainable in long term. Director, Techno India Group Shri Meghdut Roy Chowdhury opined that there is need to encourage and create safe place for innovation. However, he had also mentioned that mind set needs to be changed thoroughly. Prof Suman Chatterjee from Sister Nivedita University was of the opinion that the knowledge and the skills from marketing, finance, accounts, economic and information can be integrated together to bring out the best practices for industry to produce. He also felt that Innovation & Entrepreneurship should be in the curriculum in all Educational Institutions. Shri Charanpreet Singh from Praxis Business School also echoed the same view of Prof Suman Chatterjee. He commentated that at present India has 42 Unicorns and there is need to rethink about the way we teach, assess and think. Shri Bikram from NSDC said that upcoming concepts from the steel hub is going to launch in the month of January, 2022. Every school, ITI as per national policy will be catered by a hub nearby. He mentioned about ‘Notes’, the upcoming project by NSDC. He stressed on the information about up skilling and re skilling. The entire session was moderated by Dr Mahua Dutta, Founder, Mycoolguru.com. The session ended with a Vote of Thanks by Shri Aloke Sarkar, Executive Committee Member of BNCCI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Fresh Covid curbs may be imposed after reviewing situation: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday hinted at bringing back Covid curbs in the state amid the threat of a possible third wave of the pandemic looming large, including shutting down educational institutions and identifying containment zones. Mamata, during an administrative review meeting at Sagar Island, asked officials concerned to review the overall pandemic situation in the state. Covid -19 cases are on the rise; there are a few omicron infections, too. So, a review of the situation is required. If the numbers keep increasing, we may consider closing down schools and colleges, she said. The CM, who visited the island to take stock of the arrangements for the annual Gangasagar mela, said that a decision on international flight and local train services will also be taken after the coronavirus situation is reviewed in Bengal. "Some omicron cases are being detected among returnees who are arriving here on international flights Evaluate and take a decision on the movement of international flights, Mamata told Chief Secretary H K Dwivedi and Health Secretary N S Nigam at the meeting. She asked the officials to conduct a ward-to-ward survey and take a call on reintroducing containment zones in the metropolis. Offices could be asked to function with 50 per cent employee attendance, if necessary, the chief minister said. After January 3, we will decide on the Covid protocols. Movement of local trains is unlikely to be impacted for the time being. Reduce the number of local trains if required, but this service will not be stopped for now as many livelihoods depend on it, Banerjee said. She urged people to adhere to Covid protocols and not panic due to the rising number of omicron cases, as the variant was less severe in terms of fatalities than the delta variant . Asking the officials to keep a tab on the vaccination programme of children aged 15-19 years starting January 3, Banerjee wondered why the Centre was keen on beginning booster doses when many beneficiaries were yet to get the second dose. They must complete giving the second dose first and then think on the booster shots... In fact, I am told vaccines are not working for the omicron variant," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic polls: Left Front looks to veteran leader for rejuvenation||The beleaguered Left Front has fallen back on 72-year-old warhorse Asok Bhattacharya in its bid to retain the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), one of the few urban bodies that the Left has managed to win since 2011, when Trinamul rose to power in Bengal. The Left released a list of 35 candidates for the SMC polls on Tuesday. Bhattacharya was nominated as the candidate from ward 6, which he won in the 2015 civic polls. It was apparent that the veteran leader would be the face of the party in the polls. “Asok Bhattacharya, former mayor of Siliguri, will contest the upcoming SMC poll from ward 6. Apart from that we have announced our candidates in 34 seats in the first phase. We will announce names of the rest of the candidates by December 30,” said Jibesh Sarkar, a state committee member of CPM. Bhattacharya, five-time MLA, former chairman of Siliguri municipality and former mayor of Siliguri corporation, had announced his retirement from electoral politics following his defeat from Siliguri in the 2021 Bengal Assembly elections. The sitting MLA came third after Trinamul’s Om Prakash Mishra and winning BJP candidate Shankar Ghosh. Ghosh, who defected from the CPM before the Assembly polls, is widely considered to be Bhatttacharya’s protégé. Asked about the civic polls, Bhattacharya said: “I had earlier announced my decision not to participate in any electoral politics after the Assembly polls but in the Communist party, the party’s decision is always above individual choices and decisions.” Sources said the party’s state committee wanted Bhattacharya. There are rumours that former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee prodded him to lead the party in the polls. However, if the recent Assembly elections are any indicator, Bhattacharya has a hard battle at hand. BJP’s Ghosh polled 89,370 votes, some 50 per cent of the votes polled in the Assembly segment. Trinamul’s Mishra, despite being an “outsider” to Siliguri, had polled 53,784 or a vote share of 30 percent. Bhattacharya on the other hand only received 28,835 votes with a 16 percent vote share. The veteran CPM leader has had a chequered career and was largely credited for coming up with the “Siliguri model” in which the Left and the Congress collectively took on Trinamul and the BJP. Although the Left leaders did not speak much about the model on Tuesday, the Left has not announced candidates in four wards that the Congress won in the previous SMC polls. The decision to field Bhattacharya, many observers believe, is also an indication that the Left has failed to build up a strong second line of leadership in Siliguri. CPM leaders, however, said that they had inducted new faces. “Out of the 35 candidates, we have fielded 27 new faces,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Kultali:  Villagers heave sigh of relief as tiger finally tranquilised ||The royal Bengal Tiger that had strayed into human habitation in Kultali of South 24-Parganas district last Thursday and evaded traps and drone cameras, was finally on Tuesday morning tranquillised inside an enclosed jungle. Nabbing the tiger was made possible only after the fire brigade team, which was engaged by the forest department, began to spray water and burst crackers filled with chilli powder near the big cat’s suspected hideout, compelling it to come out. Two tranquillisers were immediately pumped into it that eventually made it unconscious within a few minutes. The tiger was later put into a cage wrapped with black cloth and taken to an animal health care facility at Bonny camp in the Jharkhali area of Sunderbans for medical test, a forest official said. It regained consciousness while it was being taken for medical check-up on a boat. It is expected to be released in Dhulibhasani jungle on Wednesday. Divisional forest officer Milan Kumar Mandal said: “We will release the tiger in the jungle after medical examination. Preliminary examination found nothing unusual in its health status except it appeared to be an aged one.” Forest officials estimated that the animal was around eight years old. Reacting to the much-anticipated success, forest minister Jyotipriya Mullick said: “We have been able to provide relief to local villagers who were spending anxious days. We will examine the tiger’s health and after experts allow us, we will release it into the forest.” Officials of the forest department as well those of the police and district administration heaved a sigh of relief with the netting of the tiger on the sixth day. Its remaining elusive for five days had caused embarrassment to the administration and it was heightened with the people losing patience as curbs on their movements had to be imposed in the area. Tuesday’s operation, however, did not remain without glitches. A member of the specially trained tiger trapping team got injured while putting the cage onto the boat. The person, identified as Mangal Samanta, who came from Maipith, had to be taken to a local hospital for treatment. The tiger had strayed into Gopalganj of Kultali last Thursday. Forest officials arrived with nets and cages to nab it. But the animal remained elusive. On Friday, it sneaked into No.5 Garankathi area. A trap was laid using a goat. But the tiger moved towards the riverbank. On Saturday, it was spotted near the Dongajora-Kella area when a group of picnickers on a boat heard it roaring. A new trap was laid that night, but the tiger avoided it. On Sunday, it was spotted in the jungle adjacent to the Sekhpara area when the forest officials were enclosing it with rubber and nylon net. But it fled inside after attacking a villager. On Monday, the tiger remained elusive despite forest officials bursting crackers to bring it out of its hideout. The efforts went in vain till on Tuesday morning when a fire brigade team sprayed water in the jungle and crackers were burst. This time, the tiger came out around 8.30am and was tranquillised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Siliguri College holds two-day classes||Siliguri College has started holding classes for only two days a week as part of Covid-19 precautions. Regular classes at colleges and universities started from November 16 across the state. Siliguri College, however, recently started holding classes two days a week for students for three semesters. It means that although the college stays open six days a week, students pursuing a particular semester are attending classes only two days a week. “First semester students attend class on Friday and Saturday; third semester on Wednesday and Thursday and fifth semester on Monday and Tuesday,” said a source. Classes for second, fourth and sixth semester will start after exams in February. Jayanta Kar, president of the governing body of Siliguri College, said that they planned this schedule after much thought. “Every student is attending class twice a week. This will help a student, if detected with fever or other symptoms, to get diagnosed during the gap,” he said. Darjeeling district logged 11 Covid cases on Monday apart from  nine more from Siliguri Municipal Corporation area that falls in Jalpaiguri district. In another development, the college has joined hands with a private institution, Avalon Academy to offer courses in hospitality and tourism management. “We have signed a memorandum of understanding with the institution. It is a degree course for three years under North Bengal University,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal: Four die in separate incidents ||A husband-wife duo were found dead in Kalimpong while two people died in a separate fire accident in Peshok, some 30km from Darjeeling on Tuesday. Sources said bodies of Kharak Bahadur Chhetri, 65 and his wife Bishu Chhetri, 45, were found at their house at 3rd Mile Tashiding in Kalimpong on Tuesday morning. Police suspect murder. Sources said the Chhetris, married only three months back, were probably attacked by a sharp weapon. Hari Krishna Pai, the SP of Kalimpong rushed to the spot to oversee the investigations. “We are suspecting murder and investigation is being done in that direction. We are hopeful that we can solve the case soon,” said Pai. Kharak Bahadur used to trade in livestock. No other family member was present at the house. In a separate incident, Bhumika Bhujel, 35, and her neighbour Bikash Gurung, 40, residents of Lopchu 11 Mile, died when a fire gutted Bhumika’s house. The fire started around 11.30pm on Monday night, sources said. Bhumika was with her husband Bhim in their two-storey wooden house when the fire started. “Bikash and other neighbours came to their rescue. Bikash died when a cooking gas cylinder exploded,” said a villager. Bhim escaped with injuries. Fire tenders from Kalimpong and Darjeeling rushed to the spot. Bhim’s vehicle, parked outside their house, was also damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Deocha mine: Rights body to submit report to Mamata ||Over 30 members of the Association for Protection of Democratic Rights (APDR) on Tuesday visited at least 10 villages in the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine area and said they would submit a report to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on the “opposition of local people” to the project. “We have spoken to a lot of people, including the tribal populace, in several villages across the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine area where everyone said they didn’t want a coal mine here. We observed that police in uniform and plainclothes kept continuous watch on us. We will report to the chief minister what we observed today (Tuesday),” said Ranjit Sur, a state secretariat member of the APDR who visited three villages of Deocha-Pachami on Tuesday. Divided in four groups, the APDR teams moved around Deocha-Pachami and spoke to the people on Tuesday. “We earlier protested against police atrocities on women in Dewanganj village. Today (Tuesday) we interacted with the people,” said Sailen Mishra, a leader of the APDR in Birbhum. Senior police and district officials earlier said a few groups were trying to instigate  villagers against the government’s proposed coal mine. “Attempts of outsiders are on. We are keeping a vigil on activities here. If there is any trouble, we will talk to villagers directly,” said a police officer. The APDR team will meet Birbhum officials, including district magistrate Bidhan Ray, in Suri on Friday, Sur said. In the run-up to the APDR’s visit, there have been three anti-coal mine meetings in Dewanganj and Harinsigha. At the same time, over 150 landowners pledged to give their land to the government for the coal mine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Howrah civic polls: CPM moves PIL against poll body||The CPM on Tuesday moved a PIL in Calcutta High Court against the State Election Commission’s decision not to hold polls to the Howrah civic body on January 22. The PIL filed by advocate Sabyasachi Bhattacharya argued that the state poll panel  had submitted before court that elections to five civic bodies, including Howrah, will be held on January 22. But on Monday, the panel announced polls to only four civic bodies — Bidhannagar, Asansol, Chandernagore and Siliguri. Bhattacharya sent an email to Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava requesting his PIL be heard on Tuesday evening. But the matter will be heard on Wednesday or Thursday. “How can the (state poll) commission not follow what it said in front of the honourable court?” Bhattacharya told The Telegraph. The state government intends to bifurcate the Howrah corporation into two and separate 16 wards of the erstwhile Bally municipality. The Assembly passed a legislation on it, but the bill awaits the governor’s nod, a bureaucrat said, citing this as the reason for the delay in Howrah polls. On Tuesday, the Congress took out a rally from Jadubabur Bazar in South Calcutta on Tuesday, at a time the Trinamul board was taking oath in the CMC, against alleged irregularities of the ruling party on the day of the civic polls in Calcutta. The Howrah issue has being simmering since Monday, when the Left parties, along with the Congress and BJP, walked out of an all-party meeting convened by the state poll panel after they were told that polls to Howrah won’t be held on January 22. They questioned how the panel could decide not to follow a submission it had made itself in the court. The Left Front will hold protests and demonstrations in front of the state poll panel’s office in Calcutta from Wednesday. Its media statement said the protest would be “against the partisan attitude of the Commission... and its role of acting as an assistant of the Trinamul Congress through vote loot, violence and rigging.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata gears up to promote Gangasagar Mela as brand||The Mamata Banerjee government has undertaken a cluster of religious initiatives to promote and brand Bengal’s famous Gangasagar Mela after a thorough study on how the event could be promoted among an even larger number of people outside the state, especially in north India. Officials said they studied the Kumbh Mela in Allahabad and a few other events associated with Hinduism observed during the Makar Sankranti elsewhere in the country to take ideas for the initiatives for devotees to participate in, in person or virtually. They said the aim was to brand the mega Hindu festival in the state’s southern coast as a peer of the Kumbh event. Sources in the ruling dispensation said the chief minister’s visit — a regular affair ahead of the Mela — and the preparations by her government for the event were part of a larger message to those outside Bengal, especially in the northern states, as her party prepares to expand its footprint beyond Bengal in the run-up to the general election of 2024. “The larger message is to the non-Bengal electorate, of how she isn’t anti-Hindu, which the saffron ecosystem has been trying to brand her as,” said a source. “That branding has not harmed her electorally or politically in Bengal, with one-third of the population being from minority communities and those in the majority community here thinking very differently from their north or west Indian counterparts. But it is one she must work against, for the Trinamul Congress’s foray outside Bengal,” he added. “The Gangasagar exercise, now more than ever, is part of that pandering exercise for non-Bengal Hindus. Tens of thousands of them visit the event every year.” The Trinamul chief reached Gangasagar on Tuesday afternoon for her three-day programme, including an administrative review meeting to take stock of the preparations for the fair, which begins on January 7 next year. Visiting the Kapil Muni Ashram — a foremost attraction for pilgrims on the site — where she offered her prayers, Mamata reiterated that she had sent several letters to the Centre, urging it to help make the Gangasagar event a national affair, like the one in Kumbh so that the event got all sorts of central assistance. “I have written several letters to the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) with the demand to announce the Gangasagar Mela as a national fair, but did not receive any reply. Gangasagar Mela is a national event, quite like the Kumbh Mela. The central government bears all the cost of the Kumbh Mela, but it does not pay a dime for our Gangasagar event,” she said. “If Kumbh Mela is shuorani (favourite queen), is Gangasagar Mela the duorani (neglected queen)?” Among several initiatives is the setting up of a Dhyan Kendra — a meditation centre — that can house thousands of pilgrims, who can meditate there, besides have an “enriching experience” of myths and religious stories connected to the Gangasagar event, to be shared by Hindu monks, ascetics and experts. There would be other special events, such as the Sagar Sangam, a talk show where the pilgrims would be able to watch interviews and interactions with Hindu monks and ascetics — deemed eminent by believers — visiting Gangasagar from around the country. Punya Toree (boat of virtue) is another initiative where boats would carry water from Gangasagar, considered sacred by devotees, to all 23 districts of Bengal. “We conducted a comprehensive study to find out how we can make the fair an event of national or event international interest. We are going to make this fair with ancient roots and numerous associated myths a brand to promote it extensively,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. “We would also try to make it more popular than the Kumbh Mela in coming years,” he added. The district administration has already started initiatives such as e-snan, e-puja and e-darshan — things associated with the fair that could now be done virtually in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have already received at least 20 lakh responses to such virtual puja or bathing. We expect at least 30 lakh people across the country to visit the fair this year,” added Ulaganathan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Jibe at cop: FIR against Kabir filed||Bharatpur police in Murshidabad have filed a suo moto complaint against local Trinamul Congress MLA Humayun Kabir for his rant against officer-in-charge Raju Mukherjee that was laced with allegations of misbehaviour and favouritism. A video purportedly recorded on Saturday evening at the party’s block office in Bharatpur showed Kabir accusing Mukherjee of allying with three Trinamul leaders to undermine the MLA in the recent Assembly polls. Mukherjee filed the FIR on Monday on behalf of the Bharatpur police against Kabir under several sections of the Indian Penal Code. Reacting to the FIR, Bharatpur MLA Kabir said: “I am being attacked for saying impassioned things in the service of common people.... Still, I have faith in the law. Even during the CPM’s rule, I had 21 cases against me. This is the sixth during Trinamul’s reign, but I am still here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Consultant hiring: Dhankhar raises questions on process ||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has raised questions on the process adopted by the state government to select nearly 50 senior consultants whom Nabanna is planning to recruit into about 24 departments. The governor has asked chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to explain within seven days the procedure to recruit the professionals, whom the government wants to recruit laterally in the administration. In a notification issued by the personnel and administrative reforms department on November 26, the government sought applications from professionals from the corporate world for about 50 senior consultants. The notification mentioned that the mode of selection would be through personality tests and in case the number of applicants was high, the state government may shortlist the candidates based on educational qualification, areas of expertise and experience. In a letter sent to the chief secretary, the governor asked for details of the recruitment process. “The declared selection mechanism is ex facie subjective, sketchy and arbitrary and does not appear to be fair, equitable on account of absence of specific details relating to this in the public domain. This tailor made mechanism has all the trappings of extending favoritism and patronage,” reads Dhankhar’s letter. Sources in the administration said the governor apparently raised a question which many people had been asking. “As the senior consultants and consultants would play an important role after being placed in the special secretary and joint secretary ranks, there should not be any question on their recruitment process. It would have been better if the selection process had been done through the West Bengal Public Service Commission,” said a source. A senior government official said the government had already appointed some officers through lateral entry in 2019 and no question was raised about their recruitment. “So, it is not true that the favoritism and patronage would be extended if the government holds the recruitment process,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: City sees significant spike||Bengal on Tuesday reported 752 new Covid-19 infections, 721 recoveries and seven deaths, prompting a rise by 24 in active cases, to 7,457. On Tuesday, Calcutta logged 382 new infections, almost double from Monday’s 204 reported cases. North 24-Parganas reported 102 new infections on Tuesday. These were Bengal’s only two districts with a three-digit figure of new cases detected in a day. Both Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported two deaths each as well. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 633 or 84.18 per cent of new cases detected on Tuesday, with. over 60 per cent of those in Calcutta alone. Thirteen districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections, 18 districts logged zero deaths. Tuesday’s new infections indicated people infected between December 19 and 23. A government source attributed the spike to the Christmas-New Year spell of revelry. “It is likely to stay restricted to Calcutta and its immediate neighbourhood, for now,” said the source. On Sunday, Calcutta had reported 219 new infections. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate has nearly doubled over the past few days, and was 2.35 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent now, below the national rate of 98.4 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. In the past 94 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the total rose on 39 days and fell on 53 days. Over these 94 days, there has been a net fall of 217 in the total of Covid patients in the state. Bengal now has nearly 16.32 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 16.04 lakh recoveries and 19,733 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
29-12-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu to be saffron face in Bengal: National leadership hints||BJP’s national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh made it apparent to Bengal leaders during his recent Calcutta visit that Suvendu Adhikari would remain the face of the party in the state, said a source in the saffron camp. In his meeting with the new office-bearers of the party’s state unit and district leaders on Monday, Santhosh, often referred to as the strongest organisational secretary the BJP has seen in recent past, didn’t name Adhikari, but apparently made it clear the central leadership had full faith in the Nandigram MLA. Santhosh called Adhikari a “giant killer” in the party because of his triumph over Mamata Banerjee in the recent Assembly polls in the Nandigram seat. “The notion that those who come from other parties aren’t given respect in the BJP is not right.… In the past eight years, the BJP made several people, who came to the party, chief minister of different states,” a source quoted Santhosh having said. The source then rolled out examples of leaders like Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who was in the Janata Dal (United), Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who was with the Congress, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu, who was with the Congress and then with the People’s Party of Arunachal and Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh (who was with the Democratic Revolutionary People’s Party and then with the Congress) to elaborate on Santhosh’s argument. The fact that Santhosh took care to explain how lateral entrants to the BJP had got due importance assumes significance in the context of Bengal, where the BJP chose the inorganic growth path in the past few years. While the strategy did help the BJP as it got scores of leaders from other parties and some of them went on to become MPs and MLAs. When the BJP emerged as the main Opposition party in the state, the influx of leaders from other parties triggered a bitter power struggle in the state unit. “Look what Himanta Biswa Sarma has done or has been doing after coming to the party. All his actions are in sync with the party’s idea of nationalism. You all have to understand that if someone comes from outside, but accepts the party culture, then he or she can reach any position,” Santhosh reportedly told the meeting. This message, several BJP insiders said, will settle the insider-outsider debate that has become an Achilles heel for the BJP in recent months. Each time the BJP’s poll performance didn’t match the party’s expectations, some party insiders blamed newly inducted leaders like Adhikari. Santhosh said in his address that while elections were important, the party would not lose its focus on Bengal because of poor performance in a couple of electoral contests. “We are here not to win a few elections.… Bengal is a bordering state and we all know the situation in Bangladesh and the threat of Islamisation. We can’t leave the state in the hands of a fragile leadership. We have long-term plans for Bengal,” Santhosh reportedly explained why Bengal was important for the BJP. BJP sources said the national leaders had realised that the insider-outsider debate had to be ended once for all and that was why Santhosh broached the topic. “He made it clear that Suvendu would remain the face of the party while Sukanta Majumdar will head the state organisation,” said a source, adding that unequivocal endorsement of Adhikari would help the Trinamul turncoat play a larger role in the BJP. “Santhosh-ji also made it clear that the elected representatives and the office-bearers in the party are two sides of the same coin and they would have to co-ordinate among themselves,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
