30-12-2021||West Bengal||As Covid cases rise, Bengal suspends flights from UK||The West Bengal government said on Thursday it is suspending all direct flights from the UK and those emanating from other high-risk countries from January 3, amid growing scare over the rise in number of Covid cases of the omicron variant, an official said. State's Home Secretary B P Gopalika wrote to the Union civil aviation ministry informing it about the state's decision due to the rising number of patients detected with the omicron strain of the contagion. West Bengal has so far reported 11 cases of the omicron variant. "In view of the rising number of omicron cases globally and as well as within the country, the state government has decided to temporarily and until further orders suspended all direct flights from United Kingdom to Kolkata from January 3, 2022." Flights, which is an at risk country as notified notified by MOHFW, Government of India, will not be allowed in the state and any NOCs which have been issued stand withdrawn," he wrote in a letter to Rajiv Bansal, Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation. Kolkata's tally of new COVID-19 infections more than doubled in 24 hours as the metropolis reported 1,090 cases on Thursday, as per the state Health Department. The city reported 540 new cases on Wednesday, it said. West Bengal registered more than 2,000 cases after nearly six months as the state reported 2,128 new infections. It was nearly double the cases reported on Wednesday when 1,089 infections were detected, and more than four times that reported on last Thursday -- 516. The state's positivity rate jumped to 5.47 per cent, from 2.84 per cent on Wednesday. West Bengal has so far reported 16,35,034 Covid -19 cases. The state also registered 12 more deaths, taking the toll to 19,757. Four of the latest deaths happened in Kolkata, two each in North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Darjeeling, and one each in South 24 Parganas and Paschim Medinipur. In the last 24 hours, 1,067 people recovered from the disease. So far, 16,06,501 people have been cured of COVID-19 in the state. There are 8,776 active cases in West Bengal at present. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said coronavirus-related restrictions cannot be imposed everywhere as they may impact the economy as has been the case since the onset of the pandemic. Speaking to reporters while visiting the Sagar Island in South 24 Parganas district where the annual Ganga Sagar Mela will begin next month, Banerjee said COVID-19 cases in Kolkata were rising as it was a transit point for people travelling on trains and flights. "Most omicron cases are being detected among people coming on flights from the UK. It's a fact that the omicron carriers are coming via international flights. The Centre must decide on imposing restrictions on flights from countries where omicron cases are high," she said. Banerjee said that her government was reviewing the emerging pandemic situation "seriously" and hinted that a decision will be taken regarding restriction, taking the economy into account. "We have to look after the safety and security of the people. We will soon make a decision. We will target places where the cases are going up. We cannot impose restrictions everywhere because that may affect the economy as it has in the last two years," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Can't impose Covid restrictions everywhere as it may impact economy: Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said coronavirus-related restrictions cannot be imposed everywhere as they may impact the economy as has been the case since the onset of the pandemic. Speaking to reporters while visiting the Sagar Island in South 24 Parganas district where the annual Ganga Sagar Mela will begin next month, Banerjee said COVID-19 cases in Kolkata were rising as it was a transit point for people travelling on trains and flights. "Most omicron cases are being detected among people coming on flights from the UK. It's a fact that the omicron carriers are coming via international flights. The Centre must decide on imposing restrictions on flights from countries where omicron cases are high," she said. Banerjee said that her government was reviewing the emerging pandemic situation "seriously" and hinted that a decision will be taken regarding restriction, taking the economy into account. "We have to look after the safety and security of the people. We will soon make a decision. We will target places where the cases are going up. We cannot impose restrictions everywhere because that may affect the economy as it has in the last two years," she said. West Bengal on Wednesday recorded a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, recording 1,089 infections. Kolkata itself reported 540 new cases. "COVID-19 cases in Kolkata are rising because it's the transit point for people travelling on trains and flights. I will request everyone to follow COVID guidelines and wear masks," Banerjee said as she boarded a helicopter for Kolkata, ending her three-day tour of the island after reviewing the preparedness for the religious congregation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
30-12-2021||West Bengal||VCs of 24 Universities appointed in disregard of law, says Bengal Governor||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Thursday claimed that appointments of vice-chancellors of 24 universities in the state were made without his approval or in defiance of orders. Dhankhar is the ex-officio chancellor of the state-run universities, including Calcutta University, Jadavpur University and Presidency University. "VCs of 24 Universities appointed @MamataOfficial in disregard of law. These are ex facie in defiance of specific orders or without approval by Chancellor-the Appointing Authority," the governor tweeted. "These appointments carry no legal sanction and would be forced to take action unless soon recalled," he added. The warning comes close on the heels of chancellors and vice-chancellors of private universities not attending a meeting called by the governor earlier in the month at the Raj Bhawan here. Dhankhar is the visitor of private universities in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Malda cop collapses in annual sports meet, dies||Police constable Moksedur Rahaman, 32, died from a massive heart attack while participating in the annual sports meet of the department in Malda on Tuesday. Rahaman, a resident of Itahar block in North Dinajpur district, was posted in the special task force as a constable. Sources said the constable complained of severe chest pain during the tug-of-war at the sports meet. “He was immediately rushed to the Malda medical college and shifted to a private nursing home. However, late in the evening he breathed his last,” said a source. Rahaman’s body was brought to police lines on Wednesday where state minister Sabina Yeasmin and Malda SP Alok Rajoria paid their last respect. “We are saddened by his demise. We will take all measures to help his family members,” said SP Rajoria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Finding no place in new set-up, sacked BJP Malda chief seeks to quit ||Gobinda Chandra Mandal, recently removed as the BJP’s Malda district president, on Wednesday expressed his desire to quit politics. Bengal BJP on Saturday announced an extensive organisational reshuffle across districts in the run-up to civic polls early in 2022 and replaced presidents of 30 of 39 organisational districts, created new ones and brought many RSS pracharaks to the forefront. Mandal, 64, on Wednesday said: “I am now contemplating quitting politics. I have served the BJP to the best of my ability and it is now time for the new generation to take over. I have communicated my wish to the state leadership.” In the reshuffle, Mandal was made the party’s observer for North Dinajpur district. Made the district head in 2019, it was widely believed the BJP would give him a ticket in the Assembly elections but that was not so. The former schoolteacher did not attribute his decision to the reshuffle. “I have no complaints,” he said. “I have proved my loyalty. The party asked me to spare more time in north Malda, I did. Three of four (Malda) BJP MLAs are from north Malda only.” The only BJP MP of the district was elected from North Malda too. All these prove that we succeeded in working as a team. But now all is over. I should take sanyas from BJP and serve the society in other ways,” he said. Soon after Mandal’s announcement, the new president of BJP South Malda, Partha Ghosh called him up. “I had a talk with him and have requested him not to retire from the BJP and politics. His guidance will help us,” Ghosh said. Mandal, however, said he would prefer to engage in social work rather than politics. “I cannot sit idle. I would rather serve society through ocial organisations,” said Mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
30-12-2021||West Bengal||BJP looks for new faces, fields MLA in SMC elections||The BJP has decided to field Siliguri MLA Shankar Ghosh in the upcoming Siliguri Municipal Corporation polls in a clear indication that the party is hard-pressed to find new leaders. While Ghosh, the BJP MLA, has  been fielded from ward 24, former Trinamul councillor Nantu Paul and his wife Manjushree Paul have been nominated from wards 11 and 12, respectively. Nantu, a former councillor, had joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections this year. The BJP also decided to field former CPM councillor Shalini Dalmia from ward 8. Dalmia joined the BJP on Wednesday.. “The fact that tickets were given to leaders who joined the party today (Wednesday) clearly states the BJP was hard-pressed in finding candidates,” said an observer. A source in BJP said that Siliguri MLA Ghosh had been projected as face of the organisation in the upcoming election, as he was the most experienced among the candidates, having served in the SMC earlier as a member of the mayor-in-council. Raju Bista, Darjeeling MP and national spokesman of the party, listed a number of issues the party is likely to raise during its campaign. “We will make Siliguri a smart and green city, traffic problems will be restored, we will construct a four-lane road from Sevoke to Balason (near Matigara), health infrastructure will be improved and pure drinking water will be supplied. The corporation will be run in a transparent manner,” said Bista Anandamoy Barman, president, BJP Siliguri district unit, said that the party had tried to accommodate candidates to represent different communities and professions. “We have tried to accommodate candidates to represent different communities and professions including teacher, lawyer and doctor as well. There are 19 women candidates in our list,” said Barman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling & Sikkim experience snowfall ahead of New Year, people cheer occasion||The Darjeeling hills and Sikkim cheered the second snowfall on Wednesday after Christmas. This time, it was much closer to the heart of Darjeeling and Gangtok towns, the two popular tourist destinations in the region in Bengal and Sikkim, respectively. Steady snowfall was witnessed from 6.30am to around 1pm. on Wednesday at Jorebunglow, Ghoom and Batasia, which are within the Darjeeling municipality area and are places that one has to pass to reach Darjeeling from Siliguri. In Tiger Hill, snowfall was steady. From Chowrasta, the famous Darjeeling square, Batasia falls within a radius of 6km. Regions within the same radius from Gangtok also received snowfall apart from higher reaches like Gurudongmar, Lachen and Lachung in North district. Proximity to the twin tourist destinations meant more excitement not just for the tourists but locals alike. At Chowrasta, it was more of snow accompanied by rain. The rain meant snow did not accumulate at Chowrasta but it was enough for rapture. “I never thought I would experience snowfall during my visit to Darjeeling,” said Karthik Bhattacharya, a tourist from Salt Lake, Kolkata. While many tourists enjoyed snowfall at Tiger Hill, the sleet at Chowrasta and its immediate vicinity was also a reason for joy. On December 29, 2018, Chowrasta experienced a similar condition as on Wednesday as snow could not accumulate then because of the accompanying rain. “I remember it had snowed heavily on February 14, 2007 in Darjeeling town. The next time it had snowed in Darjeeling town was on January 26, 2008 but that year snow had not accumulated. Nevertheless, snow is always exciting,” said Saurav Tamang, a resident of Darjeeling. On Christmas, regions like Sandakphu and Phalut in Darjeeling, at an altitude of nearly 12,000 feet and Gurudongmar in Sikkim, situated at an altitude of 17,000 feet saw snowfall. Darjeeling police issued an advisory asking people not to undertake unnecessary travel across higher reaches of Darjeeling. “Driving on roads covered with snow can be very challenging,” the travel advisory read. Police have also advised tourists in Sandakphu, Tonglu and other areas to stay in their homestays or accommodations in the snow. “Local police along with the SSB are exploring all possibilities to rescue them at the earliest,” read the advisory. It is estimated that around 300 tourists are in the Sandakphu-Phalut-Tonglu region. Sources said a tourist fractured her leg at Sonada after falling on a slippery walkway in the snow. White Sikkim Sikkim received the season’s heaviest snowfall. Snow lashed different parts of Sikkim since Tuesday night with places like Lachung and Lachen in north Sikkim and Tsomgo and Nathu-la in east Sikkim receiving the season’s heaviest snowfall. Also, many places in west and south Sikkim received snowfall, including Chewabhanjyang on the border with Nepal, Uttarey, Ripdi, Okhrey and Ravangla. Swathes in all the four corners of the Himalayan state were covered with white flakes with snowfall continuing intermittently in some places throughout Wednesday. Weather forecast Heavy snow brought down the minimum temperature in the capital, Gangtok, to 3.1°C, the lowest recorded minimum in nearly four decades. According to the Gangtok centre of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the lowest minimum temperature of 1.7°C was recorded in the Sikkim capital on December 28, 1985. “The mercury is likely to drop more in the next two days,” said G.N. Raha, the IMD centre head. Many roads in north and east Sikkim have been blocked because of the heavy snow and police have advised local residents and tourists not to venture to these areas. “Some tourists and vehicles are stuck in Lachung and Lachen, and will be moved out once roads are cleared and the weather improves,” said a police source. Darjeeling recorded a minimum temperature of 1.8°C on Wednesday. Weathermen have predicted dry weather in Darjeeling from December 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul, CPM chalk out rejig strategies for Alipurduar||Trinamul has appointed leaders from rural areas as observers in each of the 20 wards of Alipurduar municipality to stem factionalism ahead of the civic polls, while the CPM, inspired by its relative success in the  Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections have decided to field a majority of red volunteers. Alipurduar civic election is likely on February 27. A Trinamul source said to “avoid factionalism and maintain transparency", the party appointed an observer each in all its 20 wards. All observers, from rural areas, have been asked to form three booths in each ward. Each booth will be manned by a 31-member executive committee, which means that Trinamul is trying to rope in 93 active workers to work for the party in each ward. Sources said Trinamul came up with the new strategy as past election results have been dismal for Bengal's ruling party here despite a slew of projects, starting with creating Alipurduar district in  2014. Earlier, Alipurduar was a part of Jalpaiguri district. In the last municipality election in Alipurduar in 2013, Trinamul won eight seats, followed by Congress with six, Left with five and the BJP with one. Then, Alipurduar was still a part of Jalpaiguri. When the term ended in 2018, no election was held but an administrator appointed to run the civic body. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul lost in all 20 wards. In the 2021 Assembly elections, Trinamul lost in 18 wards and all five seats of the district. The CPM has decided to give priority to red volunteers as candidates in Alipurduar. Red volunteers worked extensively during the Covid-19 pandemic, from providing food to patient’s families to helping patients get medial aid. The party wants to field at least 15 red volunteers in Alipurduar. Kishore Das secretary, Alipurduar CPM district committee, said: “In the CMC election, the CPM got 12 per cent votes only because red volunteers got priority. We want to  repeat it  in Alipurduar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
30-12-2021||West Bengal|| CM announces award for team which caught Royal Bengal tiger ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced an award for the forest department team that successfully trapped the royal Bengal tiger which had entered human habitation at Kultali in South 24-Parganas last Thursday, unleashing panic among residents. She also congratulated police for their support. “You have all done a great job and relieved people of panic,” the chief minister said at an administrative meeting in Gangasagar on Wednesday. Earlier in the morning, the adult male tiger was released safely at the Dhulibhasani jungle’s 4th compartment located under Ramganga range, said divisional forest officer Milan Kumar Mondal. Responding to Mamata’s words of praise for his team and the award announced by her, Mondal said: “We examined the tiger's health. It was found alright and we released it at  6.55am today (Wednesday).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmi temple falls into the Ganga in Murshidabad’s Samserganj ||A 50-year-old Lakshmi temple at Shibpur in Murshidabad’s Samserganj collapsed in full view of hundreds on Wednesday morning, hours after nightlong erosion by the Ganga tributary forced several families to abandon their homes. The incident, which took place in Shibpur village, comes barely three months after weeklong spates of erosion in Samserganj that elicited the ire of hundreds of families in the area, many of whom are still under “ad hoc” measures at the Chachanda Primary School. Several families have emptied homes of all belongings, even if they have not been sucked into the sinkholes yet. “We have been here for months and have not seen the face of even one district or irrigation official concerned about our well-being. As a result, we had to lose our beloved temple today (Wednesday),” said a resident of the Chachanda shelter. “More than 40 homes have been lost in the area.” On Tuesday night, eight homes were reportedly left in a precarious position. Among the homeowners were Apurba Mondal and Ajay Pramanik, who “thanked their lucky stars” for being able to get out of their homes though the erosion “struck suddenly at night”. On Wednesday, they were busy emptying homes of belongings. Residents on Wednesday recalled the plight of several villages in Samserganj in September, which included Dhanghora, Dhusripara, Kamalpur and Shibpur villages. “The Lakshmi temple at Shibpur was close to the hearts of all residents of Samserganj and a source of strength. We request irrigation officials to please wake up now,” said an irate resident. On Wednesday, Behrampore Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury advocated for the plight of Shibpur in an address at a party meeting in Farakka nearby. "When the UPA ruled at the Centre, they were attentive and diligent about the erosion problem. Now, (the Centre) don’t even care, and our state government is as bad... They (state) have a Rs 3 lakh crore budget but can’t pay a minor fraction of that to ensure the safety of citizens' lives,” said the MP. “At the same time, they will pay well to ensure Gangasagar gets organised in time... The chief minister will sit on dharnas for Rajiv Kumar, but won’t go to Delhi for half an hour for erosion in Murshidabad,” he added. Residents of the area rued the loss of the temple through the rest of Wednesday, with audible refrains of resentment against “lax district administration”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government forms land reforms panel for hills ||The state government has formed land reforms advisory committees for areas under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) to flag off the process of granting land rights in the hills where more than 70 per cent of the population do not have land rights. Vested land belonging to the state government is distributed to the landless through block-level committees named Bon-O-Bhumi Sanskar Sthayee Samittees in the rest of the state. But the same could not be implemented in the hills because of the lack of three-tier panchayat system here. Election to the one-tier gram panchayat was last held in 2000. The three-tier panchayat consists of gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zilla parishad. The Bon-O-Bhumi committee involves elected representatives from the panchayat samiti. The Indian Constitution has been amended, whereby, the hills have provision for only one tier panchayat, which is gram panchayat. Even so, the rural body was in force till 2005. “The Land Reforms Advisory Committee will function with immediate effect in the same manner as Bon-O-Bhumi-Sanskar Sthayee Samittees in the block level and place its recommendation in the usual manner before the SDO concerned for taking further necessary action,” the notification by the state government on December 27 reads. The committee, which is specific to the GTA area, will be formed in all the nine blocks within the hill body, and headed by the block development officer.  “The block-level land reforms officer will be the convener and secretary, and the other representatives include representatives of the chief executive of the GTA, principal secretary of the GTA and divisional forest officers,” said a source. Land will be settled under section 49 of the West Bengal Land Reforms Act, 1955. This section deals with settlement of land vested with the state government. This basically means that land which is already under the state government will be settled to residents. In the hills, the majority of the hill people reside in tea gardens and cinchona areas. “Even though this committee won't have the right to settle land of people residing in tea gardens and cinchona plantation, it is a very important development for Darjeeling hill as some process of land settlement is starting here,” said Amar Lama, general secretary of the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM) and an advocate. Tea garden lands and municipality lands cannot be settled under section 49, as these are land leased out by the government to lessees for a period of 30 years. Land under the cinchona plantations is owned by the state government and do not qualify as vested land. “However, there are lands resumed (taken back) by the state government from the tea gardens and have been classified as vested. These lands can now be settled to the residents. There are such lands in Kalimpong districts and even in places like Chengia in Mirik sub-division,” said a land and land reforms official. Land rights is a major political issue in the hills and many believe the state government’s decision to initiate a process to grant land rights could be a game-changer at a time the hills are gearing up for local elections. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said that elections to GTA would be held after the revision of electoral rolls is completed on January 5.  Anit Thapa’s BGPM is an ally of the Trinamul and party leaders, sources said, are already looking at using this notification to their advantage. Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha is also an ally of the Trinamul. Another hill leader, Binay Tamang, also joined the Trinamul, few days back. “The BGPM is looking at capitalising on this issue the most as they have been most vocal on this issue in the past,” said an observer. “Trinamul is also expected to gain from this development.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Fresh surge in Covid cases: Didi hints at campus closure ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday expressed her concern over the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the state and said her government might again shut down schools and colleges for “some more days” if the latest round of spread was seen affecting students. She, however, said the final decision would be taken after the education and the health departments reviewed the situation, following which new protocols would be issued on January 3. “Covid has come back again...the third wave. There is a surge across the country, which includes the omicron variant. So, review the situation to decide whether schools and colleges would remain open in such a situation,” she said in a reply to a briefing by education secretary Manish Jain at an administrative review meeting of South 24-Parganas district in Gangasagar. “Keep a watch on the situation and if you find that students at schools are being infected in large numbers, then we would declare holidays for some days,” Mamata added while discussing arrangements for students’ week, which would be held across the state to distribute students’ credit cards. Schools and colleges in the state reopened on November 16, after a gap of about 20 months. Schools were allowed to organise daily academic activities from Class VIII to Class XII. In the past one month, several schools and colleges reported a rise in Covid cases, prompting some schools in the district to announce temporary closure of the institutions. “.... Madhyamik and higher secondary examinations are ahead. So check the situation,” the chief minister went on, indicating that the government was considering closing down school, college and university campuses. As preparations for the third wave became the main topic of discussion at the review meeting, she also said the state government would consider reducing the number of local train services and would take a call on international flights coming to Calcutta. Mamata advised chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to issue new protective protocols on and from January 3 and identify containment zones in Calcutta and its fringes where the rate of infections was quite high. While discussing the Covid situation and vaccination in the state, she turned the gun on the Centre and said New Delhi should complete the vaccination process by sending the second dose before launching administration of booster jab.The meeting became a Covid preparedness meeting after health secretary N.S. Nigam informed her that the number of positive cases in the state crossed the 1,000 mark on Wednesday. Daily scanning of Covid cases done by the state health department indicates that in the past two days, the state witnessed a spike in positive cases. On Tuesday, 752 cases were reported in comparison to 439 cases on Monday. On Wednesday, the number crossed the 1,000 mark. “The new infections are mostly noticed in the city and its fringes,” the health secretary pointed out. A section of officials said even if the fresh Covid guidelines were issued on January 3, the state should impose some sort of restriction ahead of the New Year’s Day. “The result of restriction-free celebrations on Christmas is visible… The new positive cases are rising rapidly. If no restrictions are imposed ahead of the New Year eve, the situation could go out of control within a few weeks,” said a senior official. The announcement of the chief minister about a possible fresh shutdown of the schools has put the officials in the education department in a quandary claiming that it might affect the vaccination drive of the teens that is scheduled to begin from January 3. The state government has targeted vaccinating 48 lakh persons in the age group of 15 to 18, which the officials think might suffer in case the schools are closed again. “If the schools are closed, there would be problems getting the students. It would be a challenge for us to bring students from home,” said an official, adding that it would be difficult to achieve the target. The health department has issued orders to the district administrations to ensure that the vaccination for the age group of 15-18 has started at least in a school of each block and municipality on the inaugural day. Officials of the health and the school education departments held a meeting recently in which it was decided that only one or two vaccinators with vaccines would be sent to the schools and the school would provide three staff who would take care of observation and registration of students in Cowin software.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
30-12-2021||West Bengal||250 Left Front activists arrested for no-poll protest ||Calcutta police arrested around 250 Left Front leaders and workers who had gathered in front of the State Election Commission office Wednesday to demand polls to the Howrah Municipal Corporation on January 22. Left leaders claimed protesters were taken into custody before they could start the event. To condemn the arrests, Left parties have called for a statewide protest on Thursday. “Police had no warrant to arrest Left activists… The way arrests were made in this Covid-19 period will only spread infection. The government deliberately broke coronavirus protocols. We condemn these arrests,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose. “Tomorrow (Thursday) protests will be held across the state.” Left parties on Monday announced a protest in front of the state poll panel’s office on Rawdon Street from Wednesday 2pm against the panel’s decision not to hold Howrah civic polls on January 22. On Wednesday, Left workers from Howrah and Hooghly reached the poll panel office by 1.30pm. They were picked up by police around 1.45pm. Senior Left leader Rabin Deb reached the venue at 2.15pm and was arrested. “Till 4.30pm, police arrested 245 of us. We were taken to Presidency Jail where we demonstrated against the arrests,” Deb said. They were released on unconditional bail later and took out a rally from Presidency Jail to the National Library, raising slogans. Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar on Wednesday said the state poll panel should consider deferring the January 22 polls to Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri and Chandernagore civic bodies as Covid cases were rising. “…An expert committee must be formed by the poll panel and based on their advice the commission should decide if it is right to conduct polls on January 22,” Majumdar said. “What we are observing is that the contamination rate is on a rise… The number of omicron cases are also increasing…I think if this continues, the commission must reconsider the dates.” Majumdar’s comments came after chief minister Mamata Banerjee at a district review meeting at Gangasagar on Wednesday asked government officials to take steps to combat the rising graph of Covid-19 cases in the state. Trinamul spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy advised Majumdar to seek a deferment of polls scheduled in five BJP-ruled states. CPM leader Biman Bose also said polls should not be delayed any further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
30-12-2021||West Bengal||Four arrested with over 7kg gold in Siliguri||The directorate of revenue intelligence wing of Siliguri arrested four persons and recovered over 7kg of gold estimated to be worth some Rs 3.5 crore, and Rs 1 crore in cash on Tuesday. DRI sources said officers  caught two persons from Hashmi Chowk here with some gold and two of their suspected aides with some more gold at a jewellery shop on Hill Cart Road. Bihar residents Bablu  Paswan and Sonu Kumar Rezak, arrested at Hashmi Chowk, were planning to allegedly sell the gold to a jewellery shop on Hill Cart Road. The arrested duo admitted they had come to Siliguri to sell gold at the Hill Cart Road store, a DRI source said. At the store, the DRI team arrested Prakash Biswas and Tapan Kumar of Alipurduar and Bihar, respectively, suspected aides of Bablu and Sonu. “In all, 7.273kg gold and Rs 1 crore in cash were found from the arrested persons and the shop. The shop owner is absconding,” a source said. DRI sources suspect a racket involved in selling illegally procured gold is active in Siliguri. “The four arrested were produced before the additional chief judicial magistrate court in Siliguri on Wednesday and sent to 14-days’ jail custody,” Souvik Sengupta, the special public prosecutor, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
