31-12-2021||West Bengal||Himalayan black bear rescued from riverbank in Alipurduar||A Himalayan black bear was rescued from the banks of the Rydak river in Alipurduar district on Wednesday night and released into the wild on Thursday morning. Sources said some people spotted the black bear, aged around two years, along the river bed under the Kumargram range of Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) on Wednesday evening. Although foresters from Kumargram range, who rushed to the spot, carried tranquillisers, they decided against using them. Sri Harish, deputy field director, BTR (east), explained why. “There have been instances of young bears facing problems on being tranquilised. This is why we decided to trap it in a cage.” However, trapping the animal was not easy owing to the terrain and the failing light. “The animal could be trapped with a net after a four-hour effort,” said a source. After a medical check-up, the bear was released into the wild on Thursday morning. Foresters said Himalayan black bears which reside in higher altitudes of 12,000 feet are recently being frequently spotted in the plains. Ujjwal Ghosh, additional principal chief conservator of forest, said: “It is true that this year Himalayan black bears are being found in the Dooars region more frequently.” Foresters looking into a number of probable reasons for the frequent sighting of Himalayan black bears in the plains are planning a survey to estimate the bear population. Recently, several bears have been sighted in Kalimpong, Darjeeling, the Dooars and the neighbouring state of Sikkim. While most have been rescued by the forest departments of both states and released in the wild, one of the bears, which strayed into a tea estate in Jalpaiguri and killed an onlooker who ventured too close, was beaten to death by some people in the crowd. Officials said initial observation suggests changes in climate, increase in population, food shortage and easy availability of food in urban centres could be reasons for the straying of bears in lower regions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
31-12-2021||West Bengal||GTA undecided on utilising Rs 2 crore relief fund ||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) is undecided on utilising more than Rs 2 crore under the GTA chairman’s relief fund almost two years after it started collecting the money. Sources admit to a lot of political sensitivity around the fund as the task started in March 2020 when Anit Thapa was the GTA chairman. Currently, Thapa is the president of the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajantrantik Morcha (BGPM) and not in the GTA. A hill observer said with elections to the GTA due, the idle fund could be used by Thapa's rivals to corner him and his new party, the BGPM. A meeting of the GTA core-committee formed to utilise this fund almost a year ago on January 28, 2021, met in Darjeeling last Thursday but no final decision was taken. The 15-member core-committee has representatives of trade bodies, political parties, teachers’ associations, ex-servicemen and government officials. Samden Dukpa, executive director, GTA, said it was largely agreed that the fund would go towards tea workers. “A policy decision to use the funds for the benefit of tea garden workers has been agreed. We will again hold a virtual meeting and decide on the utilisation probably by January 15,” said Dukpa. Thapa had set up the relief fund on March 24, 2020, purportedly to take up the task of “paying tea garden workers during lockdown”. The 87 tea gardens in the hills employ around 55,000 permanent workers and 15,000 temporary workers. Contributions to the fund continued to pour in and over 11,000 contributors gave in all a sum of Rs 2.12 crore. Thapa had announced that the GTA would contribute a matching amount. However, unlike other sectors in the country, the tea industry remained shut only from March 25 to April 9 in 2020. Hence, with the tea gardens operating during the pandemic, the fund’s express purpose was defeated. Thapa as chairman had constituted the core-committee, but a consensus on utilisation eluded the initiative. As the months rolled on, Thapa's political rivals started raising questions. "I have contributed to this fund. As a contributor I demand that workers should be paid in cash before Pujas," former GTA chairman Binay had said before Durga Puja. The Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati group) has also raised questions on the funds recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
31-12-2021||West Bengal||Teenagers between 15-18 years to get Covid jab in schools||The Bengal health department has decided to vaccinate teenagers between 15-18 years against Covid-19 in their own schools amid rising cases linked to the omicron variant of the coronavirus. The vaccination drive for this age group will start from January 3. “Preparations are underway to administer the jab to students in schools. We are trying our best to ensure that they do not have to go to other centres,” said a source. In the Darjeeling hills, most of the schools are closed for a three-month winter vacation. Schools in the rest of the state, apart from the hills, are open. S. Poonambalam, district magistrate, Darjeeling, however, said: “Students or their parents would be informed about the vaccination (details like date and time).” In case of dropouts, including those who may have left home for work as migrant labour, efforts will be made to administer the vaccine in any of the centres. “However, vaccinating the students in schools would be convenient and the entire process would be much smoother,” said a source. On an average, each north Bengal district has anywhere between 200 to 260 high schools. The population of this specific age group of students range from 1 lakh to 1.9 lakh in each district. Hence, north Bengal has more than 4.5 lakh eligible teenagers in the targeted age group. “The students will be vaccinated with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin only,” sources said. Apart from teenagers in this age group, healthcare workers and frontline workers, who have received two doses, and also persons aged 60 years and above who have comorbidities and who have received the two does of the vaccine, will on doctor’s advice be provided with a precaution dose (booster) of Covid-19 vaccine from January 10. A booster dose can be given nine months from the date of administering the second dose. Sources said around five lakh frontline workers, over seven lakh healthcare workers and 1.1 crore senior citizens are eligible for this booster shot in Bengal .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
31-12-2021||West Bengal||Purulia: Government launches drive to give Sabar women papers||Several teams of the Purulia district administration are organising awareness campaigns in rural areas where the tribal Sabar community resides in the run-up to the third phase of Duare Sarkar to start from January 2. Officials said the survey-like effort was to find out how many women did not have a bank account or a caste certificate, after the recent Lakshmir Bhandar initiative inadvertently uncovered the glaring lack of both in this area. “Several beneficiaries have been deprived owing to the lack of documentation,” said a source. Officials said that during the most recent Duare Sarkar camps, as many as 40 per cent of women belonging to the Sabar community became ineligible owing to lack of documentation. Following this, officials reportedly took up an initiative to help women get their identification papers. “The Sabar community lives in hamlets in very remote corners and so many of them are not aware of such important documents. As a result, it was becoming difficult to bring them under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. We have already reached most of the hamlets by organising camps and helped them  get documents,” said Rahul Majumdar, Purulia district magistrate. Purulia is considered to be one of the lesser-developed districts in the western part of Bengal, and over 3,000 Sabar families live in 164 hamlets across eight district blocks. Officials said they had already covered most of the hamlets and have provided documents like caste certificates or have opened bank accounts for over 1,000 women. Lakshmir Bhandar — a direct fund transfer scheme launched by the Mamata Banerjee government in June this year, after she came to power for the third consecutive term — provides monthly Rs 1,000 to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families and Rs 500 to those in general categories. The state government is spending around Rs 16,000 crore from the state's exchequer annually for this scheme. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also directed the government to bring all women of Bengal under the scheme. The state has reportedly paid 1.5 crore women money from this scheme as of December. “The upcoming Duare Sarkar camp’s main priority is to bring in women who are outside the loop,” said a source. Nabanna has asked other districts to reach out beneficiaries of various communities still outside the ambit of the scheme. Bankura district magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar said: “We are also hosting camps mainly to provide caste certificates or other documents so that women can get the benefit of the scheme as soon as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
31-12-2021||West Bengal||‘Siliguri model’: Congress and Left spar over seat-sharing||A tussle seems to have started between the Left Front and Congress in Siliguri on seat-sharing for election to Siliguri Municipal Corporation, where the two parties by a tacit understanding that political pundits dubbed the Siliguri model kept Trinamul out since 2009. Around 3pm on Thursday, the Congress declared the names of candidates for 15 SMC wards, which included seven wards where the Left had declared its own names The SMC has 47 wards. The Left Front had announced candidates for 35 seats on Tuesday. However, Shankar Malakar, president of Congress’s Darjeeling district committee, had sought 15 seats for his party. Hours after the Congress list was made public, the Left released its second list covering 43 of the 47 SMC wards on Thursday, finally leaving only four seats to the Congress that the latter won in 2015. “We announced our candidate list keeping options open for possible alliance with the Left Front but now they have announced their names in most seats,” said Malakar. Some Left Front and Congress leaders, however, are hopeful that some understanding can be arrived at by January 6, the last date to withdraw nominations for polls on January 22. Asok Bhattacharya, CPM veteran and former mayor largely being considered the Left’s mayoral candidate, said they are not ready to accept that “all roads for a possible alliance” with the Congress are closed. “Though we have declared the final list of our candidates, we have not fielded candidates in the four seats that the Congress had won in the previous civic polls. We are still open for talks,” said Bhattacharya, who is largely credited for coming up with the Siliguri model in which the Left and the Congress collectively took on Trinamul and the BJP in the past. Observers, however, believe such a tug-of-war before elections would do no good either to the parties or their supporters. “The Siliguri model had managed to stop the Trinamul from coming to power in the Siliguri urban body but this tug-of-war for seats between Congress and Left Front is not sending a positive message,” the observer added. The rumblings between the Congress and Left are getting louder at a time the BJP and Trinamul are making steady strikes in the Siliguri urban area. In the recent Bengal Assembly election, the winning BJP candidate Shankar Ghosh polled 89,370 votes which was about 50 per cent of the votes polled in the Assembly segment. Trinamul’s Om Prakash Mishra, despite being an “outsider” had polled 53,784 seats with a vote share of 30 per cent. However, Left candidate Bhattacharya only received 28,835 votes with a 16 per cent vote share. This time too, the BJP has also fielded their Siliguri MLA Ghosh as a candidate for the civic poll from a ward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
31-12-2021||West Bengal||Nearly 43% beneficiaries spend money on rural consumption ||A dipstick survey on the use of cash directly transferred to the bank accounts of women under the Bengal government’s flagship Lakshmir Bhandar scheme has revealed that around 43 per cent of the beneficiaries spend the major part of the dole on the consumption of various daily use items. The finding should bring cheers to Nabanna as it indicates a spike in consumption expenditure in rural Bengal. The survey was conducted among 600-odd families spread across over 100 villages in the Jungle Mahal. In the backdrop of a steady drop in monthly consumption expenditure — indicating a decline in the standard of living — across the country in recent years, the survey has endorsed the hypothesis that direct benefit transfer not only improves the quality of life of the beneficiaries but also gives the economy a big push. The main focus of the survey was on how the women living in the remotest pockets were spending the money they received under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. Lakshmir Bhandar was launched by the Mamata Banerjee government in June, shortly after she had come to power for the third consecutive term. The scheme provides Rs 1,000 to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families and Rs 500 to those in general categories every month. The state government needs to spend around Rs 16,000 crore annually for the scheme. “It is heartening to note that a significant majority of women are using the money for daily essential needs, which means the dole has increased their monthly consumption expenditure,” said Pravat Kumar Shit, supervisor of the research work. Soumen Bisui, a PhD scholar at the Research Centre in Natural and Applied Sciences at Raja Narendra Lal Khan Women’s College (autonomous) under Vidyasagar University, carried out the survey under Shit, an assistant professor of geography of the college, as part of a research on sustainable rural livelihood and women empowerment in the Jungle Mahal. According to the finding, around 43 per cent are spending the major part of the monthly dole in buying groceries (25 per cent) and utensils and home use items (18 per cent). “About 10 per cent women have been using it to pay tuition fees or for education purposes and 23 per cent to meet expenditure needs in agriculture. The survey shows 7 per cent of the beneficiaries use the money in rearing of livestock and 5 per cent to purchase LPG cylinders. Five per cent are saving the money, while 4 per cent are repaying small loans. Three per cent are using the money for miscellaneous purposes,” said Shit, who had drawn up the research guidelines. Bisui and a team of researchers visited the villages and directly interacted with the beneficiaries and their family members to understand what they were doing with the money. “The money may just seem like a minor dole, but our limited field research has shown that consumption expenditure in remote areas is growing…. The fact that people are spending the money on agricultural activities or livestock rearing is good news as it is bound to result in a spike in income,” he added. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s per capita real private final consumption in 2020-21 regressed to its level three years ago. The researcher duo said while a detailed survey was required to find out whether Lakshmir Bhandar was helping Bengal buck the national trend, there is little doubt that the monthly dole has come as a real help for the poorest of the poor in the state and given a push to consumption expenditure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
31-12-2021||West Bengal||Former chief minister Chamling welcomes CBI probes with caution||Sikkim Democratic Front president and former chief minister Pawan Chamling has welcomed the threat of the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha government to bring in the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe corruptions cases in the state, but has cautioned against making it a tool to harass political opponents. Interacting with the media on Thursday at Bagdogra Airport near Siliguri on his return from Delhi after a gap of three months, Chamling said it was the prerogative of the state governments to allow or not allow the operation of CBI in their states. But the P.S. Tamang (Golay)-headed government, Chamling said, was yet to deliver on its election pledge to probe all corruption cases in the state by the central agency within 100 days of coming to power. “Till now, the CBI has not been introduced in Sikkim. It is their (the state government’s) prerogative. The CBI operates under the Delhi Police Act (read Delhi Special Police Establishment Act) and to allow its entry or otherwise is the right of the states. It is good to engage the CBI in Sikkim to probe cases of tyranny, corruption, killings, and find out businessmen trading in truth and untruth. We welcome this,” he said. Chamling, however, said if the CBI were to be misused for political motives to harass Opposition leaders or those whom the government didn’t  agree with, it would affect not just the targeted person but everybody else, including those in power. “It (bringing in CBI) is akin to pulling down a vine to bring down a hill, and the falling rock will first impact Mitokgang (the chief minister’s official residence in Gangtok),” he said. Section 6 of the DPSE Act authorises the central government to direct the CBI to probe a case within the jurisdiction of any state on the recommendation of the state government concerned. The CBI manual states: “The central government can authorise CBI to investigate such a crime in a state but only with the consent of the concerned state government. The Supreme Court and High Courts, however, can order CBI to investigate such a crime anywhere in the country without the consent of the state. Golay had recently said his government would soon allow the CBI to probe corruption cases in Sikkim. “Don’t worry. CBI is coming. The iron has to be struck when it is hot,” he had said, alluding to the alleged acts of corruption in the 25-year-old Chamling regime from 1994 to 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
31-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s infections cross 2000 in a day for first time since June 20||Bengal on Thursday reported 2,128 new infections, above 2,000 in a 24-hour window for the first time since June 20, 193 days ago, during the second wave. Of these, over 51 per cent or 1,090 cases are from Calcutta alone. The last time Calcutta reported over 1,000 new infections in a day was on June 2.  Even a week ago, Bengal reported 550 new cases in a day of which 217 were from Calcutta. On Thursday, Bengal reported 1,067 recoveries and 12 deaths, including four from Calcutta, resulting in a rise by 1,049 in active cases to 8,776, back almost to where it was on September 1, 120 days ago. As a result, Bengal’s recovery rate fell overnight to 98.25 per cent (from 98.32 per cent on Wednesday), lower than the national rate of 98.38 per cent. New infections reported on Thursday indicate those infected between December 21 and 25. The surge, restricted for now to Calcutta and its surroundings, has been attributed by sources in the state government to the disregard for Covid-19 safety among revellers around Christmas. “A week ago, positive confirmation rate was 1.49 per cent. Today (Thursday), it is 5.47, nearly four times higher,” said a government source. Calcutta and its immediate neighbourhood of North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 1,801 or 84.63 per cent of new infections reported in 24 hours till 9am on Thursday. “At this moment, unless there is a lot of discipline over the next few days, we are likely to reach over 10,000 new cases daily in days. Positive confirmation rate could go past 10 or even 15. If that happens, this surge won’t stay confined to Calcutta and its neighbourhood,” added the source. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths on Thursday.  The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 16.06 lakh recoveries and 19,757 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
31-12-2021||West Bengal||Restrictions or a shutdown only after Covid review, says Mamata||Mamata Banerjee has said any decision on announcing stricter restrictions or a shutdown in Bengal will be taken only after a thorough review of the Covid-19 situation and there will be no bar on pilgrims visiting the Gangasagar Mela. The clarification came on Thursday as apprehensions about a lockdown increased because of an alarming rise in the infections in the past 72 hours in Bengal.  “Nothing will be shut down randomly without reviewing the situation properly. The economy suffered very much because of Covid. If we shut down everything abruptly, it would be a burden on everyone. Any decision will be taken only after a proper review,” said the chief minister at Sagar Islands before leaving for Calcutta on Thursday. The number of Covid cases in Bengal was 2,128 on Thursday, but the figure was just 552 on December 25. The chief minister took care to explain why reviewing the situation was necessary before announcing any stricter restrictions. “The review becomes necessary because there were no large number of Covid cases in the past six to eight months, So many health facilities that were turned into Covid hospitals are withdrawn now. Those are under review... now a fresh problem (omicron) has arrived, which is not fatal but spreads fast,” said Mamata. While the chief minister stressed that the government would not rush towards imposing sweeping restrictions, she made it clear that the government was upgrading healthcare infrastructure. “All Covid beds — some of which were released in the past few months — are being restored. Attempt is on to make a stock of required medicines. The goal is on to complete two doses of vaccines of those who did not take the second shot in due time,” said a senior official. The next priority, a source said, is to identify the sectors or areas which can be closed down or restricted without having much impact on the lives of common people but at the same time would prevent the spread of the virus. “The chief minister is likely to hold a meeting before announcing a fresh set of stricter guidelines. Most probably, the stricter restrictions would be declared on January 3,” said a senior government official. In a WhatsApp message to district magistrates on Thursday, a source said, the chief secretary made it clear that they should take steps to ensure that wearing of masks was made mandatory and other Covid protocols were followed in public places. The administration should take measures to generate awareness among common people of the spike in the infections. Besides, markets and market complexes should be sanitised on a regular interval. “All these are prelude to a stricter restriction… It appears the government would initiate steps only after New Year Eve celebrations or the Gangasagar Mela are over,” said a source. The chief minister also hinted that she would not like to intervene ahead of the Gangasagar Mela scheduled to be held from January 8 to 14. “I am not going to prevent anyone who wants to visit the Gangasagar fair. Everyone is welcome here as long as they follow Covid protocols. If anybody is afraid to visit, it is their choice. But we are ready to welcome everyone and provide all necessary support in case they fall ill because of Covid,” Mamata said at Sagar Islands on Thursday. Sources said the government would try to balance the steps to curb the rise of Covid cases and holding of the Gangasagar Mela. “It may happen that stricter restrictions are put in place from January 3 but the activities related to Gangasagar Mela might not come under its purview,” said an official. A health expert said Bengal should have initiated measures to prevent gatherings on New Year’s Eve like many other states. “The state should immediately impose night time restrictions on December 31. We have already seen what happened on the night of December 25. If New Year’s Eve is not restricted, the situation might go out of control soon,” said a health expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
