01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Record new infections; 2 makeshift hospitals for COVID patients in Punjab||The Punjab government said on Saturday it will set up two makeshift hospitals equipped with ICU facilities for coronavirus patients in Mohali and Bathinda.Besides, nine new small hospitals at various district hospitals were also coming up in the state.Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan stated this after chairing a meeting here on Saturday, according to a government release.She directed the Medical Education and Research department to make functional both the new hospitals by the end of this month to ensure the best possible healthcare to coronavirus patients in the state.Principal Secretary Medical Education and Research D K Tiwari apprised the CS that 2.66-acre land near refinery in Bathinda and 23,000 sq ft land in Mohali has been identified for this purpose.Both the hospitals will have the capacity of 104 beds each, he said.The chief secretary stressed that all beds must have oxygen support to enhance Level-2 (critical) and Level-3 (very critical) beds.“The number of beds needs to be increased with the support of the Western Command and permissions for movement of products will be coordinated by the Medical Education department,” she added.Col. Jasdeep Sandhu, Director, Civil Military Affairs, Western Command, informed that he has visited Mohali site and felt the need for utilising existing beds promptly as the field hospital unit can move in three days.Principal Secretary Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal, said he has selected the sites in Mansa, Muktsar and Fazilka for strengthening the existing health facilities.Punjab Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday directed all civil surgeons to intensify screening of symptomatic people in rural areas which have a higher mortality rate.Sidhu said 58 per cent deaths have been recorded in rural areas which accounted for 27 per cent of total COVID-19 cases.He instructed the civil surgeons to intensify a screening drive in villages, according to an official release.The minister said considering the high case fatality rate of the state, there is also need to keep a close watch on the functioning of private clinics/registered medical practitioners in villages.He said senior medical officers must ensure COVID testing of every single symptomatic person who is getting the treatment from such clinics.If any private health facility has not shared the information concerning the symptomatic persons on a routine basis, they must be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act for violating the government’s guidelines, he added.Punjab on Saturday registered 7,041 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest in a day, bringing the infection count to 3,77,990, while 138 more fatalities raised the toll to 9,160, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 55,798 on Friday to 58,229.Of the new fatalities, 22 were registered in Bathinda, 18 in Ludhiana, 12 in Gurdaspur and 10 in Sangrur.Ludhiana recorded a maximum of 1,600 fresh COVID-19 cases, followed by 936 in Mohali, 653 in Bathinda and 566 in Jalandhar.The recovery count rose to 3,10,601 after 4,448 more patients recovered from the infection, the bulletin said.There are 114 critical COVID-19 patients who are on ventilator support while 644 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 72,81,978 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/record-new-infections-2-makeshift-hospitals-for-covid-patients-in-punjab-246845
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Gippy Grewal held for flouting COVID curbs in Patiala, released later||Punjabi singer and actor Gippy Grewal and some of his crew members were arrested for allegedly flouting COVID-19 restrictions by shooting for a film at Banur in Punjab's Patiala district, police said on Saturday.They were later released on bail, police said.A police official said over 100 people had gathered at the shooting site in a village in Banur, even as a weekend lockdown was in force in Punjab.Police arrested Grewal and some crew members from the spot, the official said.A case under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act has been registered at Banur police station.A few days ago, actor Jimmy Shergill and some crew members were booked for allegedly defying COVID-19 restrictions while shooting for a web series in Ludhiana. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-gippy-grewal-held-for-flouting-covid-curbs-in-patiala-released-later-246833
01-05-2021||---||37 die of Covid at Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital in 24 hours||Patiala, May 1The daily death toll at Covid isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital continues to rise.As many as 37 patients died at the isolation wing of the hospital over the past 24 hours.Of these, only eight were from Patiala while 25 belonged to other districts of the state. Three Covid victims were from other states, including Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/37-die-of-covid-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-in-24-hours-246793
01-05-2021||New Delhi||Will never wear turban for money like Akshay Kumar, says Harpreet Brar when compared to actor from movie 'Singh Is Bliing'||Punjab Kings all-rounder Harpreet Brar, who dismantled the Royal Challengers Bangalore's (RCB) strong batting line up with a three-wicket haul on Friday night, takes pride in wearing his turban.A week back, the 25-year-old left-arm spinner from Moga hit back at a troll on Instagram who compared him to Bollywood star Akshay Kumar from the movie 'Singh Is Bliing'.Also read:Brar took offence to the comparison and took a dig at the movie star Kumar. The 53-year-old Kumar had played the role of a turbaned Sikh in the 2015 flick that did well at the box office."Paaji aap singisbling ke Akshay Kumar dikhte ho (Brother, you look like Akshay Kumar in the movie Singh is Bliing)," wrote the troll on his Instagram account.Paise k liye nhi Turban nhi pehnte hum 🙏🏽 #isupportfarmers pic.twitter.com/lghpeG83wBBrar was not amused. "Paise k liye Turban nhi pehnte hum (We don't wear turban for money)[Emoticon: Folded hands] #isupportfarmers," he responded on his Twitter account with the screenshot of the question on his Instagram timeline.This is Brar's third IPL season but he has played only four matches in his career. Friday's game was the first in IPL 2021.It, however, became a memorable one. He scored a 17-ball unbeaten 25 and then removed RCB skipper Virat Kohli, AB de Villiers and Glenn Maxwell to put the brakes on RCB's chase.Thanks to his all-round show, the Punjab franchise won the match by 34 runs.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-never-wear-turban-for-money-like-akshay-kumar-says-harpreet-brar-when-compared-to-actor-from-movie-singh-is-bliing-246763
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Devotees pay obeisance in Punjab to mark 400th Prakash Purb||Amid the coronavirus surge, thousands of devotees on Saturday paid obeisance at gurdwaras across Punjab to commemorate the 400th Prakash Purb celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib.Religious fervour was seen at Harmandar Sahib, the holiest of Sikh shrines also known as Golden Temple, in Amritsar and other historic gurdwaras across the region as devotees began to assemble since early morning to offer prayers and listen to the 'kirtan' or hymns.The Golden Temple complex was adorned with lights to mark the occasion.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted people on the occasion and urged them to watch the events on television and offer 'ardas' for 'Sarbat Da Bhala' from their homes and avoid congregating at the religious places in view of the pandemic.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/devotees-pay-obeisance-in-punjab-to-mark-400th-prakash-purb-246758
01-05-2021||Ahmedabad||Just went out and bowled freely, says Harpreet Brar from Punjab’s Moga after taking 3 big RCB wickets||Punjab Kings’ (PBKS) slow left-arm bowler Harpreet Brar, who played a huge role in his team's 34-run victory against Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), said he had made up his mind to just go out and bowl in the right areas without taking pressure.The 25-year-old Punjab bowler from Moga took the wickets of RCB skipper Virat Kohli (35) and the dangerous Glenn Maxwell (0) and AB de Villiers (3) to completely finish off the RCB top order and earn his team the much-needed victory under trying circumstances.Asked if he had a plan for the top batsmen, Harpreet - who has been with the franchise for three years but has hardly bowled much - said, "My plan was to bowl in the right areas. Even if I got hit it wasn't a problem as long as I got the right line and length. I was trying to pull the batsmen out of the crease by varying my length. That, I suppose, helped me get three big wickets on Friday."Harpreet conceded he was under pressure as he had hardly got the opportunity to bowl in the three years he has been with the franchise."Yes, there was pressure. (Over the years) I have taken a lot of pressure. It's natural that when you don't perform (get the opportunity), pressure gets to you. Today, I had made up my mind to just play freely. Whatever happens, we'll see, but I won't take stress," said Harpreet, who bowled Australia's Glenn Maxwell for a duck before getting rid of the dangerous AB de Villiers for three runs."For De Villiers, my plan was to keep the ball away from him, so that he comes out and plays my deliveries. The ball was gripping the wicket, so that's why I'd kept a slip also. I wanted to send a dot ball but luckily got a wicket. I'm blessed," said Harpreet who has played age-group tournaments for his state. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/just-went-out-and-bowled-freely-says-harpreet-brar-from-punjabs-moga-after-taking-3-big-rcb-wickets-246755
01-05-2021||---||Pics: Modi offers prayers to Guru Teg Bahadur at Delhi's Sis Ganj Sahib gurdwara||New Delhi, May 1Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday morning visited gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib here. He offered prayers on the 400th Parkash Purab of Guru Teg Bahadur as the Covid surge continued to overwhelm the country setting new grim records every day.Also read: Devotees pay obeisance in Punjab to mark 400th Prakash Purb According to sources, Prime Minister Modi visited the Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib in Chandni Chowk area without security route or special security arrangements at the gurdwara. "On the special occasion of his 400th Parkash Purab, I bow to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. He is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. He refused to bow to tyranny and injustice. His supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many," Prime Minister Modi tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pics-modi-offers-prayers-to-guru-teg-bahadur-at-delhis-sis-ganj-sahib-gurdwara-246750
01-05-2021||---||Chemistry prof takes lecture in bus, booked||Jalandhar, April 30Prof MP Singh, who runs a renowned coaching centre in the city and teaches chemistry to the Class XI and XII students, was today booked by the city police after he organised a coaching class for around 10 students in a bus near Jalandhar bus stand.Prof Singh organised a doubt-clearing session for his students in the presence of the media as he said these students had been repeatedly calling him for doubt-clearing sessions of certain topics but he felt that the students were facing a setback academically by not attending regular classes. So, he decided to run classes for them in a bus for the next few days.The chemistry teacher asked why were the coaching centres asked to suspend offline classes while the buses had been allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity. He said he found a way out to teach his students in buses in an offline mode. “This way, I will be able to achieve my purpose as the children will have a better understanding of concepts. Also, since we will be legally correct in doing this, we will also not be defying any government orders,” he said.But hours after his videos went viral, the professor was booked by the city police. Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh said, “The professor had committed violations under the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act and hence we have lodged an FIR against him at New Baradari Police Station. It was wrong on his part to call students and provide coaching, be it in a bus. We also checked videos and found that the professor was not wearing his mask properly, which again is a violation.”Meanwhile, students who had come on the call of the professor maintained that they felt that they were able to understand concepts better through offline teaching rather than using gadgets from home. Some of them also complained that their internet services were not working properly.Prof MP Singh had been in news a few days back as well when he sold vegetables in a cart, trying to mock the government for making teachers like him lose their bread and butter. “What else can we do to feed our families? I believe selling vegetables is a more profitable business these days,” he said, while posting his video on Facebook.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chemistry-prof-takes-lecture-in-bus-booked-246638
01-05-2021||---||Devotional song composed for parkash purb of Guru Teg Bahadur||Kapurthala, April 30On the occasion of the 400th Parkash Purb of Hind-Di-Chaddar Guru Teg Bahadur, senior faculty of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University composed and sang a spiritually devotional song.The senior faculty of Electronics Department Prof Avtar Singh Buttar initiated this job out of his educational teaching track. In this devotional song, Prof Buttar depicted the importance of the Guru’s life and martyrdom. The lyrics and the background music of this religious song dedicated to Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib were also performed by Prof Buttar.The song was released by Vice-Chancellor of the university Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma during a special but limited function at the university. Before the release of the song, a prayer (ardaas) was also offered. On this occasion, Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma said the university was planning a number of programmes in the series of 400th Parkash Purb including seminars, workshops on the Guru’s life and message, kavi darbar and releasing books.He spoke about the life of the Guru and congratulated Prof Buttar on this initiative. VC Dr Sharma said that such religious songs are a source of inspiration for our new generation for religious, spiritual and communal unity.It is worth to mention that in this religious devotional song, important topics related to the life of Guru Tegh Bahadur such as the discovery of the ninth guru by Makhan Shah Lubana at Baba Bakala, Guru Simran, Aurangzeb’s religious intolerance and Kashmiri Pandits’ appeal to Guru Sahib, Guru Sahib’s martyrdom are also penned by Prof Buttar. The Sikh martyrdom tradition includes details up to the Khalsa Sajna after the martyrdom of Guru Sahib are also a part of the song.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/devotional-song-composed-for-parkash-purb-of-guru-teg-bahadur-246642
01-05-2021||---||Crack whip on hoarders: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, April 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court today gave the central and the state investigation agencies the liberty to act against hoarders as it permitted the revival of a diposed of petition on Covid managementHolding a marathon hearing spread over two sessions, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted: “Here is a situation where the question is of Article 21. There is a feeling that drugs are being hoarded, beds are not available and people are dying….The grievances of the people have to be redressed. Very serious issues have been brought to the court’s notice. Life saving drugs, such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, are not available. ICU beds are in short supply.”Justice Gupta asserted nodal agencies were existent in every district, but no one knew where to go. “There has to be some machinery, some mechanism. By the time the person is able to get through, the patient becomes critical.”Nearly 15 months into the pandemic, the hearing also brought to surface lack of preparedness to deal with the issues arising out of it.Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Arora submitted the total production of oxygen from five plants sanctioned to the state under the PM Cares Fund was miniscule (less than 1 MT per plant). Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan added the availability of oxygen was not in the state’s hand. It was allocated by the Centre.Referring to issues such as ventilators, Justice Gupta added the Health Department must be looking into it. “But there appears to be some disconnect. In policy matters, we do not like to give our opinion. But here it is a complete chaos,” he said.Visibly unimpressed by the state’s measure of coming out with portals and mobile application, Justice Gupta asserted things were not easy for the people living in the remote areas. They were not as computer savvy as others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crack-whip-on-hoarders-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-246498
01-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda Car Bazar comes to aid of Covid patients with free rides||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 30To overcome the shortage of ambulances and check overcharging by drivers, dealers at the local Car Bazar have come up with a free service to transport Covid patients.Sanjay Jindal, a car dealer, said: “In these tough times, people are being forced to pay more for ambulance service. Many can’t even afford it. We have decided to help the residents by offering them free transport service. We have a lot of cars at our disposal which will be pressed into service.”There are reports that ambulance drivers have started charging Rs 2,000 for a single trip to and from hospital within the city against Rs 500 earlier. And if one has to go to Ludhiana, the drivers ask for Rs 17,000-20,000 against Rs 3,500 during the normal times, sources said, adding that another Rs 1,200-1,500 was charged for providing oxygen during the transportation.An ambulance driver, pleading anonymity, said given the spike in Covid cases, there was a high risk of catching the infection. “We have increased the charges as after every trip, we have to sanitise the ambulance, which takes money and time,” he said.Jindal said: “We will not take any money. Even the fuel expenses will be borne by us. Anyone who needs transport to shift a Covid patient to hospital can contact us. We only need a copy of Aadhaar card and doctor prescription for our record.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-car-bazar-comes-to-aid-of-covid-patients-with-free-rides-246501
01-05-2021||---||Micro containment in 6 worst-hit districts of Punjab||Chandigarh, April 30Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh ruled out a complete lockdown for now while chairing a virtual emergency meeting today to review the Covid situation in the state.Stating that lockdown was not a solution, he directed the DCs of the six worst-affected districts of Ludhiana, SAS Nagar (Mohali), Jalandhar, Bathinda, Patiala and Amritsar to further tighten the micro-containment strategy and ensure 100 per cent testing. “Lockdown leads to exodus of labourers and forces them to go to states with even lesser medical facilities,” he said.DCs told to ensure 100% testingCapt has asked DCs of six worst-hit districts — Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar, Bathinda, Patiala & Amritsar — to ensure 100% testingUrging the industry to set up their own Covid treatment centres and makeshift hospitals to treat their workers suffering from mild to moderate infection, he laid stress on teamwork to fight the Covid battle.He also directed the Chief Secretary to persuade retired doctors and nurses as well as final-year MBBS students to pitch in at Covid facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/micro-containment-in-6-worst-hit-districts-of-punjab-246536
01-05-2021||---||Protesting farmer leaders recall heroics of 9th Guru||Karnal, April 30The agitating farmers and labourers, under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), on Friday celebrated the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur at the Singhu border in Sonepat district.At a joint meeting of the SKM and the Central Trade Unions, it was decided that May Day would be celebrated as ‘Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Diwas’.Leaders, including Abhimanyu Kohar, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav said Guru Tegh Bahadur fought for humanity beyond religion and caste and sacrificed his life.“It has been more than five months since farmers have been sitting at the Delhi borders. The Centre is forcibly imposing farm laws on us. Taking inspiration from Guru Teg Bahadur, we are ready for any sacrifice,” said Darshan Pal, a leader of the SKM.The farmer leaders also emphasised on the progressive writings of Guru Teg Bahadur.They said taking inspiration from the ninth Sikh Guru, the Sikh community had been fighting against exploitation and they were ready for any sacrifice. “Today, farmers are fighting against oppression, while many other organisations are helping people affected by the pandemic. Farmers and social welfare organisations, who were discredited and abused by the governments and a section of society, are still engaged in social service,” they added.Religious organisations, including farmer leaders, also participated in a ‘samagam’. They called for strengthening the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmer-leaders-recall-heroics-of-9th-guru-246604
01-05-2021||---||In Patiala, protesting farmers break barricades, 4 cops hurt||Patiala, April 30The protest held by farmers associated with the Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee against the state government over the acquisition of their land on low compensation paralysed the traffic movement in the city on Friday.Farmers, who have been protesting at the YPS chowk for over a month, held a tractor rally in the city and took to streets of Patiala with their tractors to gherao Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence. The protesters also broke barricades set up by the police at the YPS chowk and held a sit-in outside the Police Post Officer Colony. However, the police managed to stop the march. At least four police personnel were injured in the incident.The traffic throughout the city, including colonies adjoining the CM residence, was hampered. Residents had to go around in circles to reach their destination. The Fountain Chowk at the heart of the city was also blocked in the afternoon.Meeting with committee on may 4We are in talks with the protesters and they have decided to clear the blockades. A meeting between the protesters and a committee constituted by the CM Office for land acquisition will be held on May 4. —Saurav Jindal, Deputy superintendent of policeHarmanpreet Singh, a farmer, said the state government did not listen to their demands. “They were aware of the protest and are themselves responsible for the melee. We will keep the city shut till our demands are met,” he said.Bharat Bhumi Sangharsh Committee president Ramesh Dalal, who came to the city in support of the farmers, said, “Farmers of Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi were united for the cause. The governments are trying to pay us peanuts for our land, which will not be accepted.”The police said ASI Bhola Singh, SI Randhir Singh, ASI Jasveer Singh and Gurmeet Kaur suffered injuries during the protest. They said a complaint had been forwarded and facts were being ascertained before filing of an FIR.DSP Saurav Jindal in the evening said, “We are in talks with the protesters and they have decided to clear the blockades. A meeting between the protesters and a committee constituted by the CM Office for land acquisition will be held on May 4.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-patiala-protesting-farmers-break-barricades-4-cops-hurt-246395
01-05-2021||Amritsar||Deep Sidhu pays obeisance at Golden Temple||Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu today paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and said the sate needed a regional party which could address the local issues.He said following the protocol set for Covid prevention, the Centre Government should initiate a dialogue with the farmers to break the deadlock.“I believe that the Centre failed to analyse the significance of farmers’ agitation. The need of the hour is that the government should resolve the issue instantly amid the raging pandemic,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deep-sidhu-pays-obeisance-at-golden-temple-246396
01-05-2021||---||Trade unions leave for Delhi borders to support farmers’ agitation||Bathinda, April 30Hundreds of members of trade and workers’ unions from the state have headed towards protest venues at Tikri and Singhu borders to observe International Labour Day (May Day) and support farmers’ agitation against the Central farm laws.On a call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the day would be celebrated as ‘Mazdoor-Kisan Ekta Diwas’ and trade and labour union leaders would address the gatherings.Members of the AITUC, Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, CITU, CTU Punjab, AICCTU, IFTU and Punjab Subordinate Services Federation under the banner of the Joint Platform of Mass Organisations (JPMO), Punjab, left for the protest sites.Meanwhile, labour unions, including Khet Mazdoor Sabha, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union and Pendu Mazdoor Union, would hold rallies across the state and also join kisan morchas.Trade unions from the Doaba and Majha region headed to the Singhu border while those from the Malwa region went to the Tikri border. In the wake of spike in Covid cases, there are a few unions which have curtailed number of members who would visit protest sites at the Delhi borders.Talking to The Tribune, Mahipal Sathi, state coordinator, JPMO, said, “Members from different trade unions in large numbers left for Tikri and Singhu borders to observe May Day and leverage support to the ongoing farmer agitation.”Rajwinder Rana, state president, AICCTU, said, “Even as labourers remain engaged in work amid wheat procurement season, a large number of them have decided to take part and support farmer agitation both at the Delhi borders and in the state.”Lachhman Singh Sewewala, state general secretary, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, said, “We do support farmers’ agitation but also believe that rather than all unions converging on the protest venues at Delhi borders, it would be more effective if some labour unions stay back and hold rallies in the state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trade-unions-leave-for-delhi-borders-to-support-farmers-agitation-246397
01-05-2021||---||Government cheating staff on 6th pay panel: AAP||Chandigarh, April 30Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema today alleged Capt Amarinder Singh government was cheating lakhs of employees and pensioners by not implementing the report of the 6th Pay Commission.Seeking Manpreet Singh Badal’s resignation, Cheema said he was a useless and deceitful Finance Minister who could not give the dues to government employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-cheating-staff-on-6th-pay-panel-aap-246398
01-05-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Rift in Cong over Sujanpur MC president||Tribune News ServiceSujanpur, April 30The PPCC was put in a tight spot when Bhoa sitting MLA Joginder Pal and newly elected woman Municipal Councillor Babbli Mahajan defied the party whip following which Cabinet Minister and party observer Bharat Bhushan Ashu was forced to postpone the election to the post of the Sujanpur Municipal Committee (MC) president.The audacity and impudence with which the legislator dared to defy the high command came as a shocker to many senior leaders. “The Assembly elections are barely eight months away and such a development does not augur well for the Congress. The MLA has surely tarnished the party’s reputation,” said a councillor.In the past, too, the MLA had gone against the wishes of the PPCC and could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said he would act once he received the observer’s report.The Congress has nine councillors in the 15-member house while the BJP has six. Joginder is an ex-officio member of the house by virtue of being Bhoa MLA.Once the proceedings of the meeting commenced, Ashu announced that the party wanted all nine party councillors to unanimously approve the name of the candidate which was “kept in a sealed envelope and had been endorsed by the PPCC.” However, Joginder and Babbli challenged the decision and instead insisted on holding an on-the-spot election by raising hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rift-in-cong-over-sujanpur-mc-president-246399
01-05-2021||---||Nagar kirtan to mark Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur||Amritsar, April 30A “nagar kirtan” was taken out from Akal Takht Sahib to Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal to mark the 400th Prakash Purb (birth centenary) of Guru Teg Bahadur.Besides SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, the attendees included head priest of Golden Temple Giani Jagtar Singh, officiating jathedar, Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh, and jathedar,Takht Kesgarh Sahib, Giani Raghbir Singh.Following prayers, head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh performed the service of Chaur Sahib of Guru Granth Sahib. The “gatka” and band parties also displayed their best during the occasion.The participation of the sangat was low due to Covid-19 restrictions. Meanwhile, a "kavi darbar" was held where the life history of Guru Teg Bahadur was introduced to the sangat through poems. The hazuri ragi groups of the Golden Temple performed Gurbani kirtan at Gurdwara Sahib. The ongoing events of the SGPC were telecast live through various channels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nagar-kirtan-to-mark-prakash-purb-of-guru-teg-bahadur-246400
01-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Labour officers forged papers to get job: Probe||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 30Experience certificates of Labour Enforcement Officers — recruited in 2017 — have been allegedly found to be fake. A departmental inquiry was carried out into the matter to establish the facts that some of the candidates had reportedly forged experience certificates at the time of their recruitment.Notably, a minimum two-year experience of practical working of labour laws in government or private undertaking, was a mandatory requirement for the said posts. In the inquiry, conducted by respective controlling officials of the alleged defaulters, it was found that some of those officers had submitted experience certificates of factories which were not operational or had already shut before their time of experience. While in other cases, the experience has been of some other work, for example one of the candidates has got the job on the experience certificate of a data operator.Certificates from non-operational firmsAn officer, who had given the experience certificate of the State Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Punjab, had no history of practical working of labour laws, said the department. Another investigating officer had said that a Malerkotla firm could not issue experience certificates giving details of relevant experience i.e. labour laws and claimed that he had worked as an Assistant (Training) in the said firm.Meanwhile, VK Janjua, principal secretary, Labour Department, said he had received the inquiry reports from the Deputy Directors and action would be taken as per the reports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-officers-forged-papers-to-get-job-probe-246401
01-05-2021||Kotkapura||Kotkapura Firing: Panthic groups burn copies of High Court verdict||Up in arms against the Punjab and Haryana High Court verdict on SIT report relating to Kotkapura firing incident, Panthic groups led by former Akal Takhat Jathedar Ranjit Singh today burnt the copies of the judgment, terming it political and flawed.A large number of activists gathered at the Kotkapura Main Chowk carrying placards and raised slogans and burnt copies of the judgment.The protest was organised at the same spot where the alleged police firing on October 14, 2015, occurred. Former Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira said they marked their protest and anger against the flawed judgment by burning its copies.SAD (Democratic) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa said they did not expect any justice from the present government as the HC verdict had reflected its utter failure in defending the SIT report in the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-panthic-groups-burn-copies-of-high-court-verdict-246402
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP posers for Capt Amarinder on Behbal Kalan-Kotkapura firing incidents||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh 10 questions on the Behbal Kalan-Kotkapura firing incidents and said Punjabis settled all over the world and 'Nanak Naam leva Sangat' wanted to hear the answers.In a statement issued from the party headquarters here on Friday, AAP’s senior leader and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan asked Capt Amarinder Singh the 10 questions and demanded accountability. He asked at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura, on whose orders firing was opened on the sangat protesting against the desecration.He asked if the CM would clarify on whose orders 182 police officers reached Kotkapura overnight in October 2015. “Why have you not been able to identify the policemen involved in the firing in the past four years,” he asked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-posers-for-capt-amarinder-on-behbal-kalan-kotkapura-firing-incidents-246403
01-05-2021||Muktsar||Eight shanties gutted in fire in Muktsar||In an accidental fire, eight shanties along the railway tracks on Bura Gujjar road here were gutted in fire on Friday. Some eyewitnesses said three LPG cylinders too exploded in the fire. At the time of this incident, no one was present in the shanties. A team of fire-fighters doused the flames. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eight-shanties-gutted-in-fire-in-muktsar-246404
01-05-2021||---||HSGPC honours ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh at Golden Temple||Amritsar, April 30Former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh was honoured with a specially crafted gold medal and “siropa” by Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (HSGPC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal on behalf of other organisation representatives at the entrance plaza of the Golden Temple today.Kunwar had led the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases. After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple, he said, “I have no regrets about losing the job while doing ‘sewa’ for Guru Granth Sahib as I was already prepared for it when I took to probing. Though I reserve my comments on HC orders, I failed to understand how it could reach the HC which had pronounced its decision without going through the report,” he said.On the other hand, Bandi Sikh Riyai Morcha led by Bhai Jung Singh and his supporters lodged their protest against this programme. Raising slogans against Daduwal and others, they also burnt the effigies amid deployment of heavy police force to avoid any untoward incident. They stated that Kunwar was a puppet at the hands of the Congress and prepared a probe report with a view to gain political mileage for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hsgpc-honours-ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-singh-at-golden-temple-246405
01-05-2021||---||Punjab CM warns of strict action against oxygen hoarders||Chandigarh, April 30Taking stock of the continuing oxygen shortage in the state, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday warned of strict action against black marketing, hoarding or private profiteering of oxygen cylinders or smuggling out of Punjab, especially when oxygen allocation of Punjab was itself not being met.Noting the efforts of the Industries Department to re-energise old oxygen plants, the Chief Minister said he was happy to note that the state was getting approximately 200 more oxygen concentrators shortly. “We have requested GOI to allot 3,500 out of one lakh being imported,” he revealed, while calling for all-out efforts for optimal utilisation of oxygen and regular oxygen audits. Some small amounts of Remdisivir and Toci have now become available, he further said, expressing the hope that the Centre “will respond to our requests to enhance the allocation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-warns-of-strict-action-against-oxygen-hoarders-246406
01-05-2021||---||Another record in April, 1.31L cases, 2.1K deaths||Chandigarh, April 30It is official now that April proved to be the worst month so far for the state. In these 30 days, the state reported 1.31 lakh cases and over 2,100 deaths.The first case of Covid in the state was reported in March 2020. The first wave’s peak came in September when around 60,000 cases and 1,954 deaths were reported.However, April broke all previous records. In just last ten days, 60,000 cases and around 1000 deaths were reported.On April 28, the state reported the single day highest-ever Covid toll with 142 deaths. Earlier the highest deaths in single day were recorded in September, when 106 persons succumbed to the deadly virus.According to experts, the wave may continue through the month of May. Besides, 669 people are on oxygen support and 99 on ventilators. The total number of Covid-related casualties in the state has reached 9,022 and total caseload 3,70,973.Covid +ve, doc ‘caught’Muktsar: Despite being Covid positive, a doctor posted at the Civil Hospital in Muktsar was on Friday allegedly found examining a patient at a private hospital here. In the video went viral on social media, Dr Bharat Bhushan is even seen “admitting” his mistake. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-record-in-april-1-31l-cases-2-1k-deaths-246409
01-05-2021||Amritsar||Sukhbir Badal not allowed to attend SGPC function||In a statement here, party spokesman Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said it was unfortunate that the local administration denied permission to the SAD president to participate in a function at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal tomorrow despite the fact that the SGPC had scaled down the event in order to adhere to Covid protocols. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-not-allowed-to-attend-sgpc-function-246410
01-05-2021||---||100 judicial officers, 400 of court staff +ve||Chandigarh, April 30The crisis in the justice delivery system has deepened further. Nearly 100 judicial officers and 400 staffers in the subordinate judiciary, besides advocates and law officers, have tested positive for Covid.Describing the situation as “alarming” in the district courts across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, Registrar Vigilance-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal said the spouse of a judicial officer in Punjab and an employee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had also expired because of the complications arising out of Covid.Aggarwal said two High Court Judges, three judicial officers and 62 officials in the High Court were, as on April 29, Covid positive. The District and Sessions Judges in the States of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory, Chandigarh, had also been asked to assess the situation and take steps accordingly.Keeping in view the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the tricity, lockdown in Chandigarh after 6 pm and the worsening situation of medical/healthcare facilities in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the High Court has also made it clear that only extremely urgent cases would be taken up through videoconference. The conditions would be monitored by its committee and relaxations for filing and listing of the cases would be considered with the improvement of Covid-19 situation.All types of matters, including freshly instituted pleas and applications in pending matters, would be accepted for filing from May 3. But “mentioning” through ‘online mentioning’ web-portal would have to be made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-judicial-officers-400-of-court-staff-ve-246411
01-05-2021||---||Short on doses, Punjab defers inoculation for 18+||Chandigarh, April 30Citing vaccine shortage, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today deferred vaccination for the 18-45 age group, which was slated to begin on Saturday. He said vaccination at private health facilities would also remain suspended from Saturday.The CM ruled out a complete lockdown for now.Chairing a virtual emergency meet to review the Covid situation, the Chief Minister said unutilised vaccines had to be returned to the Centre by all private health facilities by Friday evening, these facilities would have no vaccines to administer from tomorrow to those above 45 years of age.100-bed hospital in Mohali soonTerming vaccine shortage as critical, he said the state had received two lakh doses but it was not sufficient to meet the requirement even for two days for the 45-plus group.It was informed at the meeting that an order for the procurement of 30 lakh doses of Covishield for the 18-45 group was placed with Serum Institute of India (SII) on April 26, but the state was told that the availability of vaccine would be known in four weeks. Further, the SII had asked the state government to indicate demand for the next three-four months with an advance payment. It had informed the government that vaccines would be delivered in a phased manner every month.Stating the lockdown was not a solution, the CM directed deputy commissioners of worst-affected districts of Ludhiana, SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Bathinda, Patiala and Amritsar to further tighten the micro-containment strategy and ensure 100 per cent testing.Urging the industry to set up their own Covid treatment centres and makeshift hospitals to treat labourers suffering from mild/moderate infection, he stressed teamwork to fight the pandemic. He also directed the Chief Secretary to encourage retired doctors and nurses, along with final year MBBS students, to join duty in L2/L3 facilities. He also suggested setting up of temporary healthcare facilities in halls/gymnasiums etc.A prefab 100-bed hospital will come up at Mohali and a 250-bed temporary hospital is being set up near the Bathinda refinery, he said. He urged all departments to be prepared for the peak and identify areas in various districts for establishing temporary hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/short-on-doses-punjab-defers-inoculation-for-18-246412
01-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Experts oppose move to make Bathinda cancer institute Covid centre||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 30The treatment of cancer patients has been hit as 25 beds have been earmarked for the isolation ward at the Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI) at Bathinda. The surgeries of cancer patients have been stopped at the hospital from the past two days till May 15.This move of the district administration to covert ACI into Covid ward has sparked a controversy among health experts, who have termed this decision of the state wrong as it would expose vulnerable cancer patients to the virus. They suggest converting university and college campuses into isolation centres.Exposure risky for patientsCancer patients are immuno-compromised and highly susceptible to infection. Exposure to Covid patients on the same premises is risky for their health.—Dr Vitull K Gupta, ASSN of physicians of india (Malwa Chapter) PresidentDr Deepak Arora, Director, ACI, Bathinda, said, “As per the directions from the district administration, we have started making arrangements for level 2 Covid patients, who require oxygen support. Firstly, 25 beds will be arranged.” He said elective surgeries had been closed from the past two days and would remained shut till May 15, but chemotherapy would continue as per routine.The ACI witnesses around 250 patients for OPD treatment daily, and it conducts around three to five surgeries every day. Association of Physicians of India (Malwa chapter) president Dr Vitull K Gupta said cancer patients should not be exposed to the virus. “Cancer patients are immuno-compromised and highly susceptible to infection. Exposure to Covid patients on the same premises is risky for their health. The decision is in violation of the global health norms.” Bathinda lies in Malwa region of Punjab, which is dubbed as a cancer belt and the south region of Malwa has a high number of cancer patients. In April last year, the state authorities had to withdraw a similar decision after the hospital staff, including doctors and attendants of cancer patients, had protested against moving Covid-19 patients to the ACI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/experts-oppose-move-to-make-bathinda-cancer-institute-covid-centre-246414
01-05-2021||---||Patiala: Store owner booked for selling oxygen kit in black||Patiala, April 30Amid shortage of oxygen in the region, the Patiala police have arrested a surgical store owner for allegedly selling oxygen cylinder kit at exorbitant prices here on Friday.Patiala SSP Vikramjit Duggal said Jaspinder Singh Bhatia, owner of Shanky Surgical Store, was selling the kit at twice the original price and had been arrested from his store on the TB-hospital road.He further said a flow meter (oxygen kit), a bill book and other documents were recovered from the store. The SSP said the accused was taking undue advantage of the prevailing pandemic situation. On checking the stock register, an oxygen kit was found missing from the record by a Drug Inspector.The accused has been booked. It has been learned that the shop owner had brought the kit from New Delhi and was selling it for Rs 3,000, the market rate of which was Rs 1,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-store-owner-booked-for-selling-oxygen-kit-in-black-246415
01-05-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Covid norms go for toss at Tapa nagar council event||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, April 30Covid norms reportedly went for a toss in Tapa today when Anil Kumar Bhoot, newly elected Tapa nagar council (NC) president, took the oath of office in the presence of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. Leaders of the SAD have demanded registration of an FIR against all.“It’s shocking that Covid guidelines were violated in the presence of the Health Minister. More than 100 persons converged at the Tapa NC office in presence of Sidhu and senior police officers. They neither had masks nor did they follow social distancing. We will lodge an FIR against all,” said Satnam Singh Rahi, SAD halqa in charge of Bhadaur.Health Minister was present More than 100 persons gathered at the Tapa NC office in presence of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and senior police officers. We will lodge an FIR against all. —Satnam Singh Rahi, SAD halqa in charge of BhadaurTirlochan Bansal, Tapa NC councillor, alleged that the oath-taking function saw huge crowds as cops looked on. “The state government is compelling shopkeepers to close their shops, but their own leaders are violating norms,” alleged Bansal.Sidhu, who wore a mask and used sanitiser, requested all to follow Covid guidelines and get vaccinated. Bhoot denied the allegation. “There were many cops and employees of the NC who had to attend the function as they were assigned various duties. The SAD is trying to project these employees as our supporters,” he alleged. Tapa DSP Baljit Brar said there was no violation of norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-norms-go-for-toss-at-tapa-nagar-council-event-246417
01-05-2021||---||Sangrur bans shifting  oxygen cylinders and machines to other districts||Sangrur, April 30The Sangrur administration has prohibited transportation of oxygen cylinders and machines to other districts without the permission of the Civil Surgeon (CS).“Though we have adequate quantity of oxygen and have not received any complaint of black marketing, we want to ensure no one takes oxygen concentrators and cylinders outside the district without the permission of the CS,” said Anmol Dhaliwal, Sangrur ADC.Senior officials of the Health Department said there was no shortage of oxygen in both public and private hospitals of the district.“Residents of the district should cooperate to stop the spread of virus. We are fully committed to providing best healthcare facilities to Covid patients and there is no shortage of oxygen in public and private hospitals,” said Ramvir, Sangrur Deputy Commissioner.Do not make false claims of crunchIf anyone is facing shortage of vaccine or oxygen, please inform the district administration. We will immediately provide required facilities. But if your claims are found to be false, we will take strict action. —Ramvir, Sangrur DCHe also warned against creating panic and said strict action would be taken against the guilty.“If anyone is facing shortage of vaccine or oxygen, please inform the district administration. We will immediately provide required facilities. But if your claims are found to be false, we will take strict action,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-bans-shifting-oxygen-cylinders-and-machines-to-other-districts-246418
01-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Fatehgarh Sahib sending 2,500 oxygen cylinders to all districts daily||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 30Amid oxygen crisis in the state, Fatehgarh Sahib is supplying 2,500 cylinders of oxygen to all other districts, particularly worst-affected Patiala, Mohali and Amritsar, on a daily basis. There is no shortage of oxygen, but of medical cylinders.“All six oxygen-producing units in the district are running round the clock and the district administration has formed an oxygen audit committee and deployed police and civil officials for 24 hours in these units. We have taken control of distribution to curb black marketing in this hour of crisis,” said Amrit Kaur Gill, Deputy Commissioner.Gill said a committee was monitoring the production and distribution of the cylinders as per the requisition of the districts. Oxygen audit committee chairman Ravinder Singh said they were getting requests from almost all districts except Gurdaspur and Jalandhar. After every four hours they prepare a chart of the availability of the gas with the units and inform the nodal officer of the district concerned to send cylinders to the allotted unit. He said there was no shortage of gas but of medical cylinders. He said that to cope with the rising demand and supply of the oxygen had been completely banned for the industrial use as per the Centre’s instructions. He said if liquid gas was made available, the production could be doubled. He said, moreover, an industrial unit was lying defunct and the administration was making efforts to make it operational and it will be able to produce gas for 1,400 more cylinders.Meanwhile, Mohinder Gupta, president, Furnace Association, Mandi Gobindgarh, said if the government couldn’t supply gas, it should impose lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-sahib-sending-2-500-oxygen-cylinders-to-all-districts-daily-246419
01-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Control room abuzz with desperate calls for help||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30It’s 11.30 in the morning and the shrill sound of mobile phones buzzing incessantly reveals the urgency and desperation of callers. Calls are answered immediately by officials and all have the same message — “…our district is running out of oxygen. This is an SOS call…please ensure supply as soon as possible.”As senior state officials, including Rahul Tiwari, Rajat Aggarwal, Pradeep Aggarwal, Abhinav Trikha and Harpreet Sudan, examine calls, they try to maintain calm and calculate the time it would take for oxygen supplies from other states to reach Punjab districts.Such tense scenes continue to play inside the oxygen control room, which was set up on the orders of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh earlier this week.Yesterday, there was an SOS call from Amritsar, claiming hospitals were running out of oxygen. Following this, supplies from Fatehgarh Sahib and Jalandhar were diverted to Amritsar. Set up in what till recently was the plush office of the Bureau of Investment, Punjab, the makeshift control room has remained active from 6 am to 2 am since it was set up five days ago. The idea behind the control room was to monitor and manage oxygen supplies to hospitals in all 22 districts.The officials, however, say as the caseload goes up (54,954 till yesterday, of which 648 required oxygen supply), their work gets more difficult. “The state thrives on zero stock and supplies are managed just a day in advance,” said one of the officials.As of now, the daily demand for liquid oxygen is 200 MT. The state has the production capacity of 60 MT, while the Centre has allocated an additional 145 MT of liquid oxygen from plants outside Punjab. However, logistic challenges as well as delays in getting supplies when some plants close for maintenance purposes is leading to shortage of almost 20 per cent oxygen a day.Managing suppliesSet up in what till recently was the plush office of the Bureau of Investment, Punjab, the makeshift control room has remained active from 6 am to 2 am since it was set up five days ago. The purpose is to monitor and manage oxygen supplies to hospitals in all districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/control-room-abuzz-with-desperate-calls-for-help-246420
01-05-2021||---||10 yrs on, BBMB all set to revive its Nangal oxygen plant||Nangal, April 30The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) is all set to revive its oxygen plant which was shut down 10 years ago at Nangal. Keeping in view the grim situation in the country, Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri on April 27 had asked BBMB to explore the possibility to restart its defunct oxygen generation plant.The plant used to produce 100 cylinders per day when it was shut down in 2010 after oxygen production was found not cost effective. Today, a team of technical experts reached the plant and put it to trial run. The Deputy Commissioner said the plant required minor repair which would be carried out by tonight. From tomorrow it was expected that the plant would start producing at least 50 oxygen cylinders each weighing 43 kg, she said.Hospitals in the district required one metric tonne of oxygen and the production in this plant would help in fulfilling the requirement at Ropar as well as adjoin districts, she said.Moga admn takes control of pvt oxygen cylindersMoga: The District Magistrate of Moga, Harish Nayyar, has enforced Section-3 (1) of the Punjab Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1953, to take control over all oxygen cylinders available in the private hospitals and industrial units in the district. “They will remain in the custody of the district administration till further orders”, a spokesman of the district administration claimed. The DM claimed that the Act had been invoked by him keeping in view of the shortage of medical oxygen in the region. As such, from now onwards, the allocation of oxygen cylinders will be regulated by a magistrate as per the requirement of hospitals in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-yrs-on-bbmb-all-set-to-revive-its-nangal-oxygen-plant-246423
01-05-2021||Faridkot||Establish PSA oxygen units: NMC to medical colleges||As the hospitals and medical institutions are scrambling to maintain a steady supply of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, making amendments to its existing rules for minimum requirement for starting MBBS course, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has made it compulsory for all medical college hospitals to set up pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen units in their campuses.As per directions issued by the NMC, the arrangements have to be made within the next six months to establish PSA in all medical colleges.Costing about Rs 35 lakh, a PSA oxygen plant employs a technology that absorbs nitrogen from ambient air to concentrate oxygen for supply to hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/establish-psa-oxygen-units-nmc-to-medical-colleges-246432
