02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records highest single-day spike of 157 deaths, 7,327 new infections||A record single-day spike of 157 COVID-19 fatalities and 7,327 new cases pushed Punjab’s death toll due to the disease to 9,317 and infection tally to 3,85,270, according to a medical bulletin issued here on Sunday.The number of active cases rose to 60,108 from 58,229 on Saturday, it said.Of the new fatalities, 18 deaths were recorded in Bathinda, 17 in Ludhiana, 15 in Amritsar, 12 in Sangrur and 11 in Gurdaspur, the bulletin said.Ludhiana recorded a maximum 1,404 cases, followed by 1,045 in Mohali, 725 in Jalandhar, 602 in Patiala and 582 in Bathinda, among fresh cases in the state.A total of 5,244 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 3,15,845, as per bulletin.There are 229 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 7,525 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 73,40,768 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.     Chandigarh too recorded a record 860 new cases, taking the infection tally to 44,306, a medical bulletin issued here said.The death of seven more people took the toll to 496 in the city, it said.The number of active cases stands at 7,592, as per bulletin.A total of 483 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 36,218, it said.A total of 4,12,497 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 3,67,088 tested negative while reports of 124 samples were awaited, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-157-deaths-7-327-new-infections-247323
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir asks Punjab CM to review ‘worsening’ coronavirus situation||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to review the “worsening” COVID-19 situation with deputy commissioners, saying there is a “growing feeling that people had been left to their fate”.                 He further asked the CM to ensure that the remedial measures be taken immediately.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president appealed to the people of the state to go for vaccination.“There was a growing feeling in the state that the people had been left to their fate and that the government existed in name only,” alleged Badal.“The CM must correct this impression immediately. Things have deteriorated to such an extent because all responsibilities of the chief minister have been sublet to officers.“He must take charge of the situation and review the situation in the worst hit districts on a daily basis himself. Capt Amarinder should also hold regular meetings with the team which has been given the responsibility of combatting the pandemic,” he alleged.Badal also asked the chief minister to take immediate action to ensure life-saving drugs were not black marketed in the state and people did not suffer for want of oxygen and shortage of hospital beds.He said there should be a cap on what ambulances can charge from patients and their relatives.“The SAD is ready to cooperate with the government as it has in the past but the government must adopt a more proactive approach to mitigate the sufferings of the people,” he said in a statement here. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-asks-punjab-cm-to-review-worsening-coronavirus-situation-247320
02-05-2021||Batala||Punjab BJP leader Jagdish Raj Sahni dies of cardiac arrest||BJP leader and three-time legislator Jagdish Raj Sahni died of cardiac arrest at a hospital in Amritsar on Sunday. He was 77.“Sahni died of cardiac arrest,” said Senior Medical Officer Sanjiv Bhalla.Sahni, also a former chief parliamentary secretary, was elected to the state assembly from Batala seat in 1992, 1997 and 2007. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-leader-jagdish-raj-sahni-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-247313
02-05-2021||Ludhiana||Vehicle in BKU leader's cavalcade meets with accident in Ludhiana||A vehicle in the cavalcade of BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni met with an accident near Jawaddi in Ludhiana district on Sunday afternoon. A truck laden with sand rammed into the car of retired IGP Iqbal Singh.The vehicle suffered some damage but its occupants, including the retired IG, didn't suffer any injuries. BKU leader was in another vehicle.Simran Dhindsa, BKU IT-Cell in charge, said the cavalcade of several vehicles was headed towards Jawaddi to attend a meeting at a gurdwara.When they reached the village, a truck loaded with sand coming from the wrong side rammed into the vehicle."All the occupants of the car are safe. We have also informed the Dugri police about the incident and details of the truck has also been given. It was a minor accident so we all left for the meeting from the spot" added Simran.Dugri SHO Surinder Chopra said he was not aware of the matter. ASI Jaswinder Singh of Dugri police station said he has sent the PCR team to the spot and the probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vehicle-in-bku-leaders-cavalcade-meets-with-accident-in-ludhiana-247281
02-05-2021||Though a number of heritage structures and monuments still cry for attention||Restoring the past  glory of Amritsar||Restoration of historic gatesThere are 12 historic gates around the walled city. Out of these only seven gates exist and the renovation was held under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana. Public libraries and open discussion platforms were constructed under this project, but in the absence of any policy, infrastructure developed by spending crores is gathering dust.Ramgharia GateIt’s popularly known as Chatiwind Gate. The Ramgharia Gate was demolished by the Britishers after they annexed Punjab. Qila Ram Rauni used to exist inside the gate, which was restored by the All India Sardar Jassa Singh Ramgarhia Federation. The total height of the gate is 50 feet with both sides having 15’x45’ size pillars.Heritage StreetThe 800-m walkway from Town Hall to the Golden Temple was developed at a cost of Rs250 crore in 2016. Once a congested stretch, it is now a no-vehicle zone in the walled city area. Red-stone facade of all shops helps in bringing uniformity. Wooden balconies and traditional houses have also been restored.Gobindgarh FortThe fort was built during the Sikh Misl period and previously known as Bhangian Da Qila. It was restored by the state government in 2016 at a cost of Rs50 crore. The fort is open for visitors and is operated by a private firm.Katra AhluwaliaA planned residential locality was developed by Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia in 1760 near the Golden Temple. Wooden facades and balconies are a centre of attraction. The Centre restored Qila Ahluwalia and Katra Ahluwalia market under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana.Durgiana Temple plazaThe Rs115-crore beautification project of Durgiana Temple plaza commenced in 2016. In the first phase, the government proposed construction of modern plaza, landscaping, musical fountains and an open-air theatre. In 2018, the MC announced to develop a heritage walk from Hathi Gate to Durgiana Temple.Hall Bazaar It was the first broad carpeted road from Town Hall to Hall Gate constructed by the British in 1875. A shopping centre was developed on both sides of the road. The state government has renovated facades of shops to maintain its old glory. The project has been extended to Katra Jaimal Singh Road.Ram Bagh DeorhiThe historic deorhi built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh was restored in 2019. Ironically, the MC, which executed the project, failed to open it for public. After spending lakhs on restoration of the building, the government did not bother about publicising places among tourists. Besides, one can see carts parked haphazardly outside the gate.Circular RoadThe government is developing heritage trails alongside the historic wall along with parking spaces on the Circular Road. However, there are several hiccups in the execution of the project due to rampant encroachments and political interference. The red stone walls and grills are being installed.Jallianwala BaghA historic garden, where 379 people killed on April13, 1919. The Ministry of Culture carried out restoration work and allied services worth Rs19.36 crore, supervised by the Archaeological Survey of India. The bagh is ready for inauguration, but due to the Covid-19 restrictions, it has been closed for general public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/restoring-the-past-glory-of-amritsar-247173
02-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda crematorium runs out of space||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 1As Bathinda continues to witness a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the second wave, the cremation ground in the city is running out of space.As the places designated to light the pyre were all occupied, nine patients were consigned to flames on the ground at the overwhelmed grain market crematorium today.With 53 deaths since April 25, including 15 in the last 24 hours, Bathinda toll is witnessing a huge surge.Sonu Maheshwari, president, Naujawan Welfare Society, said: “The grain market crematorium, which is the main cremation ground in Bathinda with a capacity of 24 pyres, is running out of space due to the surge in Covid deaths. As many as 19 bodies of Covid patients arrived at the cremation ground today but only 10 were accommodated at the place designated for cremation. The remaining nine were burnt on the ground.”After the shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines, the shortage of space at cremation ground has now started haunting residents.Bathinda has also seen a hike in the cases with 6,305 cases in the last 15 days, which is 28 per cent of the total 22,867 cases reported since last year.Meanwhile, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today visited the Civil Hospital and several private hospitals in the city and enquired about the arrangements for Covid patients.He also reviewed the status of availability of oxygen, ventilators and vaccine and directed the authorities concerned to enhance the capacity of oxygen in the district. He reiterated that the state government was fully committed to extending all possible help amid the ongoing health crisis.He also urged the eligible people to get vaccinated at the earliest besides following the directives of the state government. He said the issues, if any, related to Covid-19 would be sorted out within two weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-crematorium-runs-out-of-space-246916
02-05-2021||---||Tankers carrying oxygen on way from Bokaro||Ludhiana, May 1In a major relief to the critical Covid patients gasping for life, Punjab has airlifted tankers to bring medical oxygen from Bokaro.This was done to meet the increasing demand of the life-saving gas in the state after the Centre allocated 90 MT oxygen from the steel city and total 195 MT from other parts of the country on a daily basis. The state is producing 32 MT oxygen from its own sources every day and the daily demand is 250 MT, which was expected to touch 300 MT soon.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan told The Tribune the empty tankers were airlifted from Punjab to Bokaro and refilled ones were being brought by road as the Railways had refused to carry those.Principal Secretary Industries Alok Shekhar, who arranged the supplies and coordinated the logistics, said the first fleet of IAF aircraft with two empty tankers had taken off for Bokaro on April 28 and after being refilled hit the road on April 29 with police escort and green corridor passage all through the way.“So far, a fleet of four aircraft, each carrying two empty tankers, is being flown to Bokaro daily. Since these tankers have more than 3.5-metre height, the Railways refused to carry those on ‘Oxygen Express’ train,” Shekhar said.6 plants revived||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tankers-carrying-oxygen-on-way-from-bokaro-246918
02-05-2021||---||2,000 gather at Ropar farm event sans approval||Ropar, May 1Amid weekend lockdown, the Ropar Kirti Kisan Morcha today organised ‘Mazdoor Kisan Ekta’ conference at Chahar Mazara village here. When the police yesterday tried to remove tents pitched for the event, participants, majority of them women, resisted and sat there through the night.More than 2,000 people reached the venue this morning to take part in the event, in which folk singers also performed. Farmer leaders Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Ruldu Singh Mansa and Nirbhay Singh Dhudike addressed the conference, which lasted five hours.Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said no permission was sought from the police to organise the conference. Bir Singh Barwa, Tarsem Singh Jatpur, Rupinder Sandoa, Ranvir Randhawa, Hardeep Kaur, Harpreet Kahlon, Ram Kumar Mukari, Sucha Singh Kalma and singer Pamma Dumewal, along with some unidentified persons, have been booked under the Disaster Management Act.However, no Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader who addressed the gathering has been named in the FIR.Lashing out at the central government, Chaduni said it was following anti-farmer policies. “The attempts to suppress the protesting farmers will not succeed. We will not end the agitation till all our demands are met,” he said.Ruldu Singh said besides farmers, the Centre was trying to suppress labourers too. He said the new labour laws would ruin the labour class of the country. “They will be asked to work round the clock by their employers,” he said.When asked about such a large gathering during the Covid-19 crisis, the organisers said they were ready to face the consequences. Punjab Students’ Union president Ranvir Randhawa said the future of labourers and farmers was in jeopardy due to new laws.AAP leader Dinesh Chadha, questioning the district police, said their officials failed to act against leaders of the ruling party during the installation ceremonies of civic bodies’ presidents. “The same authorities are now harassing farmers for coming together and raising their genuine concerns,” he added.None from SKM named in FIR||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-000-gather-at-ropar-farm-event-sans-approval-246919
02-05-2021||---||Actor Gippy Grewal arrested in Patiala over shoot without permission||Patiala, May 1The police today booked Punjabi singer-turned-actor Gippy Grewal and his crew for violating the District Magistrate’s weekend lockdown orders by shooting for his upcoming movie “without permission” at a Banur village in Patiala district here.The police said Grewal and his crew were arrested from Karala village in Banur where the shooting was on at a house located in the fields. However, the singer and his team were later released on bail.A police team led by Banur police station SHO Balwinder Singh raided the site after receiving information about a film shoot without prior permission.“The crew was busy shooting climax scenes when we reached the spot. The crew members and the actor were taken into custody,” said a police official.Grewal failed to show permission for the shoot and a case was registered. Sources said as soon as the singer was arrested, certain politicians and senior police officials allegedly intervened.Villagers claimed when the state was reeling under the pandemic and the death rate was at an all-time high, shooting for a movie at the village was “sheer callousness” on part of the crew and villagers who rented out the building.“Over 100 persons were at the location but fled when the police raided it. It is so easy to catch the virus and spread it. These actors should act responsibly,” said a villager.Meanwhile, Grewal claimed he had applied for permission but his request was still pending. He said it was their last day of shoot and that they were following the Covid protocol.The police have registered a case under Sections 188 of the IPC, 51 of the Disaster Management Act and 3 of the Epidemic Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/actor-gippy-grewal-arrested-in-patiala-over-shoot-without-permission-246922
02-05-2021||---||High fatality rate in rural areas of Punjab a concern||Chandigarh, May 1With 58 per cent deaths being registered from the rural areas, the Covid mortality rate in villages is reportedly much higher than the urban areas.Of around 9,000 deaths in the state so far, 27 per cent were reported in the urban areas, while the rest in the rural areas.Expressing concern over the rising rural deaths, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu instructed the civil surgeons to intensify the screening drive in villages.Presiding over a meeting of the civil surgeons, Sidhu said: “There is still a misconception among people that they are suffering from the seasonal viral or typhoid. But when they reach hospitals due to breathing complications, they are diagnosed with Covid-19.”He said considering the high case fatality rate (CFR) of the state, there was also need to keep close watch on the functioning of private clinics/RMPs in villages. “Senior Medical Officers must ensure Covid testing of each symptomatic person receiving treatment from such clinics,” he said.If any private health facility has not shared the information concerning symptomatic persons on a routine basis, they must be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act for violating the government guidelines, he added.The civil surgeons mentioned in the meeting that with the help of the district administrations, all efforts were being made to further streamline the availability of oxygen in both private and civil hospitals in the districts.The Health Minister directed them to prevent the wastage and unjustified use of oxygen. He said: “Dedicated audit teams must conduct surprise checks at all Covid care hospitals and submit their progress report to the MD, Punjab Health System Corporation.” Keeping in view the rapid rise in the number of cases, he also issued directions to increase beds in L2 and L3 facilities. “The next 15 days are critical for Punjab and the government has put in all efforts to save people from the deadly virus,” he added.Return oximeters, residents toldSangrur: Facing scarcity of pulse oximeters, the Malerkotla administration has been trying to trace recovered patients to take back oximeters from them for reuse. “We have requested residents to return the oximeters they received in Fateh Kit,” said T Benith, Malerkotla SDM. TNS‘Will take up demands of rural docs’Chandigarh: Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has appealed to rural doctors and pharmacists to perform their duty with dedication as frontline workers with the Health Department. He also said by next week, their demands would be taken up with the CM. TNSPatiala hospital reports 37 deathsPatiala: Thirty-seven patients have died at Rajindra Hospital over the past 24 hours. The hospital recorded over 415 deaths in April, which is four times the fatalities witnessed in March. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-fatality-rate-in-rural-areas-of-punjab-a-concern-246923
02-05-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Infected patient delivers in Moga, baby -ve||Tribune News ServiceMoga, May 1A 38-year-old Covid-positive woman delivered a Covid-negative baby girl in the Moga district hospital last evening.After the delivery, the woman, Sandeep Kaur of Dharamkot, has been kept at the isolation ward of the district hospital. Her baby is being looked after by the hospital staff, said Chief Medical Officer Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa today.According to the scheduled date, the pregnant woman had reported to the Civil Hospital in Kot-ise-Khan town a couple of days back for delivery. As per the guidelines, the doctors who attended to her got her tested for Covid, following which her sample came out to be Covid-positive. She was referred to the district hospital and when she suffered labour pain, gynaecologist Dr Manisha Gupta along with the para-medical staff after taking several precautions was able to do a safe delivery of the child, said the CMO.After shifting the woman to the isolation ward, the child was tested for Covid and was found to be negative. “It was a big challenge for us, but, the doctors and the para-medical staff made special arrangements and conducted the safe delivery,” said the CMO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/infected-patient-delivers-in-moga-baby-ve-246926
02-05-2021||---||Makeshift hospitals to come up in 2 dists||Chandigarh, May 1In order to further ramp up the existing health infrastructure and create more hospital beds for critical patients, the Punjab Government will set up two makeshift hospitals equipped with the ICU facility for Covid patients in Mohali and Bathinda. Besides, nine smaller hospitals at various district hospitals would come up in the state.This was stated by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan after chairing a meeting with officials here on Saturday. She directed the Medical Education and Research department to make functional both hospitals by the month-end.Principal Secretary Medical Education and Research (PSMER) DK Tiwari said 2.66 acres near the Bathinda refinery and 23,000 sq ft land in Mohali had been identified for the purpose and both hospitals would have the capacity of 104 beds each. The lifespan of these hospitals would be 25 years.The implementation partner for raising the Mohali hospital would be PSA-PM/ IITM through CSR funding and Mohali medical college would ensure coordination and procurement of equipment. For Bathinda, implementation partner CSIR/CBRI would work with HMEL to ensure equipment procurement.PSA-PMO Dr Sapna Poti said field survey had been done in Mohali to set up the hospital within three to four weeks by using Madras IIT’s innovation which has already been replicated at eight places. “Support of Murugappa/ Tata groups is being taken to ramp up the facilities,” she said.Col Jasdeep Sandhu, Director, Civil Military Affairs, Western Command, said he had visited the Mohali site and felt the need to utilise the existing beds promptly as the field hospital unit could move in three days.Ready by May-end||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/makeshift-hospitals-to-come-up-in-2-dists-246927
02-05-2021||Bathinda||AAP seeks aid for bizmen||The Aam Aadmi Party trade and industrial wing, Punjab, has demanded financial relief and exemption from taxes to traders to minimise their burden due to losses and low business activity during pandemic-induced lockdowns.AAP trade wing senior vice-president Anil Thakur said, “The traders’ fraternity should be exempted from paying taxes and loans as they have sustained heavy losses due to lockdowns.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-seeks-aid-for-bizmen-246928
02-05-2021||Chandigarh||SAD demands hiring of staff to run ventilators||Accusing Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of leaving the state to its fate amid the ongoing pandemic, the SAD today demanded immediate recruitment of medical staff to run hundreds of ventilators that were either not installed or non-operational due to lack of experts. Former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra said: “How else can you explain the fact that ventilators that had arrived months ago have not been installed till now. The government has failed to recruit staff to run over 300 ventilators despite having ample time. This is complete abdication of responsibility by the CM. Capt Amarinder Singh should put in his papers immediately.” “The Congress government failed to place orders for vaccine in time due to which there is a severe shortage of vaccines. Similarly, it did not make effort to augment the state’s oxygen manufacturing capacity,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-demands-hiring-of-staff-to-run-ventilators-246929
02-05-2021||---||2 held for illegal mining; SHO suspended||Amritsar/Chandigarh, May 1In a major crackdown on illegal mining in the Ramdass belt, the Amritsar rural police have arrested two persons and confiscated nine trucks, four tractor-trailers, a JCB machine and a Poclain machine from the site.Ramdass police station SHO Avtar Singh has been placed under suspension for alleged negligence in curbing illegal mining leading to environment degradation.The action came on the directive of newly formed Enforcement Directorate, Mining. Specific inputs were received by the police of large-scale illegal mining along the banks of the Ravi in the Kassowal village area under the Ramdass police station.Acting on the inputs, the police carried out raids in the area, during which large mounds of sand were found on the riverbank, as well as in nearby hinterland area.Besides seizing the machinery and equipment, the police arrested Ranjit Singh of Teja village in Gurdaspur and Daljit Singh of Bahadurgarh Jandiya village in Bathinda from the scene. Raids were on to arrest the remaining suspects who fled the scene.A case under Sections 379 (theft), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery), 471 (use as genuine forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC; 21 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act; and 26 of the National Green Tribunal Act had been registered at the Ramdass police station in this regard.SSP Dhruv Dahiya said the site was illegal and unauthorised. “Some serious procedural compliance failures were noticed at the site such as absence of any physical demarcation. Further, no documents or government slips were produced by the contractor or their workers at the site,” he said. Provisions of the NGT Act had been invoked to ensure stringent action, he added.Illegal sand mining has been a bane of the area with consecutive governments and police failing to curb the menace as they prefer to turn a blind eye due to alleged “police-politician” nexus. Even the Army authorities had alerted the government as heavy machinery damaged roads leading up to the International Border near the Ravi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-illegal-mining-sho-suspended-246931
02-05-2021||Bathinda||Labour Day: Workers’ unions pitch for staff-friendly policies, take out rallies||Members of various mass organisations and workers’ union took out rallies to mark the International Labour Day (May Day) in Bathinda and Mansa districts on Saturday. Unions apart from raising voice against recent amendments in the labour laws also vowed to support the farmers’ agitation against the agricultural laws.Under the banner of Joint Platform for Mass Organisation (JPMO), union members from Bathinda thermal plant, Sewerage Board, Forest Department, PRTC and other unions also observed Guru Teg Bahadur’s 400th Prakash Purb and firmed up their resolve to struggle for their basic rights.Mass organisations and labourers’ unions also organised rallies in Mansa district and joined farmers at various protest venues in the state. Meanwhile, trade union members also joined protesting farmers at Tikri and Singhu borders. Mahipal Sathi, a JPMO leader, said, “Our struggle against the amended labour laws and revival of the 44 laws being annulled by the government will continue and we will also go to any extent to support the farmers’ agitation that has taken the form of a mass movement.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-day-workers-unions-pitch-for-staff-friendly-policies-take-out-rallies-246932
02-05-2021||Abohar||Rape victim attempts suicide||Two youths were booked on the basis of a statement of a rape victim who reportedly consumed insecticide and was admitted to the Civil Hospital here. The police said a case had been registered against Rajesh Kumar and his brother Arvind, both residents of Dhani Hari Ram, under Sections 306, 376, 511, 354D and 506 of the IPC.  The victim said Rajesh was his schoolmate from Government Model High School here, eight years back. She said he raped her twice in different hotels located near the police station here on the pretext of marriage and also took her photographs and made a video too. Later, when she insisted on marrying him, his brother Arvind allegedly threatened to rape her.  Both the accused are absconding from home, said the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rape-victim-attempts-suicide-246933
02-05-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Roadways GM among 4 held for illegal plying of pvt buses||Tribune News ServiceBatala, May 1The Batala-based General Manager (GM) of the Punjab Roadways and three others were today arrested by the Vigilance Bureau for allegedly defrauding the state government to the tune of lakhs by facilitating unauthorised movement of private buses across the state.The development has sent private bus operators scurrying for cover even as officials made it clear that “this was just the tip of the iceberg”.The accused include GM Arvind Sharma, Inspector Iqbal Singh, Sub-Inspector Rana Gurwinder Singh Uppal and conductor Sukhchain Singh. A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, has been registered at the Vigilance Bureau (VB) police station, Amritsar.Sleuths had been monitoring the activities of the accused for weeks. “The unlawful activity has been taking place in almost all bus stands of Punjab,” said an official.Vigilance Bureau SSP Parampal Singh said several others, including Deputy Director of the State Transport Parneet Singh, supervisor Satnam Singh, Inspector Tarsem Singh and retired Inspector Raj Kumar Raju, were also under the scanner.The SSP said Uppal was heading the Punjab Roadways central flying squad which is tasked with ensuring private bus operators do not bribe the in charges of bus stands, drivers and conductors to get undue advantage. “Private operators often bribe these employees to buy more time at the ticket counter,” he said.It was found during the probe that the central flying team members were hand in glove with senior roadways officials, who were allegedly given part of the bribe money to look the other way. “This is not limited to Batala or Gurdaspur. We are investigating almost all bus stands of the state,” said an official.The central flying squad looked after the bus stands of Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran. “Teams have been sent to these places too,” said a VB officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/roadways-gm-among-4-held-for-illegal-plying-of-pvt-buses-246934
02-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Rs 50-cr heroin seized by BSF||Ferozepur, May 1 The BSF today recovered 10 packets of heroin, weighing 10.5 kg, along the Pakistan border. The seized contraband is worth Rs 55 crore in the international market. As per information, following specific inputs, a search operation was carried out by sleuths belonging to the 116 Battalion, leading to the seizure. On April 7, 31 kg heroin worth Rs 156 crore was recovered near MW Uthar border outpost in the Khemkaran area of Ferozepur sector. Besides, two mobile phones were recovered and a Pakistan smuggler was nabbed. The same day, the troops belonging to 136 Batallion recovered 1.160 kg heroin worth Rs 6 crore. So far, 227.4 kg heroin worth Rs 1,137.75 crore had been recovered by the BSF this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-50-cr-heroin-seized-by-bsf-246936
02-05-2021||---||Punjab CM unveils projects to mark Guru Teg Bahadur's Prakash Purb||Chandigarh, May 1As part of the 400th Prakash Purb celebrations of Guru Teg Bahadur, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today dedicated several development projects to the people, including conservation and development of Old Jail at Bassi Pathana where the ninth Guru along with his supporters was imprisoned by Noor Mohammad Khan Mirza for 40 days while on his way to meet Aurangzeb.The CM said the state had sent a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Rs 938.37 crore grant for various infrastructure projects in the state as part of the celebrations.The CM announced facelift of Guru Teg Bahadur Museum, Anandpur Sahib, at a cost of Rs 2 crore, with illumination of its façade and modernisation of the first floor with advanced technology, while retaining the original concept of exhibition of paintings on the ground floor. The museum, built in 1977 near Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, is the only one in the state dedicated to the ninth Guru.A nature park would be developed in the vicinity of Virasat-e-Khalsa, Anandpur Sahib, at a cost of Rs 10 crore, the CM said, adding it would be spread over 62 acres with extensive tree plantation. To be developed as a habitat for rare species of flora, it was likely to be commissioned by the year-end. Capt Amarinder said the Centre would soon release a commemorative stamp on the 400th Prakash Purb.The CM said infrastructure projects worth Rs 20.50 crore were under execution at Baba Bakala and Anandpur Sahib, associated with the life and times of the Guru. Further, 103 Charan Chhoh places, including 79 villages and 24 towns, connected with the Guru had been identified and given grants worth Rs 50 lakh per village and Rs 1 crore per town for infrastructure development, he added.He said over 60 lakh saplings had been planted at 6,986 villages as part of the celebrations. Earlier, more than 70 lakh saplings were planted to mark the 550th Prakash Purb celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev.SGPC to make Documentary on ninth GuruFacelift of jail, museumCM joins ‘ardas’ online||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-unveils-projects-to-mark-guru-teg-bahadurs-prakash-purb-246939
02-05-2021||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Shillong Sikhs start ‘O2 langar’||Tribune News ServiceKolkata, May 1Despite attempts by official agencies and pressure groups to evict them from a prime commercial area in Shillong, Sikhs are extending a helping hand to locals at the time of crisis. They have started an “oxygen langar” for locals at the city’s largest gurdwara.“Though hospitals have been able to take care of oxygen requirements of Covid patients, we too have made arrangements to help during the crisis,” said Kamaljeet Singh Sehdave, Shillong-based dental surgeon who is secretary of Sri Guru Singh Sabha that oversees the running of the gurdwara.Sehdave said they had made arrangements with dealers in Guwahati to supply oxygen cylinders and concentrators. While some cylinders and concentrators had arrived, more would soon come, he said.Appreciating the Sikh community’s efforts, Patricia Mukhim, editor of the region’s English daily, wrote in a post on the Facebook, “the Sikh community of Shillong is the first to respond and come forward with this critical facility (oxygen langar) at these daunting times. And this is the only building they have. Will those other religious institutions with huge infrastructure please come forward and open similar facilities to help overcome the medical crisis should we ever come to such a point? What’s the use of all the big buildings if they are not used to serve humanity? Preparedness is wisdom. Thank you Guru Singh Sabha, Shillong”.Notably, Sikhs living in Shillong’s Harijan Colony have been facing pressure from some Khasi outfits as well as from the Municipal Corporation to vacate their houses where they have been living for several generations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shillong-sikhs-start-o2-langar-246940
02-05-2021||Manav Mander||Rush for CT scans as people shun Covid test in Punjab; doctors alarmed||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 1People going in for repeated CT scans instead of RT-PCR test to detect Covid need to be watchful as repeatedly getting exposed to radiation could lead to cancer, health experts have warned.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here, said he had a patient who instead on relying on RT-PCR test, underwent five CT scans on his own within a short span. “His initial scans didn’t show any infection in the lungs and he kept on roaming freely.By the time he developed Covid symptoms, his condition had deteriorated. He is now on ventilator,” he said, calling it a dangerous trend.A member of the Punjab Government Covid-19 task force, Dr Mohan said CT scan should only be done in cases where a person had tested positive and his condition was deteriorating. “The scan is recommended to rule out any clot or infection in the lungs. In rare cases it is advised for patients testing negative, but facing difficulty in breathing or their oxygen saturation dipping,” he said.He said cases had come to light where Covid-positive people, including those with symptoms, were venturing out of their houses on the basis of CT scan report and acting as super-spreaders. “This must stop,” he cautioned.Another expert, Dr Manoj Sobti, a former president of the Indian Medical Association’s Punjab chapter, warned that unregulated gatherings at diagnostic centres could prove to be super-spreading events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rush-for-ct-scans-as-people-shun-covid-test-in-punjab-doctors-alarmed-247005
02-05-2021||Ravinder Saini||At Tikri, farmers avoid mass testing||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 1A day after a 25-year-old Bengali woman died of Covid at Tikri border, the protesting farmers today refused to get mass testing done. Union leaders said activists had been told to get themselves tested only if they showed symptoms.They, however, have no data to show how many of them have got Covid test done.The district authorities have several times issued appeals in this regard, but the farmers remained reluctant. Sources say most of them do not wear masks or maintain social distance.The woman — Moumita Basu of West Bengal – had joined the dharna on April 11. Five days later, she was admitted to a hospital in Bahadurgarh. She died after testing positive for Covid on Friday.Terming it an isolated case, Pargat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said: “Since all are healthy and participating in the movement, they have not opted for a test. Our doctors are here to treat the farmers who develop health issues.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-tikri-farmers-avoid-mass-testing-247000
02-05-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu 'roasts' Capt Amarinder over Bargari sacrilege cases; posts video 'promising to send Badals to jail'||Chandigarh, May 1Days after Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh launched a scathing attack on him, senior Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu hit back on Saturday sharing a 2016 video of Capt Amarinder "promising to send Badals to jail for Kotkapura firing incident".Sidhu in his social media post said, “Big Boast, Small Roast ...Big Outcry, No Outcome... #ਬੇਅਦਬੀ #Sacrilege #Bargari."Big Boast, Small Roast ...Big Outcry, No Outcome ...#ਬੇਅਦਬੀ #Sacrilege #Bargari pic.twitter.com/kq8BTmxcjf  In an apparent provocative act, Sidhu compared the statement made by the Chief Minister in 2016 before the party rose to power in the state and the statement recently given to a private channel stating that law would take its own course and he could not interfere in the SIT probe. Soon after, Sidhu posted another video stating that he has shot a letter to Jathedar Akal Takht Sahib “for ex-communication of Badals”He tweeted: “People of Punjab did not elect the High Court Judge, Blaming the Verdict for what is failure of Executive Authority will not be accepted. My Stand Yesterday, Today & Tomorrow - Justice for Punjab’s Soul ... Letter to Jathedar Akal Takht Sahib for Ex-Communication of Badals (2018).”People of Punjab did not elect the High Court Judge, Blaming the Verdict for what is failure of Executive Authority will not be accepted. My Stand Yesterday, Today & Tomorrow - Justice for Punjab’s Soul ... Letter to Jathedar Akal Takht Sahib for Ex-Communication of Badals (2018) pic.twitter.com/ibOlJzfm4MOver the last few days, the Chief Minister, while terming Sidhu an "opportunist", said he was not clear in which party he was and that he was alllegedly in talks with AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal to join the Delhi CM's birthday. He had also dared Sidhu to contest against him from Patiala.Sidhu had reverted by saying an Assembly seat did not matter in the fight for justice for the families of victims in the police firing cases.Political analysts say while the Chief Minister camp was provoking Sidhu to leave the party, the latter was provoking the Capt Amarinder Singh camp to take action against him in backdrop of resentment among party leaders for the Congress government failing to act against the perpetrators of the scarilage and police firing cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-roasts-capt-amarinder-over-bargari-sacrilege-cases-posts-video-promising-to-send-badals-to-jail-246791
