04-05-2021||---||Eight Punjab IPS officers promoted to ADGP rank, 10 transferred||Chandigarh, May 4The Punjab government on Tuesday promoted eight IPS officers on 1995 and 1996 batch to the rank of Additional Director General of Police (ADGP).The government also issued new postings for 10 IPS officers, including five of the eight freshly promoted.  Those promoted as ADGP were Kapil Dev, Pramod Ban, M F Farooqui, Amit Prasad, G. Nageswara Rao, Vibhu Raj, Rajiv Ahir and Lk Yadav.Of those, Kapil Dev and Rajiv Ahir are on central deputation.The new postings/transfers included -- Rohit Choudhary -- Special DGP State Human Rights Commission (to fill vacancy on superannuation of DGP Mohd Mustafa); Ram Singh-ADGP Modernisation with an additional charge of Cyber Crime and State Crime Records Bureau; Pramod Ban- ADGP Special Crimes and Economic Offences; M F Farooqui-ADGP Public Grievances; Amit Prasad-ADGP Counter-Intelligence and Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU); Vibhu Raj-ADGP Vigilance Bureau; L K Yadav-ADGP Vigilance Bureau; Kaustubh Sharma-IG Jalandhar range and additional charge IG OCCU; Gurpreet Singh Toor-DIG Ropar Range; and Surjit Singh-DIG Faridkot Range.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eight-punjab-ips-officers-promoted-to-adgp%C2%A0rank-10-transferred-248167
04-05-2021||---||Punjab CM writes to Modi, Shah for 50 MT additional oxygen allocation and 20 more tankers||Chandigarh, May 4Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sought the immediate intervention of both, the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister, to ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to the state, along with additional allocation of 50 MT LMO from a nearby source and 20 additional tankers (preferably conducive to rail travel) for timely evacuation of LMO from Bokaro.The Chief Minister sent out separate letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, as the number of Covid patients on varying levels of oxygen support in the state went up to 10,000.Expressing deep concern over the imminent loss of lives due to oxygen shortage across the state, the Chief Minister said with mounting caseload, he was unable to increase Level 2 and Level 3 beds due to oxygen availability constraints.The state was facing the prospect of shortage of oxygen beds, he said, pointing out that the Government of India had expressed its inability to even allow Punjab’s local industry to undertake commercial import of LMO from Pakistan through the Wagah-Attari border, which is geographically proximate. Further, despite assurance that “adequate supply would be ensured to us from alternate sources.  I regret to point out that this has not happened,” said Amarinder.The total allocation of LMO from outside the state is currently 195 MT, of which 90 MT is from Bokaro in eastern India. The balance 105 MT comes from LMO facilities in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. However, Punjab is not getting its daily allocated quota, said the Chief Minister. The existing backlog for Punjab from these LMO facilities is 5.6 MT from Panipat (Haryana), 100 MT from Sela Qui, Dehradun (Uttarakhand) and 10 MT from Roorkee, he added.Pointing out that Punjab had now been given to understand by the Centre that there would be likely disruption of LMO supply from today from Panipat and Barotiwala, the Chief Minister said this would cause great stress on the already limited oxygen availability in the state, thus causing a medical emergency, including risk of loss of life for the large number of patients who are in critical condition and on regular oxygen support. The disruption should be avoided, he said, adding that, if necessary, the state must be compensated immediately from a nearby additional source.Referring to the shortage of tankers, the Chief Minister said the state was airlifting two empty tankers daily to Ranchi, with the filled tankers returning by road from Bokaro on a 48-50 hours journey. The Chief Minister said that the state government had already requested the GoI to allocate 20 additional tankers (conducive to rail travel) to allow for regular evacuation of 90 MT LMO from Bokaro on a daily basis, but had been told that only two would be provided, and even those were yet to come.He urged the Prime Minister and the Home Minister to step in immediately to help resolve the major crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-writes-to-modi-shah-for-50-mt-additional-oxygen-allocation-and-20-more-tankers-248116
04-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Wife +ve, man spoonfeeds newborn, sleeps on road||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 3In a society still battling female foeticide, a father has been staying put outside the gynaecology ward of Government Rajindra Hospital to spoonfeed his newborn girl. He has been performing this heart-warming task because the mother of the newborn has tested positive for Covid and has already been shifted to an isolation ward.A doctor at Rajindra Hospital‘To bring change, we need such persons’It is common to see parents getting upset over the birth of a girl child. However, Shyam Sundar’s story is different. We need more such persons to bring a lasting change in society.The father, Shyam Sundar, has to sleep on the road at night as he is not being allowed to sleep in the gynaecology ward with his daughter.Shyam Sundar has to go into the ward after every two hours to spoonfeed and make his daughter burp, as recommended by doctors. The doctors at the hospital said as he was a male, he could not be allowed to sleep inside the ward.They said it was a preterm birth and the baby was taken to NICU following respiratory distress. Meanwhile, the mother tested positive for the coronavirus and had to be shifted to the isolation building. Talking to The Tribune over the phone, Sundar said: “The doctors have asked me to spoonfeed my daughter every two hours. Therefore, I have to sleep on the road outside the hospital.”Sundar, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, said he worked as a labourer in Patiala.A doctor at the Paediatrics Department said: “I was moved by the unconditional love of a father for his daughter.” In her social media post, the doctor said it was feast for the eyes to watch him (Shyam Sundar) take care of his daughter: feeding her and changing her clothes. “It is common to see parents getting upset over the birth of a girl child. However, Sundar’s story is different. We need more such persons to bring a lasting change in society,” the doctor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wife-ve-man-spoonfeeds-newborn-sleeps-on-road-248002
04-05-2021||---||Follow curbs or face total lockdown: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, May 3Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday warned people against laxity in observing Covid-19 curbs and said if the situation did not improve, he would be forced to consider a total lockdown.70% doses for co-morbid people among 18+The Chief Minister said he had so far refrained from ordering a sweeping lockdown because it would hurt the poor the most and would lead to exodus of migrant labourers, plunging industries into chaos again. However, if the people did not stringently comply with the restrictions in place, harsher steps might have to be taken, he added.Chairing a high-level virtual meeting to review the Covid situation on Monday, the Chief Minister today also ordered a stop on all take-away deliveries from restaurants, which was being used by youngsters as a pretext to move out of their homes. Only home deliveries of food should be allowed, he directed the officials. He, however, gave permission for shops selling fertilisers to be open.With the state getting an allocation of only 3.30 lakh doses of vaccine for the 18+ category from the Serum Institute of India for the month of May. He also ordered 70 per cent of the doses to be reserved for individuals with co-morbidities, and the remaining 30 per cent to high-risk category — government employees, construction workers, teachers and other staff.He expressed concern over the fact that even for the 45+ age group, the vaccine was in short supply. The state expects two lakh doses to arrive tomorrowfor vaccination of the 45+ category. Of the 33,46,500 Covishield doses received so far, a total of 32,91,045 has already been utilised.In the 18-44 age group, the maximum allocation of 50 per cent has been prioritised for Group A of the most affected districts of SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda and Patiala. Another 30 per cent has been reserved for the Group B districts of Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, SBS Nagar, Faridkot, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur.Accepting the recommendations of the committee, the Chief Minister approved expansion of the list of comorbidities to include obesity (BMI >30), disabilities (e.g. spinal cord injury) and multiple co-morbidities determined to increase risk by a treating physician, in addition to those specified by the central government.He directed the Health and Medical Education departments to get stadiums, gymnasiums and other such places ready to house patients. The directives came as Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said the situation was grim with only 300 beds now available at L3 level in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/follow-curbs-or-face-total-lockdown-chief-minister-capt-amarinder-singh-247850
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Send more oxygen tankers, Punjab state urges Centre||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the Centre for more oxygen tankers to be made available to the state.The Chief Minister, at a Covid review meeting, said the state urgently needed more tankers, as it currently had only 15 at its disposal, with two more likely to come in by tomorrow. These, he said, were not enough.Punjab had a 195 MT allocation from various plants in other states, but the actual supply received over the past seven days had been around 110-120 MT daily, which had also been erratic, the Chief Minister noted.In this period, the number of patients on oxygen support had gone up from 4,000 to around 9,000, though the state government’s steps to monitor and streamline supplies through its controls rooms had helped in keeping things stable, the situation remained fluid and was a matter of concern, he added. The current consumption of oxygen in the state is more than 225 MT daily, while the average increase in demand every day is around 15-20 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/send-more-oxygen-tankers-punjab-state-urges-centre-247852
04-05-2021||---||No vaccine, drive halts in Fazilka district||Our CorrespondentFazilka, May 3Amidst surge in Covid cases in the district, vaccination drive has come to an abject halt as the district ran out of stocks. No vaccination was done in the district hospital today. The Health Department has also stopped the supply of vaccine to private hospitals leaving the beneficiaries who were to be administered the second dose high and dry.Civil Surgeon, Fazilka, Dr Harjinder Singh said the department had not received the fresh consignment, hence they had to stop the vaccination drive today.“Stocks have been exhausted and we are awaiting fresh consignment. As soon as it reaches Fazilka, we will restart the process,” said the Civil Surgeon. Fazilka is one of the worst-hit districts of the state as according to official sources it witnessed 27 deaths and 1,042 positive cases during the last three days.Dr Harjinder urged medical practitioners running private hospitals to refer patients having Covid symptoms to government hospital for testing to prevent further spread of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-vaccine-drive-halts-in-fazilka-district-247853
04-05-2021||Faridkot||Prescribe available injections, doctors told||The state Health Department has recommended the doctors in all level 2 and 3 hospitals of the state to use dexamethasone or itolizumab injections in place of tocilizumab injection (400 mg), which is not manufactured in India and its availability in the country is low.The number of Covid patients admitted in level 2 and 3 health facilities in government and private hospitals had increased sharply over the past few days, said Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Department of Health, in a letter today.“It has been observed that doctors are prescribing injection tocilizumab to patients. It is a matter of common knowledge that this injection is not manufactured in India,” he wrote.The expert group, headed by Dr KK Talwar, has recommended that since the drug was not available, the doctors treating critically-ill patients were advised to prescribe the drugs which were available in the market and equally effective. These drugs were dexamethasone and itolizumab injections.All these three injections are used in a wide range of conditions for their anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects.Meanwhile, after the state government asked all level 2 and 3 government medical colleges and hospitals in the state to increase their bed capacity by 20 per cent for Covid patients, the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College Hospital in Faridkot has decided to increase its bed capacity from 400 to 500. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prescribe-available-injections-doctors-told-247854
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Give aid to poor during curbs: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, has asked Capt Amarinder Singh to make arrangements to meet the domestic needs of people before a possible lockdown and provide financial assistance to the needy and poor families.Address oxygen issueThe AAP has urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to address the issue of shortage of oxygen by implementing a proper system of production and storage at Sri Guru Gobind Singh Refinery Phulokhari plant. Party legislator Baljinder Kaur has written a letter to the Chief Minister in this regard.The AAP said the party would extend all possible cooperation to the Punjab Government and the people during the possible lockdown. In a statement issued from the party headquarters here on Monday, AAP Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann said in view of the impact of the Covid pandemic, the government was preparing for a complete lockdown in the state but the question was whether the government had found a solution to the problems faced by the people during the lockdown.“Has any arrangement been made to meet the domestic needs of people?” Mann questioned the government. He said businesses would be shut during the lockdown and the employees of the factories and companies as well as construction workers would lose their jobs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-aid-to-poor-during-curbs-aap-247855
04-05-2021||Sangrur||Take closure orders back: Shopkeepers||Shopkeepers protested the Punjab Government’s order to close their shops and announced to intensify their agitation. “We are already under huge debt while the latest order to close our shops, would cause more losses. The Punjab Government should allow us to open our shops at least during daytime,” said Babbu, a local shopkeeper.Shopkeepers converged on the main market of Sangrur and demanded the withdrawal of the latest decision.We are incurring huge losses for over past one year as our shops remained close. We are paying rents and salaries of our employees. The government should allow the opening of shops from 9 am to 5 pm. We would announce our future course of action after a meeting,” said Sarjiwan Jindal, a BJP leader and local shopkeeper. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-closure-orders-back-shopkeepers-247856
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, scribes on frontline warriors’ list||CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday announced all accredited and yellow card journalists in the state to be included in the list of frontline warriors in the fight against Covid. All Power Corporation employees in the state have also been brought into the ambit of frontline workers.These employees, along with the journalists, will now be eligible for all benefits, including priority vaccination, that frontline workers are entitled to from the state government, said the Chief Minister at a high-level Covid review meeting.Journalists had been taking grave risks in covering the pandemic, and helping spread awareness on it for the past more than one year, said the Chief Minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-scribes-on-frontline-warriors-list-247857
04-05-2021||Faridkot||Fridkot NGO driver nabbed selling cylinders in Delhi||After a Faridkot resident was caught selling six oxygen cylinders at exorbitant prices in Delhi, the police have started investigating the source from where these cylinders were procured.The cylinders were being “smuggled” in an NGO’s ambulance, run by a retired principal of a girls’ government senior secondary school in Faridkot.The West Delhi’s Paschim Vihar police arrested Kewal Singh of Faridkot, the driver on the ambulance, and recovered six oxygen cylinders. He was selling these at Rs 28,000 to Rs 35,000 each. The police have also arrested Vinay Kumar, a resident of Paschim Vihar, who had allegedly been getting the supply of cylinders from Kewal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fridkot-ngo-driver-nabbed-selling-cylinders-in-delhi-247858
04-05-2021||---||8 yrs on, PGI centre in Ferozepur a non-starter||Anirudh GuptaFerozepur, May 3Amid unprecedented spike in Covid cases juxtaposed with lack of proper facilities in state-run civil hospitals in this border region, there is public outrage against the inordinate delay in setting up of PGI satellite centre announced in 2013 during the fag end of the UPA-II regime.While the PGI satellite centre in Sangrur, which was announced around the same time, has been constructed and the OPD operations have even started, the one in Ferozepur has apparently fallen victim to political slugfest. Even the AIIMS-Bathinda, which was announced much later, has already started operations.On January 1, Congress MLA Parminder Singh Pinki claimed to have laid the foundation stone of the centre, but except the boundary wall the project has not gained momentum to date. Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal had also announced that the formal stone laying ceremony would take place on Baisakhi, but nothing moved on the ground.An estimated Rs 490 crore is likely to be spent on the project, which will have 400-bed hospital besides medical college and auxiliary services.The project remained in controversies over the selection of its site for almost six years and subsequently over acquisition of the land, which delayed the work. In September last year, the request for proposal for its construction was issued and tenders were floated in the first week of October, but still the construction did not start.“Around Rs 2,000 crore will be spent on this project, which will make it one of the biggest projects ever approved in the state,” said MLA Pinki, blaming the BJP-led Centre for the delay. He said previously, the SAD-BJP government delayed the allotment of land and gave preference to Bathinda-AIIMS, and now the Centre was delaying it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-yrs-on-pgi-centre-in-ferozepur-a-non-starter-247859
04-05-2021||Abohar||Educate villagers about Covid protocols: NGO||Members of the Manav Sewa Samiti led by its women wing president Sunit Devi today launched a campaign to motivate villagers to follow the rules of nature and health-related guidelines. The NGO had served thousands of food packets to migrants and other affected people last year.Samiti said to save human life, NGOs should cooperate with health workers and other departments. Many people in rural areas were still illiterate. They have to be educated about washing hands, use of sanitiser and social distancing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/educate-villagers-about-covid-protocols-ngo-247860
04-05-2021||GS Paul||Centre rejects Amritsar firm plea to sell Remdesivir locally||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has shown its inability to ‘relax’ norms when it comes to manufacture and sale of anti-viral Remdesivir in the domestic market.Can’t go beyond norms, says govtTo manufacture Remdesivir and import the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, the firm would need to obtain New Drug permission under the drug rules, 1945. This is a time-consuming and cumbersome process. — Central Drugs Standard Control OrganisationCompany approaches State authoritiesI am pained to see people dying due to Remdesivir shortage. Now, I have approached the Punjab Food and Drugs Administration to at least cater to local patients. My firm has the capacity to produce 50,000 injections a day. — Ramesh Arora, MD, Kwality PharmaceuticalsRemdesivir is the first drug to show improvement in Covid patients during clinical trials. However, it witnessed an acute shortage. The 100 mg vial of the drug costs around Rs 3,000-Rs 3,500, but the vendors have been black-marketing the drug six times its price. As there has been a sudden spike in its demand, the Centre has restricted the export of Remdesivir injection and importing Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API).To curb it, Amritsar-based Kwality Pharmaceuticals had approached the CDSCO, seeking exemption in norms by breaking the patent reserved with the US-based Giload Sciences for its manufacture and sale in India.Turning down the firm’s submission, the CDSCO has conveyed that for manufacturing Remdesivir and importing the API, the firm would need to obtain New Drug permission under the drug rules, 1945. This is a time-consuming and cumbersome process. At present, seven firms in the country — Mylan, Hetero, Jubiliant Life Sciences, Cipla, Dr Reddy’s, Zydus Cadila and Sun Pharma — are licensed to manufacture Remdesivir.Kwality Pharmaceuticals imports Remdesivir API under advanced licence through unregistered sources from China and exports the finished product to 70 countries. But the firm has no legal rights to sell it in India.MD Ramesh Arora said after CDSCO’s refusal, he has approached Food and Drugs Administration, Punjab, to at least cater to Punjab patients. “I am pained to see the current situation. Many are dying due to Remdesivir shortage, but I am helpless despite having the capacity to meet the demand. If the state government allows, I can instantly meet the demand of the drug in Punjab. The raw material weighing 5-7 kg is lying unused. It can be used to make 65,000-70,000 injections,” he said.Zonal Drug Licencing Authority official Karun Sachdeva confirmed the acute shortage and irregular supply of the drug. “In Amritsar, 400-500 injections are required daily. Sometimes, we receive over 100 injections, but today we got just 16 injections,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-rejects-amritsar-firm-plea-to-sell-remdesivir-locally-247861
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC: Specify policy on priority to Covid heroes||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Union of India and the State of Punjab to specify whether policy/instructions were in place for providing priority treatment to Covid–19 warriors. For the purpose, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri set a week’s deadline.Got infected in labThe direction came on a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Chanchal Singh through counsel Salil Dev Singh Bali. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Bali submitted the petitioner was a Covid warrior. He acquired kidney disease when he was posted in a laboratory after the epidemic’s onset. Although the petitioner was enrolled in kidney transplant patients’ list by the PGI, it was not in consonance with the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Rules, 2014, he contended. The counsel further submitted that the petitioner, being a Covid–19 warrior, ought to have been given priority over other patients.Issuing notice of motion, Justice Puri asserted: “The counsel for respondent — Union of India as well as Pankaj Gupta, Additional Advocate-General, Punjab, shall seek specific instructions as to whether there is any policy for providing any priority treatment to the Covid-19 warrior.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-specify-policy-on-priority-to-covid-heroes-247862
04-05-2021||Ferozepur||Man fakes firm name, sells injection for Rs 40K||Notwithstanding stringent instructions from the government not to indulge in unethical practices and black marketing of Covid-related drugs, several such instances are still coming to the fore.MD files complaintIn one such case, a local private hospital has accused an unidentified person of committing fraud by selling an injection at an exorbitant price using the name of the hospital’s pharmacy. In a complaint to the SSP, Dr Kamal Baghi, managing director of the hospital, said a man was indulging in the illegal sale of Covid-cure injections at a cost of Rs 40,000 each in the NCR on behalf of their hospital. “The name of our hospital is Anil Baghi Hospital whereas the man was selling drugs in name of Anhil Baghi Hospital to fool the patients,” claimed Baghi.“The fraudster tried to sell the injections to a person who was known to me. Before transferring the money against the purchase of injections, he cross-checked with me. I realised that someone was trying to sell the injections illegally by using our firm’s name,” Baghi claimed.“The accused tried to contact another person known to me. I have shared with the police the information and the account number where he asked customers to deposit money,” he said, urging the police to register a case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-fakes-firm-name-sells-injection-for-rs-40k-247863
04-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Shift civil surgeon’s office: Bir Devinder||Amid a surge in Covid cases, hospital beds are required for patients but the top floor of the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, has been occupied by the civil surgeon and his staff. The state government should immediately shift the office out of the hospital, Bir Devinder Singh, former Deputy Speaker, said here today.He said he had written to the Secretary, Health, in this regard. The Civil Hospital SMO said the 100-bed facility had only 70 beds available due to the civil surgeon’s office in one block. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shift-civil-surgeons-office-bir-devinder-247864
04-05-2021||Abohar||Abohar’s Nai Abadi containment zone||The police today sealed Nai Abadi across the railway station here after the district authorities declared it a containment zone. The area with 50,000 population is first to be put under restrictions for movement in the town. Senior Medical officer Dr Gagandeep Singh said as many as 24 persons had succumbed to the virus in the past 30 days. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohars-nai-abadi-containment-zone-247865
04-05-2021||---||BKU: Scrap laws or face WB-like defeat||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, May 3Expressing satisfaction on the results of Assembly elections in West Bengal, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Lakhowal) has sounded a note of warning to the Centre to accept the demands of agitating farmers lest the saffron party should suffer more such humiliating defeats in elections to be held in the future.BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said senior BJP leaders had gone all out to hand over lands of farmers to big business houses through the anti-farmer laws.The BKU leader said there have been 11 rounds of talks between the farm leaders and government functionaries during the course of the farmers’ stir without any conclusion simply because of the negative attitude of the BJP leadership.He said PM Modi, his senior Cabinet colleagues and the BJP leadership ought to read the writing on the wall after being rejected by the West Bengal electorate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-scrap-laws-or-face-wb-like-defeat-247866
04-05-2021||---||70% more wheat lifted so far: Centre||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 3The government today said around 70% more wheat has been procured for the central pool in current rabi marketing season compared to the corresponding period of last year.292.52 LMT procured“Wheat procurement is going on at brisk pace in procuring states/UTs of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan. Over 292.52 LMT has been procured up to May 2. This is an increase of approximately 70% against the last year corresponding purchase of 171.53 LMT,” according to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. About 28.80 lakh farmers had already benefited in the ongoing RMS 2021-22, it added.“The government is continuing to procure rabi crops at the MSP from farmers as per existing price support scheme. Around Rs 17,495 crore has already been transferred directly into the accounts of farmers of Punjab.”Officials said of the total purchase of 292.52 LMT wheat, major contributors were Punjab-114.76 LMT (39.23%), Haryana-80.55 LMT (27.53%) andMadhya Pradesh-73.76 LMT (25.21%).A sum of Rs 17,495 crore in Punjab and Rs 9,268.24 crore in Haryana had been transferred directly into farmers’ accounts corresponding to procurement up to April 30.This is the first time farmers of Punjab and Haryana are receiving payments directly into their bank accounts against sale of their wheat. The two states have been the epicentre of farmers’ protest against the three central farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/70-more-wheat-lifted-so-far-centre-247867
04-05-2021||---||For education reforms, govt sets up panel of VCs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday constituted a committee of vice chancellors to work out examination reforms and review curriculums, and to scale up the quality of higher education in the state in line with the advances taking place across the world. The committee, under the chairmanship of the VC, GNDU, will also look into introduction of new courses and digital education and will submit its report within 60 days.In tune with global education changes: CMUnderlining the need to keep up with the transformation taking place globally in education, the Chief Minister tasked the committee with drafting a plan to bring the state’s education system on a par with the world. New and relevant courses should be identified to ensure that the students are in tune with the changes taking place in global education, he said. The Chief Minister also directed that all new colleges in the state must start classes from academic session 2021-22.Reviewing the functioning of the Higher Education and Languages Department, he directed the Secretary, Higher Education, to speed up the recruitment process for filling up 931 posts of assistant professors in government colleges.The meeting was informed that Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur State University of Law at Tarn Taran and Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University at Patiala had started functioning from their transit campuses from the current academic session. Besides, Amity University had also been set up through the Amity University Punjab Act, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-education-reforms-govt-sets-up-panel-of-vcs-247868
04-05-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Congress leaders get fake ‘Kishor’ calls, plaint filed with DGP||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 3“Prashant Kishor (PK) is calling you repeatedly, but you are not taking his calls. He wants to have your CV to finalise the Congress candidate from Sunam,” Jagmohan Sharma, general secretary, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, told Daman Thind Bajwa, a party candidate from Sunam in the last Assembly elections.Sought Rs7 lakhA person, posing as Prashant Kishor on the phone, promised a Congress ticket from Sunam if I paid Rs7 lakh. — Daman Thind Bajwa, Congress leaderWill probe matterWe will conduct investigations as it is a serious matter. — Vivek Sheel Soni, Sangrur SSPDaman panicked for a second thinking not taking PK’s calls might damage her chances of getting the ticket. Her husband Harman Bajwa, however, asked her to call on the number provided by Sharma.“Initially, I thought the person on the other side of the phone was PK and replied to his queries as he is the principal adviser to CM Capt Amarinder Singh and a known political strategist. But after having spoken to him for some time, I realised there was something fishy as a person like PK would never indulge in loose talk or demand money,” said Daman, while showing her complaint to the DGP and SSP in this regard.The person posing as PK first talked of resume sent by another Sunam leader and even shared his details. Harman, sitting by Daman’s side, asked her to get more details from the “fake PK”. Finally, when the suspect promised her the ticket from Sunam on the condition that she dropped Rs 7 lakh in Jalandhar, the couple realised they were being targeted by a gang active in Punjab.“After checking with seniors, a trap was laid, but the gang members stopped taking calls and switched off their mobiles. Some other Congress leaders have also received similar calls. Whether they paid money or not, it’s a matter for police to investigate,” said Daman.Sharma, Congress leader from Ludhiana, confirmed he got a call from an individual who identified himself as PK. “I only conveyed his message to Daman to call him,” he said. Kishor could not be reached for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leaders-get-fake-kishor-calls-plaint-filed-with-dgp-247869
04-05-2021||Patiala||6 days on, three Patiala jail escapees still evade arrest||Almost six days after three inmates escaped from the Patiala Central Jail, the police grope in the dark as despite raids none of them could be arrested.Thorough investigation neededWhich route did they take and who helped them scale the 14-ft outer wall? It needs a thorough probe. — A top officer Lodged in the Koratine barrack, the trio escaped early on Wednesday morning following laxity on part of jail officials. The police are investigating as to how they managed to scale a 10-ft inner wall and then the outer wall that is over 14 ft high.Sources said the authorities had got “limited clues so far”, primarily due to the poor placement of CCTV cameras inside the jail premises. The missing convicts are alleged mastermind of the escape Sher Singh of Vanike village in Amritsar, Inderjeet Singh Dhiana of Ranipur village, Komboa in Kapurthala, and Jaspreet Singh Noopi of Roopnagar.On November 16, 2009, Harpreet Aulakh, a UK-based NRI and father of two, got his wife Geeta murdered after she sought to end their marriage. Geeta was attacked in London by two hired killers, Jaswant Singh Dhillon of Ilford and Sher Singh, a teenager from Southall. They both were sentenced to 22 years in jail. Sher Singh was recently shifted to the Patiala prison and is considered the mastermind of the jailbreak.A top officer probing the case said there was no clue yet as to how they managed to flee.To execute their escape, the inmates broke out of the bathroom of their cell. Despite the presence of jail guards, the three managed to get away without being noticed. “The cell from which they escaped has a watch tower, but it seems it was left unmanned,” a source inside the jail confirmed.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said his teams were probing the case and the accused would be arrested soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-days-on-three-patiala-jail-escapees-still-evade-arrest-247870
04-05-2021||Mansa||Not paid, Mansa varsity guest faculty holds protest||Guest faculty (assistant professors) of constituent college, Mata Sundri University Girls College, Mansa, affiliated to Punjabi University, Patiala, staged a protest in front of the college campus over non-payment of salaries for the last 14 months. They raised slogans against the college authorities and Punjabi University and demanded that their pending salaries be released at the earliest.Manpreet Singh, a guest faculty at the college, said, “We have been taking classes of students even during and after the lockdown last year, but did not get our salaries till now. We have not received salaries since March 2020. Bringing the matter to the college authorities and holding protests did not yield any result so far. Our salaries are meagre as compared to the permanent staff members and we have not been getting that either.”Barinder Kaur, principal of the college, said, “We have forwarded records of the guest faculty to the university authorities and they can only tell the exact status of the salary payment now.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-paid-mansa-varsity-guest-faculty-holds-protest-247871
04-05-2021||Moga||‘Harassed’ over graft, Moga cop shoots self||A 50-year-old ASI died by suicide at his government residence adjoining the police post at Lopo village in the district today. The police officer shot himself with his service revolver over alleged harassment for bribe by an SHO.SHO booked, suspendedASI Satnam Singh, a resident of Jaimal Wala village, was deputed at the Lopo police post, falling under the Badhni Kalan police station. He was posted there around six month ago.In a suicide note recovered from the spot, it was alleged Badhni Kalan police station SHO Karamjeet Singh had been demanding Rs 50,000 from the ASI. The SHO was allegedly threatening the ASI to reopen investigation into a criminal case, pending before a local court for closure of proceedings. The case file was with the ASI and he was pursuing it in court.The SHO had been pressuring him to get Rs 50,000 from a panchayat secretary against whom a criminal case was registered six years ago. Later, he was given a clean chit by the police, he wrote in the suicide note.“I told the SHO I do not take bribe and make both ends meet only with my salary. But he used to call me to his office and harass me. Therefore, I am ending my life,” he wrote.ASI’s wife Gurdeep Kaur, in a statement before the police, said the SHO had been harassing her husband over demand for money. “My husband had told me and my son on many occasions that the SHO was asking him to take bribe and give Rs 50,000 to him,” she said.Besides his wife, the deceased leaves behind two sons and a daughter. The elder son is married, while the younger one lives in Australia. A police official said the victim was taken to the district hospital at Moga where the doctors declared him brought dead.SSP Harmandeep Singh Gill said a case under Section 306 of the IPC had been registered against the SHO. The SHO, who was yet to be arrested, has been placed under suspension. A departmental inquiry would be initiated against him, said a senior police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harassed-over-graft-moga-cop-shoots-self-247872
04-05-2021||Jalandhar||Legal body gives Rs 2L relief  to Kapurthala rape victim||Around a week after the plight of a seven-year-old rape victim from Kapurthala was brought to the fore by The Tribune, the Punjab State Legal Services Authority (PLSA) has released a relief of Rs 2 lakh to her family.Slightly better: FatherI have been informed about the help. My daughter’s condition is slightly better now.— Victim’s fatherThe PLSA released an interim relief of Rs 2 lakh to the father of the girl, allegedly raped in a brutal manner by a labourer at Kapurthala on March 15.Dr Mandeep Mittal, Additional Member Secretary, PLSA, said, “After the plight of the girl came to our notice, the FIR and the case were reviewed following which interim relief has been ordered. A lawyer has been appointed and the family informed of their legal rights. The relief amount can go much higher given the plight of the family.” The girl, who had been raped by a man who had taken her out with her parents’ permission on the pretext of getting her biscuits, had left the girl in an unconscious state near the RCF. As a result, her uterus had to be removed and a colostomy conducted. While two surgeries of the girl have already been conducted, more are yet to be done.The girl’s father said, “My daughter’s condition is slightly better. I am thankful. She had another surgery and has begun to eat. She still has two more surgeries to go. She still has a bag attached to her. How will we take her home in this condition? The police told me she will be kept at the Civil Hospital at Kapurthala when discharged. We have to come back for another surgery.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/legal-body-gives-rs-2l-relief-to-kapurthala-rape-victim-247873
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar: Congress's revival will start from Punjab||After the debacle of the Congress in the Assembly elections to five states — especially West Bengal and Assam — the revival of the grand-old party would begin from Punjab in the 2022 Assembly elections, said PPCC Chief Sunil Jakhar on Monday.No to politics of hatePeople are rejecting the politics of hate and understanding the corporate-influenced policies of the NDA. — Sunil Jakhar, PPCC ChiefAt the launch of “service to humanity” help centre titled “Farz” for Covid-hit families at the PPCC head office here, Jakhar said now the responsibility of the state Congress had increased further. “Our victory would prove to be the first step towards the Congress’ resurgence as the Modi government was working against farmers and minorities, people had started distancing themselves from BJP,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jakhar-congresss-revival-will-start-from-punjab-247874
04-05-2021||Ropar||Upasana booked for shooting sans approval||After actors Jimmy Shergill and Gippy Grewal, the Punjab Police today booked Upasana Singh for shooting without permission at Morinda today.Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said a case had been registered against the actor and others accompanying her under various Sections of the IPC, besides relevant sections of the Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act.Chaudhary said the police got information that Upasana along with nearly a dozen crew members was shooting for a Punjabi film at the Morinda sugar mill. A police team reached the spot and asked the crew to furnish the required documents for the shoot. After they failed to do so, a case was registered against the offenders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/upasana-booked-for-shooting-sans-approval-247875
04-05-2021||Ferozepur||Pakistan intruder shot by BSF||The BSF have shot a Pakistan national in the Khalra area of Tarn Taran district along the International Border.Sources in the BSF said on the intervening night of May 2 and 3, personnel of the 103 Battalion observed some suspicious movement inside the Indian territory.The BSF troops challenged the intruder but he failed to respond and was subsequently shot. On search, some Pakistan currency was recovered from the spot, said BSF officials.Later, the BSF officials approached the Pakistan Rangers, asking them to take back the body. However, the Rangers denied any such intrusion and refused to take back the body. Later, the body was handed over to the police at Khalra for legal formalities. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-intruder-shot-by-bsf-247876
04-05-2021||Amritsar||GNDU unveils online courses for diaspora||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday digitally launched online programmes/ courses started by Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, for the Punjabi diaspora. Reviewing the functioning of the Higher Education and Languages Department, the Chief Minister also ordered the immediate release of Rs 5 crore for establishing a language award to promote Punjabi.He said the online courses would go a long way in helping youths learn Punjabi language. “This endeavour would also keep Punjabi youth abreast the state’s glorious cultural heritage, thus connecting them with their ancestral roots,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gndu-unveils-online-courses-for-diaspora-247877
04-05-2021||Abohar||3 arrested for trafficking||Two women and a suspected client were held as City-1 police in charge Tejinderpal Singh last night raided a house in Anand Nagari here.A case was registered under the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act and Disaster Management Act and the accused were arrested. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-arrested-for-trafficking-247878
04-05-2021||Surinder Bhardwaj||AAP leader held for encroachment||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 3The Sirhind police have arrested former district president of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Gurwinder Singh Dhillon, along with his son Jasanpreet Singh and nephew Taranpal Singh, for allegedly encroaching upon the Municipal Council land and constructing a house on it.The caseRajpinder Singh, Junior Engineer, Sirhind MC, said they received a complaint from councillor Gurpreet Singh Lalli that Taranpal, nephew of former district president of AAP Gurwinder Singh Dhillon, had encroached upon MC land in Ward No. 12 and was constructing a house on it.The trio has also been accused of threatening and fighting with the SDM, Executive Officer of the Municipal Council Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib, and other officials who had gone to the site to stop the “illegal” construction.The three have been booked under Sections 447, 511, 353, 186, 506 of the IPC, said the police.SHO, Sirhind, GS Sikand said the FIR was registered on a complaint of Rajpinder Singh, Junior Engineer, Municipal Council Sirhind.Rajpinder Singh in his complaint said they received a complaint from Councillor Gurpreet Singh Lalli that one Taranpal had encroached upon the MC land in ward No. 12 and was constructing a house on it.The JE, along with other staff, went to the spot and found that construction was going on the MC land without any approval. The officials urged Taranpal to stop the construction but he did pay any heed to them and rather started threatening them, said the police.Officials then called the Executive Officer to the spot but in the meantime Gurwinder Singh, along with son, also reached the spot and started misbehaving with the officials and stopped them from performing their duty, they added.As the situation worsened, officials called SDM, Fatehgarh Sahib, Dr Sanjeev Kumar and he also reached the spot. However, the AAP leader, along with son and nephew, entered into a scuffle with the officials and threatened them of committing suicide.The SHO said following the FIR, the AAP leader, along with his son and nephew, was arrested and would be produced in the court tomorrow.AAP leaders of the district later went to meet Dhillon in the police station, but they refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-leader-held-for-encroachment-247967
04-05-2021||---||Govt must ensure social security of journalists, says Punjab Speaker||Tribune News ServiceRopar, May 3Punjab Speaker Rana KP Singh has called for concerted efforts to safeguard the freedom of Press in the country.Addressing a function oganised via the virtual mode by the Rupnagar Press Club on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, he said Press had played an important role during the freedom struggle and also during various challenges faced by the country after Independence.He said being the fourth pillar of the democracy, more efforts were needed for strengthening Press in the country and the government should take steps for ensuring social security of the journalists.He said journalists were facing a lot of challenges and problems in performing their professional duty and governments must take steps to redress their problems and provide more facilities to them.The president of the District Press Clubs Association, Rupnagar, Bahadurjeet Singh, highlighted the significance of the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-must-ensure-social-security-of-journalists-says-punjab-speaker-247968
04-05-2021||New Delhi||Signs of plateau in Punjab; cases rising in Haryana, Himachal, J&K||India’s cumulative Covid burden on Monday night crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore with 23 states and UTs, including Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh, continuing to see a steep daily rise in infections.After daily cases dropped marginally for a second straight day to settle at 3,68,147, the government said there were early signs of the infection plateauing in 10 states and UTs, including Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Ladakh.“Plateau of cases is being seen in Punjab, UP, and also Uttarakhand, but these are very early signals. Continued efforts of containment are a must to preserve and build on these gains,” Joint Secretary, Health, Lav Agarwal said.He said there were still rising trends in daily cases in 23 states, which included Chandigarh, Haryana, HP, J&K, Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Twenty-two states still had positivity rate of more than 15 per cent, which was a cause for concern, the Health Ministry said, reiterating that states with districts that had more than 10 per cent positivity rate should consider local lockdowns for 14 days to start with.The government said two lakh people aged 18 to 44 years had been inoculated so far with 12 states having commenced the adult vaccination drive that began from May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/signs-of-plateau-in-punjab-cases-rising-in-haryana-himachal-jk-247755
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||No doses, many Panjab centres shut||Chaos was witnessed at Covid vaccination centres across Punjab today as a large number of people were turned away because of non-availability of the vaccine.Vaccination centres in Bathinda were closed down as the stock had exhausted. Similar situation prevailed in Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala Faridkot, Jalandhar, Amritsar and other places.Bathinda district health officials directed NGOs and others to cancel all vaccination camps till further orders. The Civil Surgeon ordered that the first dose of vaccine should not be administered to anyone till the new stock arrived. The available stock was to be utilised for the second dose of vaccination only.Patiala health officials also had to ask the beneficiaries “to go back” after the vaccine stock exhausted on Monday afternoon. Sources in the Health Department said they didn’t have even a single dose left with them, so no vaccination camp would be held in the district on Tuesday.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said only around 800 beneficiaries could be administered the shots on Monday. In Sangrur, only 190 doses of Covid vaccine were left in the stock, so the vaccination drive had to be stopped. In Jalandhar, the Health Department had to recall Covishield vaccine from private centres to keep its vaccine drive running. Until Saturday, 100 to 150 centres were administering Covid vaccine in Jalandhar, but the number has now come down to only a few.The vaccination drive has been suspended indefinitely in Ropar district. Health officials said they had only around 700 doses of vaccine this morning. The stock exhausted within a few hours, so they had no option but to return jab-seekers.Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Pathankot districts also faced acute shortage of vaccine.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh today ordered that 70 per cent of the doses be reserved for individuals with co-morbidities and the remaining for the high-risk category of employees and workers in the 45-plus age group. The state expects to receive two lakh vaccine doses for the 45-plus category tomorrow morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-doses-many-panjab-centres-shut-247784
04-05-2021||Muktsar||11 ventilators with Muktsar govt hospitals, none used||The government hospitals in Muktsar district have 11 ventilators, but are unable to operate even one.Sources in the Health Department say seven ventilators are available at the Civil Hospital, Muktsar; two at the Civil Hospital, Malout; and one each at the Gidderbaha and Badal Civil Hospitals.But these ventilators are of no use for the patients as in case of emergency they have to rush to private hospitals. The district has reported 166 Covid deaths so far.Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Muktsar, said, “We don’t have manpower, like anaesthetists, medical specialists and officers, required to operate the ventilators. We are now planning to shift five ventilators to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot.”Asked whether the local staff would be able to run the remaining six ventilators, she said, “If we get manpower, then only we will be able to run the remaining ventilators. Or we can give the remaining ventilators to any private hospital, if demanded. In case of acute emergency, we can run only one ventilator, but are unable to maintain that.”She, however, claimed there was no shortage of oxygen at government hospitals. “We have oxygen support on all beds,” she said.Muktsar DC MK Aravind Kumar said the Civil Hospital was converted into a 100-bed Covid hospital today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-ventilators-with-muktsar-govt-hospitals-none-used-247794
04-05-2021||---||Not in favour of total lockdown but will consider harsh measures if situation doesn’t improve: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, May 3Even as he made it clear that he was not in favour of a complete and harsh lockdown, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday warned people against laxity in adherence to the curbs imposed in the state, and said if the situation did not improve he would be forced to consider a total lockdown.The Chief Minister said he had so far refrained from ordering a sweeping lockdown in the state because it will hurt the poor the most and would lead to exodus of migrant labourers, plunging industries into chaos again. However, if the people do not stringently comply with the restrictions in place, harsher steps might have to be taken, he added.The state is currently in a soft lockdown situation, with strong curbs in place, with additional restrictions imposed by the government on Sunday. DGP Dinkar Gupta told the meeting that all measures were being taken to enforce the current curbs strictly.Chairing a high-level virtual meeting to review the Covid situation, the Chief Minister today also ordered a stop on all take-away deliveries from restaurants, which was being used by youngsters as a pretext to move out of their homes. Only home deliveries of food should be allowed, he directed the officials. He, however, gave permission for shops selling fertilisers to be open. Asserting that he will not allow Punjab to go the way of some other states, where patients could be seen lying out on the roads, Chief Minister said Industry should be encouraged to use their CSR funds for vaccination and treatment of their labour suffering from mild or moderate illness, so that they can stay at home, thus reducing pressure on hospitals.Underlining the need to step up preparedness amid projections of a peak in the coming days, the Chief Minister ordered 20% increase in bed capacity in the next 10 days. He directed the Health and Medical Education departments to get stadiums, gymnasiums and other such places ready to house patients. Tented camps should be set up, and gyms/halls should be converted into L2 and L3 facilities, he said, adding that “we have to be prepared for the worst.” He also directed use of staff from rural development and other departments to augment the workforce for tracing of Covid contacts in rural areas.The directives came as Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said the situation was grim with only 300 beds now available at L3 level in the state. Hospitals were getting overwhelmed, he added.Health Secretary Hussan Lal pointed out that the state’s positivity rate had on Sunday stood at 12%, with the Malwa region showing increase cases in the last 7-10 days. With L3 occupancy 90% and in some cases 100%, the situation was grim, he said, adding that CFR was close to 2% and higher (at 2.7%) in rural areas. Home deaths currently were also at 2%. The worrying factor was that 17% of the all deaths had no co-morbid conditions, he said.Dr KK Talwar, head of the state’s Covid Expert Committee, stressed the need to prioritise monitoring of home isolation cases to identify serious patients fast, especially in rural areas. With no clarity still on whether mutation was responsible for the current spread, he also underlined the importance of increasing L3 bed capacity.Medical Education Secretary DK Tewari said from 343 in the first week of April, ICU bed capacity had increased to 770 and would be further enhanced to 900 by the end of the week. Total oxygen beds will be increased from 1500 to 1800 this week and further to 2000, he disclosed. To augment manpower, 700 MBBS Final year students, 90 BDS final year students and 70 Senior Residents would be recruited immediately, while 86 nurses will also join in the next one week, he said, adding that a total of 473 new recruitments will be made this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-in-favour-of-total-lockdown-but-will-consider-harsh-measures-if-situation-doesnt-improve-punjab-cm-247699
