07-05-2021||Patiala||Police arrest man for sheltering Patiala jail break accused Inderjit Dhyana||The CIA staff of Patiala police have arrested another individual in relation to the Patiala central jail break incident.SSP, Patiala, Vikram Jeet Duggal on Friday evening said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of village Ranipur Kamboa, Kapurthala district was arrested by CIA staff, Patiala police on Thursday.Gurmeet Singh had given shelter to Inderjit Singh Dhyana, who was earlier arrested by the police.Duggal said prisoner Inderjit Singh alias Dhyana of Kapurthala, prisoner Sher Singh of Amritsar and detainee Jaspreet Singh were accused of breaking jail and absconding. A case had been registered against them on April 28.Duggal said that Sher Singh, who had escaped from Patiala Central Jail, was serving his sentence in a murder case. “12 cases of NDPS Act, robbery, theft and others are already registered against Inderjit Singh alias Dhyana in different police stations of Jitla Kapurthala while Jaspreet Singh Nupi has been charged with murder and use of mobile phone in jail,” he said.He said Inderjit Singh Dhyana after escaping from the jail was living with Gurmeet Singh.“A team of CIA staff, Patiala arrested Gurmeet on May 6 as he gave asylum to a fugitive criminal,” he said.Duggal said Inderjit Singh is in police remand till May 11 and is being questioned in depth. He added that Gurmeet will be presented in court and a police remand will be obtained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-arrest-man-for-sheltering-patiala-jail-break-accused-inderjit-dhyana-249558
07-05-2021||Bathinda||Weekend curfew imposed in Bathinda||Amid a COVID spike, a weekend curfew was announced in Bathinda on Friday evening.The curfew would lift on Monday morning at 5 am.Apart from this, the district reported 1,042 cases and 19 COVID deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/weekend-curfew-imposed-in-bathinda-249552
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders strict enforcement of lockdown curbs ahead of farmers' protest||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the state DGP to strictly enforce the weekend lockdown and deal stringently with any violation, ahead of farmers' proposed protest against it.The chief minister authorised the deputy commissioners to impose new and harsher restrictions, as needed, but made it clear that no dilution of the existing curbs will be allowed.On the farmers' unions protest against the lockdown, Amarinder Singh asserted that the Kisan Morcha, a body of 32 farmers unions, cannot dictate terms to the state government.Thirty-two farmer unions from Punjab, which have been agitating against central farm laws, had on Wednesday said they will hold street protests against the coronavirus lockdown on May 8 and urged people to defy the restrictions.Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border protest site near Delhi, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal alleged the government has imposed a lockdown to hide its failure in handling the coronavirus situation and wants to weaken the farmers' movement.“The 32 farmer unions of Punjab have decided to protest against the lockdown on May 8 (in Punjab) where our field workers will come out on streets and ask people to open their shops and not follow the lockdown,” he had said.Like several other states reeling from the COVID surge, Punjab has imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like a weekend lockdown and night curfew till May 15.Amarinder Singh said if any shops are opened in violation of the restrictions, the owners will be prosecuted.The chief minister authorised the DCs to take any decision on opening of non-essential shops or private officers on rotation, after taking the local MLAs and other stakeholders into confidence.However, the DCs cannot impose any restrictions on inter-district movement, he said, underlining the need to allow free flow of people and goods on the highway network of the state.The new curbs, if any, and the opening of shops on rotation will come into effect from Monday, he said.Responding to DGP Dinkar Gupta's remarks that various districts wanted to adopt different models for phased opening of shops, the chief minister said the decision on working out the local systems rests with the DCs.Taking serious note of the spike in cases in the Malwa region of the state, the chief ministers asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to examine the possibility of re-employing the volunteers deployed last year and also to get rapid antigen tests done on all residents in the villages.He stressed the need to control the fatality rate, which was 2.1 per cent as of May 6. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-orders-strict-enforcement-of-lockdown-curbs-ahead-of-farmers-protest-249546
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Be ready for vaccination of priority groups in 18-44 age category: Punjab CM Amarinder to officials||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Friday asked officials to be ready to vaccinate priority groups in the 18-44 age category from Monday as the state is expected to receive one lakh doses of coronavirus vaccine over the weekend.The vaccination of priority groups identified by the state government for Phase III should start as soon as the doses arrive, the chief minister said in a statement.The state government has identified construction workers, teachers, government employees and those with co-morbidities in the 18-44 age group for priority vaccination.Earlier, the state government had deferred the Phase III of vaccination, which was slated to begin on May 1, due to “non-availability” of the vaccine.The chief minister, who was chairing a virtual review meeting, directed all government employees, except those with medical problems, to get themselves vaccinated.While the Labour Department will coordinate vaccination of construction workers and their families, to be funded by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, the deputy commissioners have been asked to coordinate the vaccination of government employees.Vaccination of those with co-morbidity will be planned by the DCs.The state government had ordered 30 lakh vaccine doses from the Serum Institute of India for the Phase III vaccination and the Centre has allocated 3.30 lakh against this order to Punjab for this month, the CM said.The chief minister also directed the chief secretary to explore the use of some components of the state's World Bank loan for purchase of 10,000 oxygen concentrators, along with tankers and vaccines.Amarinder Singh expressed gratitude to the organisations sending aid to the state to support its fight against the second wave of the pandemic.He informed that besides the TATA Group, which is sending 500 oxygen concentrators, an additional 200 are being sent by Tata Memorial Hospital.Amarinder Singh directed Health Minister Balbir Sidhu and Medical Education Minister O P Soni to explore the possibility of providing chemotherapy to cancer patients in the Bathinda Civil Hospital while the cancer hospital in the district continues to be utilised as Level 3 facility for COVID patients.The directive came after the health minister raised concerns over the problems caused to cancer patients as a result of the hospital being taken over as a COVID facility by the administration.While endorsing the decision in the absence of any other Level 3 facility in Bathinda, the chief minister said some alternative arrangement should be made for the cancer patients, who require regular pain management.Earlier, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said 25 beds at the hospital had been taken over for COVID-19, as the Bathinda AIIMS was not available for Level 3 treatment and there was no other such facility available to cater to southern Punjab with critical patients having to travel to Ludhiana or Patiala for treatment.There are 40 cancer patients, who visit the cancer hospital and are administered treatment in a completely separate area, with a separate entry and exit, posing no risk to them on account of COVID, she said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/be-ready-for-vaccination-of-priority-groups-in-18-44-age-category-punjab-cm-amarinder-to-officials-249544
07-05-2021||Bathinda||Trying times for Punjab labourers, workers; demand financial assistance||Gurmail Singh travels more than 20 kilometres from his village near Bucho to Bathinda looking for daily wage jobs. The 20-year-old has a family of seven to feed at home. "Today, I am returning empty-handed for the fourth consecutive day, and I don't even have money for the bus fare", said Gurmail at a bus stop near the cantonment area. "Gurmail Singh is not alone as hundreds of daily workers—all over the state—have to face feeding empty stomachs at home," said NGO Naujawan Welfare Society president Sonu Maheshwari. Maheshwari urged the government "to extend the orders of lockdown or mini lockdown, then prior work arrangements for these labourers could be made". Maheshwari added that there are many labourers which are benefited from the Public Distribution System (PDS), but still there are several, that don't get any benefit under this scheme.  Several labourers are coming to cities in search of work amid the pandemic. They sit idle throughout the day and head back to their village empty-handed. In this situation, workers are demanding that the government should arrange work or provide financial assistance, and ration during the mini lockdown.  The second coronavirus wave has left several of them to make ends meet, and if the situation continues, it could lead to starvation. With an increase in case, the state govt has imposed a lockdown, which has upset small shopkeepers, and daily wage labourers along with street vendors. Workers are coming from various villages in search of work to earn a livelihood. Labourer Bhola Singh of Mansa said: "Since 1988, I have been working as a daily wage labourer, but never seen such a situation. We come here in the morning and go back empty-handed.”Labourers Balvir Singh, Jasvir Singh and Gobind Singh from Bathinda said that the condition of labourers was extremely poor, and they also have to pay bus fare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trying-times-for-punjab-labourers-workers-demand-financial-assistance-249530
07-05-2021||Amritsar||300 workers rescued from fire at dry fruit packaging factory in Amritsar||As many as 300 labourers were evacuated from a dry fruit packaging factory here after it caught fire on Friday, police said.In the incident that took place in the Anand Vihar locality on Chabal road, flames engulfed the entire unit, which was vacated “just in time”, they said, adding no casualties were reported.“It broke out in the afternoon and the cause is being ascertained,” ACP Parvesh Chopra said.Five fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire that destroyed huge quantities of dry fruit and packaging material, police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/300-workers-rescued-from-fire-at-dry-fruit-packaging-factory-in-amritsar-249527
07-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police arrests owner of ambulance service company for charging Rs 1.2 lakh from patient's daughter||The owner of an ambulance service company was arrested for allegedly charging Rs 1.20 lakh to shift a patient to a hospital, the police said on Friday.The patient travelled from DLF Gurugram to Ludhiana on Wednesday.According to a statement from the Delhi Police, acting on the specific information, the Inder Puri police station team nabbed the accused Mimoh Kumar Bundwal, who was running an ambulance service company in the name of Cardiacare ambulance Pvt Ltd and was looting needy people by charging 2/3 times above the actual rent for transportation of Covid-19 patients in its ambulances.During the investigation, it was revealed that he was in this profiteering business for the last one month and has cheated numerous people."The accused himself is an MBBS doctor who is involved in the ambulance business for the last 2 years," the police said.During the investigation, the bank account of the ambulance service company was also obtained and is being analysed. The accused has returned the cheated money to the victim after being nabbed by the police.The police have also seized one ambulance given by him to numerous patients over the last one month in the case."My mother is COVID-19 positive and was in very critical condition. We were not getting bed in Delhi-NCR, Gurugram and Faridabad. So we came to know about one hospital in Ludhiana where there was one empty bed. We contacted them and gave all the details about my mother's condition and they agreed to take her. So we looked for the ambulance but no one has the oxygen and I needed an ambulance with an oxygen supply," said Amandeep Kaur, the patient's daughter."In the end, I contacted the Cardiacare ambulance service and they agreed to go but they asked Rs 1.40 lakh. Later when I told them that I have my own oxygen cylinder then they said that they will take Rs 1.20 lakh," Kaur said.Also read: Ambulance charges Rs1.2 lakh for 350-km rideShe said that the ambulance driver took 20,000 initial amounts in cash from her and later her husband transferred 95 thousand to their bank account."Later, when I reached here one of my friend circulated the bill on social media and at the end reached to Human Rights department in Ludhiana and investigation started. I have also lodged a complaint in Delhi's Inder Puri police station," she added.A case has been registered under section 420 Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Inder Puri police station.Further investigation is in progress. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-police-arrests-owner-of-ambulance-service-company-for-charging-rs-1-2-lakh-from-patients-daughter-249513
07-05-2021||Faridkot||Patiala University to conduct CET for admission on 24,000 B.Ed seat||To take admission on over 23,000 B.Ed course seats in 214 Colleges of Education in the state, the department of higher education in the state has appointed Punjabi University Patiala as the authority to conduct the Common Entrance Test (CET) for the session 2021-22.101 of these colleges, affiliated to Punjabi University Patiala, offer about 11,650 B.Ed course seats, followed by 7460 seats in 62 colleges affiliated to Panjab University, and 5,100 seats in 51 colleges attached to Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar.While the colleges offering B.Ed. courses in Punjab are already facing a crisis, with over 45 per cent of seats remaining vacant last year, the colleges are contemplating more difficulty this time when there is no certainty about the conducting of CET because of the pandemic.Not only the private B.Ed colleges, but even five government colleges are also facing a crisis of their over 25 per cent seats remaining vacant last year.The number of seats has been granted by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), said VK Meena, secretary, high education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-university-to-conduct-cet-for-admission-on-24-000-b-ed-seat-249509
07-05-2021||Toronto||3 Punjabi men arrested for scamming $10,000 from woman in Toronto||Three Punjabi men have been arrested for scamming an old woman in Toronto of $10,000 in the name of the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA).Taranveer Singh (19), Ranveer Singh (19) and Chamanjyot Singh (21) of Brampton on the outskirts of Toronto, have been identified as the masterminds behind the scam.According to the police, the 80-year-old woman victim received a call on May 3 from a suspect claiming to be from the CRA.The woman was told to withdraw $10,000 in two $5,000 instalments and send the money by courier to a Brampton address.She was told she would be arrested if she didn't pay immediately.On May 4, the police intercepted the package and monitored its delivery location in Brampton, where it was scheduled to be picked up by the suspect.When the suspect arrived to pick up the package, he was nabbed.His interrogation revealed that two other suspects were also involved in the crime. They were also arrested.The police recovered the victim's money from them and returned it to her.The three men have been charged with extortion, conspiracy to commit an indictable offence and possession of property over $5,000 obtained by crime.They will appear in court on June 10.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-punjabi-men-arrested-for-scamming-10-000-from-woman-in-toronto-249476
07-05-2021||Aman Sood||Patiala police get pat from actor John Abraham for swift action in dog shooting case||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 7Two days after the Patiala police arrested a youngster for allegedly killing a stray dog with a gun in Patran, Bollywood actor John Abraham on Friday appreciated the role of Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal for quick action in the case.Heartbroken to report that last night a brutal act of animal violence was committed in Patiala, Punjab.I am extremely thankful to @asharmeet02 for raising an alarm about the cruel act & to the @PunjabPoliceInd @vikramduggalips for their stern action on the matter.  The accused has been identified as Taranjot Singh of Khaspur village in Patran division of Patiala district.The Patiala police had to take action after Bollywood actor Mansha Bahl and animal rights activist Meet Ashar took up the matter with them.Meet Ashar is an associate manager of the Emergency Response Team of PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals).Actor Mansha Bahl had shared a video of the accused allegedly shooting the sleeping street dog with a .12 bore gun. The actor has demanded strict action against the accused. After the video went viral, netizens had condemned the incident and sought strict action against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-police-get-pat-from-actor-john-abraham-for-swift-action-in-dog-shooting-case-249468
07-05-2021||---||Congress MPs want 15-day lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6Congress MPs from Punjab today stressed upon Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to impose a lockdown of at least 15 days on the pattern of other states if the upward trajectory of the disease has to be checked.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMPressure CentreBJP-ruled Haryana has got a bigger oxygen quota and more tankers than Punjab. I have urged Cong MPs to pressure the Centre to augment supplies of oxygen, tankers and vaccines. .Suggestions from parliamentariansIn a virtual meeting with the Chief Minister on the Covid situation, the MPs from both Houses of Parliament said lives were more important than the scheduled reopening of the shops. Citing reports of the country’s top experts on Covid, MPs said there advice on the lockdown to end people to people contact was very important and half-hearted measures would do no good. The MPs who attended the meeting included Partap Singh Bajwa, Shamsher Dullo, Manish Tewari, Gurjit Singh Aujla, Dr Amar Singh and Preneet Kaur.Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa wanted the Punjab Government to follow in the footsteps of Delhi to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking adequate supply of oxygen from the Centre.He further said the Cabinet should bring changes in the rules to ensure that oxygen plants should be mandatory in a 25-bed private hospital and 50-bed government hospital. Bajwa announced to donate Rs 2.5 crore for setting up oxygen plants in government hospitals at Batala, Gurdaspur and Pathankot.Lok Sabha MP from Amritsar GS Aujla urged the Chief Minister to set up a committee of MPs under Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari to coordinate with the Union Home Minister and Health Minister regarding Covid-related demands of Punjab. He said the time had been sought to hold a meeting with Union Home and Health Ministers.The MPs pointed out that if the Centre could accept Covid-related help from China, it could do the same from Pakistan as it was easy to arrange oxygen from across the border. The Chief Minister pointed out that their demand to arrange oxygen from Pakistan was struck down by the Centre.The MPs urged the CM to involve religious institutions in fight against Covid and seek their help in arranging oxygen as was being done by gurdwaras in Delhi.The CM briefed the MPs about various initiatives and sought their cooperation in pressing upon the Centre to ensure regular supply of vaccine, oxygen and tankers to counter the deadly wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mps-want-15-day-lockdown-249181
07-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||10,000 cases a day in Punjab by third week likely||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6The number of Covid deaths has reached the 10,000-mark in Punjab, with the last 40 days accounting for around 33 per cent of the fatalities. It has taken a toll on the state with 45 per cent of the cases so far being reported in this period.Experts say the state is yet to see the worst as the number of cases may hit 10,000 per day in the third week of May.The first case of Covid was reported on March 8 last year and the first death was reported on March 18. In one year, till March 28, 2021, the state reported 2.31 lakh cases and 6,690 deaths.Between March 28 and May 7, the state has reported 1.85 lakh cases and around 3,300 deaths. The situation is worsening with each passing day. On Wednesday, the number of fresh infections crossed 8,000 in a single day for the first time. Similarly, 182 deaths were also the highest ever.The current spike may continue through the month of May, experts say. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid, said: “As per the statistical models prepared by the experts, the number of cases may reach 10,000 per day by the third week of May. We are expecting plateau after that and then cases may decline in June.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-000-cases-a-day-in-punjab-by-third-week-likely-249184
07-05-2021||---||Traders take to streets against curbs||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, May 6The partial lockdown, which allowed liquor shops to remain open, has led to resentment among traders and industrialists of Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Amloh and Bassi Pathana towns of the district.FIR against shop owners in PatialaPatiala: Shops in various markets, including that of handloom, cloth, and bakery, in Patiala remained open on Thursday despite Covid-19 restrictions. The Punjab Beopar Mandal, Patiala, on Wednesday held a protest and announced they would open all shops in the city. Following this, the Patiala police registered an FIR against them. The police also went around in various markets dissuading shopkeepers from opening their establishments. TNSRaising slogans against the government, traders in their respective towns held demonstration and disrupted the traffic on GT Road in Mandi Gobindgarh. They held meetings with their respective SDMs and presented them memorandums to allow them to open all types of shops.The traders said either a complete lockdown be declared or they should also be allowed to open their shops for fixed hours. They said it would control the pandemic as at present there was huge rush and panic in the markets to buy essential commodities and medicines. Even villagers are rushing to towns to hoard essential goods.SDM Fatehgarh Sahib SDM Dr Sanjeev Kumar said he had a meeting with Beopar Mandal members. He said he would brief the Deputy Commissioner and hoped the issued would be sorted out soon. Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma and his Bassi Pathana counterpart Jaspreet Singh said traders had submitted similar memoranda and they would discuss the issue with the DC.Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill said the administration had sent its proposal to the state government to settle the issue at the earliest.Meanwhile, industrialists urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene to stop the migration of labourers as most of the 600 industrial units of Mandi Gobindgarh have shut due to the non-supply of oxygen. They demanded a partial resumption of supply of oxygen to keep the industries running.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/traders-take-to-streets-against-curbs-249185
07-05-2021||---||621 fake Remdesivir vials found in Bhakra||Tribune News ServiceRopar, May 6As many as 621 fake Remdesivir injection vials were found dumped in the Bhakra canal near here today.The drug, prescribed for serious cases of Covid 19, is short in supply and several cases of black marketing have been reported in the recent past.Will talk to other statesWe will contact police of other states where fake injections might have been seized in recent days. — Akhil Chaudhary, Ropar SSPBesides Remdesivir, hundreds of Cefoperazone injection vials were also found floating in the canal. While Remdesivir vials were packed in cartons and bore the manufacturer’s address of Telangana with Rs 5,400 per vial as MRP, the wrappers of Cefoperazone vials with “For government supply, not for sale” marking bore the manufacturer’s address of Kala Amb in Himachal Pradesh.Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said the police received information that a large number of vials were floating in the canal near Salempur village.A police team led by the Chamkaur Sahib DSP accompanined by health officials visited the spot and seized Remdesivir and Cefoperazone vials. During search upstream at Balsanda village, more vials were recovered, he added.In all, 621 Remdesivir and 1,456 Cefoperazone vials were seized from the two spots. In addition, 849 unlabelled vials were recovered.Drug Control Officer Tejinder Singh said prima facie the medicines were fake. The labels on vials did not match with those of original vials of the same company.The SSP said the police have initiated investigation and would contact police of other states where fake injections might have been seized in recent days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/621-fake-remdesivir-vials-found-in-bhakra-249186
07-05-2021||---||20% death rate at Patiala hospital, minister blames high caseload||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 6Amid record Covid fatalities at Government Rajindra Hospital, Medical Education Minister OP Soni said higher caseload and late reporting of patients was the reason for high number of deaths.Milk, eggs added to daily diet of patientsHe visited the hospital today to review the “worsening” situation of the Covid ward here. He said the protest of the attendants over mismanagement at the isolation ward had prompted his visit. Notably, family members of the Covid-19 patients at the isolation ward had staged a protest on Tuesday against non-delivery of food to their patients. The attendants had also alleged lack of response to the SOS of their patients.After a meeting with the higher-ups, Soni said: “High patient load, along with late admission at the hospital, is the only reason for higher death rate at Rajindra. Critical patients from other states are also adding to the Covid deaths here.” With 27 patients dying in the past 24 hours, the death rate at the hospital is reportedly above 20 per cent.On course correction of mismanagement at the hospital being alleged by the attendants, the minister said he had already directed the authorities to address people’s grievances.Accompanied by Medical Education Secretary DK Tiwari, Soni said he had come to Patiala after the attendants of positive patients had protested outside the isolation wing of the hospital.“We discussed the issues of food and other items sent by the attendants to the patients. It will be ensured that the items reach the patients in time. Besides, family members of patients can have a glimpse of their patients in the control room,” he said.He said to improve the quality of food being made available to the patients, milk and eggs had been added to their daily diet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20-death-rate-at-patiala-hospital-minister-blames-high-caseload-249187
07-05-2021||Ferozepur||Ferozepur Civil Hospital to have oxygen plant||Amid reports of hospitals running out of oxygen in the wake of the Covid surge in this border region, the ailing Civil Hospital at the district headquarters will soon get an imported oxygen plant. It is likely to be commissioned within a month.8 yrs on, defunct unit restarts in muktsarAn oxygen plant lying non-operational for the past over eight years at Lubanianwali village in Muktsar was made functional on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner MK Aravind Kumar said the plant could prepare 300 cylinders of oxygen every day. TNSCongress MLA Parminder Singh Pinki said the plant had been sanctioned by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on the insistence of the state government. It is estimated to cost Rs 1.25 crore. As per information, the machinery is being sourced from a foreign vendor. The plant with 650 litre per minute capacity will provide 35 cubic metre oxygen every hour.The MLA said another Rs 1.5 crore had been sanctioned for modernisation of the Civil Hospital, which would include addition of beds.He said vacant posts of specialist doctor were being filled so that patients did not have to travel long distances in emergency.“We are mindful of the lack of facilities and a spurt in medical exigencies. Efforts are being made to overcome the challenges,” said the MLA, adding till the time the PGI Satellite Centre came up, all medical services would be provided at the Civil Hospital itself. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-civil-hospital-to-have-oxygen-plant-249190
07-05-2021||Sangrur||Malerkotla SDM, officials visit isolation ward, take feedback||To audit facilities being provided to Covid patients, Malerkotla SDM along with other senior officers visited the patients in Malerkotla hospital by wearing PPE kits and interacted with them.“I along with our senior medical officer went inside the level 2 isolation centre at the Malerkotla civil hospital. The sole purpose of my visit was to interact with positive patients directly and take feedback about facilities,” said Malerkotla SDM T Benith. The team of officers took feedback from patients about food and other facilities in the hospital.Similarly, to boost the morale of Covid patients, Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir has been interacting with patients on mobile and directed all senior officers of the district to take direct feedback from patients to bring further improvement. “Our all officers have been working hard to provide required facilities to the Covid patients. I have been calling our officers posted in Covid wards and interacting with patients. Every evening, we ensure the redressal of maximum complaints of Covid patients. We also appeal to residents to follow Covid guidelines,” theDC said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malerkotla-sdm-officials-visit-isolation-ward-take-feedback-249191
07-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Migrants packed like sardines, private bus impounded||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6While it has been made mandatory to show negative RT-PCR report or Covid vaccination report before entering the state, private buses operating in the night are flouting the guidelines.Against 50 per cent capacity norms, the buses mostly operating during the curfew hours also stack passengers double the sitting capacity. The illegal buses, having tourist permit, mostly operate from Jalandhar bus stand or the Amritsar-Jalandhar-Phagwara highway. Charging exorbitantly, the operators allow passengers to board the buses without RT-PCR reports.Dozens of migrant workers were also offloaded from a private bus on Wednesday midnight after members of taxi unions protested against the illegal movement of buses. Against the capacity norm, migrants were reportedly stacked in the bus. In a 55-seater bus, there were reportedly 130 migrants being ferried. After charging over Rs 2,000 per head, around four migrants were accommodated in one sleeper seat and three in two seats.Sushil Kumar, a 25-year-old migrant who boarded the bus from Amritsar, told the police that the bus conductor asked him to pay Rs 2,250 if he wanted to go to his village in Uttar Pradesh. However, even after paying the money, he was made to share the seat with three other passengers. After being stranded on the highway near Rama Mandi, the migrants were forced to either walk on foot or arrange for other transportation.Narrating his ordeal, migrant Pankaj said when he questioned the driver about overcrowding, he was slapped and forced to share his seat.Cantt police station SHO Ajaib Singh said not only the bus had been seized, but an FIR has also been registered against the driver and the conductor under Section 188 of the IPC. He confirmed that there were 130 passengers in the bus against the limit of 25.DC Ghanshyam Thori assured to take strict action against the illegal bus operators ferrying passengers without RT-PCR reports and violating Covid protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/migrants-packed-like-sardines-private-bus-impounded-249193
07-05-2021||Ludhiana||SGPC opens 25-bed Covid centre||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) today opened a 25-bed Covid care ward at the Diwan Hall of Gurdwara Manji Sahib at Alamgir, Ludhiana, which will provide free health care to Covid patients.Inaugurating the facility, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the hospital, set up to provide free oxygen and medicines to Covid patients, would be manned by medical and paramedical staff from the Guru Ram Das Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar.She added that a fully equipped ambulance would also be stationed at the centre which would be put at the disposal of patients and their family members, in case of need to shift them to a super-speciality facility.She said three more Covid care wards would be opened soon at Takht Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo, Bholath and Patiala in next few days for which oxygen concentrators were also being imported. “Alamgir Covid care ward will provide oxygen with the help of oxygen concentrators imported from Russia,” she added.She said to take care of patients, the medical teams would work in two shifts in this ward. She said the SGPC had made arrangement of 100-beds each in advance at Sri Guru Ramdas Medical Institute of Medical Sciences and Research and Sri Guru Ramdas Charitable Hospital in Amritsar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-opens-25-bed-covid-centre-249194
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Spruce up health infra for third wave, says AAP||State AAP president and MP Bhagwant Mann today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to convene a special meeting of the Finance Minister and the Health Department in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, and take adequate measures for the third wave.Keep tabs on private hospitalsLooting by private hospitals has to stop. They are charging lakhs of rupees from Covid patients in the name of treatment. — Bhagwant Mann, State AAP PresidentMann said there was a need to strengthen the health infrastructure to combat the Covid pandemic and the Chief Minister should announce special budgetary arrangements to ensure the development of health facilities in the hospitals with new recruitments and immediate regularisation of the contractual employees.Mann said doctors were resigning due to lack of high quality health facilities in the government hospitals, which was very unfortunate.He said Covid could be fought not only by prioritising oxygen production, but also by strengthening the health infrastructure. He further said the Punjab Government should also take measuresin the wake of impending third wave. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spruce-up-health-infra-for-third-wave-says-aap-249197
07-05-2021||Muktsar||Health officials raid private  hospital||Acting on a complaint, a team of the health department along with the police and civil administration today conducted a raid at a private hospital in Gidderbaha. The team reportedly found more than the permitted number of Covid positive patients admitted there.Notably, the hospital is run by former chief medical officer (CMO), Muktsar, Dr HN Singh and his family.Though Dr Singh said four Covid patients were admitted to the hospital, Gidderbaha SDM Om Parkash said eight patients were found admitted to the hospital. The Gidderbaha senior medical officer will conduct an inquiry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-officials-raid-private-hospital-249199
07-05-2021||Ropar||Oxygen booster for Ropar, Nangal||Industry giant Ambuja Cement has agreed to set up oxygen plants at district hospital and sub-divisional hospital at Nangal. The company has also in principle given consent to setting up another plant and the process had been initiated.DC Sonali Giri said the Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen plants for the district hospitals would ensure supply to needy patients. She said the order for one unit had already been released yesterday and oxygen supply from the unit might start in five weeks. This plant would cater to 50 cylinders per day, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oxygen-booster-for-ropar-nangal-249200
07-05-2021||Mohali||Biased policy on restrictions hurting: SAD||The SAD today said the Punjab government’s lockdown policy appeared to be biased as it was directly hurting traders and shopkeepers.SAD senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra said with the co-operation of the state government, the district administration had forcibly closed down the shops of essential goods and politicised the lockdown by permitting liquor contractors to open their vends.He said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had made statements in favour of liquor contractors for allowing them to open their vends and appeared more concerned about them than smalltime shopkeepers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/biased-policy-on-restrictions-hurting-sad-249201
07-05-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Envoy dials businessman, seeks aid for Afghanistan||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 6Afghanistan Ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay has sent an SOS to Dubai-based Punjabi businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi, requesting him to arrange food stock and medical aid for nearly 19,000 of his compatriots hit by Covid crisis across the country.Hope restoredThank you @SPSOberoi for the generosity displayed in supporting the Afghan refugees in New Delhi. I am humbled to witness the restoration of hope & dignity in the lives of many destitute people through your kind gesture. Farid Mamundzay, afghan envoy to indiaOberoi, taking cognisance of the Ambassador’s appeal, has started transporting hundreds of ration packets, each weighing 20 kg, for the Afghan refugees. The first four tranches of food stock have been sent to cities like New Delhi, Pune, Kolkata and Hyderabad, where the concentration of refugees is more as compared to other places.Medical aid and Covid-related material too were dispatched from Patiala yesterday. The exercise is being planned and executed through “Sarbat Da Bhala”, Oberoi’s charitable organisation.Thanking Oberoi, the Ambassador has tweeted, “I am humbled to witness the restoration of hope and dignity in the lives of many destitute people through your kind gesture.”The Afghanistan Embassy, on receiving reports that nearly 4,000 Afghan families were battling hunger at various cities, got in touch with the businessman. “These are depressing times where men, institutions and even countries are fast running out of resources. I have assured the Ambassador that not a single refugee will sleep on an empty stomach,” Oberoi said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/envoy-dials-businessman-seeks-aid-for-afghanistan-249203
07-05-2021||Ludhiana||2 officials stationed at Bokaro||Two officials — Udeydeep Singh Sidhu, Director, Lotteries, and HS Negi, State Tax Officer (Audit Wing), nominated as nodal officers, have been sent to Bokaro (Jharkhand) for smooth procurement of medical oxygen. The officials will be stationed at Bokaro till further orders.An official with the state government said these officials had been sent for getting hastle-free oxygen from Jharkhand. “We are air lifting two tankers daily and sending them to Bokaro and then bringing them back with oxygen by road. Till now, the state government has procured about 250 MT of oxygen from there. The state government has asked the Centre to provide more tankers to send them to Jharkhand,” said the official.About 250-260 MT of oxygen is needed daily and the state has no stocks. Any interruption in the supply can put Punjab in trouble. Meanwhile, Vardhman Industries has also started its oxygen generation plant. MD Sachit Jain said: “Around 2,000 cylinders are being supplied daily.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-officials-stationed-at-bokaro-249204
07-05-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda zoo shut||After eight lions tested positive for Covid-19 at a Hyderabad zoo earlier this week, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has ordered closure of zoos for public till May 31.Pawan Sridhar, Forest Range Officer, Bir Talab Zoo, said: “In the wake of rising cases, the CZA has as a precautionary measure directed closure of the zoo for public with immediate effect till May 31. Further decisions will be taken after reviewing the situation.” The decision to temporarily close the zoo was taken after lions tested positive for Covid-19 at a Hyderabad zoo. The move was aimed at ensuring safety of animals. All protocols inside their enclosures would be followed, Sridhar said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-zoo-shut-249205
07-05-2021||---||Rs 6 cr raised for India’s Covid relief work in UK, Europe||Raj SadoshAbohar, May 6BAPS Swaminarayan Sanstha in the UK and Europe has raised over £6 lakh (Rs 6.14 crore) in six days to support BAPS’s Covid-19 relief work in India.NGO’s international services director Ishwercharan Swami said Swaminarayan Mandir, London, launched an emergency campaign to support the BAPS relief efforts in India. “As a part of this initiative, BAPS began a ‘Cycle to Save Lives in India’ campaign — a 48-hour, non-stop static relay cycle challenge. It aimed to cover 7,600 km — the distance between London and Delhi — but ended up almost tripling that by cycling 20,127 km. 787 participants, as part of a relay, cycled during the day and throughout the night in three days at BAPS Swaminarayan mandirs in London, Chigwell and Leicester,’ he said.Their collective efforts were sponsored by more than 15,000 donors. The cycles were arranged outside the respective mandirs, following strict social distancing guidelines. They were also thoroughly sanitised after every use.London Mayor Sadiq Khan tweeted: “The suffering we are seeing in India is heartbreaking. Once again, Neasden Temple has stepped up to raise funds for those who desperately need help.”Ketan Patel, one of the cyclists, said: “Like so many others, it’s been heart-breaking watching the news about the situation in India. I thoroughly enjoyed cycling in the early hours of the morning. It reminded me of those brave medics and volunteers working day and night in India.”Radhika Kholia, a volunteer who was logging the distance covered by each cyclist and sanitising the bikes, said: “Our hearts and prayers go out to all those suffering in India. Although we are thousands of km away from them, every distance logged from the cyclists brought us closer.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-6-cr-raised-for-indias-covid-relief-work-in-uk-europe-249207
07-05-2021||Sameer Singh||Farmers fume as lifting stopped in village yards||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 6The Punjab Mandi Board’s decision to stop wheat procurement in mandis established at the village-level (sub-yards and procurement centres) in 17 districts of the states has not gone down well among farmers in the Malwa region.They said the move would force them to take their produce to procurement centres distantly located (block-level mandis or city) thereby putting additional burden of transportation charges apart from causing inconvenience to them. Farmers said owing to acute shortage of bardana initially, the procurement was already delayed and many of them were forced to store their produce inside their houses and now, the government wanted to stop procurement in villages.Notably, the Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board issued a notification to district mandi officers (DMOs) through which more than 3,500 mandis (purchase centres) had been notified to decongest the operations during wheat procurement to minimise health risks to farmers.As per the notification, procurement of wheat at village-level purchase centres and sub-yards will be discontinued from May 6 in Bathinda, May 7 in Mansa, Barnala, Jalandhar, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Faridkot and May 8 in Kapurthala, while procurement in village-level yards has already been stopped in other districts.Saroop Singh Sidhu, a farmer from Raman village in Bathinda, said, “We want the government to extend the date for procurement at village-level yards till May 15.”Dara Singh, superintendent, District Mandi Board, Bathinda, said, “We will ensure that purchase of wheat already lying at local yards be made but from now on, farmers will have to bring their produce to block-level mandis. We had already made this announcement through loudspeakers in all villages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-fume-as-lifting-stopped-in-village-yards-249208
07-05-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Warring Cong factions huddle up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6In a major political development, different warring factions within the Punjab Congress, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, have finally “regrouped” themselves to pressure the Congress government to fulfil its poll promises of punishing the perpetrators of the sacrilege and subsequent police firing cases of Kotkapura, besides eliminating the transport and drug mining mafia.Series of meetingsMeetings of party leaders, including former Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi, and some MLAs were held over past two daysWant poll promises fulfilledThe issue is not to target anyone but to prevail upon government to act fast on the promise and break narrative of ‘friendly match’ with Akalis. — Congress MLAApparently learning from the past experiences, the leaders are learnt to have agreed among themselves not to precipitate any leadership crisis or fight for positions or ministerial berth and instead work to consolidate party’s position in run up to the 2022 Assembly elections by getting allpoll promises fulfilled.To give shape to its agenda, meetings of the regrouped party leaders was attended by former Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi, and MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa, Pargat Singh, Kushaldeep Dhillon, Balwinder Laddi and Barindermeet Singh Pahra over the past two days.One such meeting took place yesterday at a private residence in Panchkula. Denying attending any such meeting, Dhillon said: “If anyone interested in solving the sacrilege and police firing cases calls me, I will go. For me, the respect of the holy book is above all.” Other leaders did nottake calls for comment.Sources said ahead of the meeting, Channi went to Patiala to meet Sidhu before the latter met Randhawa. Sidhu is learnt to have told the party leaders he was committed to the Gandhi family and would not leave the party at any cost, as was being reported for the past few days.The development created upheaval both in political circles and official circles. It is learnt the Chief Minister’s Office was also aware about the development.An MLA said the issue was not to target anyone but to prevail upon the government to act fast on the promise and break the narrative of “friendly match” with Akalis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/warring-cong-factions-huddle-up-249211
07-05-2021||Patiala||1 of 3 Patiala jail escapees nabbed||Almost a week after three convicts escaped from the Patiala central jail, the police today arrested one of them while he was visiting his village to borrow money.The police arrested Inderjeet Singh from his village where he had gone to borrow money from a friend.The arrest is likely to shed light on how the three scaled two jail walls. Sources claimed the inmate told the police they received no external help and escaped by scaling the two walls on their own.“However, his claim is being verified and will be corroborated when the other two are arrested,” said a senior police official. The three had escaped following alleged laxity on part of jail officials last week. All three were lodged in the Koratine barrack, which houses cells for inmates. The police were investigating how they managed to scale a 10-foot inner wall and the 12-foot outer wall. “The three made a hole in the cell wall and scaled the two outer walls without getting noticed,” said a source inside the jail. “We learnt about it in the morning when one of the jail guard notices the hole during the change of guard,” said the source.The convicts who allegedly fled the jail included Sher Singh of Vanike village in Amritsar; Inderjeet Singh Dhiana of Ranipur Komboa village in Kapurthala; and Jaspreet Singh Noopi of Dhadi village in Roopnagar. Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said raids were on to nab the other two escapees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-of-3-patiala-jail-escapees-nabbed-249213
07-05-2021||Aman Sood||Short on manpower, smooth supply in summer tall order for powercom||Tribune News ServicePatiala May 6Facing shortage of men, material and finances, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is facing a Herculean task to meet the peak paddy and summer season demand, which has already started rising.Scarcity of transformers, cablesEvery year, there is a shortage of distribution transformers, LT cables, insulators and 11 KV cables. The damage rate of the distribution transformers is around 9 per cent. With Covid, labour and material are already in short supply. — PSPCL OfficialThe number of overloaded transformers for agriculture pump sets is around 2,400 and majority of them are in the west zone which pose a threat to the government commitment of providing an 8-hour power supply to tube wells as the “strengthening of its electrical infrastructure of the state” is still pending.The overloading of distribution transformers for agriculture pump sets and overloaded 11 KV feeders in a number of circles may pose continuous power supply problems during the paddy season.“There are around 1,400 non-agriculture power-overloaded transformers in the state and the south zone, with around 1,250, tops the list. A whole lot of overloaded transformers in the south zone are from the Sangrur circle,” PSPCL officials said. Data suggests there are around 900 overloaded 11 KV feeders in the state. The border zone and south zone share more than 50 per cent of this total. The circle-wise major overloaded feeders are in Sangrur, Taran Taran, Bathinda and Gurdaspur.A senior PSPCL official confirmed to The Tribune that following “shortage of men and material”, there were some hurdles to ensure uninterrupted supply of power in the state. “Every year, there is a shortage of distribution transformers, LT cables, insulators and 11 KV cables. The damage rate of the distribution transformers is around 9 per cent. With Covid, labour and material are already in shortage,” he said.Insiders say there are about 24,400 vacant posts of assistant engineer, junior engineer, lineman, meter reader and revenue assistant, and the PSPCL had failed to recruit sufficient staff.“The PSPCL expects the peak power demand in the state will be around 14,400 MW. It usually becomes deficit in terms of peak demand from June to October and in terms of energy (million units) from Julyto August onwards,”said All-India PowerEngineers’ Federation spokesperson VK Gupta.Last year, the maximum demand of the state was recorded at 13,145 MW in July against a projection for 13,615 MW. PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said though there was a shortage of material and manpower, they were working on it. “We are sure to manage the affairs during the paddy season,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/short-on-manpower-smooth-supply-in-summer-tall-order-for-powercom-249215
07-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t misconstrue advisory to employee as ‘adverse’: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that an advisory given to an employee for improvement was not to be misconstrued as a call for excellence by his superior.“Advisory remarks are for the guidance of an employee and cannot be termed as adverse. It is in an employee’s interest to take advisories/entries in the annual confidential reports in the right spirit and try to improve, instead of construing the same as adverse,” the High Court said.“If you look for perfection, you will never be content - so said Leo Tolstoy, one of the greatest authors and a philosopher. Only those who have perfected their imperfections are not open to the idea of improvement, no matter whatever be the advice of superiors. It is in the interest of an employee himself/herself to take such advisories/entries in the ACR in the right spirit and try to improve themselves, instead of construing the same as adverse,” Justice Arun Monga asserted.The ruling by Justice Monga came in a case where a clerk working in the Punjab and Haryana High Court filed a petition after her reporting officer recorded “needs improvement” in a column on “manners and powers of working with others”.The counsel for the respondent-High Court, at the outset, submitted that the petitioner was apparently misled and wrongly informed that the remarks in her ACR were adverse. He arguedthat the remarks could not in any manner be construed as penalty.Taking up the matter, Justice Monga asserted advisory remarks given to an employee for improvement were not to be mistaken as the superior’s expectation of an employee’s perfection. For, perfection could never be achieved, but excellence could be only if one chased perfection.Justice Monga added an employee getting “very good” report stood to gain, if the superior allowed him to know the area of focus requiring improvement, while giving advisory remarks. Likewise, the best report one could earn was “outstanding” and that too would not mean that the employee was perfect and there was no room for improvement.Refusing to interfere in the matter, Justice Monga further added an advisory remark made for guidance of an employee could not be said to be adverse. Advisory and adverse remarks were no way synonymous. Both stood on different footing and were distinctly separate, having different intent altogether. What was required to be seen was the overall grading given to an employee in the ACR. Certain other remarks given in the individual columns of the ACR were just to make an employee acquainted with shortcomings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-misconstrue-advisory-to-employee-as-adverse-hc-249216
07-05-2021||Bathinda||SAD(A) to hold ‘panthic’ rally at Bargari||SAD (Amritsar) and United Akali Dal have announced holding a ‘panthic’ conference at Bargari on June 1 against the state government for allegedly failing to provide justice to families of victims in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents. The announcement was made by leaders of Sikh outfits during a press conference in Bathinda on Thursday.Eiman Singh Mann, leader of SAD (A), said, “With the quashing of investigation by the High Court in the Kotkapura firing incident being carried out by the SIT led by IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, justice has been denied to families of victims. Panthic organisations have gheraoed the HC and submitted memorandum to judges of district and sessions courts. We have decided to hold a conference in Bargari where Sikh organisations will converge to start an agitation against the state government.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sada-to-hold-panthic-rally-at-bargari-249218
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe bribe racket, CVC tells Vigilance||Taking a serious note of the alleged bribery racket in the Punjab Mining Department, exposed with the arrest of mining officer Simarpreet Kaur Dhillon, Chief Vigilance Commissioner Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) has asked the Vigilance Bureau to initiate a probe.The bureau had arrested Dhillon and two support staff earlier this week for allegedly accepting Rs 25,000 in bribe from a stone crusher in Anandpur Sahib.The bureau officials said Dhillon had not even withdrawn her salary for the past three years. AAP MLA from Ropar Amarjeet Singh Sandoa had also been complaining against her. However, Dhillon claimed she was giving a cut in the bribe to senior officials in the department. Justice Gill said the aspect needed to be probed further. He also took note of the reports that many stone crushers had complained against her earlier and these complaints needed to be looked into. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-bribe-racket-cvc-tells-vigilance-249219
07-05-2021||Ferozepur||Excise officials attacked during raid in Ferozepur||The police have booked around 20 persons for allegedly attacking officials of the Excise and Taxation Department who had gone for a raid at Lakho ke Behram village in Mamdot block here.Excise Inspector (Guruharsahai circle) Nirmal Singh said their team had conducted a raid on the residence of Sucha Singh, allegedly involved in bootlegging. During the raid, the team recovered some illicit liquor and distillery items.Later, the accused along with brother Gurmel Singh and others attacked the team causing serious injuries to an official, Dharampal Singh, who was later admitted to the community health centre at Mamdot, said the inspector. A case has been registered against the suspects at the Lakho ke Behram police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/excise-officials-attacked-during-raid-in-ferozepur-249221
07-05-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur tops in output of wheat||Despite the outbreak of Covid and decline in per hectare production, Sangrur district has again topped in wheat production in Punjab. Area farmers have demanded compensation for reduction in per hectare production, which is still highest across the state.As per information, during 2019-20 FY, total 2,91,000 hectares of area was under wheat production and the district had contributed 16,78,197 MTs of wheat. During 2020-2021 FY, though the area under wheat remained the same, estimates of the Agriculture Department show the production will see a dip of 8.84 per cent and district authorities have estimated a production of 15,29,787 MTs of wheat.“This year also, with 9.52 per cent contribution, Sangrur has topped in wheat production and per hectare yield in Punjab. Our officials organised special camps to share important information with farmers about wheat production,” said Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal, Chief Agriculture Officer, Sangrur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-tops-in-output-of-wheat-249222
07-05-2021||Manav Mander||Ambulance charges Rs1.2 lakh for 350-km ride||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 6Failing to find a hospital bed with adequate facilities for her Covid positive mother, Amandeep Kaur of Gurugram somehow managed to get a bed at a Ludhiana hospital. But her struggle didn’t end there.Also readDelhi Police arrests owner of ambulance service company for charging Rs 1.2 lakh from patient's daughterAn ambulance operator charged her a whopping Rs 1.20 lakh for shifting her mother Satinder Kaur from Gurugram to Ludhiana (a distance of nearly 350 km).She said: “The driver had asked for Rs 1.40 lakh. Since I had the oxygen stock with me, he cut the charges by Rs 20,000. When I argued that the charges were too high, he refused to budge. I had no other option since my mother’s life was at stake.”After admitting her mother to a hospital in Dugri here, she shared the receipt with her relatives and on social media. The matter came to the notice of the Delhi Police and an FIR was lodged against the ambulance operating firm.Amandeep got her entire money back. “I will utilise it to help needy Covid patients,” she said.Monika Bhardwaj, DCP (West), Delhi Police, said: “Though we had not received any complaint, we took the company to task. Multiple cases are coming across us where ambulance service providers and pharmacists are fleecing patients.”Meanwhile, patients from Delhi NCR continue to rush to Punjab as the health facilities there are getting exhausted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ambulance-charges-rs1-2-lakh-for-350-km-ride-249313
07-05-2021||New Delhi||Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab carry 56% of mutant burden||Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab together account for more than half of the Covid virus mutation burden in India, shows government’s genome sequencing data.Of the 3,532 variants of concern detected nationally by the Indian Genome Consortium, 1,982 are in these three states — Maharashtra leading with 851 followed by 612 in Delhi and 519 in Punjab.Dominant mutant in Maharashtra is the B-617, better known as the double mutant, which is now spreading fast across states while in Delhi and Punjab the majority dominance is of the B117 mutant, called the UK variant. Of the 519 variants of concern in Punjab, 516 are UK lineage strains while of Delhi’s 612 variants of concern, 482 are UK strains. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maharashtra-delhi-and-punjab-carry-56-of-mutant-burden-249265
07-05-2021||Vijay C Roy||NHAI to raise infrastructure for 63 oxygen plants in Punjab, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6To meet the requirement for oxygen during the second Covid-19 surge, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has been mandated as a nodal agency by the Centre for raising infrastructure (civil and electrical) for the installation of 63 oxygen plants — 44 in Haryana and 19 in Punjab — with the help of technology developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).The sites for these plants, ideally on the premises of government hospitals, have been identified in consultation with the state governments concerned. Once operational, the plants will generate on-site medical oxygen in a cost-effective manner.“The civil works began today in Kapurthala and Nawanshahr in Punjab and Panipat, Samalkha and Rohtak in Haryana. The NHAI hopes to complete civil as well as electrical work within seven days,” said RP Singh, Regional Officer, NHAI. The medical oxygen plants will be set up in these locations in collaboration with private players. Each plant has the capacity to generate oxygen with 93% (plus, minus 3%) concentration which can be directly supplied to hospital beds or used to fill medical oxygen cylinders.The DRDO plants use the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technique and molecular sieve (zeolite) technology to generate oxygen directly from atmospheric air. At present, Haryana’s oxygen quota is 257 MT. With the caseload rising, the state has already requested the Centre to enhance this quota to 300 MT to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply across the state.For Punjab, the daily oxygen allocation stands at 195 MT of which 90 MT comes from Bokaro in eastern India. The remaining 105 MT comes from LMO facilities in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. However, Punjab is not getting its daily allocated quota owing to shortage of containers. In addition, there are 15 air separation units (ASUs) with a generation capacity of around 60-65 tonnes per day.Amid the oxygen crisis, Punjab has announced “thrust sector” status for all oxygen units. It has appointed a nodal officer to coordinate with the Customs Department for quick clearance of foreign aid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhai-to-raise-infrastructure-for-63-oxygen-plants-in-punjab-haryana-249248
07-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dust storm in Chandigarh, parts of Haryana, Punjab; disrupts power supply, uproots trees||A dust storm accompanied by a bout of rain swept through the union territory and parts of Haryana and Punjab on Thursday evening, disrupting the power supply and uprooting trees in some areas.According to the Meteorological Department forecast, thunderstorm and lightning accompanied by gusty winds of up to 30-40 kmph are likely at isolated places in Punjab on Friday.Isolated parts of Haryana too are expected to witness thunderstorm and lightning accompanied by hail and winds of up to 30-40 kmph on Friday, it said.On Thursday evening, power supply was disrupted in several parts of Chandigarh after the showers and the dust storm.An official in the weather office said rains lashed many places in Haryana and Punjab as well. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dust-storm-in-chandigarh-parts-of-haryana-punjab-disrupts-power-supply-uproots-trees-249027
07-05-2021||Hoshiarpur||Five of family killed as motorcycle collides with car in Hoshiarpur||Five members of a family, including three children, died on the spot when their motorcycle collided head-on with a car in this district of Punjab on Thursday, police said.Three occupants of the car also suffered injuries in the accident and were admitted to a local hospital, they said.The accident took place near Jaitpur village when the motorcycle rider failed to notice the four-wheeler coming from the opposite direction while overtaking another vehicle, police said.The deceased were identified as Rajesh Kumar (27), his wife Kamaldeep Kaur and three children Ishika, Ananya and Mishu.Station House Officer (SHO), Chabbewal, Pardeep Kumar said the bodies have been sent to a hospital in Hoshiarpur for autopsy. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-of-family-killed-as-motorcycle-collides-with-car-in-hoshiarpur-248983
