09-05-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Punjab sees record 191 fatalities, 8,531 new cases||Punjab on Sunday reported 191 more COVID-related fatalities, the highest single-day count recorded so far, pushing the toll to 10,506 while 8,531 new cases took the infection tally to 4,42,125, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases soared from 71,948 on Saturday to 74,343.Twenty-two deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 20 from Amritsar, 18 from Patiala, 17 each from Mohali and Bathinda and 14 from Rupnagar, among fatalities reported in the past 24-hours.Ludhiana registered the maximum number of cases in the state at 1,729 followed by 985 in Mohali, 812 in Bathinda and 691 in Jalandhar, among daily fresh cases.A total of 5,850 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured people to 3,57,276, as per the bulletin.There are 296 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 9,384 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 77,67,351 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-record-191-fatalities-8-531-new-cases-250413
09-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Pam Gosal becomes first Indian woman to be elected as MSP in Scotland||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 9Pam Gosal has created a history by becoming the first Indian Sikh to become a member of Scotland Parliament. Pam has been elected as Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) on ticket on Conservative party from West Scotland.Pam Gosal has tweeted: “It’s a privilege to be the first female MSP elected to the Scottish Parliament from an Indian background. Thank you to everyone who’s supported me. Can’t wait to get to work for the people of the West of Scotland.”Gosal helped her family business before working in local government prior to being elected to the Scottish Parliament.Pam Gosal was born in Glasgow and spent most of her life in Scotland. She made her political debut as a parliamentary candidate from East Dunburnshire in the 2019 general election for the Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party. Pam has accumulated over 30 years of knowledge and experience in the public, private and voluntary sectors, working on economic development, inward investment, business, cultural, legal and regulatory policies in both Scotland and the UK.Pam holds a BA, an MBA in Consumer Law and is currently pursuing a PhD. Pam has always been supportive of women and has received the 2015 Women Leader Business Award and the 2018 Public Service Award. Pam is the Deputy Chairperson of the Conservative Women’s Organisation of Scotland (CWO), a national group of Conservative men and women, and is actively working to encourage and support women to play an active role in the party.She is also the director of the Conservative Friends of India Scotland (CFIS). The organization seeks to build strong ties between the Conservative Party and the British Indian community in Scotland. Pam is confident she will make new strides in her political career as a Scottish Conservative and Unionist advocate for British, Scottish and BAM women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pam-gosal-becomes-first-indian-woman-to-be-elected-as-msp-in-scotland-250410
09-05-2021||---||Punjab CM urges PM for increase in oxygen allocation to 300 MT, more vaccines||Chandigarh, May 9Punjab Chief Minister CaptAmarinder Singh on Sunday urged the Prime Minister to increase the total quota of Oxygen to 300 MT, and ensure urgent supplies of vaccine for the state, which was facing shortages on both counts.The Chief Minister raised these issues when Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him up to discuss the state’s Covid situation and the measures being taken to tackle the crisis.The Prime Minister assured of all possible help, the Chief Minister disclosed later, adding that he hoped the Centre would take immediate steps to supplement the Oxygen supplies in the state, and ensure that vaccine doses were sent to Punjab on priority to help the state government effective manage the situation triggered by the second deadlier wave of the pandemic.On the vaccine front, Amarinder told the Prime Minister that the state had so far been unable to initiate the Phase III vaccination process for 18-45 age group, which will now start in government hospitals on Monday following the delivery of 1 lakh doses. For the 45+ age group, too, the vaccine doses were in short supply, and while 1.63 lakh doses were expected to come today, these were not enough to meet the state’s requirement, he added.The Chief Minister informed Modi that the state urgently required 300 MT of Oxygen in view of the growing caseload of critically ill Covid patients, many of whom were coming from other states, including Delhi-NCR. The state has a high mortality count, and hospitalisation in Level 2 & 3 facilities (both government and private) has seen a sharp surge over the past three weeks, pushing up the Oxygen demand.From 197 MT on April 22, the demand had risen to 295.5 MT on May 8, he pointed out, adding that the shortage of tankers had made the situation worse and the Centre’s support was needed to enhance the LMO quota and also supply more tankers to Punjab to enable it to cope with the crisis.An official spokesperson later revealed that State Health Secretary Hussan Lal, in a letter to Additional Secretary in the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, had noted that while the state has taken several steps to ensure judicious use of oxygen by hospitals, in line with the advisory of Government of India, the growing demand for Oxygen necessitated an increase in allocation to 300 MT.Further, only 4 oxygen tankers have been allocated to Punjab, of which 2 tankers are yet to be made functional. Since 40% of the allocation (227 MT) is out of Bokaro (in Jharkhand) from where transport of oxygen takes between 3 to 5 days, the Health Secretary has requested allocation of at least 8 more tankers on urgent basis, against the total demand for 20 tankers raised by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-urges-pm-for-increase-in-oxygen-allocation-to-300-mt-more-vaccines-250368
09-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill has a message for fans along with her latest candid pictures; check it out||Along with her latest jaw-dropping pictures, Shehnaaz Gill has also shared a message. The Punjabi Kudi often drops fun-loving posts on social media and creates a storm. Amid the corona crisis, the actress tries her best to keep spirits high.A few days ago, Shehnaaz had urged people to stay indoors and be safe as the COVID situation was worsening. And now, Shehnaaz has another important message. She has requested her fans to be "compassionate" in these challenging times. Along with this message, the actress shared new pictures of herself. She was seen beaming her million-dollar smile in these candid pictures. She donned a cap with a pink t-shirt. A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)On the work front, Shehnaaz is all set to entice fans with her acting skills in Honsla Rakh opposite Diljit Dosanjh. The movie will release on October 15, 2021.  A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gill-has-a-message-for-fans-along-with-her-latest-candid-pictures-check-it-out-250336
09-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar's silly response to Rohanpreet Singh's headache leaves him stunned; he apologises, says 'my fault'; watch||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh often entertain their fans with hilarious reels on Instagram. This time, while trying to use a remix feature, Neha was seen asking Rohapreet a "silly question".In the video, Rohanpreet was seen sitting with his face in his hands when Neha asks him 'what's wrong?'. He says that he has a headache, to which her response is, "Kahaan pe (Where)?”.He looks stunned by the silly question, and then they both burst into laughter.“He didn’t tell me Kahan Headache ho raha hai (where he is having a headache), where’s my fault in it?! #KhadTainuMainDassa Out Soon!! #RemixWithRohanpreet #NehuPreet #ReelItFeelIt #RemixOnReels,” she captioned her post.A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)He replied in the comments section with an apology: “Hahahaha I’m Sorry Babu My Fault!!”Several fans dropped the laughing and heart emojis. “Very cute you both,” one wrote, while another called them a ‘superb jodi’. A third commented: “You look so amazing, you both are amazing be together alwys.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkars-silly-response-to-rohanpreet-singhs-headache-leaves-him-stunned-he-apologises-says-my-fault-watch-250334
09-05-2021||---||Everyone must celebrate untiring efforts of brave mothers: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, May 9Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said everyone must celebrate the untiring efforts of brave mothers who are managing family obligations as well as discharging their duties in hospitals to save lives amid the COVID-19 pandemic.In his Mother’s Day message, he said, “This #MothersDay, let us acknowledge the love & care of all our mothers,” he said in a tweet. On #MothersDay, I remember my late mother Rajmata Mohinder Kaur Ji as the most caring, affectionate and loving human being. I know you are with us always. pic.twitter.com/EY42CtQz6v  “In the midst of #COVID19, we must specially celebrate the untiring efforts of all those brave mothers who are managing family obligations as well as spending long hours in hospitals saving precious lives,” he further added.He also remembered his mother Mohinder Kaur, a former Congress MP who had passed away four years ago at the age of 96, and also shared a family photo with her on his Twitter handle.“On #MothersDay, I remember my late mother Rajmata Mohinder Kaur Ji as the most caring, affectionate and loving human being. I know you are with us always,” he said in another tweet. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/everyone-must-celebrate-untiring-efforts-of-brave-mothers-punjab-cm-250330
09-05-2021||Ludhiana||Kila Raipur sees bird flu cases, culling ordered||With the samples of birds from a poultry farm at Kila Raipur village testing positive for bird flu, the administration has declared the area an infected zone and ordered culling.Deputy Commissioner VK Sharma has formed a nine-member panel to oversee the culling and containment operations.Area within 1 km ‘infected zone’Earlier, the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, confirmed the presence of H5N8 virus in the samples taken from Suba Singh Poultry Farm here.He said the area within 1 km around the poultry farm had been declared an infected zone and 0-10 km area had been designated as a surveillance zone. Sharma said the committee, headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner (Khanna) SS Bal, would ensure that no poultry product was taken out or brought into farms in the entire infected zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kila-raipur-sees-bird-flu-cases-culling-ordered-250159
09-05-2021||---||Patient load up threefold, Punjab gasps for oxygen||Chandigarh, May 8As the number of patients requiring oxygen has increased three times in the past 15 days, the government has urged the Centre to remove hitches in the smooth supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to the state.The patient load in the state has risen almost three times from 2,994 on April 21 to 10,151 on May 7. “The oxygen consumption in the state has increased manifold. On April 30, oxygen consumption was 203.8 MT whereas it was 250.6 MT on May 7,” said Ajoy Sharma who is heading state’s Oxygen Control Room.After the state government had flagged the issue of oxygen supply, the Union Government had enhanced the allocation for Punjab to 195 MT on April 30. Of this, 15 MT was from Roorkie, 10 MT from Linde, Dehradun, 20 MT from Panipat, 60 MT from Inox, Barotiwala, and 90 MT from Bokaro. After including the internal allocation of 32 MT, the total quota for the state till date is 227 MT.The Punjab Government had on its own arranged 21 tankers for lifting and distributing oxygen, but the total requirement is at least 36 tankers while the availability is only 20. “We have requested the Centre to enhance the number of tankers for the state,” said Sharma.The state government has urged the Centre for immediate resolution of the logistical issues for lifting the allocated stock from Bokaro and backlog from the plants in adjacent states, said Sharma.Getting the supply from Bokaro is also posing a challenge. Punjab was able to send only two tankers to Bokaro daily from April 27 till May 2. On May 3, only one tanker could be airlifted due to technical reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patient-load-up-threefold-punjab-gasps-for-oxygen-250121
09-05-2021||---||Ex-CMO booked for flouting patient admission norms||Muktsar, May 8 The police have booked Dr Hari Narain Singh, former Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Muktsar, for allegedly admitting more than the permissible number of Covid patients at his private hospital in Gidderbaha. Notably, a Health Department team along with the police and civil administration had raided the hospital run by Dr Singh and his family on May 6. It reportedly found that eight Covid patients and some suspected Covid patients had been admitted to the hospital. Gidderbaha SDM Om Parkash had told the media that the hospital had more Covid patients than permitted by rules. On Friday, the Gidderbaha police registered a case against Dr Singh under Sections 188, 269, 336 of the IPC, Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Sources said the doctor was not arrested as some patients were still admitted to the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cmo-booked-for-flouting-patient-admission-norms-250123
09-05-2021||Faridkot||All Medical colleges must have beds with Oxygen, says NMC||Amid an unprecedented demand for liquid medical oxygen across the country, the National Medical Commission (NMC), which regulates medical education in the country, has made another amendment to minimum requirement for annual MBBS admissions regulation.According to this new amendment, all beds/beds-cum-trolleys having patient in critical condition or requiring oxygen should have provision of piped oxygen supply from the liquid oxygen tank, installed in the hospital complex.The NMC notice states, “Central oxygen and suction points should include provision of piped oxygen supply to all beds in the hospital having patients in critical condition or requiring oxygen from liquid oxygen tank installed at appropriate place in the hospital complex.”“Besides, all medical college hospitals should also have a dedicated pressure swing adsorption or vacuum swing adsorption technology produced oxygen supply in addition to piped oxygen supply, which is to be installed and made operational within six months, notwithstanding the requirement of the Department of Emergency Medicine, mandated from 2022 onwards,” reads the notification, issued by Aruna V VAanike, president, Under Graduate Medical Education Board, NMC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-medical-colleges-must-have-beds-with-oxygen-says-nmc-250124
09-05-2021||Manav Mander
||Rural dispensaries shut, villagers left in lurch||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 8 Amid a high fatality rate in rural areas in the ongoing Covid-19 wave, villagers have been left in the lurch as most dispensaries are lying shut as the staff have been put on Covid duties elsewhere. Due to this, many villagers reach hospitals late in critical condition. According to Health Department data, 83.92 per cent patients  from rural areas visited a hospital when their condition deteriorated, only 0.11 per cent went to a hospital after showing moderate Covid symptoms and 7 per cent after getting mild symptoms. In Punjab, there are 1,183 dispensaries having 765 rural medical officers (RMOs). Before the pandemic, the OPDs in the rural dispensaries used to get nearly 30,000-35,000 patients per month. However, the dispensaries were shut after the outbreak last year and the staff were put on Covid duties. In between whenever cases showed a downward trend, the dispensaries opened. “We go to the dispensary in our village whenever we face any health problem. When the doctors are needed most, the dispensaries are lying shut. Generally, rural folk avoid going to a private hospital. Recently, we lost a close relative to Covid as he kept ignoring his health and when he was admitted to a hospital, the doctors said it was too late,” said Kultar Singh from Kanganwal village. Dr JP Narula, state president of Rural Medical Services Association, said the dispensaries opened for a few months when the cases declined in between the two waves. “People would often come and tell us that we (RMOs) abandoned them in the hour of need. They are not ready to understand the fact that we were put on Covid duty. They have formed a bond with doctors over the years and they are not ready to go to hospitals in cities as they feel lost there,” said Dr Narula. Dr Bishav Mohan, a senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, who is also a member of Covid-19 task force formed by the state government, said the main reason for higher fatality rate among the rural population was late reporting and lack of testing. “They come to a hospital only after their condition has deteriorated. As a result, the casualty rate in the rural population is going up,” said Dr Mohan. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said it was a fact that rural population had been ignored since the RMOs were doing various Covid-related duties since the outbreak.  “Now that the positivity and case fatality rates are increasing in villages, rural population also needs medical care near their homes. In the next Cabinet meeting, I will discuss the ground reality with the Chief Minister and try to call the RMOs back to the dispensaries,” said Bajwa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rural-dispensaries-shut-villagers-left-in-lurch-250125
09-05-2021||---||Revert status of cancer centre: Harsimrat to CM||Bathinda, May 8Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today said closing down the Advanced Cancer and Diagnostic Centre here to convert it into a Covid centre would amount to playing with the lives of cancer patients.She advised Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to review the decision and use other available facilities, including the AIIMS hospital here, for dedicated Covid care.Harsimrat, who even wrote to the CM on the issue, said the advanced cancer centre here was the last hope for cancer patients of the Malwa belt who could not travel to the cancer hospital at Acharya Tulsi Cancer Institute in Bikaner due to the Covid pandemic. She said the Baba Farid University hospital had also been turned into a dedicated Covid centre leaving the advanced cancer institute here as the only resort for cancer patients. She said as many as 150 to 200 patients availed of radiotherapy at the cancer centre here daily and that there was a two-and-a-half month waiting period to avail radiotherapy treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revert-status-of-cancer-centre-harsimrat-to-cm-250126
09-05-2021||Ropar||Chandigarh company under lens over fake Remdesivir recovery||As part of the probe into the recovery of fake Remdesivir injection vials from the Bhakra canal on Thursday, the Ropar police today raided a drugs marketing company at Maloya village of Chandigarh.The company office was found locked and the landlord told the police his tenants had left the place a month ago.On Thursday, 621 vials of fake Remdesivir injections, an antiviral drug prescribed for serious Covid-19 patients, were found in the canal near here. The manufacturing address was that of Telangana and the vials bore Rs 5,400 as MRP. The health officials confirmed the injections were fake. Beside, 1,456 Cefoperazone vials, an antibacterial drug, were also found.SSP Akhil Chaudhary said a five-member SIT headed by an IPS officer had been constituted to investigate the case. The SSP said prima facie, both drugs were dumped into the canal by someone. In order to trace the suspect, a police team visited a manufacturing unit in Himachal Pradesh mentioned on the seized Cefoperazone vials.The authorities there confirmed the vials were procured by the Chandigarh-based company, whose address was also mentioned on the wrappers of the vials found in the canal. A team of Haryana Police had also visited the Chandigarh firm’s address in search of an accused in a similar case registered at Panipat. The SSP said the police had information that the company was being run by a person from Uttar Pradesh. A police team had been dispatched to UP to nab the suspect, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chandigarh-company-under-lens-over-fake-remdesivir-recovery-250127
09-05-2021||---||Tepid response to farmers’ protest across Punjab||Bathinda/Amritsar, May 8The protest call by farm unions against lockdown got a tepid response in the state today amid weekend restrictions in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Markets in various districts remained closed even as protests were held by unions pledging support to traders.In Bathinda, the unions, on a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, had planned marches and rallies against the lockdown, urging traders to open shops/outlets. However, shopkeepers did not comply with them.Amit Kapoor, state president, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said: “We support farmers but considering the raging pandemic, we decided not to open shops. We do not want to risk people’s lives.”While farm unions, including the BKU Ekta Ugrahan, BKU Sidhupur, BKU Lakhowal, BKU Dakonda and Punjab Kisan Union among others, carried out rallies and protest marches in city areas and different blocks of Bathinda and Mansa, shopkeepers and traders largely kept their shops closed.There were instances where farmers convinced shopkeepers to open shops, but the police intervened and got these closed.DSP Gurjit Singh Romana said: “We had carried out a march in the city to ensure lockdown restrictions are duly adhered to. No shop was open in Bathinda city.”Members of various farmer unions demanded withdrawal of lockdown orders as they protested in various parts of Sangrur and Barnala districts and raised slogans against state and Union governments.While a majority of shopkeepers supported the protest, they did not open shops. “We know farmers are protesting for us, but we cannot open shops as the police will register FIRs against us,” said a shopkeepeer at Bhawanigarh. In Amritsar, too, traders did not pay heed to the farmers’ call even as anti-lockdown protests and marches were carried out in different parts of the city and rural areas.In Fatehgarh Sahib, none of the farmer leaders visited marketplaces to protest the lockdown as traders had decided not to open shops. A complete lockdown was witnessed in Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Amloh and Bassi Pathana towns of the district as no shops, barring those of chemists and doctors, were open.(With inputs from Sangrur &Fatehgarh Sahib)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tepid-response-to-farmers-protest-across-punjab-250128
09-05-2021||Talwandi Sabo||SGPC opens Covid centre at Talwandi Sabo||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) today started a 50-bed Covid care centre at Takht Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda. The centre will provide healthcare facilities, including oxygen and medicines, to Covid patients.  SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal dedicated the centre to the public. While talking to mediapersons, Badal and Jagir Kaur said as many as 25 beds were equipped with oxygen concentrators. They said the centre would be manned by eight doctors and 24 nursing staff round the clock. “All facilities, including oxygen, medicine and food, will be provided free of cost,” Jagir Kaur said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-opens-covid-centre-at-talwandi-sabo-250129
09-05-2021||Muktsar||Akali leader booked for norm violation||Two days after the police booked SAD’s Gidderbaha in charge Hardeep Singh ‘Dimpy’ Dhillon for allegedly violating Covid norms at his father’s ‘bhog’ ceremony, a Congress MLA today sought action against the SHO and transfer of the Muktsar SSP.MLA Raja Warring today went live on Facebook, saying, “We daily go to bhog ceremonies and see violations of Covid guidelines. It is wrong to single out someone and register a case against him. I condemn this action of the police.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-leader-booked-for-norm-violation-250130
09-05-2021||---||Drug module busted, 5 held||Chandigarh, May 8Supplied arms across NorthThe Punjab Police today claimed to have busted a module of gangsters and drugs traffickers involved in smuggling 500 kg heroin from Pakistan in the past few years.The breakthrough came on disclosures made by gangster Gavi Singh, who was arrested recently. Five of his accomplices have been arrested with drugs and weapons.A spokesperson for the police said Gavi, alias Vijay, alias Giani, an aide of wanted gangster Jaipal, was arrested from Seraikela Kharsawan district of Jharkhand on April 26 during a joint operation by the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of Punjab Police and SAS Nagar police.The spokesperson said those arrested included Karanbir Singh, Harmanjit Singh, Gurjaspreet Singh and Rawinder Iqbal Singh, all from Tarn Taran district, and Samuel, alias Sam, from Ferozepur. The suspects are facing several criminal cases across different districts of the state.The police have recovered 1.25 kg heroin from Gavi’s rented flat located in Kharar, besides seizing three pistols and 23 cartridges from his hideouts. Three vehicles, including a Toyota Fortuner, Mahindra Scorpio and Hyundai Verna, being used for smuggling drugs had also been recovered, he added.He said Samuel, who was staying with Gavi in Jamshedpur, had flown to Delhi prior to Gavi’s arrest. Samuel is learnt to have handled the distribution of heroin smuggled from Pakistan, he added.Gavi told the police he had smuggled over 500 kg heroin along with weapons from Pakistan and supplied these across Punjab, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir over the past two-and-a-half years.Gavi told the police there was a well-oiled smuggling machinery along the International Border and Pakistan-based smugglers were actively involved in smuggling weapons and drugs across the border.Gavi is also learnt to have made a large number of financial transactions with individuals and entities based in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan through the hawala route as well as import/export companies based in New Delhi, which would require a deeper probe.He admitted to having acquired a forged Indian passport from a travel agent on fake particulars and was planning to settle down in Portugal.The bank accounts and properties of Gavi had been identified and shared with agencies concerned for further action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-module-busted-5-held-250131
09-05-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu, Partap Bajwa question 6-month deadline to the new SIT||Chandigarh, May 8Senior Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu today attacked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the constitution of a new Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident.The government had on Friday announced a new SIT under ADGP LK Yadav and directed it to wrap up its probe within six months. Sidhu, in his tweet, said giving six months to the new SIT, “extends the delay of government’s biggest poll promise”.Sources said Sidhu’s tweet came after some ministers, during a recent Cabinet meeting, objected to the six-month window given to the new SIT, saying the government was yet again resorting to delaying tactics.After failing to get a satisfactory reply on an early deadline for the SIT to complete the probe, a minister said: “Is someone in the bureaucracy taking decision on behalf of the CM and not the CM himself?”Echoing his views, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa today said while the Punjab and Haryana High Court had observed that the investigation into the firing incident should conclude within six months, there was no restriction on the government to fix a shorter timeframe.He said since the previous SIT’s information already existed, the government should fix a shorter timeframe, i.e. a month, so that investigation could be expedited and the perpetrators were brought to book at the earliest.The MP pointed out that since the three SIT officers — LK Yadav, ADGP, Vigilance, posted at Chandigarh; Rakesh Agarwal, CP, Ludhiana; and Surjit Singh, DIG, Faridkot Range — were posted in different districts, an expeditious investigation was not possible.“They would also be neglecting their duties pertaining to their present postings. Hence, these officers should be transferred out from the present postings temporarily and be posted at Faridkot only as members of the SIT so that they are able to work jointly and expeditious investigation becomes a reality,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-partap-bajwa-question-6-month-deadline-to-the-new-sit-250132
09-05-2021||---||Implement e-office system in all govt offices by May 31, says CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Moga, May 8 Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has issued mandatory orders to all offices of the state government that they must start working on e-office to prevent the further spread of Covid-19 in the state. It will not only minimise the movement of public in the government offices, but also help the departments to prepare charts to call minimum required staff on rotation basis in the offices. Preference may also be given to work from home on e-office platform, if possible, as per the work schedule, the Chief Minister opined. The Chief Minister has fixed May 31 as the final deadline to switch over to e-office in all state government offices of the state, including field offices. Instructions to this effect have already been issued to the department heads through their principal secretaries. These orders have also reached at all district headquarters for implementation. Punjab Additional Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari, who is also financial commissioner (development), while issuing the orders to the officials of his department, has stated that the Department of Governance Reforms has started providing online training for working on e-office platform at “dgrpunjab.webex.com/join/dgr” from Monday to Friday between 10 am and 1 pm. All officials at the state headquarters and at the district levels must obtain training to meet the deadline fixed by the Chief Minister, Tiwari added. He said anyone who has any query can email at “eoffice.helpdesk@punjab.gov.in” with a copy to “gagan.goyal@punjab.gov.in”. They could also contact Parminder Pal Singh, Director, Governance Reforms, on his mobile number (918283840369).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/implement-e-office-system-in-all-govt-offices-by-may-31-says-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-250133
09-05-2021||Amritsar||Man gets threats calls from Pak; FIR lodged||A resident of Arjan Manga village, in a police complaint, claims to have been receiving threat calls from unidentified persons on a social media app from different mobile numbers of Pakistan. The callers accuse him of using objectionable remarks Khalistan sympathisers. A case against unidentified persons has been registered at the Mehta police station here following a probe by the DSP (Detective) in this connection. The complainant alleged on April 13 he got a message in Punjab language from a Pakistan number accusing him of being anti-Sikh. He said he was getting threats by way of recorded messages and video calls. They threatened to kill him and his family. The family approached the police and sought a probe. Following a preliminary inquiry, the police registered a case under relevant law. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-gets-threats-calls-from-pak-fir-lodged-250134
09-05-2021||Patiala||6 students injured in Punjabi varsity brawl||As many as six students, including two girls, of Punjabi University were reportedly injured following a brawl on the campus this evening. The fistfight took place among students and alleged outsiders.On Friday evening, the students had rounded up some youths, allegedly in an inebriated state, accusing them of eve-teasing. One of them was handed over to the police. The students also recorded a video of the incident that went viral on the social media.Students claimed some outsiders, who were relatives of some campus employees, came to the library and sought justification over the online post, triggering an altercation.Urban Estate SHO Ronnei Singh said: “We got a call that a fistfight had taken place. At least five persons have been admitted to the hospital.”The university authorities were yet to submit a complaint in this regard. “We will take requisite action and register an FIR once the complaint is received,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-students-injured-in-punjabi-varsity-brawl-250135
