10-05-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Punjab sees record 198 fatalities||Punjab on Monday registered a record 198 COVID-19 fatalities, which took the toll to 10,704, while 8,625 new cases pushed the tally to 4,50,674, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose to 75,800 from 74,343 on Sunday.Thirty deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 19 from Bathinda, 17 from Sangrur, 14 each from Mohali and Patiala and 13 from Muktsar, among the fatalities reported in the past 24 hours.Ludhiana registered the highest number of fresh cases at 1,470 followed by 1,382 in Mohali, 676 in Patiala and 629 in Bathinda, the bulletin said.A total of 6,894 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 3,64,170, it said.There are 298 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 9,376 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 78,05,157 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, the Union Territory of Chandigarh registered 863 fresh cases, taking the count to 51,070, according to a medical bulletin.Seven more deaths due to COVID-19 took the toll to 575 and the number of active cases was 8,653, it said.The bulletin said a total of 714 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 41,842.A total of 4,41,625 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 3,89,411 tested negative while reports of 124 samples are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-record-198-fatalities-250853
10-05-2021||New Delhi||DBT of MSP in Punjab: No change is smooth, but this change has been beyond expectations, ‘smoother’, says Centre.||The Centre said on Monday that the switch-over to the Direct Benefit Transfer of MSP in Punjab has been “beyond expectations”, crediting the “smooth change” to state and central governments and their procurement agencies.  Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said of the total DBT of Rs 49,965 crore transferred directly into accounts of farmers across the country for procurement of wheat this Rabi Marketing Season, Rs 21,588 has been in Punjab and about Rs 11,784 crore in Haryana.Speaking to media persons, Pandey said both Punjab and Centre worked together to bring in the change. He also screened videos of “satisfied Punjab farmers” to make his point. Responding to a question on somewhat different “ground realities” and “pressure” on farmers due to strong ‘arthiyas’ links, Pandey said: “No change is very smooth, but this change has been much beyond our expectations, smoother. Both Punjab and Central governments worked together to ensure that. ‘Arthiyas’ also realised their commission is intact, and that the government is committed to providing it to them.“They (arthiyas) may be having arrangements with farmers but what the government is paying to farmers is going intact into their accounts. These are just a few videos, the FCI and state agencies have hundreds of them.  We have all the database (of Punjab farmers receiving DBT), which can be cross-checked”.According to the government data, as of May 9 Punjab procured 128.66 LMT and Haryana 80.76 LMT wheat. So far around 337.95 LMT has been procured, benefitting 34.07 lakh farmers against 28.15 lakh on the same date, last year, across the country. Haryana and Punjab switched from indirect payment of MSP to DBT after the Centre refused to give them any further concessions.Meanwhile, regarding the government’s long-term plans to deal with record grain production and procurement year after year, Pandey said answer can be found by taking recourse to crops where consumption is more than the production¬¬oilseeds and pulses. “India spends around Rs one lakh crore on import of oilseeds and pulses every year.  With the kind of agro-climatic conditions India has these can be easily produced within the country”, he said, adding that the government is working on long term solution to manage surplus (wheat and rice).On whether in future procurement of these commodities will be increased and that of wheat and rice reduced he said: “Land is limited, if we are importing Rs 1 lakh crore worth of commodities that can be easily produced within the country, it should be done by incentivising farmers and that is where discussion is happening among the ministries. Certainly, somewhere reduction will happen, and that choice will be exercised by the farmers who will see the benefit. These are ongoing discussions, definitely managing surplus is a priority for the government”.   Retail pricesCentre hopes retail prices of edible oils will soften following the release of imported stock stuck at portsAccording to government data, retail prices of edible oils have shot up by 55.55 percent in the past year, adding to the woes of consumers already reeling under the economic distress induced by Covid pandemic. Responding to a query on steps taken to contain the rise, Pandey said the government is monitoring edible oil prices closely. “The industry mentioned recently there was some holding of some stock at Kandla and Mundra ports because of clearances related to tests done by various agencies as part of the general risk analysis in view of the COVID situation. That problem has been addressed along with customs and FSSAI. With that stock getting released in the market, we hope to see the softening impact on the oil prices”.  Meanwhile India’s sugar exports are on a “good course” this year as traders have contracted over 50 lakh tonnes of  sweetener so far. Over 50 lakh tonnes of sugar have already been contracted and exports are on a good course, Pandey said. Besides exports, mills were also encouraged to divert to ethanol production. What the government says:—Over 1 lakh MT of food grains distributed to over 2 crore beneficiaries by 12 States/UTs in the First 10 days under PMGKAY-3—During the Covid-19 pandemic around 928.77 LMT of foodgrains, 363.89 LMT of wheat, and 564.88 LMT of rice issued from the central pool for distribution from April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021.—Rs 49,965 crore transferred directly into farmers’ account across India (DBT)—18.3 crore portability transactions under ONORC during the Covid-19 period of April 2020 to April 2021 show increased use by working population on move and migrants.—34 States/UTs have lifted more than 15 Lakh MT of food grains from FCI depots for the month of May 2021 under PMGKAY-3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dbt-of-msp-in-punjab-no-change-is-smooth-but-this-change-has-been-beyond-expectations-smoother-says-centre-250841
10-05-2021||Mohali||New high of 1,382 COVID-19 cases reported in Mohali district||COVID-19 cases touched a new high as 1,382 positive cases surfaced in the Mohali district taking the total number of cases to 56,140.Meanwhile, 14 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported till Monday evening whereas 303 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals in the district.Earlier, the highest number of 1,056 positive Covid cases were reported in the district on May 4.Out of the 1383 positive cases, 441 came from Mohali urban, 12 from Banur, 14 from Kurali, 31 from Boothgarh, 72 from Lalru, 91 from Gharuan, 167 from Dera Bassi, 256 from Kharar and 328 from Dhakoli area of Zirakpur.As of now there are 56,140 positive cases and out of these 43,676 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals.There are 11,758 active cases with 706 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-high-of-1-382-covid-19-cases-reported-in-mohali-district-250830
10-05-2021||Vijay Mohan||North region’s schools allotted 6,300 new vacancies under NCC’s self-finance scheme||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 10The central government has allotted 6,300 additional vacancies for Junior Division NCC cadets to the schools in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh under the fully self-financing scheme.This long-awaited move is part of the expansion plan for NCC under which the government had approved additional one lakh vacancies for out of turn allotment of NCC to private or quasi-government schools which agree to bear all training expenses. Institutes having at least 500 students on its rolls can be allotted one company strength of about 150 cadets without any cost to the exchequer.This move comes in the wake of the demand from numerous schools who could not introduce NCC due to limited vacancies available. This will benefit the student community in a big way wherein they can be a part of nation building exercise and can get the ‘A’ certificate which will not only help them in admission to professional colleges but also accrue benefits in getting jobs.Besides getting basic military training, cadets will also get to attend camps, treks, mountaineering courses and leadership development capsules at a national level, as well as participate in various social service and community development activities.Additional Director General, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate, Maj Gen JS Sandhu, said schools which are interested in getting out of turn allotment under the self-financing scheme can approach the nearest NCC unit and they will be given the necessary guidance in utilizing the scheme.In December 2019, the Central government had approved one lakh additional vacancies in the NCC under the aforementioned scheme to boost the cadet strength and bring more educational institutes within its ambit. Under the scheme, the institutes availing the new vacancies are required to bear all the expenditure incurred on training, uniforms, equipment, transport, refreshments, NCC staff and the hiring of instructors.Filling up the vacancies has been a slow process so far, which has been attributed to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent restrictions and shutdowns imposed to mitigate its spread. According to government data compiled in March, NCC is available in 17,644 educational institutes in the country so far, with 8,902 institutes, including 5,862 schools and 3,040 colleges, currently on the wait list to introduce NCC.In 2018, a performance audit, once in 2-3 years for schools and 3-4 years in colleges was introduced by the government. NCC is being withdrawn from non performing institutions and vacancies so freed are being allotted to institutes on the waitlist.NCC is the largest uniformed youth organisation in the world with enrolled strength of 13.48 lakh cadets, out of which 33.72 per cent are girls. The Army Wing comprises 84 per cent of the strength, with the balance being with the Navy and Air wings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/north-regions-schools-allotted-6-300-new-vacancies-under-nccs-self-finance-scheme-250829
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: SIT holds first meeting, releases email ID, WhatsApp number for any new evidence||A Special Investigation Team instituted by the Punjab and Haryana to investigate the Kotkapura firing held its first meeting at the Vigilance Bhawan in Mohali on Monday, an official press release said.The press release said that the SIT, which has been given six months by the court to conclude its investigations, met to discuss modalities to conduct a “thorough investigation” into the firing incident of October 14, 2015, when alleged police action on protesters holding demonstrations against incidents of sacrilege in the state killed two protesters.   Investigators have set up a new email ID, newsit2021kotkapuracase@gmail.com, and have a dedicated WhatsApp number 9875983237, which has no calling facility, for any new evidence the public may have in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-sit-holds-first-meeting-releases-email-id-whatsapp-number-for-any-new-evidence-250823
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab announces Rs 50 lakh compensation, job for kin of soldier killed in Arunachal||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced an ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50 lakh and a government job to the next of kin of a soldier who laid down his life in the line of duty.Havildar Amritpaul Singh was part of the 31 Field Regiment, was on a patrol when he lost his balance and slipped into Siyom river near Manigong village in Arunachal Pradesh on April 8.His body was found on May 7, according to a state government statement.The chief minister extended his sympathies to the bereaved family of the soldier, it said.Amritpaul Singh, hailed from Kheri village in Sangrur district and is survived by his wife Harmeet Kaur, 11-year-old son Gursewak Singh, father Balveer Singh, mother Bhagwan Kaur and brother Harvinder Singh.The mortal remains of the soldier were consigned to flames at his native village on Monday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-announces-rs-50-lakh-compensation-job-for-kin-of-soldier-killed-in-arunachal-250815
10-05-2021||Bathinda||NGO members risking lives to provide plasma, oxygen cylinders to COVID patients in Bathinda||At a time when families of COVID-19 patients are running from pillar to post looking for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and other services, a city based local NGO, Samarpan, started by a group of friends have taken it upon themselves to help out such hassled families regarding the availability of plasma and oxygen.NGO member Mukesh Kumar Goyal alias Monty coordinates with people in need of plasma.“We help people with arranging and donation of plasma and oxygen,” Monty said.In COVID-19 times, they have arranged more than 300 plasma donors, which helped around 900 patients to get treatment.Even till now they have arranged and provided 9,000 blood donations when accident and cancer patients are in need of blood.They have started distributing oxygen cylinders and are refilling the old ones and are also helping people to get admitted in hospitals at a time when the city is facing shortage of level-3 beds.They are also trying to create awareness about COVID-19 on grass-root level to prevent the spread of the virus.Apart from this, Samarpan members are also providing free meals daily to the attendants of the COVID patients admitted at the private hospitals in Bathinda.It also plays a role in motivating people to get their COVID-19 vaccination done and has organised around nine camps and provided vaccinations to around 3,000 people in the city.A couple, Arpan Jindal and Prerna Jindal, along with their friend Mukesh Kumar Goyal started this NGO in 2016. While talking to The Tribune, Prerna Jindal said, “We started this NGO with an aim to arrange and provide blood through blood donations to accident and cancer patients but with time many people have joined us and today we have more than 5,000 team members.”She said they have also adopted 100 girls under Sukanya Garib Kalyan Yojana and since the pandemic started last year, their NGO and members are working tirelessly to provide all assistance and help to the people.During the last lockdown, we distributed meals and ration packets to the tune of Rs 70 lakh to the poor people in the city, she said.One of its members, Dravjeet Thakur alias Merry, has set an example by donating blood 66 times and plasma seven times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngo-members-risking-lives-to-provide-plasma-oxygen-cylinders%C2%A0to-covid-patients-in-bathinda-250796
10-05-2021||Our Correspondent=||Youth, aide held for sister’s murder; revolver, SUVs seized||Hoshiarpur, May 9The local police claimed to have solved the blind murder mystery of Manpreet Kaur of Khadiala Sainian, whose bullet-riddled body was found on April 22, with the arrest of victim’s brother and his friend. A .32 bore revolver and SUVs used in the crime have been recovered.The accused have been identified as Manpreet’s younger brother Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, of Takhtupura village, Ferozepur, and his accomplice Iqbal Singh of Daulewal village, Moga.Honour killingSSP Navjot Singh Mahal said Manpreet’s body with nine bullet wounds was found at Sikri Adda under the Bullowal police station. A case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against unidentified persons.Two special teams, led by SP (Investigation) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu and DSP (Rural) Gurpreet Singh, respectively, were formed. The SSP said the police teams camped at Moga and Ferozepur districts for five days, leading to the arrest of the accused on May 7.The SSP said Harpeet hatched the conspiracy to kill his sister, who had married against the family’s wishes eight years ago and had been living with her in-laws at Khadiala Sainian. Manpreet had filed for divorce and wanted to rejoin her family, which was not acceptable to Harpreet. Hence, he planned to kill his sister.A day before committing the crime, the SSP said, Harpreet and his friend Iqbal cased the area in an Innova car. The following day, both arrived in a Scorpio car, driven by Iqbal. They snatched a mobile from a person and made a WhatsApp call to Manpreet.Iqbal asked Manpreet to accompany him in his car as he wanted to talk about something important, said the SSP. As soon as Manpreet got into the car, Harpreet, who was hiding behind the seat, strangulated her with a scarf.After Manpreet fell unconscious, Harpreet pulled her out of the car near Sikri Adda and shot her nine times in the head with a .32 revolver. Both fled the scene, dumping the body by the roadside.Mahal said the accused had followed Manpreet a month ago in a Fortuner car too. They had even calculated the time taken to arrive and flee the spot after factoring in the traffic condition. They had borrowed the Scorpio car used in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-aide-held-for-sisters-murder-revolver-suvs-seized-250460
10-05-2021||Sangrur||Jobless teachers to gherao Punjab Education Minister Singla’s home on May 17||Members of the ETT and TET Pass Union after a state-level meeting here today announced to gherao the local residence of state Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on May 17 to protest inaction towards resolution of their demand of jobs in the Education Department.“Our members have been sitting on indefinite protest in front of the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) office since January 4, while two pf our members have been sitting atop mobile tower in Patiala for the past 49 days,” said Deep Banarasi, press secretary of the union. Earlier in March 2020, they had ended their six-month-long protest on the Sunam road water tank here after the outbreak of Covid-19.“We have passed ETT and also cleared TET, but the state government is not listening to our demand. Strangely, its leaders have been claiming to have given lakhs of jobs in Punjab, which is totally baseless claim,” said Deepak Kamboj, union president. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-to-gherao-punjab-education-minister-singlas-home-on-may-17-250461
10-05-2021||Fazilka||Jalalabad farmers protest construction of minor canal||Farmers of the Jalalabad area have again opposed the construction of Rana minor canal being carved out to supply canal-based water for irrigation to some Guruharsahai villages. They staged a protest and blocked the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway under the banner of “Nehri Paani Bachao Sangharsh Committee” led by its leader Gurwinder Singh Mannewala. The government has proposed construction of the canal, which will draw water from non-perennial Nizamwa canal and supply it to some Guruharsahai villages in Ferozepur district. Mannewal said the tail-end villagers were already facing shortage of water and the construction of the new canal would further worsen the situation. Senior Irrigation Department officials assured the farmers of considering their demand favourably. The farmers later lifted the dharna. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalalabad-farmers-protest-construction-of-minor-canal-250462
10-05-2021||Moga||55-year-old woman hacked to death in Moga||A 55-year-old woman was hacked to death at Dharamkot town in Moga district allegedly over a money dispute, police officials said today.The woman, Balwinder Kaur, had been living with her two sons at Kartar Colony in Dharamkot. Victim’s neighbour, 25-year old Manpreet Singh, alias Mani, had been arrested in this regard.A criminal case under Sections 302, 452 and 506 of the IPC had been registered against him at the Dharamkot police station, said ASI Balvir Singh.Preliminary investigations suggested the youth had borrowed some money from the victim and she was demanded it back. The incident took place when the victim was home with her younger son, who is mentally challenged, said Jagdeep Singh, her elder son. Her husband works as a security guard in Rajasthan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/55-year-old-woman-hacked-to-death-in-moga-250463
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||128.5 LMT wheat lifted in 30 days: Ashu||Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today said despite several challenges arising due to the second wave of Covid, the state had successfully procured 128.50 lakh metric tonne of wheat in 30 days, out of a total expected 130 LMT and also crossed last year’s procurement by government agencies, which was 127.10 LMT.Reiterating the resolve of the government to ensure purchase of every single grain of state farmers’ produce in a hassle-free manner, he said despite difficult times, smooth procurement was carried out across the state and more than 99 per cent of the wheat arriving in the mandis had been procured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/128-5-lmt-wheat-lifted-in-30-days-ashu-250464
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP: Congress misleading people in sacrilege case||AAP MLA and Kisan Wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan today said Congress leaders were trying to mislead people of the state in the Bargari case. The AAP MLA said the police had opened fire on members of the Sikh community protesting peacefully against the desecration, killing two youths. He said Capt Amarinder had promised the people of Punjab during the Assembly elections in 2017 that if the Congress government was formed, the conspirators of the desecration incident would be punished.“The Congress government in Punjab has been in power for more than four years, but not a single culprit has been convicted,” he added. The AAP leader said some Congress leaders opposing the government for not giving justice in the cases were only fighting to save their seats and making shallow statements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-congress-misleading-people-in-sacrilege-case-250465
10-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab first in country to store J-Forms of farmers in DigiLocker||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9Punjab has become the first state to start storing quintessential J-Forms of farmers in a DigiLocker. With this, farmers will not be required to carry or submit physical copies of these forms, but just share the e-copies for availing of subsidies or loans.An initiative of Punjab Mandi Board, the J-Forms generated for the ongoing Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) for all farmers have been put in the Digilockers. Farmers will no longer be dependent on the arhtiyas to get these crucial forms, but can simply download these and use.It may be mentioned that J-Forms are required for a plethora of activities such as getting Income Tax waivers, subsidy on fertilisers; crop loans from banks; and even for getting their crop insurance and health insurance.Gurbakshish Singh, a farmer from Bimbri village in Nabha, said the initiative was a game changer as the farmers would have access to the J-Forms at the click of a button. “Many times, arhtiyas withhold these forms and farmers have to run after them to get these, or these forms are misplaced. It is yet another step in making farmers independent of these arhtiyas,” he said.Last year the state government had started storing the J-Forms online. The Aadhaar card number and the mobile/telephone numbers of the farmers, too, were linked to the J-Form. This made it easier for the Punjab Mandi Board to now store the forms in the DigiLocker. The facility is available, but the question now arises of the accessibility of smartphones and computers with farmers to download these forms.Ravi Bhagat, Secretary, Punjab Mandi Board, who is the brains behind this initiative, said at least one person in the farmers’ household has access to a smartphone. “We are stepping up dissemination of information to farmers on how to access these forms. For this, secretaries of each market committee have been asked to widely circulate flowcharts on how to access these forms. All other government departments have been issued directions to ensure that the e-J Forms are accepted and since these will have a QR code, these can be immediately authenticated,” he said, adding that farmers would have to just download the DigiLocker app on the phone and show the stored J-Form.Punjab has already started storing driving licences and all education certificates in the DigiLocker. Next on the cards, say officials in Governance Reforms, is the putting of smart ration cards in the DigiLocker, while they look at putting all land records in the DigiLocker.What’s J-Form used forIncome tax waivers, subsidy on fertilisers, crop loans, crop and health insurance, etc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-first-in-country-to-store-j-forms-of-farmers-in-digilocker-250466
10-05-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab Government, private power consumers owe Rs 3,993 crore to PSPCL||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9Not only the government but even private consumers have also not made payments worth crores to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). The defaulting amount due to the PSPCL at the end of last financial year was Rs 3,993 crore. This is separate from Rs 5,500-crore subsidy amount due from the government for supplying free power to various sectors.Information revealed that of the Rs 3,993 crore, various government departments owe Rs 2,140 crore while Rs 1,853 crore is pending from other consumers.Rs 5,500 cr subsidy pendingThe defaulting amount in the west zone is Rs 1,305 crore, including Rs 601 crore from government departments. In the border zone, the figure is Rs 1,198 crore, including Rs 565 crore from the government and Rs 633 crore from other consumers. In the south zone, the amount is Rs 798 crore, including Rs 595 crore from government departments.Instead of clearing their dues, many consumers have moved courts. “Rather than making payment, many consumers have approached courts to delay the process. There are about 4,700 civil cases pending in various courts to settle the disputed amounts. The cases have been filed by various industrial units regarding bills totalling Rs 147 crore,” said a top PSPCL official.As per the data, most cases — 3,300 — have been filed in Ludhiana. There are total 13.5 lakh defaulting consumers, owing about Rs 2,080 crore. Of this, nearly 6,000 consumers owe more than Rs 2 lakh each to the PSPCL.”There are around 9,700 consumers who owe between Rs 1-2 lakh while 1.32 lakh consumers owe between Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh. Rest owe less than Rs 25,000 each,” said officials.A senior PSPCL official confirmed that last year, the PSPCL had recovered Rs 3,291 crore comprising Rs 1,074 crore from government departments and Rs 2,217 crore from other consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-private-power-consumers-owe-rs-3-993-crore-to-pspcl-250467
10-05-2021||---||Pam Gosal 1st Indian woman to make it to Scotland House||Bathinda, May 9Pam Gosal has created history by becoming the first Indian woman to be elected to Scottish parliament. Gosal was elected on a Conservative Party ticket from West Scotland.In a tweet, Gosal said: “It’s a privilege to be the first female Member of Scotland Parliament from an Indian background. Thank you everyone who’s supported me. Can’t wait to get to work for the people of West Scotland”.Gosal helped her family business before working in the local government prior to being elected to Scottish parliament.She was born in Glasgow and spent most of her life in Scotland. She holds a BA degree, an MBA in Consumer Law and is currently pursuing a PhD. She has always been supportive of women and has received the 2015 Women Leader Business Award and the 2018 Public Service Award. She is the Deputy Chairperson of the Conservative Women’s Organisation of Scotland.She is also the director of the Conservative Friends of India Scotland. The organisation seeks to build strong ties between the Conservative Party and the British Indian community in Scotland. Gosal expressed confidence of making new strides in her political career as a Scottish Conservative and Unionist advocate for British, Scottish and BAM women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pam-gosal-1st-indian-woman-to-make-it-to-scotland-house-250468
10-05-2021||Bathinda||Vigilance arrests clerk for bribe||Contraband seized, nine arrestedabohar: The police in Abohar and Sriganganagar area have seized 300 kg of poppy husk and 50 gm heroin and arrested nine drug peddlers. Almost 270 kg of poppy husk was seized by intercepting a car in Rajasthan and two persons were arrested. Jaspal Singh was nabbed with 8 kg, Narsi Ram with 10 kg, Lovejit Singh, Manbir Singh and Kulwinder Singh were held with 15 kg of poppy husk and 50 gm heroin was seized from Shabeg Singh and Jalandhar Singh near Fazilka. — OC800 kg smuggled wheat seizedabohar: The police have seized 800 kg wheat smuggled from Sriganganagar for sale in Fazilka. Two tractor-trailers ferrying the consignment were also impounded. The vehicles were intercepted near Bakayanwala village, the police said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vigilance-arrests-clerk-for-bribe-250469
10-05-2021||Abohar||Educationist loses Covid battle||Trust offers free oxygen cylindersChandigarh: The Serve Humanity Serve God Charitable Trust (Ratwara) is offering free oxygen cylinders to residents of Mohali and adjoining areas who need supply during emergency. The group members are arranging oxygen supply from different sources, including industry, and also helping in installing services at houses. Trust functionary Swarnjit Singh is responding to the calls for help on 9814119214.NGO sets up 125-bed isolation wardFatehgarh Sahib: Gurdarshan Singh Nabha Foundation, an NGO, has set up 125-bed isolation ward for level-II Covid patients free of cost at RIMT University, Mandi Gobindgarh. It is everyone’s duty of come forward to the aid of suffering humanity in this hour of crisis, said Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh, who runs the foundation. He said the NGO would also distribute free ration to the needy on their doorstep.Contributed by Sanjeev Singh Bariana, Surinder Bhardwaj, Raj Sadosh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/educationist-loses-covid-battle-250481
10-05-2021||Bathinda||AAP fumes as cancer hospital made Covid centre||The AAP district unit has condemned the health department’s decision to convert Advanced Cancer Institute-cum-Hospital here into a Covid care centre, stating that it would make scores of cancer patients vulnerable to the virus.AAP MLA from Talwandi Sabo Baljinder Kaur said: “The government has failed to provide medical services to people amid pandemic. Cancer patients not only from south Malwa districts, but from adjoining districts of Haryana and even Rajasthan visit the government-run cancer hospital in Bathinda. There is around 250-300 daily patient inflow in OPD and many patients remain admitted in the hospital’s indoor patient unit. Besides, doctors perform surgeries and therapies are administered to cancer patients on daily basis. But the government’s decision to convert the cancer hospital into a Covid care centre has not only affected the treatment being given to patients, but also made them vulnerable to the virus.”She added: “It is unfortunate that despite knowing that critical cancer patients are already battling with the deadly disease, the government has taken a decision that would further risk their lives.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-fumes-as-cancer-hospital-made-covid-centre-250456
10-05-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Culling of 65,000 poultry birds in Kila Raipur begins||Mandi Ahmedgarh, May 9The Animal Husbandry Department has started culling 65,000 poultry birds at Suba Poultry Farm in Kila Raipur after some birds tested positive for avian flu.As many as 28 teams of veterinary officials have been constituted to complete the culling and containment operations. The whole process is likely to take two or three days for completion.Deputy Director (Animal Husbandry) Dr Paramdeep Singh Walia said huge pits had been dug to bury the culled birds suspected to be infected with H5N8 virus.28 teams set upHeavy police force was deployed to cordon off the area in the ‘infected zone’, which is one-kilometre area around the poultry farm, before starting the operation on Sunday. “The poultry farm will be sanitised after the operation ends,” said Dr Walia, adding that their aim was to contain the infection. “Initially, we have started culling of poultry birds which were found to be infected by the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Lab, Bhopal,” said Dr Walia.Later, authorities will inspect domesticated birds within 1-10 km radius that has been declared as ‘surveillance zone’.Dr Walia said people who had consumed cooked poultry food should not worry as the virus is killed during heating. “Boiled eggs, cooked and roasted chicken do not contain virus,” he said, adding that the virus was transmitted among the birds only.Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma had earlier formed a nine-member team to supervise the operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/culling-of-65-000-poultry-birds-in-kila-raipur-begins-250457
10-05-2021||GS Paul||Temple panel, PUDA at odds over wood storage||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 9The Durgiana Mandir management committee is up in arms against the Amritsar administration after being denied ‘utilisation’ of a plot adjoining a cremation ground to store logs of wood meant for last rites.On the other hand, the custodian of the land — Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) — is reluctant to let go of the chunk of three kanal that invited good commercial value in the market.Nonetheless, with a surge in Covid-19 casualties, crematoria in Amritsar are faced with shortage of space.Won’t cremate ‘unclaimed’ bodies nowThe Durgiana committee, which looks after the crematorium, is forced to build additional pyre plinths on the premises to cater to the escalating Covid deaths. In the absence of pyre plinths, kin of the deceased had started cremating bodies on passages.Committee president Ramesh Sharma claimed PUDA officials accompanied by the police prevented them from storing wood on the land.“We wanted to utilise the land temporarily as we ran out of space on the premises due to a surge in Covid deaths. Against the normal times, when no more than 10-15 bodies used to be cremated here, we have been receiving 45 bodies on an average daily. We are making 12 extra pads wherever we can find space for cremation. We wanted to shift our wood storage to the PUDA’s plot adjoining the ground and had fixed the girders with temporary tin sheets to save it from inclement weather and canines, but the administration objected to it and the work was stopped,” he said.When asked about the ownership rights of the land, he said the plot was “verbally” handed over to the management by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, who announced it from public dais during his participation in the “kar sewa” of holy sarovar in 2018.“We even offered PUDA to charge us a reasonable price for the land. We were in touch with PUDA minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, held a couple of meetings and submitted repeated memoranda, but in vain,” he said.PUDA Chief Administrator Pallavi Chaudhary said there was no problem had the committee placed logs in the plot. However, construction could be allowed under the norms. “We had only objected to the tin sheds and boundary put up by the committee. So, the work was stopped. Had they utilised the land ‘as it is’, we had no objection,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/temple-panel-puda-at-odds-over-wood-storage-250458
10-05-2021||Jalandhar||IMA vice-chief files plaint against Baba Ramdev||Indian Medical Association national vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya today lodged a complaint against yoga guru Baba Ramdev and accused him of being “insensitive and inhumane” for allegedly mocking Covid victims for not breathing properly and even blaming the medical fraternity for misguiding them.“In a video, he is seen mocking Covid victims for not breathing properly and the high death toll,” Dr Dahiya said, while lodging an FIR with DCP Gurmeet Singh. He said Baba Ramdev deliberately tried to misguide people on the role of medical fraternity and even blamed the hard-working doctors for excessive medication of Covid patients leading to their death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ima-vice-chief-files-plaint-against-baba-ramdev-250459
10-05-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu alleges Badal family running the show in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 9Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu today targeted Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, claiming the Badal family, and not the Congress, was ruling the state and that the bureaucracy and the police were acting as per the wishes of the Akalis.Sidhu’s tirade comes in the wake of his recent meetings with some MLAs and a few ministers to mount pressure on the Congress government and fulfil its poll promise of giving justice to families of victims of Kotkapura police firing. Sidhu questioned the CM on the six-month deadline set for the new SIT to finish its task. Sidhu tweeted,“ The bureaucracy and police act as per the wishes of the Badal family, ignoring our MLAs and party workers.”The CM chose not to respond, but a government spokesperson said the six-month timeframe for the new SIT was set up by the High Court, not the government. The spokesman said it was clear that the intent of the state government had been misread and misconstrued. The government, the spokesperson said, was committed to ensuring a free and fair investigation into the firing incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-alleges-badal-family-running-the-show-in-punjab-250595
10-05-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh asks PM Narendra Modi for more oxygen||New Delhi, May 9With the daily Covid cases breaching the 4 lakh mark for the third straight day and daily deaths touching 4,092 on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi dialled the Chief Ministers of four high-burden states even as the national capital went into another lockdown until May 17.4.03 lakh fresh casesThe PM spoke to the Chief Ministers of Punjab, Karnataka, Bihar and Uttarakhand, the states that have been witnessing rising trends of Covid cases over the past fortnight. The case positivity rates continue to be more than 15 per cent in these states with Karnataka posting 29.9 per cent positivity, Bihar 18 and Punjab 17.5 per cent. Uttarakhand has been witnessing a spike in cases for a week now.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh urged the PM to increase the state’s oxygen quota and ensure urgent supplies of vaccines.Capt Amarinder told the PM that Punjab was unable to initiate phase-III of the vaccination process for the 18-44 age group, but it would now begin in government hospitals from Monday following the delivery of one lakh doses. He also informed Modi that the state urgently required 300 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen.The PM, official sources said, advised the CMs to consider local micro-containment as advised by experts who have said all districts with more than 10 per cent positivity and more than 60 per cent oxygen and ICU bed capacity must be locked down for two weeks to ease the health systems and buy time to prepare and recoup.Delhi, meanwhile, went into the fourth lockdown today with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing stricter curbs, including suspension of Delhi Metro and ban on weddings in public places. Weddings with 20 people will be allowed only at home and courts and banquet hall and hotel owners would need to either return advance payments for bookings or adjust these for later times.Kejriwal said the lockdown had helped reduce Delhi’s case positivity rate from 35 per cent on April 26 to 23 per cent today, but cases were still too high to be managed. He said the oxygen crisis was easing.Maruti joins hands with 2 firms to boost O2 outputNew Delhi: Country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India on Sunday said it had joined hands with two NCR-based companies to boost production of PSA oxygen generator plants.‘Vax Live’ concert raises $302 millionThe Global Citizen fundraising concert advocating the importance of vaccine equity has pulled in $302 million, exceeding the goal for the organisation’s campaign.Aus to keep borders shutAustralian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Sunday announced that the country’s borders would remain closed indefinitely for the rest of the world to protect Australians from Covid-19 strains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-asks-pm-narendra-modi-for-more-oxygen-250594
10-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||Ominous start to May, 62,000 cases, 1.3K deaths in a week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9With the onset of May, Punjab seems to be heading towards an unimaginable Covid crisis. In just first eight days of the month, the state has reported over 62,000 cases and 1,300 deaths. According to health experts, the situation may worsen over the next two weeks.April proved to be the worst month ever so far with 1.31 lakh cases and over 2,100 deaths. If initial May trends are any indication, April figures will be surpassed easily. Earlier, the first wave’s peak came in September last year when around 60,000 cases and 1,954 deaths were reported.Experts say the peak of the second wave is yet to come when the number of cases may cross 10,000 a day. At present, the state is reporting 8,000 to 9,000 cases and 150 to 200 deaths every day. Both deaths and cases are increasing rapidly.In the past one week (between May 1 and May 8), the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2 per cent every day.The outcome of the situation is that the state has 71,948 active cases. During the first wave last year, the highest number of active cases remained around 20,000.The active cases are an important indicator regarding the prevalence of infection in society. Even the state’s overall positivity rate has increased to 16.6 per cent in the last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ominous-start-to-may-62-000-cases-1-3k-deaths-in-a-week-250446
10-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||All L3 beds occupied in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 9All level-3 beds are occupied in the district, which has set alarm bells ringing among residents. Bathinda is hit hard by the Covid pandemic with the number of positive cases increasing each day. On Sunday, Bathinda reported 17 Covid deaths and 812 new cases, taking the active cases to over 6,450 in the district.As per official bed occupancy list of hospitals, of the 211 level-3 beds, 214 patients are admitted at 17 private hospitals in the district. Adesh Hospital is having 75 patients against the capacity of 60. Out of 978 level-2 beds, 754 were occupied in 39 hospitals of the district till Friday.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal held a review meeting with the Deputy Commissioner and other officials over the Covid situation at the DC office. He took information about sampling, vaccination and status of level-2 and level-3 beds in private hospitals in the district. A decision was taken to increase the beds in the district.Later, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan issued directions to the hospitals in which he stated that level-2 beds had been increased from 859 to 946, while level-3 beds remained the same at 211.Patients with minor symptoms are shying away from consulting doctors. Later, when the health deteriorates, they come to hospitals and require level-3 beds straightway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-l3-beds-occupied-in-bathinda-250447
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine for 18+ construction workers in Punjab from today||The Punjab Government is set to administer Covid-19 vaccine to all construction workers and their family members aged 18 to 44 years across the state from Monday.Health Minister Balbir Singh said the Health Department had received only 1 lakh doses of vaccine for the 18 to 44 age group. It had been decided to cover construction workers and their family members in the first phase.He said the state government had placed an order of 30 lakh doses with the Serum Institute of India Ltd. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccine-for-18-construction-workers-in-punjab-from-today-250448
10-05-2021||Mohali||Khalsa Aid donates oxygen concentrators||Khalsa Aid, an NGO, in order to assist the state government in its fight against Covid-19, has donated 100 oxygen concentrators to the National Health Mission (NHM), Punjab, on Sunday.The NGO has delivered the consignment to the Covid-19 store of the NHM established at the Punjab Mandi Board Complex in Sector 65, Mohali.Bhupinder Singh Batth, a volunteer from Khalsa Aid, said these concentrators were self-generating oxygen machines. Considering the present situation when there was scarcity of oxygen cylinders, these concentrators would prove to be life saving, he said.Batth said the NGO was working to provide humanitarian aid in disaster areas around the world. He said the NGO was already extending help to the government in Delhi and on learning about shortage of oxygen cylinders in Punjab, it decided to assist the state government by making available these oxygen concentrators. He said Khalsa Aid would provide assistance to the state government to the best of its capacity in future also. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khalsa-aid-donates-oxygen-concentrators-250449
10-05-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sudden deaths trigger demand  for testing in Sangrur villages||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 9At least eight residents have died at Takipur village in past two weeks — three of Covid while the cause of others is unknown as no tests were done.After residents pressed the panic button, a team of health department has started testing at Takipur village. Nearly 35 residents were tested on Sunday and all turned out to be negative.“My grandfather, father and uncle have died in the past one week. My uncle was Covid positive while the other two negative. All our family members have tested negative,” said Aman Singh, a resident of Takipur village.After the deaths, villagers are now concerned and demanding sampling of all villagers to prevent further casualties. “Eight deaths are a big number. We request the Punjab Government to ensure testing of all in the village,” said Maninderpal Singh, former sarpanch of Takipur village.Sunam Congress Halqa in charge Daman Thind Bajwa on Sunday spoke with senior officers over testing in villages. Residents of some other villages complained of lack of testing.Clueless where to goThere is no proper testing in our village. The government must provide proper treatment facilities in rural areas as we don’t know where to go. —Gurmale Singh, Gharachon Sarpanch“The government must order quick testing of all villages to prevent the further spread of virus. A majority of subdivision-level hospitals don’t have the requirerd facilities. It’s the only reason that we are compelled to come to the district hospital,” said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Hathan village at the Sangrur Civil Hospital.A Dhadriya village resident said a large number of people wanted to get their tests done in the village.“The initial resistance delayed testing in villages. Our teams have to work hard to convince residents to get tested. After getting information, we have started testing at Takipur and we will try to detect the reasons of all deaths,” Sangrur Civil Surgeon Dr Anjna Gupta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sudden-deaths-trigger-demand-for-testing-in-sangrur-villages-250450
10-05-2021||Gurdaspur||Launch aggressive vax drive, Ashwani Kumar urges PM||Former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commence an “aggressive” vaccination drive keeping in mind “particular vulnerabilities” of Punjab.In a letter to the PM, Kumar said: “While all states must receive their due, the national formula for allocation of oxygen and vaccines need to factor in the special circumstances of the states. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has also observed in an ongoing litigation that the situation in the state is critical.”He said: “Regarding the availability of oxygen, the current demand of the state is 280 MT per day as against the availability of 180 MT. This demand could increase substantially in the days ahead for which it is necessary to keep a reasonable buffer.”Kumar said: “The already strained medical infrastructure in the state is under stress. Despair and helplessness resulting from the fear of the virus can cause added law and order problems in the border state. One of the major constraints being faced by Punjab is the non-availability of tankers for transportation of oxygen. These need to be made available to the state at the earliest in addition to a maximum number of oxygen concentrators for use by those who need them in the far-flung border districts of Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Tarn Taran.” — TNSGet vaccinated: AAP to peopleAAP MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer on Sunday requested people of Punjab to come forward and get the necessary doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Hayer, who is also AAP youth wing president, said the vaccine was necessary to help bring down the mortality rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/launch-aggressive-vax-drive-ashwani-kumar-urges-pm-250451
10-05-2021||Abohar||Fresh curbs in Fazilka||Fazilka DC Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu has issued fresh guidelines for opening of shops, curfew, etc. effective from May 10 to 23 in the district. Shops will open from 6 am to 12 noon from Monday to Friday and from 6 am to 9 am on Saturday and Sunday.Besides, those entering the district will have to carry a Covid negative report not more than 72 hours old or certificate of vaccination done two weeks ago.Eateries can only make home deliveries and will be open from 6 am to 2 pm. The weekly curfew will be enforced across the district from 12 noon on Friday to 6 am on Monday.Govt offices and banks will work at 50 per cent strength. Public dealing in banks will be allowed from 9 am to 12 noon, while bank staff can be present from 9 am to 1 pm from Monday to Friday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fresh-curbs-in-fazilka-250452
10-05-2021||Balwant Garg||Patients’ surge puts pressure on oxygen supply at Faridkot hospital||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 9With 324 Covid-19 patients admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), the healthcare system here has come under pressure, especially the oxygen supply.With most patients on supplementary oxygen, the doctors at the GGSMCH are trying hard to maintain the required level of supply.While a patient with less than 85 per cent of blood oxygen saturation level (SpO2) needs 8-10 litres of oxygen per minute, those whose levels are between 85-90 need six litres and those with 90 or more need four litres per minute.Ventilator problem“With more patients on oxygen, there is a need to increase the diameter of the supply pipes to provide the required volume and pressure of the life-saving gas,” said a doctor in the medicine wing.“As many patients are aged with serious co-morbidities, any drop in the oxygen supply poses danger to them,” the doctor said. Every day, 10-12 patients are succumbing to Covid-19 at the GGSMCH.Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, said with a surge in the number of patients, the university had procured 100 more oxygen cylinders.Like many other hospitals, the GGSMCH is also facing a crisis due to an insufficient number of ventilators. Many ventilators supplied to the government hospitals under the PM Cares scheme are lying idle due to technical problems. Of the total 125 ventilators, 80 were supplied under the PM Cares scheme. While some ventilators are yet to be installed, many others developed snags, according to sources.The GGSMCH has an oxygen plant with a production capacity of 1,000 litre per minute. A religious trust has also offered a plant with similar capacity. “The BFUHS is working out the modalities to establish this plant as soon as possible,” said Dr Raj Bahadur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patients-surge-puts-pressure-on-oxygen-supply-at-faridkot-hospital-250453
10-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Dearth of specialists to operate ventilators in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9The worsening Covid-19 situation has exposed the shortage of specialists in the state to handle life-saving ventilators. Consequently, the government, owing to lack of manpower, had to hand over the ventilators to private Covid facilities.In fact, successive state governments, turning a blind eye towards the health sector, neither added new medical colleges nor could enhance PG seats in the existing colleges for decades.Notably, only 65 anaesthetists, who are supposed to work in intensive care units and manage ventilators, graduate in Punjab every year. Of these, 28 are produced from three government medical colleges. It has been learnt that due to shortage of qualified workforce, the ventilators either are gathering dust or are being handled by the less-experienced professionals. Around 120 posts of anaesthetists are lying vacant in the state.Health experts said the Covid situation, owing to limited PG seats, had shown that the state lacked specialist doctors while neighbouring states were performing better. The experts said the government was focused on purchasing ventilators and other medical equipment, but no one bothered to hire manpower to run them.Dr Harshinder Kaur, professor, GMC, Patiala, said, “One post of professor can make the college eligible for three PG seats, while an associate professor can enhance one PG seat. If the government had timely promoted the faculty to professors and associates, the colleges would have had enough PG seats.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dearth-of-specialists-to-operate-ventilators-in-punjab-250454
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rare Akali-Cong amity on Twitter||In an unusual display of bonhomie, the Punjab Youth Congress has appreciated a tweet by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to put politics on hold during the fight against Covid-19.Badal had tweeted: “I earnestly request everyone, in and outside our party, to put politics on hold at this critical hour & focus on saving fellow human beings. There is no Congress, no SAD, or AAP, BJP or Communist at this time. There are just fellow human beings.”The Youth Congress welcomed the tweet, saying: “We have a huge difference of opinion on the lines of ideology with you, but this statement is the need of hour. We appreciate your concern sir...”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rare-akali-cong-amity-on-twitter-250455
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to start vaccinating people over 18 on Monday||Construction workers will be covered in the first phase of the coronavirus vaccination drive for those aged 18 and above that starts on Monday, said state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday.Sidhu said the Health Department has received one lakh doses of the COVID-19 vaccine for the 18-44 age group, whose vaccination will start from Monday across the state.Earlier in the day, an official statement quoting Sidhu had said the government had decided to cover construction workers and their family members in the first phase.Later, in an amended statement, it did not mention family members but said construction workers will be vaccinated in the first phase.In May, the minister said government employees, construction workers, teachers and other staff at government and private educational establishments will be covered under the drive for the 18-44 age group. The minister said the Punjab government had placed an immediate order of 30 lakh doses with Serum Institute of India Ltd and has been told that 4.29 lakh doses for the group will be given in the month of May.Individuals with co-morbidities are at the highest risk, hence, 70 per cent of doses have been allocated to this group in the next phase, he said in an official statement here.He further said the state government is developing a plan for the evaluation of vaccine effectiveness.This will be valuable in designing further control efforts, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-start-vaccinating-people-over-18-on-monday-250401
10-05-2021||Chandigarh||SIT free to wrap up Kotkapura investigation before HC’s six-month deadline, says Punjab government||The Punjab government said on Sunday that the six-month deadline to complete SIT investigations into the Kotkapura firing was set by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, and that investigators were free to complete their probe before such a deadline.   Reacting to criticism of the government on the six-month deadline, a spokesperson of the Punjab government said the new Special Investigation Team (SIT), constituted by the state government on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, was not, however, barred by the court to complete the probe earlier, even within two months if possible, said the spokesperson.Pointing to the High Court order dated April 9, 2021, the spokesperson observed that as per Direction (vii),“The investigation of these FIRs shall be concluded as expeditiously as possible, preferably within a period of six months from the date of the constitution of SIT,” the spokesperson said.This court direction has been simply reproduced in the SIT re-constitution notification issued by the state government, which has been specifically barred from interfering in any manner, as per Direction (ii) and (iv) of the order, said the spokesperson.As evident from the court directive, the period of six months is an upper limit imposed by the High Court, the spokesperson pointed out, adding that the SIT is free to conclude investigation before that.The spokesperson said it was clear that the notification, and the intent, of the state government had been misread and misconstrued by certain elements, motivated by vested political interests, adding that the government lead by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was committed to a free and fair investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-free-to-wrap-up-kotkapura-investigation-before-hcs-six-month-deadline-says-punjab-government-250375
10-05-2021||---||Badals, not Capt Amarinder, ruling Punjab: Navjot Sidhu sharpens attack on Congress government||Chandigarh, April 9Navjot Singh, yet again on Sunday, sharpened his attack on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for allegedly shielding “Badal family” and promoting “mafia raj”.Also read: Navjot Singh Sidhu hits out at Punjab Chief Minister over formation of new SIT to probe Kotkapura firingNavjot Sidhu 'roasts' Capt Amarinder over Bargari sacrilege cases; posts video 'promising to send Badals to jail'Navjot Singh Sidhu, Partap Bajwa question 6-month deadline to the new SITNavjot tweeted: “Consensus among MLAs, Badal Sarkar is ruling in lieu of Congress Govt ... Bureaucracy and Police act as per wishes of Badal Family, more often than listening to our MLAs and Party workers. Govt run not for welfare of the People, but for continuing control of Mafia Raj  #75-25”.Consensus among MLAs, Badal Sarkar is ruling in lieu of Congress Govt ... Bureaucracy and Police act as per wishes of Badal Family, more often than listening to our MLAs and Party workers. Govt run not for welfare of the People, but for continuing control of Mafia Raj #75-25  Sidhu for the past many days has been attacking Capt over the delay in probe in the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident.He has accused the chief minister of having a friendly match between the Congress government and the Badals.He had to resign from Cabinet in 2019 after he openly spoke of the alleged friendly match.Congress MLAs and some ministers are said have met Sidhu and “group” against the chief minister over the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-not-capt-amarinder-ruling-punjab-navjot-sidhu-sharpens-attack-on-congress-government-250347
10-05-2021||New Delhi||PM Modi speaks to CMs of Punjab, 3 other states on Covid situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to the chief ministers of Punjab, Karnataka, Bihar and Uttarakhand on the COVID-19 situation in their states, official sources said.Modi has been speaking to state chief ministers and lieutenant governors of union territories for the last few days to assess the pandemic situation there and offer suggestions.Chief ministers have also briefed him on the measures being taken by them to deal with the raging second wave of the pandemic.India recorded 4,03,738 fresh COVID-19 cases in a day, which pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.The death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-modi-speaks-to-cms-of-punjab-3-other-states-on-covid-situation-250329
