12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 197 COVID-19 fatalities, death toll rises to 11,111||Punjab on Wednesday registered 197 more coronavirus deaths, taking the toll to 11,111, while 8,347 new cases took the infection tally to 4,67,539, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 76,856 on Tuesday to 79,963.Twenty-eight deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 20 each from Patiala and Bathinda, 19 from Amritsar and 14 from Sangrur, among fatalities reported in the past 24-hours.Ludhiana registered the maximum number of cases at 1,215 followed by 874 in Bathinda, 821 in Jalandhar, 723 in Fazilka and 713 in Mohali, among daily fresh cases.A total of 4,971 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 3,76,465, according to the bulletin.There are 342 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 9,736 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 79,32,936 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-197-covid-19-fatalities-death-toll-rises-to-11-111-251896
12-05-2021||---||Sun Foundation donates 200 oxygen concentrators to Punjab||New Delhi, May 12Sun Foundation on Wednesday said it has donated 200 oxygen concentrators to Punjab to deal with the cases of rising COVID infections in the state.The foundation’s chairman Vikramjit Sahney said the concentrators are being donated to respective Deputy Commissioners for use by the needy and poor.“We have donated additional 200 Oxygen Concentrators for Punjab for most affected districts like Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala, Bhatinda and Hoshiarpur,” he said in a statement.In addition, he said 100 concentrators were donated to SGPC and 500 to various hospitals and COVID care centres in Delhi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sun-foundation-donates-200-oxygen-concentrators-to-punjab-251888
12-05-2021||---||More Punjab ministers join chorus for disciplinary action against Sidhu||Chandigarh, May 12Protesting against the party MLA’s unwarranted belligerence against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, more Punjab cabinet ministers on Wednesday joined state Congress leaders seeking strong disciplinary action by the party high command against Navjot Sidhu.Sidhu’s provocative and targeted attacks on Amarinder over the past several days were an invitation for disaster for the Congress, said Balbir Sidhu, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar, not ruling out a collusion between Sidhu and state opposition parties, such as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) or Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).It was quite possible, they said, that Sidhu’s targeted attacks on the Chief Minister were instigated by the AAP or BJP leaders to create problems in the Punjab Congress to further their electoral agenda in the state.In a joint statement, two days after three of their colleagues had also launched a counter-offensive against Sidhu, these four ministers said the Congress MLA’s verbal assaults on Amarinder on sacrilege and other issues amounted to open rebellion against the party. “He should be immediately suspended, if not expelled, as his continued presence in Punjab Congress was creating a mess in the party’s state unit and diverting its attention from the more important task of gearing up for the polls,” they added.“He is nothing but a trouble-maker whose contribution to the Congress and the state government in Punjab in all these years has been virtually nil,” the ministers said.Citing Amarinder’s open challenge to Sidhu to contest against him from Patiala instead of raving and ranting against him publicly, the ministers said the MLA should quit the Congress and should contest against the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-punjab-ministers-join-chorus-for-disciplinary-action-against-sidhu-251862
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-minister Inderjit Singh Zira dies of cancer in Mohali||Senior Congress leader and former Punjab minister Inderjit Singh Zira died of cancer on Wednesday at a private hospital in Mohali.He was 63.He is survived by his wife and two sons. His elder son, Kulbir Singh Zira, is a Congress MLA from Zira assembly constituency of the state.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled his demise in an official statement.“With the death of Inderjit Singh Zira, a void has been created within the party circles, which is difficult to be filled,” he said.The CM described him as “a fine human being with the qualities of head and heart beside a gentleman politician”. He said Zira worked “relentlessly” for the welfare of all sections of the society, especially the farmers and farm workers to safeguard their interests.“His outstanding services towards the overall development of the Malwa region would ever be remembered by one and all,” the CM added.Ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa also expressed grief over Zira's death. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-minister-inderjit-singh-zira-dies-of-cancer-in-mohali-251811
12-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sidharth Shukla's cheeky request to rumoured girlfriend Shehnaaz Gill as she turns producer will make you smile||Not many people are aware that Shenaaz Gill's latest music video 'Little Star' was produced by the actress itself. Shehnaaz's brother Shehbaz also made her debut through this song. Now, rumoured boyfriend Sidharth Shukla, in a tweet, has praised the Punjabi star's efforts, and cheekily requested work from the new producer.  Congratulating Shehbaz on his work, Sidharth mentioned that he didn’t know he was so talented. “Hey @ShehbazBadesha my boy good job with the video loved the song and you … didn’t know you were so talented..keep doing better,” he tweeted. He then went on to praise Shehnaaz on turning producer and asked her to remember him if there’s any work for him. “@ishehnaaz_gill you’ve become a producer now … kya baat hai boss you killing it ! … apne ko bhi kisi kaam ke liye yaad karna .. proud of you,” wrote Sidharth Shukla.Hahahahah ❤️❤️❤️❤️ love u bai  While Shehbaz wrote, “Hahahahah love u bai,” Shehnaaz is yet to reply. On the other hand, fans praised Sidharth and Shehbaz's close bond.While one follower replied, ” Omg how beautiful tweet,” another shared a GIF of Jerry crying, and wrote, “Hum achanak se amir kyu bnte jaa rhe hai. Yeh khushi K aansu rukne ka naam hi Nhi lete. #SidNaaz..”   A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidharth-shuklas-cheeky-request-to-rumoured-girlfriend-shehnaaz-gill-as-she-turns-producer-will-make-you-smile-251808
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Punjabi singer Mika Singh initiates 'langar seva'; asks people to 'get off social media and help people'||Mika Singh feels people ought to stop indulging in Twitter sermonising and do some actual work if they want to pitch in with help amidst the Covid pandemic.The singer has initiated a food service (Langar Seva) under his NGO, and had kickstarted his efforts on Monday offering free meals to bus drivers, street kids, poor and the needy."When the Farmers' Protest took place and the farmers needed help, people indulged in Twitter-baazi, they kept tweeting that we will do this and we will do that, but nothing came out of it. There is no need to show support on Twitter, step outside and help, do the actual bit."Whenever there is an issue, people just hop onto Twitter and start writing. It's my humble request to people, do actual help and stop making bayaan baazi (sermonising) on Twitter," said Mika.Mika has been an avid supporter of the farmers' protest and still supports the cause, but believes that Covid is a bigger issue and everyone should start doing their bit.He said: "I am certain that the government will take a decision. There is no one bigger than government and this matter (the farmers' protest) should be resolved quickly. But right now, people are dying of hunger rather than coronavirus. We should also worry about people who are still alive and on road. People on road need food, the unemployed need food, people don't have drinking water, clothes to wear and place to sleep, and it's time we take living into consideration as well."Asked whether the entertainment industry was facing a backlash for not doing enough for people and just making tall claims on social media platforms, Mika replied: "I love Bollywood and I respect it. See, there are people who are actually doing good work and helping others, but there is huge brigade of people who just want to wear expensive shoes and watches. To that I say, if god has blessed you with good fortune, please help someone in need as well." — IANSA post shared by Divine Touch (@letshelpdivinetouch)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-mika-singh-initiates-langar-seva-asks-people-to-get-off-social-media-and-help-people-251804
12-05-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda cop accused of raping woman, dismissed from service after video goes viral||A sub-inspector in Bathinda district was dismissed from service on charges of having sexually exploited a woman in Bucho after a video of him allegedly raping her went viral, police sources said on Wednesday.The cop, Gurwinder Singh, who was with Batinda Police’s Crime Investigation Agency-1 was accused of sexually exploiting the woman, a widow, after threatening to implicate her son in a false drug case, the sources said.The victim claimed that Singh had booked her 20-year-old son in the case and had been using the charges to force himself on her. She claimed Singh had done so again on Tuesday, and that she’d alerted her relatives in the village, who brought other villagers to the woman’s house where he was allegedly raping her, the sources said.The cop was handed over to the police, the sources said. The woman was taken for medical examination and her statement has been recorded, the sources said.Bathinda’s Senior Superintendent of Police Bhupinderjit Singh Virk confirmed the cop has been booked and dismissed from service.Punjab State Women’s Rights Commission wrote to Virk demanding an investigation by a senior police officer. The commission has given police until May 17 to send it a status report on the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-cop-accused-of-raping-woman-dismissed-from-service-after-video-goes-viral-251801
12-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||Vaccination crunch, but Punjab ignores priority groups||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11Vying to be number one in vaccination coverage, various district administrations in Punjab are learnt to be flouting age norms.40 lakh given jab so farThough the state government has not yet allowed vaccination for the general public in the 18 to 45 age group, several people in this category are being inoculated out of turn across Punjab. A reality check found that the practice was more rampant in Mohali, Gurdaspur, Mansa and Bathinda districts. The authorities in these districts are reportedly vaccinating those below the age of 45 years after showing them as “frontline workers”. The Mohali district administration even organised special camps where beneficiaries were inoculated irrespective of their age, said sources.Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Mohali, maintained that they were only vaccinating eligible groups or those qualified as frontline workers by the district administration.Despite the Centre opening vaccination for the 18 to 45 age group from May 1, the Punjab Government had deferred inoculation in this category till it “had sufficient stock”. It had said it would first vaccinate those in the 45-plus category, besides the frontline and healthcare workers. Significantly, Punjab has been facing a shortage of doses even as the fatalities have been mounting. The number of doses administered weekly has been continuously declining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccination-crunch-but-punjab-ignores-priority-groups-251591
12-05-2021||Patiala||Second wave sweeps Punjab’s rural belt||The virus is fast spreading its tentacles across the countryside with rising number of Covid-19 deaths being reported in the rural areas.In the past 10 days, 50 persons have died of Covid-19 in villages across Patiala district. The count may be higher as many deaths go unreported due to lack of testing, say health officials.Reluctant to go for testingSuggesting a high case fatality rate (CFR) in the rural areas, Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said rural deaths were contributing around 34 per cent to the total count, while the rural case count was only 20 per cent.The CFR in rural areas stood at 2.86, compared to 1.73 in the urban areas. As per the Health Department, 3,708 persons tested positive in the rural areas of whom 106 succumbed to the virus between April 1 and May 11.It is learnt that people in villages do not readily go for testing and treatment, until they reach a critical stage. Further, health facilities in the countryside are said to be scant.A health official said: “Villagers do not go for testing until the situation becomes critical. Only a few undergo testing. As a result, many deaths go unreported. A majority of villagers is reluctant to visit health centres or hospitals despite having symptoms.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “We will soon increase testing in villages. Our mobile teams will hold testing camps at villages. Besides, we have already issued warnings to the practitioners there for causing undue delay in sending Covid patients to appropriate facilities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/second-wave-sweeps-punjabs-rural-belt-251512
12-05-2021||Muktsar||46 dead, 1,627 +ve in Muktsar district||In this month so far, 102 persons, including 46 villagers, have died of Covid-19 in the district.Official data reveals that nearly 47 per cent Covid patients, too, were detected in the rural areas. In the past 11 days, a total of 3,463 persons have tested positive in the district, which included 1,627 from the villages.Notably, 2,161 patients have recovered so far in the district in the corresponding period.Health experts said village residents, too, should strictly follow the Covid guidelines. “It is observed that usually people in villages are moving without masks. The latest trend is worrisome. Both the Covid positivity and death rates are increasing at a fast pace in the villages,” they said.A senior health department official said they had already appealed to village panchayats and residents to strictly follow the Covid guidelines.Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar, said, “The major reason behind the deaths is delay in Covid test and treatment. We are repeatedly requesting those having any symptoms to undergo test. Besides, those who came in contact with a Covid positive patient should also get tested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/46-dead-1-627-ve-in-muktsar-district-251513
12-05-2021||Mansa||Mansa village sees 50 cases, sealed by cops||Panic is palpable amongst residents of Nangal Kalan village in Mansa district with more than 50 villagers testing positive for Covid-19 and a large number of people developing symptoms such as fever, breathlessness and cough.The police administration has swung into action and sealed the village. Entry of outsiders has been banned and the police alongwith health teams are conducting door-to-door testing at the village. A close watch is being kept on the infected patients.The district administration announced the village a containment zone after a large number of residents tested positive.The panchayat met today at the village dispensary. Sarpanch Paramjit Singh said: “We are making announcements in the village and motivating residents to get tested. The villagers are also being implored to get vaccinated.”Health Department employee Chanandeep Singh said: “Twelve villages are attached to Nangal Kalan dispensary and so far, 125 persons have tested positive. Of these, 50 are from Nangal Kalan village alone while others are from nearby villagers. Around 30 people are getting tested and vaccinated at this dispensary daily.”Over the past few days, a large number of infections and mortalities are being reported from villages in southern districts of the state, including Bathinda and Mansa.Doctors say patients from villages are found to be suffering from lifestyle comorbidities, including obesity and diabetes, deteriorating their condition when they contract the virus.The rural population is also not enthusiastic about getting vaccinated. Even health teams visiting the rural areas for vaccination are facing resistance from villagers and is a cause for concern as this has also led to a high number of cases in the region over the past one week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-village-sees-50-cases-sealed-by-cops-251515
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||End procurement 18 days early, Punjab urges Centre||The Punjab Government has urged the Centre to curtail the procurement process by 18 days. The purchase of wheat in the state will now end on May 13, instead of May 31.This rescheduling is being requested in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. A letter sent today by the Secretary, Food and Supplies, to the Secretary, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, said: “... as the number of Covid positive cases is showing an increasing trend in the state, there is a need to consolidate the procurement operations...”The state had set up additional 1,600 purchase centres this year in the wake of the second wave. To date, 129.35 lakh metric tonnes of wheat has been procured, against the target of 130 LMT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/end-procurement-18-days-early-punjab-urges-centre-251516
12-05-2021||Ropar||Farmers defy norms, rally today||Defying the restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, local farm leaders have decided to organise a second rally demanding repeal of the farm laws at Abiana Nangal village in the Nurpur Bedi area on Wednesday.Gurnaib Singh Jetewal, one of the organisers, said the rally was being organised to mark ‘Sirhind Fateh Divas’ in honour of Sikh warrior Banda Singh Bahadur who conquered Sirhind on May 12, 1710, giving right of land to farmers.The organisers said key farm leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Gurnam Singh Charuni would address the gathering of 5,000 people drawn from Ropar, Nawanshahr and adjoining Himachal Pradesh.On May 1, the Ropar Kirti Kisan Morcha had organised a ‘Mazdoor Kisan Ekta’ conference at Chahar Mazara village in the district and the police had registered cases against dozens of people for violating the lockdown orders.Jetewal said the rally was being organised without any permission from the administration, adding they were not worried about police action.He said farmers had been asked to ferry people in large numbers from villages to the venue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-defy-norms-rally-today-251518
12-05-2021||Fazilka||Fazilka panchayat forms Covid panel||The panchayat of Ghuriana village in Fazilka district has constituted a nine-member Covid management committee.Sarpanch Charanjit Singh said the committee would work in tandem with the health officials to contain the virus spread. The village was declared a micro containment zone as it witnessed 26 positive cases recently.Senior Medical Officer Dr Pankaj Chauhan said 85 samples had been taken from the village today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-panchayat-forms-covid-panel-251519
12-05-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda sees 27 deaths in a day, most hospital beds occupied||Bathinda district witnessed 179 Covid deaths and around 8,000 cases in the first 11 days of this month.The high death rate has worried city residents. Bathinda witnessed the highest single-day spike of Covid deaths as 27 fatalities and nearly 700 new cases were reported on Tuesday and now, the active cases stand at 6,714 in the district.4 test positive at cancer instituteThis means that an average 15 to 16 persons are losing their lives daily in the district due to Covid. The number of positive cases has also gone up significantly this month. In April, 8,942 Covid cases were reported whereas in just 11 days of this month, the district has reported 8,079 cases.The condition is worrisome as 96 per cent of level-3 beds in the district are occupied. Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni said the positivity rate stood at 23.48 per cent of the total collected samples in Bathinda. Therefore, the situation demanded increasing the level-2 and level-3 beds for the treatment of Covid patients.“Despite our efforts, we have only been able to arrange 70-75 level-2 beds in newly the constructed AIIMS, which will be made available soon,” he said.DC B Srinivasan held a review meeting with officials and took stock of sampling and vaccination drive in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-sees-27-deaths-in-a-day-most-hospital-beds-occupied-251520
12-05-2021||Faridkot||Cancer treatment won’t be hit: Medical varsity||Under attack for converting Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI), Bathinda, into a Covid care centre, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has claimed the hospital was providing all healthcare facilities to cancer patients, besides rendering services to Covid patients. Cancer Institute is a constitute health centre of the university.“ACI continues to provide services to cancer patients as earlier. As many as 315 new patients came to the OPD in January this year, 432 in February, 478 in March and 408 in April. At least 30 cancer patients visited the hospital between May 1 and May 8,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, BFUHS.He said 1,839 old patients came to the OPD in January, 2,213 in February, 2,239 in March and 2,231 in April. Over 400 patients from May 1 to May 8 have visited the institute. In these hours of crisis, the doctors are giving their best available services to cancer patients as well as Covid patients. They should not be discouraged with any criticism, said the VC.There were 6,450 active cases in Bathinda district alone as daily positivity rate stands at 23.4 per cent. The situation demands further increase in the level-2 and level-3 beds. Despite our best efforts, we only have been able to arrange 70-75 level-2 beds in newly constructed AIIMS, Bathinda, which will be available soon, said the VC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cancer-treatment-wont-be-hit-medical-varsity-251521
12-05-2021||Amritsar||Crematoria overwhelmed, kin told to speed up last rites||With Covid casualties on the rise, crematoriums in Amritsar have run out of space.The caretakers of two main crematoriums — one under Durgiana Temple Managing committee and the other near Gurdwara Shaheedan Sahib — have asked the kin of the deceased to conclude the last rites ‘before time’ to pave the way for others in the queue.In April, the district witnessed 283 Covid deaths. With 17 more deaths reported to date, the toll has increased to 1,139. Ironically, the residents were reluctant to cremate the deceased on electric crematorium or the LPG furnaces. At the Durgiana crematorium, the electric furnace had been lying for the past four decades but seldom used. The LPG furnace, established a few years ago at a cost of Rs 25 lakh, too, found a few takers.Durgiana committee president Ramesh Sharma said they were forced to build makeshift pyre pedestals at whatever place they could spare on the premises.“We have been receiving around 45-47 bodies daily on an average, including 10-12 of Covid patients. To deal with the situation, we have made additional 12 pyre plinths. Still, all the 70 pedestals would be occupied till the kin of the deceased collect the mortal remains. Normally, they collect those on the fourth day after the ‘chautha’, as per the tradition. Now, we have been urging them to do the same in advance to vacate the space for those waiting in the queue for the last rites. Similarly, our ash storage, too, was full to its capacity as the families seldom collect the ashes for final immersion in holy waters on time,” he said.Using an adjoining plot “temporarily” to store wood for cremations led to a tiff between the committee and the PUDA, the custodian of the land. “We have again urged the PUDA authorities to charge a reasonable price for the purpose,” he said.The situation was also edgy at another crematorium near Gurdwara Sheheed Baba Deep Singh. Manager Krishan Gopal said almost all 47 pyre platforms remained booked.“We have been receiving around 30 bodies daily, including 7-8 of Covid patients. We have told the families to collect the remains on the second day positively and spare the space for the next cremation. We have made 50 additional ash storage boxes. The families can store the ashes in an urn and take those back after ‘chautha’ for immersion,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crematoria-overwhelmed-kin-told-to-speed-up-last-rites-251522
12-05-2021||Amritsar||Punjab failed to use central grant: Malik||Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik claimed the Centre had given the grant to Punjab well in advance for setting up three oxygen-generation plants from the PM Cares Fund, but due to ill-conceived policies, these could not be utilised properly.He alleged patients were losing lives due to Covid but the state government had not woken up from slumber. “Barring Faridkot Medical College, the government failed to get O2 plants started at Government Medical College, Amritsar and Patiala,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-failed-to-use-central-grant-malik-251524
12-05-2021||Ludhiana||Amid shortage, one ‘Fateh kit’ per family||Facing an acute shortage of ‘Fateh kits’, the health department has now decided to give just one kit per family, but extra medicines will be given as per need and the patients’ medical condition.The kit consists of 18 items, including pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, steamer, face masks, sanitiser, gargle solution and essential medicines such as cough syrup, multi-vitamin, vitamin-C tablets, Vit-D pouches, etc.Amid shortage, the department was already collecting oximeters back from the recovered patients to distribute among the new ones.A patient in Ludhiana said he got the ‘Fateh’ kit but it did not have an oximeter and thermometer. “It contained medicines and a manual. I bought oximeter for Rs 1,500 from the market,” he said.Dr Manoj Sobti, member, Punjab Medical Council, said giving one kit to the entire family was of no use. “All positive members in the family will be sharing the same equipment. The viral load on the equipment will increase if it is shared by so many people. Taking back oximeters from the recovered patients is also not a wise decision,” he said.“If possible, fresh equipment and kits should be provided to the patients as Covid is a communicable disease,” he said.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Covid nodal officer, said: “We asked the recovered patients to return the oximeters but we hardly got any and now we have placed a fresh order for the oximeters.”Despite repeated attempts, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu could not be contacted for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-shortage-one-fateh-kit-per-family-251525
12-05-2021||Ferozepur||Journalist dies of infection||113 units of blood collectedAbohar: With blood banks running low on stock and increasing Covid cases in Sriganganagar, the management of Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh organised a blood donation camp at a short notice. Gurdwara president Harpreet Singh Bhatia said 113 units of blood was collected by a team of Purohit Blood Bank. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/journalist-dies-of-infection-251526
12-05-2021||Faridkot||71 of 80 ventilators sent by Centre to Faridkot medical college ‘faulty’||Seventy-one of the 80 ventilators Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) received from the PM Cares Fund and the ventilator manufacturer AgVa Healthcare have turned out to be non-functional due to various technical snags.Quality significantly inferior, says BFUHS VCThe hospital already had 39 ventilators of which two were dysfunctional. The situation is alarming as at present over 310 Covid patients are admitted to the hospital.Anaesthetists and intensive care doctors said they didn’t trust the ventilators sent by the Centre as those functioned for just one or two hours before abruptly running out of order.The main function of a ventilator is to provide oxygen at varying levels as the oxygen requirement of every patient is different. Doctors complain that the pressure drops within half an hour of using these ventilators. “We have to be quite attentive while using these ventilators. It’s a challenge as one has to stay near the patient to avoid any problem, which is really difficult under current circumstances,” a doctor said.Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, of which GGSMCH is a constituent college, said: “We have raised these issues with the government. We have even conveyed that the quality of the ventilators provided under the PM Cares Fund is significantly inferior. Besides, the functional machines, too, are constantly hit by snags, so we cannot use these for patients until we have a repair mechanism in place.”The Punjab Chief Secretary has approved the hiring of engineers and technicians for the repair of these ventilators. “They are expected to reach Faridkot in the next 24 hours,” a source said.“We want a long-term comprehensive maintenance contract with the agency, which has provided these ventilators,” Dr Bahadur said, adding that despite all these odds, doctors and the paramedical staff at the hospital are trying their best to take care of the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/71-of-80-ventilators-sent-by-centre-to-faridkot-medical-college-faulty-251530
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Day after being fired, 1,400 NHM employees rejoin duty||A day after the state government terminated services of around 1,400 striking contractual health employees, most of them rejoined their duties.Around 3,000 employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) remained on strike for the past one week as they were demanding regularisation of services. Those who have been terminated include ANMs, nurses, data entry operators, Ayurvedic medical officers, community health officers, multipurpose health workers, etc.AAP: Move to sack staff dictatorialThe state’s health department officials confirmed that after the termination orders and the government’s decision to recruit volunteer staff, the employees rejoined their duties on Tuesday morning.Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) condemned the dismissal of the striking employees, saying CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu adopted a dictatorial attitude by suppressing their rights.In a statement today, AAP MLA and Deputy Leader of Opposition Sarvjit Kaur Manuke said the employees working in government departments, boards, corporations and other institutions had the right to protest and strike for their demands. She said the NHM employees had gone on strike to stress the government to fulfil their demands.Manuke said the CM had in the last Assembly elections promised that if the Congress came to power, all employees working in government agencies on contract would be regularised. “But today, when the NHM employees are demanding regularisation and equal pay for equal work, the government has adopted a dictatorial approach,” she added.Manuke said the NHM employees had been at the forefront of the Covid pandemic since last year and these employees were still performing their duties.The AAP leader further said Sidhu had always threatened the NHM employees instead of solving their problems and fulfilling their demands. “It would have been better if the Health Minister and the CM had talked to these employees and agreed to their demands to end the strike and use their services in the treatment of Covid victims,” Manuke said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-being-fired-1-400-nhm-employees-rejoin-duty-251546
12-05-2021||Abohar||Abohar firm donates 930 Oxygen concentrators||Sriganganagar-based Star Agri Warehouse and Collectorate Management Private Ltd has donated 930 medical oxygen concentrators worth Rs 6 crore for Covid patients in six states, including Punjab. Company chief Purushotam Goyal said 300 oxygen concentrators had been given to Rajasthan, 630 to Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and UP. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-firm-donates-930-oxygen-concentrators-251552
12-05-2021||Barnala||Quack found treating Covid patient||An inspection committee comprising Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Gurminder Kaur and Drug Inspector Eekant caught a fake doctor, without a medical degree, treating a patient with Covid-19 symptoms at his gastro entomology centre (GEC) in Barnala.After getting a report from the Health Department, Barnala SDM Varjeet Walia today wrote to the SSP seeking registration of an FIR. “A man, exhibiting his qualifications as MD, DNB (gastro) and MACG was running a GEC. He applied for a ‘D’ type oxygen cylinder three days ago. As I am the nodal officer for oxygen regulation, we provided him the oxygen on an emergency basis. The next day, he again applied for a cylinder, which raised suspicion as demand for an oxygen cylinder at a GEC was unusual,” said the SDM.He directed the committee to inspect the GEC. The committee found a patient with serious medical condition on oxygen support. The doctor when asked to furnish his medical degree failed to do so. The committee, in its report to the SDM, said the condition of the patient was critical. The SDM sent an ambulance to the centre for shifting the patient. “But on reaching there, it was found that he had fled after locking his centre. All his contact numbers were switched off. We are worried about the condition of the patient, who too is missing,” said the SDM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quack-found-treating-covid-patient-251557
12-05-2021||Ludhiana||8,760 more birds culled, 4,110 eggs destroyed in Kila Raipur||The Animal Husbandry Department today culled 8,760 additional birds at a poultry farm in Kila Raipur.The administration had ordered the culling of birds after samples taken from Suba Singh poultry farm tested positive for bird flu.Dr Paramdeep Singh Walia, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Ludhiana, said besides culling of birds, 4,110 eggs were destroyed. A rapid response team of the department had earlier culled 31,600 poultry birds at the poultry farm.In all, 75,000 birds were present at the farm. The National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, had confirmed the presence of avian influenza (H5N8 virus) in the samples taken from the poultry farm. The area within 1 km radius of the poultry farm was declared an infected zone, while the 10 km area around it was designated as a surveillance zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-760-more-birds-culled-4-110-eggs-destroyed-in-kila-raipur-251562
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Promises to Dalits ‘unfulfilled’, Cong MLAs get into a huddle||Close on the heels of some ministers and party MLAs holding meetings to exert pressure on the Chief Minister to fulfil the poll promises, Congress Dalit and OBC MLAs, including two Dalit ministers, today met to discuss the inordinate delay in the implementation of promises by their own government.The development gains importance in the wake of recent announcements by BJP and SAD to give adequate representation to Dalits and OBCs in political hierarchy, including the post of Deputy CM.Trying to steer clear of the platform being used by party leaders to vent their ire against the Chief Minister over the delay in giving justice to the families of victims of police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan, the Dalit leaders who met at the house of minister Charanjit Singh Channi made it clear that the meeting had nothing to do with the leadership issue and was confined to discuss the way forward in addressing the long-pending issues.The issues include implementation of Cabinet decision on 30 per cent reservation for Dalit and weaker sections in political appointments, at least six ministers of the total allowed strength of 18 in the Council of Ministers, representation for Dalit officers in higher government posts, implementation of 85th amendment to extend benefit of reservation to SC/weaker sections in matters of promotion with consequential seniority, abolition of group D posts, DC rates for safai karamcharis, besides others.Ministers Charanjit Channi and Aruna Chaudhary, besides 11 MLAs who were present in the meeting and others who joined over the phone, decided to seek time from the Chief Minister to discuss the urgent matter. The leaders are also likely to seek time from party president Sonia Gandhi over the issues.It was pointed out that despite raising the issues during Vidhan Sabha sessions, these had not been addressed.MLA Raj Kumar Verka, who was present in the meeting, said Channi informed the members about the letter on the issues he had written to the Chief Minister and party high command earlier this month. Aruna Chaudhary is learnt to have said the meeting should be restricted to only Dalit issues.Others MLAs present in the meeting included Sangat Singh Gilzian, Balwinder Singh Laddi, Dr Harjot Kanwal, Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Joginder Pal, Balwinder Dhaliwal, besides others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/promises-to-dalits-unfulfilled-cong-mlas-get-into-a-huddle-251571
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Leadership aware of party men’s concerns: Jakhar||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar today said the party leadership was aware of the concern of party leaders over punishment to the perpetrators of sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents and that the state government was duty bound to serve justice.Breaking his silence on party MLAs regrouping against the Chief Minister over the delay in justice to the families of police firing victims, Jakhar said everyone in Punjab was concerned on the issue. “I, as PPCC president, am duty bound to fulfil the commitment. But I want to assure everyone justice will be done.” He said the party high command was aware of the issue and that he was in touch with state leaders. On ministers and MLAs venting their anger on the state government, he said party issues should be resolved within the party.Amritsar MLA Dr Raj Kumar Verka, too, said the issue was already in the notice of the party high command.Party president Sonia Gandhi is learnt to have talked to the state leadership on the issue after yesterday’s CWC meeting.Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and former PPCC vice-president MM Singh Cheema has urged Gandhi to depute a senior party functionary as a special observer for Punjab to resolve the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leadership-aware-of-party-mens-concerns-jakhar-251573
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for offering bribe to tax official||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau today nabbed a person for offering Rs 50,000 to Additional Commissioner State Tax (ACST) in lieu of exempting GST on tobacco products.Chief Director-cum-DGP, Vigilance Bureau, BK Uppal said Varun Mahajan of Jalandhar city was arrested on the complaint of ACST (GST), Jalandhar, Dipender Singh Garcha. The complainant approached the VB and alleged accused Varun Mahajan, an agent, was offering him Rs 50,000 to release his consignment of tobacco products without paying GST which was received through the Railways at the Jalandhar station.After verifying information, the Vigilance laid a reverse trap and Mahajan was arrested on the spot while offering a bribe of Rs 50,000 to the complainant in the presence of two official witnesses.A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the accused at the VB police station and further investigation is under progress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-offering-bribe-to-tax-official-251574
12-05-2021||Sangrur||2 toll plaza staffers attempt suicide||Two employees of the Kalajhar toll plaza here yesterday attempted suicide in front of the Bhawanigarh SDM’s office over not getting salaries for the past few months.A group of employees, under the banner of Toll plaza Workers Union, had gathered in front of the SDM’s office. After failing to get any reply on salaries, employees Darshan Singh Laadi and Devinder Pal Singh doused themselves with petrol before the police intervened. They claimed they had not got any help despite repeated meetings with the employer and administration.“We have been without salaries for several months, but the authorities are not helping us. Our families have been without proper food and clothing. We have been borrowing money from relatives to make both ends meet. The government must listen to our problems and address these,” said an employee.SDM Dr Karmjit Singh he said they were trying to help the employees. “They have met me before and I have taken up the matter with the NHAI authorities. We understand their problems and are working at our level to help them,” said the SDM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-toll-plaza-staffers-attempt-suicide-251575
12-05-2021||Ferozepur||SAD candidate elected Mudki panchayat chief||After much dilly-dally, the nagar panchayat of Mudki got its president recently. During the peaceful election process, under the supervision of Amit Gupta, SDM, the SAD candidate, Gurjit Kaur Brar, was elected the president.Earlier, the election of the president had to be postponed twice as the ruling Congress was reportedly trying to lure some MCs to make its own president. During the nagar panchayat polls, the SAD had secured eight out of 13 seats, while five seats were won by the ruling Congress. Mudki is the first nagar panchayat in this region, where the SAD secured victory. Former MLA Joginder Singh Jindu said the president had been elected unanimously. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-candidate-elected-mudki-panchayat-chief-251576
12-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||3 killed in car-truck collision||Three youths were killed in a road accident on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway here late last night.The victims were on their way from Ludhiana to Chandigarh in a car when it crashed into a truck coming from the wrong side near Ranwan village.The deceased were identified as AAP trade wing state vice-president Sandeep Singla of Dhuri, Congress leader Vijay Agnihotri, alias Goldy, of Ludhiana and Mandeep Singh Dhindsa of Dhuri. All three were close friends.Khamano SHO Harminder Singh said around 1 am, a Toyota car collided with a truck coming from the wrong side near the Ranwan-Maheshpur T-point.He said the police reached the spot and retrieved the three from the car by shattering the windowpanes. He said two persons died on the spot, while the third died on the way to the hospital.The driver of the truck fled the scene. The police have impounded the truck. The bodies were handed over to the families after post-mortem examinations. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-killed-in-car-truck-collision-251577
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers forced to give land for road project: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president and Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann today accused the Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government of forcibly snatching the land of farmers for the construction of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway under the Bharatmala Project.In a statement issued from the party headquarters here on Tuesday, Mann said the Captain government’s “dictatorial” decree to forcibly occupy the lands of farmers should be cancelled immediately and the problems of farmers should be resolved before acquiring the land. Mann said the demands of farmers were valid and they should get the price of the land as per the market rate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-forced-to-give-land-for-road-project-aap-251579
12-05-2021||Abohar||Two held for thefts at nine liquor vends||The police have arrested two persons who had allegedly burgled nine liquor vends in the past four weeks in Sriganganagar.The police said Aladdin (22) and Mohammad Subhan, alias Bhani (22), were held after the car, in which they were travelling, was intercepted by a team that was led by ASI Dharminder Singh. Two unlicensed pistols were seized from them. On being questioned, they reportedly confessed to have targeted nine liquor-vends in border area villages. They had allegedly taken away 369 boxes of liquor, CCTV camera, a DVR and thousands of rupees. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-for-thefts-at-nine-liquor-vends-251580
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Employer not required to assign reason for transferring staffer: High Court||An employer is not required to justify or assign reason for transferring an employee from one place to another, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear. The assertion came as the Bench refused to interfere with the transfer of a police official following High Court orders against posting cops in districts where they were being tried in criminal cases.The ruling by Justice Suvir Sehgal came on a petition by a police official against the state of Punjab and other respondents. He was seeking the quashing of an impugned order dated April 20 transferring him from Ludhiana (rural) to Khanna.The petitioner’s counsel submitted the impugned transfer order was passed in compliance with interim order dated March 15 by the High Court, whereby it was directed that no police officer would be posted in any district, where he was being tried in a criminal case.The counsel contended that the petitioner-police official was named as an accused in an FIR lodged on January 3, 2020, for wrongful restraint, rash driving and other offences under Sections 341, 323, 279 and 427 of the IPC at Jagraon city police station in Ludhiana (Rural) district. He was yet to face trial as even the challan had not been presented.The counsel added, in any case, there was an amicable settlement. A panchayati compromise was arrived at and the “FIR stood settled”. He added the petitioner’s parents were suffering from age-related ailments. His father, a heart patient, was taking treatment from Ludhiana DMC and his transfer would result in hardship.Justice Sehgal added an employee’s transfer was a part of the service conditions and an incidence of service. “An employee cannot insist that once appointed or posted at a particular place, he should continue at the same place as long as he desires,” Justice Sehgal added. Justice Sehgal observed the petitioner had been serving at the same station for the last more than nine years. He was transferred to Khanna, barely 40 km from his place of present posting. “Therefore, his argument that the transfer will result in a hardship is a fallacy. There is no allegation of mala fide against any official nor is it the argument of the counsel for the petitioner that the service rules prohibit such a transfer,” Justice Sehgal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/employer-not-required-to-assign-reason-for-transferring-staffer-high-court-251581
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Expedite work on Basera project’||Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directed the Department of Local Government to expedite work on the ‘Basera’ project to achieve the target of giving proprietary rights to 10,000 slum households by September. The CM asked the officials to fast-track all major projects under the state and the Union Government schemes to ensure their completion by December. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expedite-work-on-basera-project-251582
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Release funds for sports varsity: CM Punjab||Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directed the Finance Department to release the sanctioned amount of Rs 60 crore for the first phase of construction of the Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University (MBSPSU), Patiala campus.He asked the department to enhance the allocation for the institution in this year’s Budget, saying Rs 15 crore allotted for the university was less.Reviewing the progress of the state’s first sports university, the Chief Minister today asked PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla to assign a Chief Engineer to steer the campus construction, with the help of an external consultant, to ensure speedy completion of the project.He also directed Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi to set up a three-member committee to coordinate with the PWD for expediting the work on the university, which had been functioning from another campus since 2019.The Chief Minister approved a draft MoU to be signed with the UK-based Loughborough University to institutionalise the collaboration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-funds-for-sports-varsity-cm-punjab-251583
12-05-2021||Gurdaspur||SAD on slippery ground in Gurdaspur||Former SAD Cabinet minister Sucha Singh Langah has been rendered ‘hors de combat’ in Gurdaspur’s political battlefield following Akal Takht’s reluctance to grant him a reprieve.This setback coupled with filing of an NDPS case against his son Parkash Singh, means that it is virtually curtains for Langah who, at one time, was considered to be among the top-rung Akali leaders.Sleaze video rowThe Akalis started losing ground after the 2012 Assembly poll due to an assortment of reasons. The first and foremost was Sucha Singh Langah’s marginalisation. In 2017, a sleaze video featuring him and a woman surfaced. Subsequently, he was booked in a rape case and later fired by the SADThere was a time when Langah was all-powerful. He would keep bureaucrats and police officers waiting for him at his Dhariwal residence. In this border district, he was regarded as both the king and the kingmaker. Nobody dared to point a finger at him during his two-decade tenure as district president.Langah’s conduct and the revolt of party veteran Sewa Singh Sekhwan has dealt a crippling blow to the SAD in the area.Ex-Speaker and yet another heavyweight Nirmal Singh Kahlon’s indisposition, too, is not helping things. It is another matter that his son Ravi Karan Kahlon is trying hard to keep the family flag flying high in their home bastion of Fatehgarh Churian.Batala sitting SAD MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal has had his wings clipped after the Congress swept the MC polls last month. There are murmurs that he may jump ship ahead of the Assembly polls. Only Gurdaspur SAD president Gurbachan Singh Babbehali is putting up a semblance of a fight.The Akalis started losing ground after the 2012 Assembly polls due to an assortment of reasons. The first and foremost was Langah’s marginalisation. He lost the 2012 and 2017 polls to Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. In the run-up to the 2017 Gurdaspur parliamentary bypoll, a sleaze video featuring him and a woman surfaced. Subsequently, he was booked in a rape case and was later fired by his own party. On the other hand, Akal Takht excommunicated him on the basis of “immoral conduct.” He was a sitting SGPC member when the video emerged. For the last several months, Langah has been trying to get reprieve from Akal Takht which may pave way for his political comeback.Observers opine that with the Sikh clergy in no mood to relent and with his son being booked for a crime as heinous as heroin possession, things are back to square one for Langah in particular and the Akalis in general.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-on-slippery-ground-in-gurdaspur-251585
