13-05-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Punjab sees 184 more deaths, 8,494 new cases||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Punjab reached 11,297 with 184 more fatalities in the past 24 hours, while 8,494 fresh infections took the tally to 4,75,949, according to a medical bulletin issued on Thursday.The number of active cases marginally dropped from 79,963 on Wednesday to 79,950.Twenty-five deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 23 from Sangrur, 17 from Patiala, 15 from Muktsar, 12 from Bathinda and 10 each from Amritsar, Fazilka and Jalandhar, among deaths witnessed in the past one day.Ludhiana, which continues to register the maximum number of cases in the state, reported 1,335 infections, followed by 991 in Mohali, 877 in Bathinda and 577 in Jalandhar, among daily fresh cases.A total of 8,237 COVID-19 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of those recovered to 3,84,702, the bulletin said.There are 429 critical COVID-19 patients who are on ventilator support while 9,619 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 80,01,745 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh registered 760 fresh cases, taking the count to 53,393, according to a medical bulletin.Ten more people died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 609.The number of active cases was 8,441, it said.A total of 837 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of those recovered to 44,343, the bulletin said.A total of 4,51,453 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 3,96,911 tested negative while reports of 73 samples were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-184-more-deaths-8-494-new-cases-252382
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Faced with vaccine shortage, Punjab govt decides to join global COVAX facility||The Punjab government on Thursday decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at the best price, becoming the first state to take such a step amid vaccine shortage in the country.The decision was taken during the Cabinet meeting, which also approved the purchase of Covaxin for industrial workers, for whose vaccination the industry has expressed willingness to pay.The state government has so far ordered only Covishield vaccine for the 18-44 age group, but with this decision, decks have been cleared to place orders for Covaxin too.Reviewing the vaccination status and availability in the state, the Cabinet said it was necessary to source vaccine globally.Since the COVAX facility offers the best prices, the state should make an attempt to join the same for procuring vaccines from the international markets, it decided.The suggestion for joining the COVAX was given to the Cabinet by Dr Gagandeep Kang, who heads the Punjab Expert Group on Vaccination.COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access, abbreviated as COVAX, is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines directed by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and the World Health Organisation.In a brief presentation, Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed the Cabinet that of the 30 lakh Covishield doses ordered by the state government, the Serum Institute of India had so far confirmed 4.29 lakh, of which 1 lakh doses had been received.He further disclosed that some Central government institutions and industrial establishments were requesting for early vaccination of their workforce.Given the shortage of vaccines, he pointed out that certain states were floating global tenders to import the same.The health secretary further apprised the Cabinet that for the 45+ age group, the last tranche of Covishield vaccine (1,63,710 doses) was received on May 9, taking the total to 42,48,560. As many as 3,45,000 doses were given to the armed forces, while the total vaccination utilization stood at 39,03,560.For Covaxin in the 45+ category, the last tranche of vaccine received was of 75,000 doses (6 May, 2021), taking the total received to 4,09,080, of which utilisation till date was 3,52,080, leaving availability of only 57,000 now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faced-with-vaccine-shortage-punjab-govt-decides-to-join-global-covax-facility-252346
13-05-2021||New Delhi||Reports of faulty ventilators supplied to Punjab hospital unfounded: Centre||The Centre on Thursday dismissed as "unfounded" media reports suggesting ventilators supplied by the Union government under the PM CARES Fund to GGS Medical College and Hospital in Punjab's Faridkot are lying unused due to technical glitches which have not been resolved. In a statement, the Union health ministry said lack of infrastructure at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMC) and Hospital has resulted in the malfunctioning of the life-saving machines. In order to augment the existing hospital infrastructure, the Union government has been centrally procuring and providing states/union territories/central hospitals/institutes with essential medical devices including ventilators since April 2020, the ministry said in its statement. “There have been some media reports suggesting that government of India supplied ventilators (supported by PM- CARES) to GGS Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, Punjab are lying unused as a result of technical glitches which have not been resolved due to poor after-sales support by the manufacturers,” the ministry said in the statement. "These reports seem to be unfounded, not having the full information on the matter," it said. With reference to the recent media report regarding 71 of 80 AgVa make ventilators being non-functional or faulty at the hospital, it is clarified that 88 ventilators have been supplied by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and five by AgVa.After successful installation and commissioning, these ventilators were provided with final acceptance certificate by the hospital authorities, the statement said. BEL has informed that the bulk of the ventilators are not faulty, as are being reported in a section of the media, the statement said.Their engineers have visited the medical college on different occasions to address the complaints received and carried out minor repairs required promptly. They have even conducted repeated demonstrations of the functioning of the ventilators to the staff over there, the statement stated.It was observed that there are problems with the infrastructure at the hospital including non-availability of required pressure in the central oxygen gas pipelines.  Further, consumables like flow sensors, bacteria filters and HME filters are not being changed by the hospital authorities according to the prescribed norms, or the ventilators are being used without these important consumable items, the statement said. Maintenance of correct gas pressures as difference between air pressure and oxygen pressure cannot be more than 10 PSI and use of proper consumables are essential requirements, without which performance of CV200 ventilators is not guaranteed, it said. BEL engineers visited GGSMC again on Thursday and made five ventilators functional only by replacing a few consumables and demonstrated their optimum performance to the GGSMCH authorities, thereby, making it evident that when operated properly, the ventilators will provide reliable performance, the statement said.  In addition to the instructions given in the user manual, detailed instructions and guidelines have also been issued to all the ventilator users regarding infrastructure requirements, proper usage and maintenance of the CV200 ventilators, it said. However, these are not being followed by many hospitals/medical colleges in Punjab. They have been, instead, raising the issue of ventilators being non-functional without any basis, the ministry said. It is clarified that BEL will continue to provide all the technical support required by the state in meeting the ventilator requirement during this pandemic situation, it stressed. Ventilators were available in very limited numbers in government hospitals across the country at the beginning of the pandemic last year, the statement said. Moreover, very limited manufacturing of ventilators was taking place in the country and most of the suppliers abroad were not in a position to send the machines in large quantities to India, it said.  That is when local manufacturers were encouraged to produce ‘Make in India' ventilators to address the huge projected demand and many of them were first time manufacturers, it said.  The ventilator models went through rigorous screening, technical demonstration and clinical validation process in the very limited time available for the same, through domain knowledge experts, and after their approval, these were put into supplies, the statement said. There are a few states which have received the ventilators but are yet to get these installed in their hospitals. The Union health secretary has written to seven such states on April 11 which still have more than 50 ventilators lying uninstalled with them for the last 4-5 months, it said.  They have been requested to get the installation expedited so that the ventilators can be put to optimal use, the statement said. In addition, the Union health ministry has written to states and UTs on May 9 informing them once again of the helpline numbers of ventilator manufactures, which are also available on the devices in the form of stickers.  In addition, information has again been provided of state wise WhatsApp groups created with the concerned nodal officers of states/UTs, representatives of the user hospitals and technical teams of the manufacturers in order to address any technical issues in real time, the statement said. Dedicated e-mail addresses of these manufacturers have also been shared with the states and UTs, it added. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reports-of-faulty-ventilators-supplied-to-punjab-hospital-unfounded-centre-252317
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||'Stop firing from party colleague shoulders', Navjot Sidhu hits out at Punjab CM Amarinder||Days after seven ministers sought suspension of Navjot Singh Sindu for indiscipline by launching verbal attacks on Capt Amarinder Singh, the cricketer-turned-politician has advised the Chief Minister "to stop firing from party colleagues shoulders".To counter Sidhu's attack, the ministers have urged the party high command to take strict action against Sidhu for his open rebel against the state party leadership.Reacting to the minister's statement, Sidhu said that his "soul has demanded justice for Guru Sahib"."Yesterday & Today, My soul’s demand is Justice for Guru Sahib, will reiterate it tomorrow as well! Punjab’s Conscience is above party lines, Stop firing from party colleagues shoulders. You are directly Responsible & Answerable - Who will protect you in court of the Great Guru ?” read Navjot's tweet.Yesterday & Today, My soul’s demand is Justice for Guru Sahib, will reiterate it tomorrow as well ! Punjab’s Conscience is above party lines, Stop firing from party colleagues shoulders. You are directly Responsible & Answerable - Who will protect you in court of the Great Guru ?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-firing-from-party-colleague-shoulders-navjot-sidhu-hits-out-at-punjab-cm-amarinder-252310
13-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh sets major fitness goals in latest Instagram video; fans long for 'gyms to reopen'||Punjabi star Diljit Dosanjh shared his workout routine on his latest Instagram video. The actor has been motivating his fans to stay in shape during these challenging times.The Punjabi star was seen working out in a gym. Wearing a black and grey gym rig, the actor was seen doing back exercises. Check out the video here:A post shared by DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh)  The video left netizens hoping for gyms to reopen. One wrote, "Yha kb gym open honge #discoronashitisneverending", another said, "India mein toh Gyms pata nahi aab kab hi khulenge", one wrote, "Hitting hard", another wrote, "Trainer change krn da time a gya ...", one wrote, "More Strength and Power your way!".Meanwhile, on the work front, Diljit Dosanjh recently wrapped up the shoot of his upcoming movie ‘Honsla Rakh’. Staring him, Shehnaaz Gill, Shinda Grewal, and Sonam Bajwa, the movie is slated to release on October 15th.He also has ‘Jodi’ with Nimrat Khaira, which is scheduled to release in June.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-sets-major-fitness-goals-in-latest-instagram-video-fans-long-for-gyms-to-reopen-252293
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||'Feeling suffocated' in Congress, ex-MLA Mohinder Rinwa to join SAD today||Congress ex-MLA Mohinder Rinwa from Fazilka will on Thursday join the Shiromani Akali Dal.Rinwa confirmed he will join the party on Thursday at 2.30 pm in Chandigarh.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal will induct him into the party, he said. Rinwa told The Tribune that he was "feeling suffocated" in the Congress.Rinwa successfully contested Assembly elections from Fazilka in 1992 and 2002. He contested as an Independent candidate in 1992 against his cousin Sneh Lata, daughter of late Cabinet minister Ch Kanshi Ram, and won the election.He also unsuccessfully contested as the Congress candidate in 1997, 2007 and 2012 and lost to BJP’s Surjit Kumar Jyani.He was denied the Congress ticket in 2017. He remained as Chief Parliamentary Secretary and Chairman Punjab State Tubewell Corporation.His son Sidharath Rinwa is presently a member of Zila Parishad from the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/feeling-suffocated-in-congress-ex-mla-mohinder-rinwa-to-join-sad-today-252285
13-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kapil Sharma looks unrecognisable in his 23-year-old college picture: 'Pockets were always empty but smile was always there'||Comedian Kapil Sharma took a trip down memory lane, and shared a picture from his college days. The actor's clean shaven-face came as a surprise to many of his fans.   "Just found this 23 years old pic,it was just after finishing the performance of our play #Azaadi” in the youth festival of shri “guru Nanak dev university”.I removed my beard n clicked a photo with my colleagues, clicking a photo was such a luxury in those days that I didn’t even realize gum is still there on my face," Kapil wrote. The TV host added: "Missing those days , pockets were always empty but smile was always there, jus thought to share with u guys. Hope u all r well n safe ❤️🙏 #staysafe #stayhome #old #memories #college #hinducollegeamritsar #gurunanakdevuniversity #gndu #gnduamritsar."On the work front, Kapil is now gearing up for a Netflix show. The project was recently announced alongside Netflix India's slate for this year. A release date, however, is yet to be announced.A post shared by Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma)About the project, Kapil had said in a statement last year: "2020 has been a bumpy ride for everyone around the world and my motive is to make people forget their worries and welcome this new year with love, laughter and positivity. I always wanted to be on Netflix but I didn't have their number. I cannot wait to share more details with my fans soon."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapil-sharma-looks-unrecognisable-in-his-23-year-old-college-picture-pockets-were-always-empty-but-smile-was-always-there-252281
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Over 3,700 acres of shamlat land illegally sold in Mohali villages||The names of several influential people in the state are coming up in the Punjab Vigilance Bureau’s investigation into the illegal sale of 2,714 acres of shamlat (village common land) in Majrian village of Mohali.These influential persons own farmhouses on the land or are beneficiaries in the sale of land. Besides Majrian, the fraudulent sale of over 1,000 acres of common land in Seonkh village of Mohali has also come to light.Main accusedThe VB, which has seized records of registration of properties, had on May 9 arrested four of the 11 booked for selling shamlat land in a fraudulent manner in Majrian. Post-arrest investigations have revealed that a property dealer named Sham Lal, who is absconding, is allegedly the mastermind. His driver Hans Raj (arrested along with three others) is the seller of more than 100 acres even though he doesn’t officially own any land. In Seonkh village, the accused persons, including Sham Lal, in one case played fraud with the government over the distribution of 700 acres of shamlat land among farmers on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. They allegedly gave away more than 100 acres to fake persons and later sold it off. These influential persons from across the state possibly have strong connections at the top level of the state government, said sources.“The scam has exposed unscrupulous revenue officials, property dealers along with big fish involved in manipulating revenue records to make huge profits,” said DGP, Vigilance, BK Uppal.Summons are being issued to owners in both villages, and the government is likely to get the land vacated, say officials.Vigilance DSP Iqbal Singh, who has been investigating the matter for almost two years, said records since the 1990s had been scrutinised. It was found that the accused, especially property dealer Sham Lal, started transferring shamlat land in fake as well as real names. Later on, the land was sold multiple times. His driver Hans Raj was one of the sellers.The DSP said Sham Lal had two bank accounts in the driver’s name. The buyer deposited money in the driver’s account. Sham Lal withdrew it through signed blank cheques obtained from the driver. Records showed the driver sold 103 acres.“We have summoned the present owners. It is suspected some of the property owners may be fake or properties could be benami,” said the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP).In connivance with revenue officials, the original documents under which transfer of land was executed were destroyed, said the officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-3-700-acres-of-shamlat-land-illegally-sold-in-mohali-villages-252057
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rushing experts to fix Punjab ventilators, says Vardhan||After Punjab’s Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Parkash Soni flagged the issue of “faulty” ventilators given by the Centre under the PM Cares Fund, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan today assured the state that a team of experts would be sent to fix the machines.Most of the 320 ventilators provided by the Centre to the state are non-functional. More than 280 of these are faulty and gathering dust in storerooms of three medical colleges of the state.“It is my appeal to the Government of India that it should provide high-quality ventilators or provide at least one engineer at each Government Medical College to ensure their functionality. These engineers should have enough spare parts, so that all ventilators are made functional and can serve critically ill patients,” said Soni.Of the 320 ventilators sent by the Centre, 113 were given to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot. Just 23 of these are functional, 90 are not. Of the 109 ventilators in Government Medical College, Amritsar, only 12 are functional.Government Medical College, Patiala, has 98 ventilators. Even though it fixed 48 of these, anesthetists are not using them as they have little faith in the repaired machines. In the past, a similar complaint was raised by Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Over 1,000 ventilators provided to Rajasthan under the PM Cares Fund faced a technical snag.(With inputs from Anirudh Gupta in Ferozepur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rushing-experts-to-fix-punjab-ventilators-says-vardhan-252059
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||High Court seeks ground report on situation in rural Punjab, Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made clear its intent to examine Covid intrusion in rural areas by calling for affidavits from secretary-level health authorities in Punjab and Haryana. The Bench also made it clear that the states were required to examine bringing into play a rule that made vaccination mandatory for government employees to make offices fully functional at the earliest.Doctors can’t switch off phones: courtThe Bench left it to the two states and Chandigarh UT to ask corporate houses to join the fight against the pandemic by providing ambulances, oxygen beds, ventilators, CT scan machines, etc., to government hospitals.As the matter came up for resumed hearing this morning, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asked Punjab A-G Atul Nanda on monitoring the situation in the rural areas. “It is directed that an affidavit be filed by an officer not below the rank of Principal Secretary, Health,” the Bench ordered. Haryana A-G Baldev Raj Mahajan submitted that senior officer had been deputed in every district to monitor the situation in the villages. “This court, however, needs a detailed report on the work done at the ground level... by an officer not below the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, Health,” the Bench said.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta said nodal agencies in all districts could monitor ambulance facilities provided by private operators. Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain submitted that pursuant to the HC orders, the Centre had increased oxygen supply to Punjab from 227 MT to 247 MT and to Haryana from 267 MT to 307 MT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-seeks-ground-report-on-situation-in-rural-punjab-haryana-252060
13-05-2021||---||4 more ministers want Sidhu suspended||Chandigarh, May 12In yet another attempt to quell dissent within the Punjab Congress, four more Cabinet Ministers, namely Gurpreet Kangar, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Vijay Inder Singla, have demanded suspension, if not expulsion, of Navjot Singh Sidhu as his acts amounted to “open rebellion” against the party.Minister Kangar, who was present in a meeting held a few days ago at the residence of minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, distanced himself from the meeting. He said he had gone there for some work. Only two days ago, three other ministers — Brahm Mohindra, Sunder Sham Arora and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot — had urged the party high command to take strict disciplinary action against Sidhu for anti-party activities.Minister Vijay Inder Singla said the disciplinary committee of the party should take action against the MPs, ministers and MLAs who speak against the leadership.Political circles in the party viewed it as an attempt by the Chief Minister’s camp to create a split among the ministers and MLAs who were “inching” towards Sidhu or were forming a front against the Chief Minister over sacrilege and other issues. The Chief Minister’s camp and those opposed to it are trying to ensure that more MLAs speak in their favour.Incidentally, the PPCC statement has not taken note of the ministers, MPs and MLAs who are not only regrouping to exert pressure on the Chief Minister for speedy action in sacrilege and police firing cases but have also held meetings with Navjot Singh Sidhu. The Congress high command had also failed to take note of disciplinary action demanded by the Cabinet and the PPCC president against MPs Partap Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, who had chose to target the Chief Minister after last year’s hooch tragedy in the state.MP Partap Bajwa has already said the Chief Minister should call a meeting of the CLP and listen to the views of MLAs on the emotive subject.“Instead of targeting Sidhu and creating divisions among ministers and MLAs, the seven ministers who are targeting Sidhu should prevail upon the Chief Minister to full the poll promises and correct the narrative against the party,” said a senior party MLA.Meanwhile, amid efforts by the CM camp to quell dissidence, at least five — MLAs Gurkirat Kotli, Sukhpal Bhullar, Navtej Cheema, GP Singh and Inderbir Bolaria — and at least three ministers — Tript Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Balbir Sidhu — are learnt to have held a meeting in the evening in favour of the Chief Minister.Dullo questions timing of Dalit MLAs’ meetRajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo on Wednesday questioned the timing of a meeting by Dalit MLAs over the non-implementation of government schemes. “For the past four and a half years, Dalit leaders didn’t question the Chief Minister over the issues of the community and now they suddenly raked up the issue when reports of a Cabinet reshuffle or changing the PPCC president are surfacing,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-more-ministers-want-sidhu-suspended-252010
13-05-2021||Ferozepur||Ex-Cabinet Minister Inderjit Singh Zira dies||Senior Congress leader and former Cabinet Minister Inderjit Singh Zira (63), died here today, following prolonged illness. He was cremated with full state honours at his native village, Basti Buta Wali, in Zira, around 35 km from the district headquarters. He is survived by his wife and two sons, Kulbir Singh Zira, sitting MLA from Zira, and Inderjit, a veteran politician of the region.  His mortal remains were consigned to flames in the presence of Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria. Several MLAs, including Parminder Singh Pinki, Davinder Singh Ghubaya and Dr Harjot Kamal were also present. A contingent drawn from the Punjab Police fired several shots into the air as a mark of respect to the departed soul. Hardial Singh Mann, DIG, Gurpal Singh Chahal, DC, and Amit Gupta, SDM, were also present. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh condoled with the bereaved family. As per the information, Inderjit was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mohali, but he could not survive. Inderjit was two-time MLA from Zira. He was a close aide of Akali stalwart Jathedar Gurcharan Singh Tohra, but he had resigned from the Cabinet in 1999. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cabinet-minister-inderjit-singh-zira-dies-252011
13-05-2021||---||Upset over curbs, vegetable sellers dump stock on road||Sangrur, May 12Fed up with the inadequate timings for selling vegetables, vendors today threw vegetables on the Sangrur-Patiala road in Bhawanigarh and also blocked the road for some time.They have announced intensifying their agitation if the government didn’t allow them to sell vegetables throughout the day.“Liquor vends are allowed to remain open all day, but we are allowed to open our shops from 5 am to 9 am and 4 pm to 6 pm. The police are harassing us and they also thrashed some vegetable sellers,” alleged Kartar Singh, a seller.Balwinder Singh, another protester, said: “We are already under huge debt, while the latest decision to allow us to sell vegetables only for few hours has aggravated our problems. We purchase vegetables every morning and if we are not able to sell them all within 24 hours, they become stale and as a result rot.”Bhawanigarh SHO Gurdeep Singh Sandhu said they were only implementing the guidelines issued by the government. “We have conveyed the resentment of vegetable sellers to officials concerned and they may be allowed to meet senior officers on Thursday,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/upset-over-curbs-vegetable-sellers-dump-stock-on-road-252012
13-05-2021||---||ASI arrested for rape, dismissed||Bathinda, May 12An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) has been arrested for allegedly raping a woman in Bathinda.The woman alleged ASI Gurwinder Singh, posted with the CIA-1 wing of the Bathinda police, sexually exploited her after implicating her son in an NDPS case.She alleged the ASI registered a case against her 20-year-old son, a resident of Bath village, under the NDPS Act, and then pressured her into a physical relationship. The police took the woman to the Civil Hospital where her medical was done and statement recorded.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said as soon as he got information in this regard, he told the SHO to register a case and probe the matter. The ASI has been dismissed from service.The Punjab State Women Commission has sought a status report by May 17 from the Senior Superintendent of Police, Bathinda, regarding the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-arrested-for-rape-dismissed-252013
13-05-2021||Fazilka||Two bank officials fired upon, robbed of Rs 45 lakh in Fazilka||Two unidentified motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly opened fire on two private bank officials in a car on the Jalalabad-Muktsar road and robbed them of Rs 45 lakh today.Sources said Gurpratap Singh, deputy manager and Lovepreet Singh, assistant manager, Kotak Mahindra Bank, were shifting the amount from the Muktsar branch to Jalalabad.When they reached near Jalalabad town, the miscreants opened fire on them. One of the bullets hit the front window screen of the car but the officials had a narrow escape.According to eyewitnesses, the motorcycle did not carry any registration number. The sources said the police were investigating why the cash was being transferred in a private car instead of the security van. The officials carrying the cash were without firearms.Senior Superintendent of Police, Fazilka, Deepak Hilori said they would crack the case soon. Police teams have been dispatched to different locations and nakas have been set up to nab the culprits. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-bank-officials-fired-upon-robbed-of-rs-45-lakh-in-fazilka-252014
13-05-2021||---||Missing ‘saroops’ case hearing on May 28||Amritsar, May 12 The Sikh Gurdwara Judicial Commission has fixed May 28 as the next date for hearing of the petition filed by the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), demanding action against the disappearance of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib from the possession of the SGPC. The petitioners — Iman Singh Mann, Jaskaran Singh Kahansinghwala, Harbir Singh Sandhu, Amrik Singh Nangal and other members of the SAD (Amritsar) — on Sunday visited the commission office. Sandhu said the petition could not be heard as one of the members of the commission was not present. The staff members, too, were on leave after they were declared Covid-19 positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-saroops-case-hearing-on-may-28-252015
13-05-2021||Fazilka||App to check illegal mining||The state government has launched ‘Punjab Mining App’ in a bid to check the illegal mining in the area, particularly along the border belt.  According to a communiqué released by Fazilka Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu, the complainant can upload their complaints on the app which would directly reach the DC, SSP and Executive Officer-cum-District Mining Officer for taking action. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/app-to-check-illegal-mining-252016
13-05-2021||Moga||Moga Mayor’s election today||Elections to the posts of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor of the Moga Municipal Corporation will be held on Thursday.The first meeting of the newly-elected councillors and their swearing-in ceremony will also be held before the elections.The term of the newly-elected MC would be five years from the date of the first meeting of the corporation. The Department of Local Government, with the approval of the state Election Commission, will publish the names of elected office-bearers and members in the Punjab State Gazette after the meeting.It may be mentioned that the ruling Congress got 20 of 50 wards. The SAD got 15 seats, Independents 10, AAP 4 and BJP got just one. However, local Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal has claimed to have gained majority in the MC with the support of nine Independents. He said the Mayor would be elected from amongst the Congress councilors — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-mayors-election-today-252017
13-05-2021||---||Teachers oppose move to use welfare funds for new colleges||Ludhiana, May 12 A day after the DPI (Colleges), Department of Higher Education, Punjab, ordered eight government colleges to transfer funds for starting new colleges in the state, teachers and student unions have raised their voice against it.  The principals of eight government colleges have been asked if they have more than Rs 5 lakh available in funds, and if so, these be transferred to the account of the Higher Education Development Fund of DPI (Colleges) as money is required for starting new colleges in the state.  The order has been issued to SCD Government College and Government College for Girls in Ludhiana, Government College, Ropar, Government Rajindra College, Bathinda, Government Mohindra College, Patiala, Government Ranbir College Sangrur, Government College, Naya Nangal, and Government Brijindra College, Faridkot. President of the Punjab Government Colleges Teachers’ Association, Prof Barjinder Singh Tohra, criticised the order. “It is a good move to open new colleges in the state but we condemn the order issued to government colleges to transfer Rs 5 lakh from their funds for the new colleges. It is totally wrong. The funds collected by any college can be used only for students and for the development of the institute, and not for any other purpose as per the norms.” Prof (retd) Jaipal Singh, former president of the union, said, “Not even a single penny should be taken from the funds collected by any government college. The department concerned wants Rs 40 lakh from eight colleges by issuing this order. Can’t the government arrange an amount of just Rs 40 lakh on its own?” Gagandeep Singh of the Punjab Students’ Federation said, “We oppose the order. The Parents-Teachers’ Association (PTA) and other funds which are collected from students should be used only for their welfare. When people pay huge taxes, the government should use the amount for new colleges.” DPI (Colleges), Punjab, Paramjit Singh said there was no issue at all. “We can use the funds of one college for the other. The money is to be used on a returnable basis. There is nothing wrong in it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-oppose-move-to-use-welfare-funds-for-new-colleges-252018
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||IAS probationers meet Chief Secy||Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Wednesday held an introductory meeting with four 2020-batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) probationary officers of the Punjab cadre here. The probationary officers, including Ojasvi Alankar from Haryana; Harjinder Singh and Chandrajyoti Singh, both from Punjab; and Nikas Kumar from Rajasthan; were briefed about the ongoing plans and projects of the state government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ias-probationers-meet-chief-secy-252019
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||NCC directorate gets 6,300 new vacancies||The central government has allotted 6,300 additional vacancies for junior division NCC cadets in schools in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh under the fully self-financing scheme The long-awaited move is a part of the expansion plan for the NCC under which the government had approved an additional one lakh vacancies for out-of-turn allotment to private or quasi-government schools which agree to bear all the training expenses. Institutes having at least 500 students on their roll can be allotted one company strength of around 150 cadets without any cost to the exchequer. The move comes in the wake of the demand from numerous schools who could not introduce NCC due to limited vacancies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ncc-directorate-gets-6-300-new-vacancies-252020
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab state surpasses procurement target||On the second last day of the procurement season, wheat purchase in the state crossed the target of 130 lakh metric tonnes today. The state government has urged the Centre to end the procurement operations on May 13.  With the government  agencies and private traders procuring 1,11,410 metric tonnes of wheat in Punjab on 33rd day of procurement, the progressive procurement till date is 131.184 lakh metric tonnes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-state-surpasses-procurement-target-252022
13-05-2021||---||5 districts of Punjab cause for concern||Chandigarh, May 12Even as the state continues to battle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, five districts have emerged as a big worry for the government. These worst-affected districts have reported 1.07 lakh cases and 1407 deaths in the past one month.The state has reported a total of 1.83 lakh cases and 3,359 deaths in the past one month. Of this, Ludhiana, SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Bathinda districts alone have contributed 58.7 per cent of the total cases and 42 per cent of all deaths.Among the districts, Ludhiana topped the chart with 36,357 cases and 398 deaths; followed by SAS Nagar with 25,147 cases and 237 deaths; Jalandhar reported 16,067 cases and 195 deaths; Bathinda 15,455 cases and 279 deaths; Patiala 14,435 cases and 298 deaths.Even the test positivity rate of these districts is very high. State’s overall positivity rate is 13.7 per cent. Most of the worst-affected districts have the positivity rate close to 20 per cent.The first Covid case and death was reported in March last year. Since then, 4,59,268 cases and 10,918 deaths have been reported. At present, the state has 76,858 active cases. When it comes to the fatality rate, Punjab is consistently figuring on top with 2.4 deaths per 100 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-districts-of-punjab-cause-for-concern-251993
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Call all-party meet: SAD to Punjab CM||The SAD today requested Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to call an all-party meeting to discuss the precarious situation in the state   amid a spiralling death count due to Covid-19. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Congress government should try to take everyone along in the fight against Covid-19 and that an all-party meeting was necessary to ensure all parties worked in synergy with each other and assist the government in its efforts.  Sukhbir said it was unfortunate that private hospitals were charging lakhs of rupees from patients and the government was not doing anything to regulate these charges.  He said the government should lower the charges, besides taking strict action against black marketers to ensure lifesaving drugs were available at their market price to patients. He said the state government should also even open international tenders for purchase of Covid vaccines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/call-all-party-meet-sad-to-punjab-cm-251994
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Government failed to ramp up health infra, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today said the rising cases of Covid-19 in Punjab and the high number of deaths at the Rajindra hospital in Patiala were due to poor health services in the state for which Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu were responsible. AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said the Captain government had not built a single new government hospital in the past four and a half years and the existing government hospitals lacked resources and medical staff. He said the outbreak of Covid in Punjab had reached villages and as a result, more than 4.5 lakh cases had been reported in the state and the death toll had risen to 11,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-failed-to-ramp-up-health-infra-says-aap-251995
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ask Centre to help: Minister to MP Shwait||Slamming MP Shwait Malik’s statement alleging unnecessary delay in setting up oxygen plants in the state, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu asked him to stop playing blame game, and instead urge the Centre to soon instal oxygen plants in Punjab.Sidhu said there was medical emergency in Punjab and even after repeated appeals of the state government to increase the oxygen quota as Covid cases and case fatality rate was rapidly increasing, the Centre didn’t pay any heed to the state’s requirement. He said only only plant had been installed at Faridkot.In spite of repeated reminders and requests made by the state government, two plants — at GMCH Amritsar and Patiala — had yet not been installed by the central government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ask-centre-to-help-minister-to-mp-shwait-251996
13-05-2021||---||Ready to grant Rs2.5 cr for Oxygen plants: MP||Chandigarh, May 12 Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa has sought proposal from the Punjab Government on setting up oxygen plants from his MPLAD funds of Rs 2.5 crore. In a letter to the Chief Secretary, Bajwa pointed out that in continuation to his proposal to the Chief Minister to allocate funds from his MPLAD funds, he sought to know the proposal to set up oxygen plants at government hospitals in Gurdaspur and Pathankot. Bajwa said he was willing to allocate Rs 2.5 crore for setting up oxygen plants in Batala, Gurdaspur, Qadian, Dhariwal and Pathankot subject to  allocation of 50 per cent cost of the plants by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-grant-rs2-5-cr-for-oxygen-plants-mp-251997
13-05-2021||Ropar||Covid norms go for a toss at farmers’ rally||As many as 3,000 persons, including women and children, attended a farmers’ rally at Abiana Nangal village, near here, today, organised to mark ‘Sirhind Fateh Divas’. The rally was addressed by Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders, including Gurnam Singh Charuni, Gaurav Tikait, Manjit Singh Dhaner and Kulwant Singh Sandhu. Though the organisers provided sanitisers and masks to people entering the venue, majority of them didn’t bother to wear the mask during the rally, which lasted for six hours.  Organising committee convener Gurnaib Singh Jetewal had already declared that they would hold the rally with nearly 5,000 persons, without seeking any permission. Even the district police kept avoiding any confrontation and did not take any step to stop the rally, saying the farmers would come there only to hold a symbolic ceremony on the ‘Sirhind Fateh Divas’. Charuni said farmers were ready to make any sacrifice to get the farm laws repealed. The BJP government had already suffered defeat in West Bengal due to its adamant attitude over demands of farmers, and this scenario would be repeated in the parliamentary elections, he said. Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said Amandeep Singh, Ram Singh, Kulwinder Kumar, Shingara Singh, Jasvir Singh, Pritpal Singh, Master Gurnaib Singh and Mohan Singh had been booked for holding the rally without permission under Sections 188, 269 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-farmers-rally-251998
13-05-2021||Abohar||US-based NRI donates 1K oxygen concentrators||The district hospital in Hanumangarh, 60 km from here, that witnessed a protest on last Sunday due to non-availability of oxygen, has received 100 oxygen concentrators and installed 30 of them immediately. US-based NRI Pritpal Singh Sidhu, who belongs to Dhaban village near Sangria, has donated 1,000 concentrators.  “We decided to arrange 1,000 oxygen concentrators of which 335 were earmarked for Hanumangarh and the rest were presented to NGO Khalsa Aid and the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. At least, 235 have been dispatched to the Community Health Centres and Primary Health Centres as pandemic was spreading in rural areas,” said Simarjit Kaur, Sidhu’s  mother and Dhaban village sarpanch. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-based-nri-donates-1k-oxygen-concentrators-251999
13-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Ventilators at civil hospital shifted to private facility||All three ventilators at the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, have been shifted to a private hospital as it has had neither an ICU facility nor trained staff to operate them.Indus Hospital is the only hospital in the district to have an ICU facility with two ventilators and technical staff. Moreover, as per the understanding between the government and the private hospital, no money would be charged from the patients referred by government doctors, who require the ventilator support.This submission was made to the Punjab and Haryana High Court by the Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, in relation to a case filed after The Tribune reported there were eight hospitals in the district without a ventilator.The SMO also mentioned in the affidavit that none of the hospitals, PHC and CHC in the district has any facility to operate ventilators. Three specialist doctors (anesthesia) in the district have been attached to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where level-3 facility is available for patients. He claimed adequate arrangements were in place in the district for Covid patients and efforts were being made to further improve them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ventilators-at-civil-hospital-shifted-to-private-facility-252000
13-05-2021||Aman Sood||Labour shortage hits construction sector||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 12With migrant labourers returning to their home states amid rise in Covid cases, the construction sector has been badly hit while farmers are already expecting labour shortage in the upcoming paddy season.Government contractor Gurdev Singh said despite pending work at six sites, he had no labour to complete the projects. “For the past four months, my work has been suffering. A majority of the labourers have returned and now I am barely managing with half the labour,” he said, adding that shortage of trained labourer was hitting the work most.Migrants want 25% in advanceMigrants are demanding 25 per cent advance payment through phone-based apps as security. Also, the labour rates have more than doubled from Rs3,200 per acre (in 2019)Labourers claimed that many of them returned to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh fearing lockdown. “We are still reluctant to come back to Punjab. The way we had to cycle hundreds of kilometers to our homes last year is still fresh in our mind,” said Pritpal, a UP-based labourer.However, not only the construction workers but also the farm labour shortage has the farmers worried, as the crucial paddy season begins in June.Satnam S Behru, chief of consortium of Indian Farmers Association, Satnam S Behru said last year they faced acute shortage in the paddy season and this year seemed no different. “Since paddy needs expert labour, the ones in this trade are demanding advance payments and only willing to come if their ration and stay is taken care of in case of a lockdown,” he said.“We are hopeful that sufficient rural labour will be available to fill the vacuum created by the unavailability of migrant labourers. Fortunately, migrants engaged with vegetable growers are available in rural areas which will be engaged in the transplantation of paddy also,” said Behru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-shortage-hits-construction-sector-252001
13-05-2021||Parvesh Sharma
||‘It’s duty first’ for overworked medical staff on Covid front||Tribune News Service Barnala, May 12 “It’s duty first” for the medical staff ever since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out more than one and a half years ago. Stretched and stressed, doctors and nurses continue to battle it out to save as many lives as possible. The pandemic has brought many hardships for doctors and nurses, especially on personal fronts. Many of them haven’t been able to meet their loved ones and take care of them.  “We have been dealing with the virus for more than a year. Now we have learnt how not to pass the infection. Before leaving for home all of us get thoroughly sanitised. Once we reach home, we make sure that none of the things from hospital enter our houses. My schedule so tight that I am not able to take proper care of my two and a half years old son,” says staff nurse Hardeep Kaur posted at a level-2 isolation facility in Mehal Kalan.  Another staff nurse, Navjot Kaur, working at a level-2 isolation centre in Sohal Patti says often we find ourselves working beyond our mandatory six hours.  “Many a time, we have to assume the role of counsellors. The spirit to save lives has beaten all odds. At the end of day, patients’ smiles and their blessings count the most,” says Parjeet Kaur, another nurse.  Staff nurses Charanjeet Kaur and Gurdeep Kaur, who are working at the Civil Hospital, Barnala, say while nurses working with Covid patients are at risk, others like them working in general wards, too, have been putting their lives at risk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-duty-first-for-overworked-medical-staff-on-covid-front-252002
13-05-2021||---||Let Durgiana panel use PUDA land: Amritsar MP||Amritsar, May 12The tiff between the Durgiana Mandir managing committee and Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) over a chunk of land adjoining the cremation ground, being used to store wood for last rites of Covid patients, refuses to die down.PUDA, custodian of the 3-kanal land, has issued a notice to the committee and placed a board on the site prohibiting any trespassing and interference. Now, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has approached PUDA minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria to get it amicably settled, as the issue pertained to a social cause.“At a time when there has been a surge in Covid casualties and the whole government machinery is on toes to save lives, the undue scuffle over a piece of land is unfortunate. Adding to the woes, the committee has refused to cremate unclaimed bodies. This could have never been expected in the holy city. In the light of existing circumstances, I have urged Sarkaria to allow the committee to utilise the land temporarily for the larger good of the public, if possible,” Aujla said.The committee had raised a boundary over the plot and started shifting the logs of wood meant for the last rites. As per committee officials, this was done to spare the space for building more pyres keeping in view the rise in the number of deaths due to Covid.Raising objections, PUDA officials assisted by the police scuttled this move, maintaining that no construction activity could be carried out on the plot.Committee head Ramesh Sharma said there was never any intention of grabbing the PUDA land. He clarified that the boundary was built with temporary sheets to prevent the ‘sanctity’ of the wood.“Rest assured, we are ready to pay the cost of the land, but PUDA is not responding to it. In 2019, during kar sewa of a sarovar here, CM Capt Amarinder Singh had announced to give the possession of the land to the committee. Following this, we had held meetings with Sarkaria and the PUDA secretary. Despite submitting our repeated representations, there was no response,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/let-durgiana-panel-use-puda-land-amritsar-mp-252003
13-05-2021||Sameer Singh||Shortage of Covid drugs hits treatment in Bathinda, Mansa||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 12The acute shortage of enoxaparin injection has been reported at chemist shops in Bathinda and Mansa districts following increased demand in the market recently.Majority of the drugstores have already run out of it and wholesale dealers said they have not been getting regular supply of the drug for the past 10-12 days. Notably, the drug is administered to moderate-to-critical Covid-19 patients to prevent blood clotting. Besides, dexamethasone, a steroid given to Covid patients, is in short supply. This steroid is quite effective in the treatment of Covid patients and has in the past helped reduce mortality rate.Families of the patients rued that medicine was the basic thing to treat any disease and arranging only beds and oxygen alone would not save lives.A senior IMA executive committee member and doctor at a private hospital in Bathinda said: “There is acute shortage of enoxaparin in the market for the past two weeks. As a result, treatment of Covid patients is getting compromised. After exhausting their stock of the medicine, many hospitals are finding it difficult to treat patients. Doctors in some hospitals have started prescribing alternative tablets, which are not as effective. Since there is sudden surge in demand for enoxaparin, there is a possibility that people must be hoarding and black marketing it.”Many wholesale medicine dealers in the city said they had not been getting the regular supply of the drug and they had no option but to tell chemists to stop placing orders for it. They added that the supply of dexamethasone was also hit hard and with no stock left, many of them had to cancel several orders.Dr Atin Gupta of another private hospital said: “There is shortage of the medicines, but we have to manage with available resources and make optimum use of them to save as many patients as we can.”Drug inspector Ramandeep Gupta said: “Following sudden increase in demand, these drugs are in short supply and it is well within the knowledge of the government. There is not much medicine manufacturing in Punjab. States where these drugs are manufactured will give priority for their own people for obvious reasons.” Health Minister Balbir Sidhu did not respond to calls and messages.Many ‘hoarding’ medicines||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shortage-of-covid-drugs-hits-treatment-in-bathinda-mansa-252004
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Need more vaccines, medical oxygen: A-G||The Centre today assured Punjab of “necessary steps” after the state told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that 71 of the 82 life support systems it received died out within half an hour of use.  Appearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda also flagged shortage of vaccines and oxygen containers. As the case came up for resumed hearing, Nanda submitted that 82 ventilators were supplied to the State of Punjab under the PM’s Health Yojana. Out of the total, 71 were faulty. “Without attributing any motive otherwise in these times, I beseech my friend representing the Union of India (Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain) to look into it. This has to be rectified,” he said. Jain submitted that the matter regarding faulty ventilators would be examined immediately and necessary steps taken at the earliest to rectify the fault, if any.  Nanda said 24 containers for carrying oxygen were available with them. However, the state raised the demand for more. “If six containers are arranged at the earliest, it will ease out the situation in Punjab somewhat,” Nanda submitted. The Bench was also told that about 85,000 vials of Remdesivir had been supplied, whereas demand for 37,000 more was still pending. He further submitted that the state needed about 4 lakh vials of Covishield immediately. Punjab’s request for supply of six more containers, release of pending quantity of Remdesivir and vaccine would be looked into. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-more-vaccines-medical-oxygen-a-g-252005
13-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||Found overcharging for tests, Jalandhar hospital told to refund amount||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12Two days after The Tribune did a sting operation on overcharging by private labs and hospitals for conducting RT-PCR tests, the district administration on Wednesday recommended the Commissioner of Police to register an FIR under the Epidemic Diseases Act against a private lab for overcharging. In the inquiry report submitted by the Civil Surgeon, the lab was found guilty.A private hospital had also “erroneously” overcharged Rs 150-450 from over 90 patients for the RT-PCR test. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshayam Thori directed the hospital to refund the excess money to all the patients.In addition, the hospital management has also assured the district administration of strictly adhering to the guidelines fixed by the state government with regard to fee being charged for various services.In its probe, the administration found that Tagore Hospital had charged Rs 900 for Covid-19 tests whereas the state government has fixed Rs 450 for the same. The DC had marked an inquiry to Public Grievance Officer (PGO) Randeep Singh Gill, who summoned the management for further probe.“Over 90 patients were overcharged for the test, who will receive a refund. The administration has also asked the hospital management to display government rates for RT-PCR tests and other Covid-19 related services so that people are aware about the government rates,” the DC added.In another case, the administration has written to the police for legal action against Atulya Labs, which prima facie was found to be overcharging for RT-PCR tests. The PGO said some other discrepancies were noted like no separate room for vaccination and lack of biomedical waste disposal mechanism. The DC said keeping in view the second instance of overcharging, the administration would seek cancellation of the lab’s franchise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/found-overcharging-for-tests-jalandhar-hospital-told-to-refund-amount-252006
13-05-2021||---||Panel formed to take care of ‘Covid-orphaned’ kids in Faridkot||Faridkot, May 12The district administration has constituted the Child Welfare Committee for those who lose parents during the pandemic and whose parents are undergoing treatment, but there is no one to take care of children at home.For immediate rehabilitation of children, particularly those of migrant labourers, a helpline has been started under the command of the District Child Security and Welfare Officer, in accordance with the Juvenile Justice Act. The orphans will be sent to the Radha Krishan Dham, a child care institute in the town.This adoption agency, being run by some voluntary organisations in the town, has given over 70 ‘abandoned’ children in adoption, under the Juvenile Justice Act, in collaboration with the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development, in the past two years.The Child Welfare Committee has been constituted after the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development had written to the state governments, asking them to direct all district magistrates to ensure immediate rehabilitation of ‘Covid-orphaned’ children.“After the parents die, or when they undergo treatment, children are put in a vulnerable situation, due to which they can be manipulated, resulting in child labour or trafficking,” said DC Vimal Setia, adding that the measure would ensure that children’s interests are protected. “The information about such cases can be sent by hospitals to the Child Welfare Committee for further follow-up,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-formed-to-take-care-of-covid-orphaned-kids-in-faridkot-252007
13-05-2021||Bathinda||Ex-MLA starts free food service||Former SAD legislator Sarup Singla has started free food service for Covid patients and their families. As part of the service, a helpline has been established and food packets are delivered at hospitals and houses of patients. He said one must rise above politics in this hour of crisis and contribute in whatever way one can to help patients. He said, “The cases and deaths are increasing at a rapid rate, but the government has failed to help people. Those who want to avail of the service can contact on 9056396244 and 9056696244.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-mla-starts-free-food-service-252008
13-05-2021||Abohar||In 18+ group, 59 turn up for jab in 3 days||As many as 723 new Covid cases were reported today in the district, but the vaccination drive was almost negligible here. Only 59 construction workers turned up in the past three days as the Health Department started vaccination for the 18-44 age group. Deeksha Babbar, Nodal Officer for vaccination, and Luxmi Rani, Postpartum Unit (PPU) in charge, said a camp was organised at a brick kiln in Killianwali village, in the presence of Labour Department representatives, but construction workers showed reluctance for vaccination, despite counselling. On the other hand, people over 45 years and senior citizens had to return empty-handed as no vaccine was available, social activists said. Advocate Himanshu Mehta (42) was among the four patients, who succumbed to infection today in Abohar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-18-group-59-turn-up-for-jab-in-3-days-252009
