14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 8,068 fresh COVID-19 cases, 180 deaths||Punjab on Friday recorded 8,068 fresh COVID-19 cases that took its tally to 4,83,984 while 180 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 11,477, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases in the state dropped to 79,359 from 79,950 on Thursday.Of the latest deaths, 23 were reported from Amritsar, 19 from Ludhiana, 18 from Bathinda and 13 each from Jalandhar and Patiala, the bulletin stated.Ludhiana reported the maximum number of fresh cases at 1,320, followed by 988 in Bathinda, 661 in Mohali and 570 in Patiala, it said.As many as 8,446 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of cured persons to 3,93,148, it added.There are 421 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 9,820 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.So far, 80,72,800 samples have been collected for testing in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh’s COVID-19 tally mounted to 54,043 with 650 fresh cases while the death toll climbed to 617 with eight more fatalities, a medical bulletin stated.The number of active cases in the union territory stood at 8,158, it said.So far, 45,268 patients, including 925 who were discharged the previous day, have recovered from the coronavirus in Chandigarh, the bulletin said.A total of 4,54,814 samples have been taken for testing till now. Of these, 3,99,617 samples have tested negative while reports of 69 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-8-068-fresh-covid-19-cases-180-deaths-252871
14-05-2021||---||Water storage down to 10%, Bhakra can meet only 30% demand for irrigation||Vijay MohanTribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14The available storage in the reservoir at Bhakra Dam, which is crucial for supply of water for drinking and irrigation in the region, as well as for power generation, has plummeted to just 10 per cent of its total capacity.This can meet only 25-30 per cent of the regular demand for water for irrigation till the reservoir starts filling up, and power generation has reduced by about 20 per cent, sources in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) said. Against a target of 927 million units (MU) of electricity till May 14 during the current fiscal, BBMB has generated748 MU.Deficient snow and rainfall during the preceding winters have been cited as the reason for low water storage. Further, unseasonal rain and snow in many parts of the Himalayas during May kept temperatures low, thereby reducing snow melt. Bhakra Dam, which lies on the Sutlej, is primarily snow-fed while the other two major dams in the region, Pong on the Beas and Thein on the Ravi are primarily rain-fed.   The period from October 1 till May 20 is the depletion phase for Bhakra’s reservoir after having filled up from snow melt and rains during the summers and monsoons. The outflow from the reservoir is more than the inflow from autumn to spring. Last year, during the filling period that officially lasts from May 21 to September 30, the reservoir had filled up to 85 per cent of its capacity.According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), the storage available at Bhakra on May 13 was 0.649 billion cubic meters (BCM) against the total capacity of 6.229 BCM. The storage was 28 percent at this time of the year in 2020. CWC data also shows that the current storage at Pong Dam is 15 percent as compared to 54 percent on this day last year, while at Thein Dam it is 31 percent as compared to 52 percent for the corresponding period. “The inflow into the reservoirs is currently categorized as dry pattern, which is the bare minimum,” a senior BBMB official said. “About two-thirds of Bhakra’s catchment area along the course of the Sutlej lies in China, which received scanty snow,” he added. Deficient snow and unseasonal rains are due to climatic changes.The inflow at Bhakra in 2020-21 was 15,661 cusecs and compared to 19,548 cusecs in 2019-20, while the outflow was 17,459 cusecs in 2020-21 as compared to 35,000 cusecs in 2019-20. At Pong, the inflow was 3,565 cusecs in 2020-2021 and 5,266 in 2020-19, while the outflow was 4,409 cusecs in 2020-21 and 15,005 in 2020-19.“We have cautioned the state governments concerned about the water situation and advised them that they should draw water accordingly. While providing water for drinking would not be affected, releasing of water for irrigation is being regulated strictly,” the official said. “Moreover, unseasonal rains also have a deviating effect on traditional agricultural practices which in turn impacts the demand for water,” he added. Though low, the water level is not expected to fall below the “dead storage level”, the threshold under which power generation is not possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/water-storage-down-to-10-bhakra-can-meet-only-30-demand-for-irrigation-252854
14-05-2021||Patiala||Amid shortage, expensive Covid injection stolen from Rajindra Hospital's isolation ward||Around six injections of the immunosuppressive drug, Tocilizumab, which is being used for Covid patients treatment, was stolen from an isolation wing of Government Rajindra Hospital on Friday.The hospital authorities have filed a written complaint to the police against the theft of the said injections. Patiala Police said, that they have received the complaint, and that they would be initiating appropriate action.  Confirming this, Surbhi Malik, in-charge of Covid ward, said that they had already set up a committee for an internal inquiry. Notably, outsiders are not allowed inside the isolation wing. Police have also been deployed outside the isolation wing where the theft took place. Moreover, CCTV cameras are placed inside the building.When questioned about the role of an insider, Malik said that it was "too early to make any conjecture, it is a serious issue and being taken as such. Though, a major investigation will be conducted by the police since it is a crime. However, our committee will also look into it."Notably, the said injection was being sold in the black market above Rs 1 lakh.Meanwhile, attendants of positive patients have also alleged, that in the past, that the valuables items of positive patients had been stolen from isolation ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-shortage-expensive-covid-injection-stolen-from-rajindra-hospitals-isolation-ward-252828
14-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sidhu Moosewala's much-awaited Moosetape's poster, inside details, release date out; Punjabi singer says 'tried to deliver my best'||Details of Punjabi Singer Sidhu Moosewala's much-awaited album 'Moosetape' are out. The singer shared new posters, and also announced the release date of the upcoming album. The album has generated quite the buzz in the Pollywood industry. The Punjabi singer shared the tracklist—which contains 30 songs—and shared the release date of each number. The album is set to release on 15th May.  “Thanks for rooting for me since the start of my career. I AM what I AM, because of your support. As my new album is set to release on 15th May 2021, I’ll post the ‘Album Release Schedule’ shortly. The schedule will have the updated tracklist and the respective release dates. I have worked so hard and tried to deliver my best,” Moosewala wrote. A post shared by Sidhu Moosewala (ਮੂਸੇ ਆਲਾ) (@sidhu_moosewala)  Apart from this, the album cover shows Sonam Bajwa, Tania to Sara Gurpaland and other actresses as part of the project. Sukh Sanghera directed the album while The Kidd was the composer. Check out the trailer of ‘Moosetape’ here:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-moosewalas-much-awaited-moosetapes-poster-inside-details-release-date-out-punjabi-singer-says-tried-to-deliver-my-best-252815
14-05-2021||Ajay Banerjee||AAP ex-MLA Jarnail Singh dies of Covid complications||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 14Former AAP MLA from Rajouri Garden, Jarnail Singh, died on Friday morning of Covid-related complications.He had been under intensive care at a super-speciality hospital here for over nine days, his family members said.Singh had resigned from his seat in the Delhi assembly to contest the 2017 assembly polls in Punjab.He contested the high-profile Lambi seat against Prakash Singh Badal and Capt Amarinder Singh.Badal won the seat.Jarnail, a former journalist, had quit his job after he hurled a shoe at then Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram in March 2009.  Singh a survivour of the 1984 anti-sikh riots, was a resident of Lajpat Nagar in Delhi.He authored a book 'I accuse: The Anti-Sikh Violence of 1984' detailing several unknown aspects.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia also condoled the demise."Deeply saddened by the untimely demise of former Delhi MLA Sh Jarnail Singh ji. May God bless his soul. He will always be fondly remembered for his contributions to society," Kejriwal said in a tweet.Deeply saddened by the untimely demise of former Delhi MLA Sh Jarnail Singh ji. May God bless his soul. He will always be fondly remembered for his contributions to society.  Sisodia remembered Singh as someone who fought for justice for the victims of 1984 anti-Sikh riots.दिल्ली विधानसभा में अपने पूर्व साथी जरनैल सिंह के निधन का समाचार हम सबके लिए दुखद है. 1984 के नरसंहार के पीड़ित परिवारों के न्याय के लिए लड़ने वाली एक बुलंद आवाज़ हमारे बीच से चली गई. ईश्वर उन्हें अपने चरणों में जगह दे.  "The news about the demise of Jarnail Singh, a former colleague in Delhi Assembly is extremely sad. A voice which fought for justice for the victims of 1984 genocide has left us," he said in a tweet in Hindi."My condolences to his family and followers in their hour of grief," tweeted Punjab Chief Minister. Saddened to learn of the passing away of former @AamAadmiParty MLA Jarnail Singh Ji. My condolences to his family and followers in their hour of grief. May God grant him eternal peace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-ex-mla-jarnail-singh-dies-of-covid-complications-252761
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to inoculate 18+ kin of health staff from today||Faced with shortage of vaccine amid the second wave, the Punjab Cabinet has decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at best price, becoming the first state to take such an initiative.The Cabinet has also decided to start from tomorrow vaccination for families of healthcare workers in government and private sectors as well as those suffering from co-morbidities in the 18-44 years’ category. It also approved the purchase of Covaxin for industrial workers for whose vaccination the industry has expressed willingness to pay.The decisions were taken at a Cabinet meeting held to review the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-inoculate-18-kin-of-health-staff-from-today-252724
14-05-2021||---||In a first, state to join global alliance to procure vaccines||Chandigarh, May 13Faced with the shortage of vaccine amid the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the Punjab Cabinet has decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at best price, becoming the first state to take such an initiative.Nod to purchase of Rs152.56-cr medical stuffThe Cabinet has also decided to start from tomorrow vaccination for families of healthcare workers in government and private sectors as well as those suffering from co-morbidities in the 18-44 years’ category. It also approved the purchase of Covaxin for industrial workers for whose vaccination the industry has expressed willingness to pay.Reviewing the Covid situation, CM Capt Amarinder Singh directed a judicious use of the limited available stocks of vaccine as the positivity rate for the week ending May 12 stood at 14.2 per cent and CFR at 2.1 per cent. The Health Department was also directed to kick-start the vaccination drive for the priority groups from schools and other buildings to prevent crowding at government hospitals.Briefing the Cabinet, Dr Gagandeep Kang, a special invitee, said with the preliminary data showing vaccines working better against Covid than expected, including against the mutant B.1.617 variety, a targeted response to the vaccination programme was needed. She suggested more extensive use of Covishield as it offered high efficacy even with a single dose, while the second dose could be extended up to 12 weeks. Dr Kang suggested that the Government of India should be requested to include obesity in the list of comorbidities for vaccination priority.Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed the Cabinet that of the 30 lakh Covishield doses ordered by the state government, the Serum Institute of India had so far confirmed 4.29 lakh, of which one lakh had been received.Lal further apprised the Cabinet that for the 45+ age group, the last tranche of Covishield vaccine (1,63,710 doses) was received on May 9, taking the total to 42,48,560. As many as 3,45,000 doses were given to the armed forces, while the total utilisation stood at 39,03,560. For Covaxin in the 45+ category, the last tranche of vaccine received was of 75,000 doses (May 6), taking the total received to 4,09,080, of which utilisation till date was 3,52,080, leaving the availability of only 57,000 now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-a-first-state-to-join-global-alliance-to-procure-vaccines-252570
14-05-2021||---||Book CM, ministers for Covid deaths: AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13The Aam Aadmi Party today said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Punjab Government were playing politics on ventilators purchased through PM Cares Fund.Increase health budget to 25%AAP said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Medical Education Minister OP Soni were responsible for the deaths due to non-availability of ventilators and other health services in the state and a case of murder under Section 302 of the IPC should be registered against all of them.AAP legislator Kultar Singh Sandhwan said the deaths of Covid patients in Punjab were due to the non-availability of ventilators which were to be provided by the state government. He said he had taken up the matter with the government on September 8, 2020, against the poor quality ventilators sent through PM Cares Fund. The matter was also taken up at a high-level meeting held on March 5, 2021, at Baba Farid Medical College which was attended by the Medical Education Minister along with senior officers. He said during the meeting it was informed 14 ventilators were not working properly. He demanded that instead of fixing these ventilators, the government should arrange new and better quality ventilators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/book-cm-ministers-for-covid-deaths-aap-252576
14-05-2021||---||Establish mini care centres: SAD to Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal today requested CM Capt Amarinder Singh to take immediate measures to establish mini Covid centres, accelerate the vaccination process, reemploy medical staff and put a cap on treatment charges of private hospitals, besides waiving power bills for six months to save lives and give relief to people.Cap treatment costsCap treatment charges of private hospitals, which are charging Rs2.5 lakh to Rs3 lakh in the name of hospitalisation. Similarly, private institutions are charging as much as Rs10,000 for a simple CT- scan. - Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD ChiefAddressing a press conference here, the SAD president said it was of utmost importance to save lives and to do so the need of the hour was to establish mini Covid centres with Level-1 and 2 facilities in all blocks of the state.He said people needed access to basic care and oxygen upon being infected by the virus and the mini Covid centres could give them immediate relief. He said the SGPC had already taken an initiative in this regard and the government could replicate this model across the state. He said the SAD was ready to provide ‘langar’ service at the Covid centres opened by the government.Sukhbir also appealed to the government to reemploy all doctors and paramedical staff who had superannuated in the last one year for an additional year. He said similarly interns and nursing students should also be hired to fill in the crucial gaps and ensure there was no shortage of manpower. “Black marketing of medicines should be stopped immediately,” he said, calling for subsidising the treatment of Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/establish-mini-care-centres-sad-to-capt-amarinder-singh-252582
14-05-2021||Sangrur||Administration ropes in panchayats, religious bodies||Witnessing a sharp rise in Covid cases in rural areas, the Sangrur health department authorities have sought the help of panchayats and formed special committees in villages. Besides, officials are taking the help of religious organisations to increase vaccination.“We have been requesting panchayats to help us. They can play a big role in vaccination of all villagers. All should understand that vaccination is must to prevent the further spread of Covid,” said Dr Anjna Gupta, Civil Surgeon, Sangrur.Of the 23 deaths in the past 24 hours in the district, a majority were from villages, including Khanauri Mandi, Namol, Shahpur Kalan, Chatha, Duggan,Maniana, Sheron and others.The sudden spurt of deaths has panicked residents, with many of them blaming the health authorities for delay in vaccination. Some residents alleged the government had failed to provide required facilities to rural areas and were unnecessarily blaming them for the spread of virus.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said their teams have been visiting all villages to provide them required facilities. The Barnala administration has formed an army of volunteers to go from door to door to create awareness about Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/administration-ropes-in-panchayats-religious-bodies-252588
14-05-2021||Abohar||Abohar cops help increase testing||To meet the target of 1,000 Covid sampling each day, services of all police stations in Abohar Sub-Division are being availed. CM Captain Amarinder Singh had recently directed to increase testing from 90,000 to 2 lakh each day across the state.Health workers have been deployed at police stations and on roadside nakas to collect samples. A Pepsu Roadways Transport Corporation bus that was ferrying passengers from the historic shrine of Buddha Johad in Sriganganagar to Chandigarh was stopped at the city bypass and passengers were reportedly escorted to a police station for sampling. Similar was the situation outside other police stations and on the Seetogunno Road as well.As a report of an RT-PCR test is normally received after five to six days, the staff now prefer collecting sample for a Rapid Antigen Test, which is applicable only if the patients are visibly symptomatic. Out of 432 Antigen tests conducted on Thursday here, 85 were found positive. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-cops-help-increase-testing-252589
14-05-2021||Barnala||Oxygen demand jumps fourfold in Barnala||Authorities in Barnala have been struggling hard to ensure the supply of medical oxygen cylinders as its consumption has increased from 50 to 200 cylinders per day in the past 14 days.200 cylinders required dailyDaily consumption has risen from 50 to 200 cylinders. We have recovered cylinders from repair shops, manufacturing units and other places to meet the demand. - Varjeet Walia, Barnala SDMDeputy Commissioner TPS Phoolka has banned oxygen cylinders’ use for non-medical purposes to meet the rising demand. Since Barnala does not have its own oxygen plant, the administration has to send their trucks with empty oxygen cylinders to Mandi Gobindgarh for refilling. The entire process of refilling takes around 20 hours before officers receive filled cylinders back.SDM Varjeet Walia and DSP Lakhvir Tiwana have formed teams of Tehsildar and SHOs each to confiscate all oxygen cylinders, which were put to non-medical use in the market in violation of the orders.DSP Lakhvir Tiwana said the Barnala police were working round the clock with the administration to serve the public during this pandemic. “Our teams have confiscated 125 such cylinders,” he said.DC Phoolka has also started a 24-hour Covid helpline to extend all help to district residents. “Government employees will be working in three shifts each to answer the Covid queries and provide all necessary help. People can call at the numbers 01679-230032 and 75280-34032 and get the help anytime they want to,” said Phoolka. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oxygen-demand-jumps-fourfold-in-barnala-252592
14-05-2021||Archit Watts||Muktsar labs continue to ‘fleece’ patients||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 13Even though the state government has capped the charges for chest CT-scan at Rs 2,000 in private hospitals and diagnostic centres, locals claimed some private centres were fleecing suspected Covid patients. Notably, the number of Covid patients is increasing day by day, spreading panic among locals. In such a situation, some diagnostic centres are making quick money by fleecing people.Sukhjinder Singh Kaoni, president, AAP’s youth wing, Muktsar district, said, “My relative yesterday underwent a chest CT-scan at a diagnostic centre in the town. The diagnostic centre charged Rs 2,500. The staff said they were charging Rs 500 extra for sanitising the machine. I have lodged a complaint in this regard with the Chief Medical Officer.”Some residents said they even paid Rs 3,000 to 4,000 for chest CT-scans in the recent past. “Some doctors in the district are charging a hefty fee from the patients due to the Covid panic. There is hardly any check on it. Health officials should conduct a surprise check at private hospitals and diagnostic centres to catch them red-handed,” they said. After getting complaints, the Congress too has opened a help desk in Muktsar and Gidderbaha towns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-labs-continue-to-fleece-patients-252594
14-05-2021||Ropar||Ropar police start outreach programme||In a bid to arrest the spread of virus in the district, SSP Dr Akhil Chaudhary has directed the police to approach at least 10,000 persons directly and seek their cooperation in roping in general public on the Covid-19 guidelines and the role of police in enforcing these.Chaudhary said at a time when the virus had claimed 300 lives in the district, policemen were on their toes to save lives and had to take tough decisions at times. He said people would be contacted to seek their cooperation.“There are 10 police stations in the district and 10 policemen from each station will call up 10 prominent persons of their area...,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-police-start-outreach-programme-252596
14-05-2021||Ferozepur||Railways cancels 16 trains  due to low occupancy||Due to low occupancy, the Ferozepur Railway Division has decided to cancel 16 unreserved express trains till further notice. Divisional Railway Manager Rajesh Aggarwal said due to the rising number of Covid cases, the occupancy of the trains was very low.The trains which have been cancelled are Amritsar-Pathankot Express Special, Ambala-Ludhiana KLK SVDK Special, Fazilka-Bathinda DEMU, Jalandhar City-Ferozepur Cantt Express, Amristar-Sehrasa Special Ludhiana to Ferozepur, Ludhiana-Lohian Khas DEMU and Ferozepur Cantt-Fazilka Express. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/railways-cancels-16-trains-due-to-low-occupancy-252598
14-05-2021||Parvesh Sharma||No oximeters in ‘Fateh’ kits, patients seek probe||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 13The ‘Fateh’ kit provided by the state government to Covid patients includes 20 items, but the ones being delivered now are without pulse oximeters.Just one plaint so farThe patients and their relatives have demanded a high-level inquiry as the price of oximeter has increased after the outbreak of Covid.“I tested positive on Monday and received my kit on Tuesday morning. But oximeter is missing and when I raised the issue with the delivery man, he did not give a satisfactory reply. Health officials may claim that I have been lying, but I have recorded a video while opening the kit as someone had told me last evening about missing oximeters from kits. The government must look into the issue,” said a 48-year-old woman.After The Tribune called up some patients, it became evident that oximeters had been missing from the kits since the last month. “I and my wife had tested positive on April 22 and received our kits on April 24. But oximeters were missing from both the kits. We had informed health officials, but nobody took an action. Senior authorities must withdraw oximeters from the list of 20 items if they are unwilling to supply it to patients,” said a 70-year-old man.AAP leader Inderpal Singh demanded a high-level inquiry and alleged that black marketing of oximeters had peaked. “If authorities have mentioned oximeter on the list, they must provide it to all patients,” he said.The kit includes pulse oximeter with a year’s warranty, digital thermometer, steamer, hand sanitiser, giloy tablets, vitamin-C, vitamin D-3, vitamin zinc tablets, topcid, amunity plus liquid, tab doxycylin, tablet ivermectin, Dolo 650 mg, multi vitamin tablets, cough syrup, Betadyne gargles, Levo Cetirizine tablets, face masks and balloons.MPHW Ravinder Sharma, who supplies kits in Sangrur city, feigned ignorance and said to date he had received only one complaint on Tuesday morning and he was looking into the matter. “We are only supplying kits and we have no role in its preparation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-oximeters-in-fateh-kits-patients-seek-probe-252602
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Poor patients can dial ‘181’ or ‘112’ for free food at home||Beginning Friday, the poor and underprivileged Covid patients across the state can call up ‘Hunger Helpline’ numbers ‘181’ or ‘112’ for delivery of free cooked meals on their doorstep through the Punjab Police department.The initiative was announced during a Cabinet meeting by CM Capt Amarinder Singh. He said: “We will not allow anyone sleep hungry in Punjab.”Such patients can dial these numbers any time of the day or night and will be provided cooked food at their home by the police, through Covid kitchens and delivery boys.As part of the facility, which will become operational from 10 am on Friday, needy patients anywhere in the state can call up the helpline. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-patients-can-dial-181-or-112-for-free-food-at-home-252603
14-05-2021||---||Control rooms to monitor oxygen, bed availability||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13To tackle rising caseload in the state, the Punjab Government has constituted two dedicated control rooms to streamline oxygen supply and availability of beds.The oxygen control room is being headed by senior IAS officer Rahul Tewari with officers Tanu Kashyap, Abhinav Trikha, Pradeep Aggarwal and Shaukat Ahmed Pairi as members. The control room for hospital bed availability will be under the supervision of IAS officer Ajoy Sharma with officers Vijay Naamdeo Zaade, Mohammad Tayyab, Vipul Ujjwal and Praveen Kumar Thind as members.Chairing a meeting of the oxygen control room, Tewari said the functions of both control rooms could be accessed by public on website statecovidcontrolroom.punjab.gov.in.He said oxygen availability was being assessed regularly and arrangements were being made to tackle any exigency. It was the priority of the state government to ensure unhindered oxygen supply and availability of beds to patients, he added.He said regular updates regarding availability of oxygen and beds would be made available to public through social media platforms, including Facebook and Twitter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/control-rooms-to-monitor-oxygen-bed-availability-252604
14-05-2021||---||DSGMC in dock over Big B’s Rs2-cr donation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 13The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee leadership has come under fire for accepting donation from actor Amitabh Bachchan.A 1984 Sikh riot victim, Bibi Nirpreet Kaur, has approached the Akal Takht Jathedar against it, demanding summoning of DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa to the Takht for praising someone allegedly involved in inciting the riots.The SGPC, too, has criticised the way Sirsa had hailed Bachchan for contributing Rs 2 crore to the Covid care centre at Bhai Lakhi Shah Wanjara Hall of Gurdwara Rakabganj Sahib.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said no donor could be a “celebrity” in Guru’s ghar. “Anyone contributing anonymously like an ordinary devotee to ‘golak’ is acceptable, but the way his (Bachchan) donation was being hailed on social media platforms was not a wise move,” she said.However, the SGPC chief refrained from commenting over whether Sirsa should be held accountable for the ‘lapse’ or the money be returned. “I have no idea about whether the money was donated through cheque or cash to the DSGMC,” she said.Asked about complaints reaching the Takht, she said any Sikh devotee could lodge a complaint or submission. “Only jathedar who occupies the highest Sikh temporal seat can take a call on it,” she said.Akal Takht Secretariat officials said a letter from Bibi Nirpreet Kaur had been received via e-mail, lodging protest on the DSGMC accepting donation from Bachchan. “At present, jathedar-ji is abroad. It will be brought to his notice once he returns,” said an official.A similar complaint was received from the All India Sikh Students Federation. Patron Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad said the Takht must take Sirsa to task. “Sirsa was well versed with the role of Bachchan in the anti-Sikh riots. How could he commit such a blunder by accepting money from him? Did Sirsa ever mention thousands of other donors the way he praised a man who had instigated mob against Sikhs?” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsgmc-in-dock-over-big-bs-rs2-cr-donation-252605
14-05-2021||---||Rs3,000 allowance for construction workers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13To mitigate sufferings caused due to loss of livelihood of construction workers amid the Covid restrictions, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced subsistence allowance/cash assistance of Rs 3,000 to all construction workers registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Welfare Board.3 lakh to benefitThe CM, who is also the chairman of the board, said the subsistence allowance of Rs 3,000 would be paid in two instalments of Rs 1,500 each, the first one to be released immediately and the second by June 15.The state government had extended a helping hand to distressed construction workers last year too, amid the first wave of the pandemic. It had then provided a financial assistance to the tune of Rs 174.31 crore, giving Rs 6,000 each to 2.91 lakh construction workers registered with the board.The board has nearly three lakh registered construction workers across the state. The livelihood of these construction workers has been adversely impacted in the wake of various restrictive measures and advisories issued from time to time to combat the current situation arising out of recent spike in Covid cases.The progress of the ongoing construction projects at several places had either stopped or temporarily slowed down, thus severely impacting the income and livelihood of such workers. The Chief Minister said that the financial assistance was aimed at bringing some immediate relief to the construction workers in these difficult times amid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs3-000-allowance-for-construction-workers-252606
14-05-2021||---||192 medical officers hired||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13In the wake of the ongoing pandemic, the state Health and Family Welfare Department today appointed 192 medical officers.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said though the department was effectively fighting the pandemic, there was a need for more staff for better healthcare to people amid the rising number of Covid cases.On the directions of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the Health Department was making efforts to ensure adequate manpower, he said.The Punjab Government had filled more than 10,000 posts of paramedical and other staff, including medical officers, between 2017 and 2021. Sidhu congratulated the new appointees on the start of a new career in the department and encouraged them to discharge their responsibilities honestly and diligently in various health institutions of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/192-medical-officers-hired-252607
14-05-2021||---||Cabinet okays new rules to replace archaic jails manual||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13The Punjab Cabinet today approved the Punjab Prison Rules, 2021, under the Prison Act, 1894, superseding the archaic and outdated jails manual.Focus on high-risk prisonersThe Cabinet noted that the provisions of the Punjab Jail Manual, 1996, had become archaic with the passage of time and there was imminent need to update it in the changed scenario of modernisation, prison computerisation, current technology and latest laws.The newly drafted rules lay emphasis not only on safe and secure custody of prisoners, but also on other aspects such as welfare, corrections and aftercare, which have emerged as equally important in modern times. To ensure effective surveillance, safe custody and prevention of escapes, new security parameters have been introduced in the rules.For lodging of high-risk prisoners such as gangsters, drug offenders, terrorists, radicals, etc, “prisons within prisons” i.e. high security enclosures or zones have been created.The infrastructural requirements of these enclosures have been defined. These shall be equipped with wireless sets, alarm system, dedicated power back-up, hand-held and doorframe metal detectors, video-conferencing facilities, closed circuit TV cameras, X-ray baggage machines, body scanners and other modern electronic security devices.A multi-tier security grid has also been placed for better monitoring on the high security zones.Adequate provisions for creation of a welfare fund, meal for employees during their shift, legal assistance, housing, medicare, financial assistance, welfare of retired officers, etc, have been made to keep prison officers motivated.Promotional courses on the lines of the Punjab Police have also been incorporated for fair and faster promotions. To reduce recidivism, ensure successful rehabilitation and social reintegration of released convict prisoners, a framework for aftercare assistance has been incorporated in the new rules. This will cover many aspects, such as assistance in employment/ entrepreneurship, medical treatment, marriage, renting a house, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-okays-new-rules-to-replace-archaic-jails-manual-252608
14-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Record 132 LMT wheat procured||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Punjab has paid around Rs 22,000 crore to 10 lakh farmers directly for purchasing highest-ever 132 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat during the rabi marketing season that ended today.94% amount transferredTill the kharif marketing season (KMS) last year, the farmers were paid for their crops procured through commission agents. However, during this rabi marketing season (RMS), the government successfully switched over to making direct payments to farmers through the direct benefit transfer (DBT).As against payments made to just 22,000 arhtiyas before this procurement season, the government had to pay 10 lakh farmers this season — 94 per cent of the amount has been paid to date (Rs 21,927. 39 crore out of total Rs 23,517.60 crore).After initial resistance by arhtiyas, the system was introduced on the first day of the season i.e. on April 10. Within two days, the software for making the direct payment was rolled out by the state government, though it began developing it earlier after the Centre insisted on the DBT to farmers.Special classes were organised for the arhtiyas and their staff, teaching them on how to upload details of farmers — their names, bank account numbers, Aadhaar cards, mobile number, pass number issued to them for coming to mandis, address and weight of the crop brought by farmers for sale — on the Anaj Kharid portal. The auction of wheat took place once the details were registered. “This was all very new for farmers, arhtiyas as well as the procurement agency staff. But things were put in place within two-three days, and the system got going,” Ravi Bhagat, Secretary, Punjab Mandi Board, told The Tribune.Record wheat has been procured this year. Against a target of 130 LMT, the procurement this year stands at 132.21 LMT. Since the marketable surplus has already arrived in mandis, the Centre allowed Punjab to wind up its procurement operations today, instead of May 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/record-132-lmt-wheat-procured-252609
14-05-2021||---||Stop firing from colleagues’ shoulders: Sidhu to Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Amid turmoil in the Punjab Congress over the handling of the SIT probe into the Kotkapura police firing cases, Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday advised Capt Amarinder Singh to stop firing from party colleagues’ shoulders.The former Cabinet Minister’s verbal attack on his Twitter handle came after seven ministers sought his suspension for indiscipline by launching verbal attacks on the Chief Minister.Reacting to the ministers’ statements, Sidhu in his tweet said, “Yesterday and today, my soul’s demand is justice for Guru sahib. Will reiterate it tomorrow as well! Punjab’s conscience is above party lines. Stop firing from party colleagues’ shoulders. You are directly responsible and answerable — who will protect you in the court ofthe great Guru?”Meanwhile, the Chief Minister’s camp is learnt to have stepped up its efforts to oust Navjot Singh Sidhu from the party and is learnt to have conveyed the same to the party high command. On the other hand, the party high command is learnt to have advised the re-grouped party leaders to hold back their fire till a solution to the crisis was found in the coming days. Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat, who has been avoiding talking to the media ever since the turmoil started, is learnt to have told the leaders to wait for the high command’s intervention.It is learnt that Randeep Surjewala, a senior party leader and close associate of Rahul Gandhi, met Capt Amarinder Singh two days ago, though there is no official word on it.A senior party leader said, “Turmoil in the party is being linked with verbal attacks by Sidhu on the Chief Minister. The re-grouped party leaders are conveying to the high command that their issue was to exert pressure on the Chief Minister to fulfil the poll promise and not to project Sidhu as an alternative to Capt Amarinder Singh. They consciously do not want to engage in the number game, on which the minister continues to havean advantage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-firing-from-colleagues-shoulders-sidhu-to-capt-amarinder-singh-252610
14-05-2021||---||Former Congress MLA Rinwa joins SAD||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Eyeing the Fazilka Assembly seat, ex-MLA Dr Mohinder Rinwa today left the Congress to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Welcoming Rinwa and his team into the party at a function here, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said several leaders from various other parties also wanted to join the Akali Dal.The Congress had not given Rinwa the ticket to contest in the last two elections. He is looking to contest from Fazilka on the Akali ticket as earlier the BJP used to field a candidate from this seat under the seat arrangement with the Akalis. The alliance broke last year over the contentious central farm laws.Since then, the Akalis are looking for suitable candidates to fill 22 seats, which they left for the BJP earlier. Earlier, Congress’ Hans Raj Josan had joined the Akalis.Dr Rinwa, who joined the SAD along with his entire team, said he was doing so as per the wishes of his constituents who conveyed to him that they had faith in the SAD to resolve their grievances and restart development in the district.Rinwa termed Capt Amarinder Singh as a CM who had gone into hibernation and who did not have time for Congressmen. He said Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar was taking revenge against Congressmen by not conducting even a single meeting at his hometown or even adjoining constituencies for the past three years.Rinwa would be given further responsibilities in due course, Sukhbir said, adding that now Jakhar was the only remaining Congress leader in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-congress-mla-rinwa-joins-sad-252611
14-05-2021||Faridkot||Police firing: New SIT visits crime scene, begins probe||Amid a political blame game in the Congress, the new special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police today reached Kotkapura to start its investigation in the police firing incident that happened in the aftermath of sacrilege incidents in October 2015.CM trying to save Badals: Ex-jathedarBhai Ranjit Singh, former Jathedar of the Akal Takht, on Thursday alleged Capt Amarinder Singh had formed a new SIT to probe the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents just to save the Badal family, whose role had already been exposed by Justice Ranjit Singh Commission.Consequent to the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the new SIT, comprising ADGP LK Yadav, Commissioner of Ludhiana Police Rakesh Agarwal and DIG, Faridkot Range, Surjit Singh today reached the chowk where many protesters were injured in the alleged police firing on October 14, 2015, here.The new SIT started its investigation after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed an earlier inquiry last month, conducted by IGP-rank police officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.The new SIT members spoke to some shopkeepers near the chowk and inspected the spot where people were holding a protest against the sacrilege incidents.While the SIT members refused to speak to mediapersons, some of the witnesses in the two FIRs registered at the Kotkapura police station in regard to the firing incident expressed their reservations about deposing before the new SIT. Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, one of the protesters who was killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan, alleged the new SIT would not serve any purpose or justice to the victims. After the High Court orders, the courts in Faridkot have already stopped legal proceedings against the accused in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-firing-new-sit-visits-crime-scene-begins-probe-252612
14-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC slams ex-serviceman for drawing pay after retirement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Age has come to the rescue of an ex-serviceman who served for nearly 12 years beyond the age of retirement “in a surreptitious manner” and drew salary from the state exchequer at “the cost of honest taxpayers”.The Punjab and Haryana High Court ruled that the ex-serviceman “ought to pay the price for having drawn salary based on fake and forged documents”. But at the same time, it refrained itself from dismissing the petition with exemplary costs “keeping in view that the petitioner was now at the ripe age of 97”.The matter was placed before Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa after the petitioner challenged the order dated October 26, 2012, whereby his claim regarding pension/pensionary benefits was declined and directions were issued for recovery of salary paid from July 1, 1982, to December 16, 1994.Justice Dhindsa asserted the petitioner’s pleaded case was that his date of birth was June 24, 1924. Upon attaining the age of 18, he had joined the Army on June 25, 1942, and was discharged on June 29, 1966, as Naib Subedar. He was, thereafter, appointed driver with the PWD (B&R) Department, Patiala, from September 27, 1972.The impugned order said the petitioner at the time of joining service submitted an affidavit stating on oath that his date of birth was June 24, 1939. He also submitted duly signed medical certificate reflecting the same date of birth.Justice Dhindsa asserted the petitioner was aware that his year of birth was 1924. Yet, he submitted an affidavit and medical fitness certificate stating the year as 1939. He would have attained the age of superannuation on June 30, 1982. But he continued to serve beyond the age of 58 on the basis of false documents. Things came to light when he furnished a certificate regarding his past service in theArmy while claiming increments on account of it.Justice Dhindsa added the instant petition was wholly misconceived. He had filed another petition seeking release of pensionary benefits, but it was dismissed as withdrawn in May 2019. “The instant writ petition can only be seen as petitioner taking chances before this court. Such practice needs to be deprecated,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-slams-ex-serviceman-for-drawing-pay-after-retirement-252613
14-05-2021||Bathinda||SIT to probe rape case against ASI||The ASI arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a woman (widow) at Bath village here reportedly tried to commit suicide with a sharp object inside the police station. He was admitted to the Civil Hospital.Meanwhile, a special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted by the Bathinda police to further investigate the matter.ASI Gurwinder Singh, posted with the CIA-1 wing of the police, had allegedly raped a woman after implicating her son in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) case.SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said: “The accused tried to cut himself. We have booked him under Sections 376 and 309 of the IPC.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-to-probe-rape-case-against-asi-252615
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Notice to Punjab minister||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked Faridkot convener-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner Gurjeet Singh to file his personal affidavit on a petition filed by 10 municipal councillors of Jaiton Municipal Council for setting aside the proceedings of a meeting for electing the president and vice-president dated May 7.The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj also issued a notice of motion to the State of Punjab, Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and other respondents, while taking up a petition filed by Suman Devi and 10 other petitioners through counsel Krishan Singh Dadwal and Naresh Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/notice-to-punjab-minister-252616
14-05-2021||Muktsar||SHO shifted after SAD leader booked||The district police have transferred Gidderbaha SHO Inspector Angrej Singh after Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring sought action against him and Muktsar SSP for registering a case against SAD’s constituency in charge Hardeep Singh ‘Dimpy’ Dhillon for allegedly violating the Covid norms at his father’s ‘bhog’ ceremony last week.DSP Narinder Singh said: “We have recommended the cancellation of the FIR. Besides, the SHO of Gidderbaha police station has been transferred.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sho-shifted-after-sad-leader-booked-252617
14-05-2021||Patiala||Three killed in road mishap||Three bike-borne youths were killed in a road accident on the Bhadson-Nabha road after their motorcycle was allegedly hit by a truck near village Kakrali on Thursday afternoon. Police officials said the three died on the spot.The deceased have been identified as Yoginder Singh (24) of Aloran Kalan village, Bikramjit Singh (21) and Sandeep Kumar (23), both of Nabha. Residents of the area said the three had recently got a job at a nearby factory. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-killed-in-road-mishap-252618
14-05-2021||Vishav Bharti & Balwant Garg||Centre, Punjab spar over ‘faulty’ ventilators||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13A blame game has erupted between the Centre and state government over supply of ‘faulty’ ventilators to Punjab under the PM Cares Fund.The state had claimed that around 90 per cent ventilators sent by the Centre were faulty and non-functional. Countering the charge, the Union Government said the state’s infrastructure to run the equipment was faulty, not the ventilators.In a statement, the Union Health Ministry said among ventilators installed at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, 88 ventilators were supplied by Bharat Electronics Limited and five by AgVa Healthcare.States failed to install equipment: CentreThe Centre said a few more states, which were supplied ventilators, failed to install the machines in hospitals. The Union Health Secretary wrote to seven such states on April 11 to get the installation expedited. However, authorities in Punjab said as soon the necessity arose, the ventilators were put into service and most performed poorly.“There are issues/problems with the infrastructure, including non-availability of required pressure in the central oxygen gas pipelines. Further, the consumables like flow sensors, bacteria filters and HME filters are not being changed by the hospital authorities as per the prescribed norms, or ventilators are being used without these.” BEL engineers visited the GGSMCH again today and made five ventilators functional by replacing only a few consumables and demonstrated their optimum performance to the GGSMCH authorities, it said.Reiterating the state’s claim, Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Parkash Soni said, “The ventilators were faulty that is why the Government of India sent its engineers for repairs.”Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, said they had been regularly informing the state government regarding the malfunctioning ventilators.He said senior functionaries in the Health Department had clearly informed the Centre too, he said.“The Centre should have provided a long-term annual maintenance contract with the machines,” said the Vice-Chancellor, adding that only one engineer of a company reached the Faridkot medical college to rectify the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-punjab-spar-over-faulty-ventilators-252560
14-05-2021||---||Punjab CM announces Rs 3,000 subsistence allowance for registered construction workers||Chandigarh, May 13To mitigate sufferings caused due to loss of livelihood of construction workers amid the Covid restrictions, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced subsistence allowance/cash assistance of Rs 3,000 to all construction workers registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Welfare Board.Amarinder Singh, who is also the Chairman of the Board, said the subsistence allowance of Rs 3,000 would be paid in two instalments of Rs 1,500 each, the first one to be released immediately and another by June 15.It may be recalled that the Amarinder-led state government had similarly extended a helping hand to distressed construction workers last year too, amid the first wave of the pandemic. It had then provided financial assistance to the tune of Rs 174.31 crore at the rate of Rs 6,000 each to 2.91 lakh construction workers registered with the Board.Notably, the Board has nearly three lakh registered construction workers across the state. The livelihood of these construction workers has been adversely impacted in the wake of various restrictive measures and advisories issued from time to time to combat the current situation arising out of recent spike in Covid cases. The progress of ongoing construction projects at several places has either stopped or temporarily slowed down, thus severely hitting the income and livelihood of such workers.The Chief Minister said the financial assistance was aimed at bringing some immediate relief to the construction workers in these difficult times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-announces-rs-3-000-subsistence-allowance-for-registered-construction-workers-252337
14-05-2021||---||Punjab to launch 18-44 vaccination from Friday for families of healthcare workers, comorbid citizens||Chandigarh, May 13Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced the launch of 18-44 age group vaccination for families of healthcare workers in both government and private sectors, as well as those suffering from co-morbidities, from tomorrow.Directing judicious use of the limited available stocks of vaccine, the Chief Minister also directed the Health Department to initiate the process of vaccinating co-morbid prisoners in this age group amid the surging cases of Covid in the state, where the positivity rate for the week ended May 12 stood at 14.2%, with CFR of 2.1%.Reviewing the Covid situation and the vaccination status at a virtual meeting of his cabinet, the Chief Minister asked the Health Department to kickstart the vaccination programme for these priority groups from identified school and other buildings, to prevent further spread of the pandemic due to crowding at government hospitals.Briefing the Cabinet, Dr Gagandeep Kang, a special invitee to the Expert Group, said with preliminary data showing vaccines working better against the coronavirus than expected, including against the mutant B.1.617 variety, a targeted response to the vaccination programme was needed. She suggested more extensive use of Covishield, given its affordability and availability, and the fact that it offers high efficacy even with a single dose, while the second dose can be extended up to 12 weeks.Dr Kang suggested that the Government of India should be requested to include obesity in the list of comorbidities for vaccination priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-launch-18-44-vaccination-from-friday-for-families-of-healthcare-workers-comorbid-citizens-252335
14-05-2021||---||Many Punjab hospitals not following ventilator user manuals, raising ‘faulty’ issue without basis: Centre||New Delhi, May 13The government on Thursday said there was no fault with the ventilators supplied to GGS Medical College and Hospital in Punjab’s Faridkot and the ventilators were lying unused on account of operational issues.The Ministry of Health in a statement said several hospitals and medical colleges in Punjab had not been following ventilator user manual and guidelines and have been, instead, raising the issue of ventilators being non-functional without any basis.“In addition to the instructions given in the user manual, detailed instructions and guidelines have also been issued to all the ventilator users regarding infrastructure requirements, proper usage and maintenance of the CV200 ventilators. However, these are not being followed by many hospitals and medical colleges in Punjab. They have been, instead, raising the issue of ventilators being non-functional without any basis,” the ministry said.Issuing a clarification on reports that 71 of 80 AGVA make ventilators at the Faridkot hospital were non-functional or faulty, the Ministry of Health said 88 ventilators have been supplied by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and five by AGVA. “After successful installation and commissioning, these ventilators were provided with Final Acceptance Certificate by the hospital authorities. BEL has informed that bulk of the ventilators at GGS Medical College Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, are not faulty, as are being reported in a section of the media. Their engineers have visited the said Medical College on different occasions in the past to address the complaints received and carried out minor repairs required promptly. They have even conducted repeated demonstrations of the functioning of the ventilators to the staff over there,” the Ministry said.It said problems with the ventilators are related to infrastructure in GGSMCH, including non-availability of required pressure in the central oxygen gas pipelines. “Further, the consumables like flow sensors, bacteria filters and HME filters are not being changed by the hospital authorities as per the prescribed norms, or the ventilators are being used without these important consumable items. Maintenance of correct gas pressures (difference between air pressure and oxygen pressure cannot be more than 10 PSI) and use of proper consumables are essential requirements, without which performance of CV200 ventilators is not guaranteed,” the health ministry said.The Ministry also said that BEL engineers visited GGSMCH on May 12 and made five ventilators functional only by replacing a few consumables and demonstrated their optimum performance to the GGSMCH authorities, thereby, further making it evident that when operated properly, the ventilators will provide reliable performance.The Ministry added that BEL will continue to provide technical support required by the state in meeting the ventilator requirement during this pandemic situation.“Union Health Ministry has written to states on May 9 informing them once again of the Helpline numbers of the ventilator manufactures, which are also available on the ventilators in the form of stickers. Information has again been provided of state-wise Whatsapp groups created with the nodal officers concerned of the states, representatives of the user Hospitals and technical teams of the manufacturers in order to address any technical issues in real time. Dedicated email IDs of these manufacturers,” said the Ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/many-punjab-hospitals-not-following-ventilator-user-manuals-raising-faulty-issue-without-basis-centre-252334
