15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to demand more oxygen tankers from Centre||The Punjab government on Saturday said it will demand additional oxygen tankers from the Centre to speed up the supply chain of the life-saving gas in the state.Besides, Punjab has also expedited the process of procuring its own oxygen tankers from different parts of the country and abroad, said Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.  Mahajan stated this after chairing a meeting to review the availability of oxygen and taking stock of the ongoing initiatives to check the spread of coronavirus here, according to an official statement.Briefing the present status of the supply chain of oxygen to Punjab from different parts of the country, Principal Secretary (Transport) K Siva Prasad said efforts have also been intensified to bring oxygen tankers from Belgium and Australia."Hopefully, the supply of oxygen tankers from Australia and Belgium will reach Punjab soon," he added.Rahul Tiwari, who is supervising the Oxygen Control Room, said Punjab's first oxygen express train left for Bokaro in Jharkhand on Saturday morning to pick up its 80 metric tonne (MT) quota of oxygen, which would further strengthen the stock of life-saving medical supplies in the state.He said the services of state-owned Markfed were being used to further speed up the process of oxygen procurement and ensure that there was no shortage of the life-saving gas in the state.Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation, Jaspreet Talwar, while sharing the district-wise information of Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants, said a total of 44 PSA plants would be set up in Punjab at a cost of Rs 4.71 crore for which several NGOs and big companies have come forward to help the state government in this endeavour.Regarding the status of oxygen concentrators in the state, the chief secretary was informed that Punjab has around 1,060 concentrators at present, which were being distributed in the districts as per the requirement, while more concentrators would be available soon and would be sent to the districts as per the need.Mahajan directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to ensure uninterrupted power supply to all the hospitals in which COVID patients were being treated.She ordered the PSPCL to also ensure uninterrupted power supply to the new hospitals, which have been set up or were being set up by the NGOs. Directions were also issued to the Public Works Department (PWD) to provide more basic facilities to the three government colleges-cum-hospitals in the state and the Mohali hospital, which has been turned into an exclusive Covid care facility. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-demand-more-oxygen-tankers-from-centre-253322
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine for 18-44 group: Centre should be lone agency for procurement, says Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make the Centre as the single agency for the procurement and distribution of COVID vaccine for people in the age group of 18-44. “Vaccination of the entire eligible population, especially in a pandemic situation, is the responsibility of the central government as any non-inclusion can undermine the rest of the collective effort,” the chief minister said in a letter to the PM. Citing the experience of the past three weeks when various states “have been making their individual efforts to source the vaccine from domestic producers as well as from abroad”, the CM said the Centre should immediately undertake sourcing of all vaccines as a single agency for those in the age group of 18-44.The Centre should ensure vaccine distribution across all states and union territories through clinical establishment for proper vaccination of the age group, a statement quoting Amarinder said here. The Punjab CM said he had even earlier suggested that in view of the modalities of the supply chain management, it would be operationally and financially most expedient if the entire procurement and supply of vaccine is done through the Union government for all age groups. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-vaccine-for-18-44-group-centre-should-be-lone-agency-for-procurement-says-punjab-cm-253315
15-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Punjab: Cop caught on camera stealing eggs, suspended||A head constable of the Punjab Police has been suspended after he was caught on camera stealing eggs from a cart here, officials said on Saturday.The video of Pritpal Singh, posted with Fatehgarh Sahib police station, stealing eggs has gone viral.The head constable in uniform is purportedly seen stealing eggs from a cart on the roadside by standing on its side when its owner is not around.The Punjab Police has suspended the cop and a departmental enquiry has been started against him, officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cop-caught-on-camera-stealing-eggs-suspended-253307
15-05-2021||---||IAF airlifts NDRF men and equipment from Punjab to Gujarat to tackle Cyclone Tauktae'||Vijay MohanTribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 15The IAF airlifted men and equipment from Bathinda in Punjab to Gujarat on Saturday as part of the government’s efforts to mitigate the effects of Cyclone Tauktae, which is raging off the western coast of India.One IL-76 strategic freighter airlifted 127 personnel of the National Disaster Relief Force and 11 tonnes of cargo from Bathinda to Jamnagar, while a C-130 aircraft airlifted 25 personnel and 12.3 tonnes of cargo from Bathinda to Rajkot. In addition, two C-130 aircraft have airlifted 126 personnel and 14 tonnes of cargo from Bhubaneswar to Jamnagar, according to an IAF spokesperson.Tauktae, lying over east-central and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea, about190 km north-northwest of Amini Divi and 330 km south-southwest of Panjim-Goa, is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during next few hours and subsequently into a very severe cyclonic storm. It is very likely to move north-north-westwards and cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around the afternoon or evening of May 18.The IAF has kept 16 transport aircraft and 18 helicopters on operational readiness in peninsular India in preparation for CCyclone Tauktae which is expected to cause very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall along the western coast of India in the next few days.The IAF is also focusing on undertaking COVID-19 relief operations in these coastal areas during the coming days as bad weather is likely to affect air operations later. The cyclone relief operations are in addition to those underway for COVID relief.Till the morning of May 15, the IAF had undertaken a total of 778 domestic sorties across the country, logging 1,147 flying hours, to ferry COVId related stores and equipment. This includes 490 oxygen tankers weighing 8,343 metric tonnes and 209 metric tonnes of other equipment.Besides, 130 international sorties were carried out by the IAF to bring in 104 oxygen containers weighing 872 metric tonnes and other associated equipment weighing 352 metric tonnes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iaf-airlifts-ndrf-men-and-equipment-from-punjab-to-gujarat-to-tackle-cyclone-tauktae-253277
15-05-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Yogi, Capt Amarinder spar over Punjab naming Malerkotla as district||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday hit out at the Punjab government for declaring Malerkotla as an independent revenue district of the state.In effect, the full spectrum of the past and present political circumstances leading up to announcement of Malerkotla as the 23rd district of Punjab, and the retaliatory retort from Adityanath is harbinger of the blowing gentle political winds of the forthcoming assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, which will be held during next spring season.मत और मजहब के आधार पर किसी प्रकार का विभेद भारत के संविधान की मूल भावना के विपरीत है।इस समय, मलेरकोटला (पंजाब) का गठन किया जाना कांग्रेस की विभाजनकारी नीति का परिचायक है।  The election in the two states along with Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa are simultaneously due in February-March next year.Taking exception to the declaration of Malerkotla as a separate district, Adityanath said any kind of discrimination based on ideology and religion is against the fundamental spirit of the Constitution.Slamming Yogi Adityanath over his "inflammatory" tweet on the declaration of Malerkotla as the 23rd district of Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh termed it an attempt to incite communal hatred in the peaceful state as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s divisive policies.Contrasting the communal harmony in Punjab with the divisiveness being promoted by the Yogi Adiyanath government in Uttar Pradesh, Amarinder Singh asked the former to stay out of his state’s affairs, which are in much better shape than those in UP under the divisive and destructive BJP government, which has been actively promoting communal discord in the state for the past over four years.“What does he (Yogi Adityanath) know of Punjab’s ethos or the history of Malerkotla, whose relationship with Sikhism and its Gurus was known to every Punjabi? And what does he understand of the Indian Constitution, which is being brazenly trampled every day by his own government in UP?” asked the Chief Minister, in a strong reaction to his UP counterpart’s tweet, describing Malerkotla’s new status as a “sign of the divisive policies of the Congress.”Lambasting the ruling Congress in Punjab, Yogi said the creation of Malerkotla as a district at this juncture was testimony to Congress’ policy of divisive politics.“Ideological and religious driven discrimination of any kind is against the basic spirit of the Constitution,” Adityanath tweeted and added that creation of the district is testimony to the Congress policy of divisive politics.Creation of Malerkotla was an electoral promise of the Congress, made during the last Assembly election in Punjab.Malerkotla township and the assembly constituency are preponderated with Muslim population.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced Malerkotla as a new district of the state on Friday on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yogi-capt-amarinder-spar-over-punjab-naming-malerkotla-as-district-253271
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||40 per cent of Punjab's Covid deaths occurred in last 44 days||Around 40 per cent of the total Covid-19-related fatalities in Punjab took place in the last forty-four days, indicating the severity of the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic.Punjab had reported a total of 6,868 deaths due to the infection as on March 31.The death toll rose to 11,477 as of May 14, showing 4,609 more people succumbing to the disease since April 1 this year, the state Health Department's data revealed.The health officials had earlier pointed out that the delay in approaching hospitals for treatment by patients with severe symptoms and comorbidities were the main reasons behind fatalities.Punjab witnessed a record 217 deaths because of the contagion in a single day on May 11. The state has been seeing more than 100 fatalities daily for the past several days.Ludhiana is one of the worst-affected districts in Punjab as it has registered 538 deaths between April 1 and May 14, 2021, as per the data.Besides, Amritsar reported 515 more deaths due to the contagion between April 1 and May 14.During the same period, Patiala saw 396 deaths, Bathinda 349, Mohali 307 and Jalandhar 301, as per the data.The case fatality rate in rural areas is 2.6 per cent as against 0.8 per cent in urban areas, officials said.Apart from this, Punjab has added 2,44,250 fresh cases of infection in the last 44 days.The state had a total of 2,39,734 cases as on March 31. It went up to 4,83,984 between April 1 and May 14, as per the Health Department data.Ludhiana, Mohali, Bathinda, Patiala, Jalandhar and some other districts have witnessed a sharp rise in infections.Punjab's positive rate on Friday stood at around 11 per cent. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/40-per-cent-of-punjabs-covid-deaths-occurred-in-last-44-days-253270
15-05-2021||Jalandhar||Video of man carrying body of his 11-year-old 'Covid-positive' daughter in Jalandhar goes viral||Hours after the video of a man carrying the body of his 11-year-old "coronavirus positive" daughter on his shoulders and walking on a road in Jalandhar's Ram Nagar went viral, the district administration said the girl did not die due to the virus.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori ordered a probe into the whole incident and said it was found that the minor did not succumb to Covid-19.Dilip, father of deceased Sonu, on Saturday interacted with the media and shared that his daughter was ill for the past nearly two months with symptoms of indigestion.He said on someone’s recommendation, he took her to Amritsar for her treatment where the doctors told that her Covid-19 report had come positive but she passed away on Sunday last.He said the video dates back on Monday last when he returned with the body and went to the cremation ground with his son to perform her last rites.Asked as to why no one including the authorities came forward for the last rites of his daughter, Dilip said, “I am an illiterate, poor man. I do not know anything about the protocol. I had no time to contact anyone including the area councillor or the MLA. No one came forward for help from the area owing to the coronavirus positive report.”He shared his grief, “A Class IV employee of the Amritsar hospital just wrapped her body in the sheet on which she was lying and handed it over to me. I was just given her death certificate but no PPE kits. I cremated her without any protective gear as I was not aware of any such measures to be taken. I took Rs 1,000 financial help from someone in my area, bought the wood and went along with my son for her last rites.” However, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori ordered a probe into the whole incident and said it was found that the minor did not succumb to Covid-19.Divulging the details, the DC said as per inquiry report conducted by the Sub Divisional Magistrate, the cause of death was not Covid-19.He added that the girl was admitted in Jalandhar Civil Hospital from where she was referred to Amritsar Medical college.An ambulance carried the patient to Amritsar, where she remained admitted in the surgical ward. After the death, an ambulance again dropped the dead body back in Jalandhar at their house.Pointing out further, Covid Patient Tracking Officer (CPTO) Navneet Kaur Bal said that no one in the family or anyone in the area came forward to seek help in the cremation.She said that in normal cases (other than Covid-19 deaths), once the dead body is handed over to family, they take care of the last rites, however, in present case no one approached her for the help in cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/video-of-man-carrying-body-of-his-11-year-old-covid-positive-daughter-in-jalandhar-goes-viral-253257
15-05-2021||New Delhi||Samyukta Kisan Morcha to observe May 26 as 'black day' marking 6 months of protest against farm laws||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Saturday announced that it will observe May 26 as ‘black day', marking six months of their protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's three farm laws.In a virtual press conference, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal appealed to people to raise black flags at their houses, vehicles and shops on May 26 to protest against the contentious farm legislations."On May 26, we will complete six months of this protest and it also happens to mark seven years since PM Modi formed the government. We will observe it as black day," Rajewal said.A large number of farmers reached Delhi's borders on November 26 after facing water cannons and police barriers as part of their "Delhi Chalo" march against the Centre's farm laws.Thousands of farmers from across the country joined the protest in the following months at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders around the national capital.Rajewal appealed to people to support the call for observing ‘black day' on May 26."We appeal to people of the country and also Punjab to hang black flags at their house, shops, trucks and other vehicles. We will also burn effigies of (PM) Narendra Modi as a form of protest," he added.He said that the government has not heard the farmers demands to repeal the three farm laws and "with increasing prices of fertilisers, diesel and petrol, the farming business is not possible".Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back, and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government, which has held multiple rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukta-kisan-morcha-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-marking-6-months-of-protest-against-farm-laws-253253
15-05-2021||---||Congress veteran and six-time former Amritsar MP RL Bhatia dies of Covid at 100||Amritsar, May 15Congress stalwart Raghunandan Lal Bhatia, popularly known as RL Bhatia, died of Covid here on Saturday. He was 100 and would have turned 101 on July 3. Bhatia had an illustrious political career as he represented the Amritsar Lok Sabha constituency six times and also remained a Minister of State for External Affairs. He was also twice appointed a Governor.He was born into a prosperous business family which has a sprawling home on the iconic Mall Road here, set up by the British during the Colonial period.It was the death of his uncle Durgadas Bhatia, who was a sitting MP from Amritsar, which ushered him into politics as he successfully won the 1972 bypoll. He repeated the feat in 1980, 1984, 1991, 1996 and 1999.It was cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, parachuted by his late mentor Arun Jaitley for the Amritsar seat in the 2004 General Election, who ousted him from competitive electoral politics.  After his exit, it took one-and-a-half decade for the Congress to make a comeback here. It was another Congress stalwart, Capt Amarinder Singh, who won back the seat for his party in 2014. It is currently represented by Congress MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-veteran-and-six-time-former-amritsar-mp-rl-bhatia-dies-of-covid-at-100-253237
15-05-2021||Ropar||In Ropar, cops to ferry people to vaccination centres||To expedite vaccination drive in the district, the police have decided to use their hospital ambulance to ferry people to inoculation centres. SSP Akhil Chaudhary said the local cops would conduct meetings with sarpanches, other prominent people and civil society members to motivate maximum people for the vaccination drive. He said the idea was to ferry people from their homes to nearest vaccination centres. The need was felt as the district is mostly rural and there are some far-flung areas where people, especially elderly citizens, may find it difficult to reach the centres. It will also help single mothers, whose husbands or family members work somewhere else. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-ropar-cops-to-ferry-people-to-vaccination-centres-252982
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Take steps to end loot by pvt hospitals: AAP||Punjab AAP chief Bhagwant Mann has asked the state to set up a nodal agency to curb the looting of Covid patients by private hospitals in the name of costly treatment. He said free treatment should be provided to the people, who were already suffering from the economic downturn.Mann said due to lack of equipment, medicines and ventilators in government hospitals, people were forced to undergo treatment in private ones. He said the treatment of patients had been turned into a business by some private hospitals, who were charging Rs 10 to 15 lakh. “There are many cases where suchhospitals treated the patient and took Rs 15 lakh from the family but the latter still died.” — TNSOpposes Cong campsAAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema on Friday said the vaccination camps set up by Congress leaders at various places in the name of protection against Covid was a violation of the Health Department rules. He said the leaders should stop playing with people’s lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-steps-to-end-loot-by-pvt-hospitals-aap-252983
15-05-2021||---||Keep outsiders away, CM Capt Amarinder Singh urges villagers||Chandigarh, May 14With rural areas, which had largely remained unaffected in the first wave, witnessing a surge in Covid cases, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today urged villagers to restrict the movement of outsiders into villages and let in only those not infected by the virus.Addressing state residents, the CM called for strict measures in rural areas over the next two months, which he described as “extremely crucial”. “Now villages are seeing a surge in cases, so we need to be very careful,” he said, urging villagers to conduct “thikri pehras” (local vigil) to keep outsiders away and allow only Covid-free people to enter.Lauds farmers over wheat procurementThe CM lauded farmers over seamless completion of wheat procurement amid the Covid challenges. Compared to 129 lakh MT last year, 132 lakh MT wheat had been procured this year, he said, adding this had resulted in earnings to the tune of Rs26,000 crore to farmers, as against Rs24,600 crore last year.Exhorting people to “save your mohallas and villages to save yourself, your families and Punjab”, the CM asked them not to delay visiting the hospital if symptoms arose.“We have teams of doctors everywhere, approach them if you feel unwell,” he said, stressing delay in seeking treatment was landing people in level-3 (critical care) facilities. “While occupancy of level-2 (moderate infection) beds is 50 per cent, it is around 90 per cent at level-3 facilities, and the state government is in the process of adding another 2,000 beds,” he pointed out.Noting that there were three stages of the disease, of which the first could be managed at home, the CM urged people to visit a doctor at the first sign of symptoms. “Let the doctor decide the course of treatment, don’t get into diagnosis and self-medication,” he said.He wondered why people were harming the interests of the state and their families by being lax, adding “we don’t want Punjab to go the Delhi and Maharashtra way, which have experienced unprecedented problems in the second wave”.The disease was wreaking havoc the world over, with even the most advanced countries not immune to it, he said, urging people to help his government save the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keep-outsiders-away-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-urges-villagers-252984
15-05-2021||Manav Mander||Now, black fungus scare in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14Covid survivors not following up with the doctor post recovery or continuing medicines after recovery on their own are the major factors leading to the black fungus infection (mucormycosis).In addition to this, cases have surfaced where people are indulging in self-medication (to avoid hospital visits) and buying steroids on their own for tackling Covid, which is later leading to the black fungus infection.Who are at riskAll recovered patients from Covid who are or were on steroids, if experiencing some headache, vision impairment, swelling on face, nasal block, altered mental state or blackish discolouration around the bridge of the nose should get themselves checked for black fungus.Nearly three-four cases are being reported every week in major hospitals of Ludhiana though many have been cured. A few patients have lost their eyesight after contracting black fungus. It affects the nose, sinuses, eyes and brain.Dr Manish Munjal, Head of Department of Otorhinolaryngology at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), said they had received 20-25 cases of black fungus during the second wave and most of the patients were Covid survivors.“The problem is found mostly in Covid survivors who are diabetic, hypertensive or kidney patients. They are cured of the virus but during the process, they are given steroids. The body’s immune system goes into an overdrive to fight the virus. Drop in immunity later could be triggering these cases of mucormycosis,” said Dr Munjal.He said patients needed to do a regular follow-up with the doctor after recovery. “Telemedicine is not a popular concept in Punjab, especially in rural areas, due to which patients continue to take medicines post recovery on their own which leads to complications like the black fungus,” Dr Munjal added.Christian Medical College and Hospital is also receiving cases of black fungus. During pre-Covid times, one case was reported in a month but now, the hospital is getting two-three cases every week.Dr Priyanka, associate professor in Department of Ophthalmology at DMCH, said they received three patients in the past few days. One is still admitted and has lost sight in one eye.Dr Shaffie Baidwal, associate consultant, Department of Ophthalmology, Fortis Hospital, said when the fungus invades the para-nasal sinus mucosa, it may spread directly to the orbits, and from there to the brain. With extensive spread of the disease, removal of orbit/eye along with sinuses may be necessary. Often it is too late to save the patient’s vision, or even their eye or life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-black-fungus-scare-in-ludhiana-252985
15-05-2021||Abohar||Poor testing,  no surveillance Abohar’s bane||The sub-division continues to be one of the worst hit by the second wave of Covid with eight more deaths in the past 48 hours and 50 per cent of them belonged to Nai Abadi. Though the area was declared a containment zone last week, sanitisation, testing drive and door-to-door survey were still in limbo.The pandemic has spread in various villages in the Seetogunno sub-tehsil area also and half of the positive cases being reported in Fazilka district in the past six weeks belong to Abohar.The Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti that has been assisting health workers in cremating the bodies of Covid victims has expressed concerns over officials’ apathy towards the four containment zones in the town. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-testing-no-surveillance-abohars-bane-252986
15-05-2021||Abohar||4 held for black marketing of Remdesivir||The Sriganganagar police arrested four persons, including a medical drug stockist, last evening for black marketing Remdesivir injection used in treatment of Covid patients.  Acting on a tip-off, a District Special Police (DST) team nabbed them through a decoy customer near Rajendra Medicos in Birbal Chowk. Sub-inspector Aadesh Kumar said among the arrested persons were stockist Sahil Goyal, his employee Gaurav Arora, Rajendra Medicos’ owner Lokesh Goyal and Ganapati Medical Store partner Subhash Kumhar. They reportedly charging Rs 27,000 per injectionm which had an MRP of Rs 3,000. Demanded strict action, the District Chemists Association said the erring chemists had been expelled from the association. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-held-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-252987
15-05-2021||GS Paul||Oxygen plant at SGPC hospital lying defunct||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 14Much to the apathy of the Centre, the medical oxygen plant set up by the SGPC at Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Vallah, could not be made operational.The reason is that despite repeated reminders, the Centre was not inclined to supply liquid oxygen leading to difficulties in treating the Covid patients. Leaving nothing to chance, the SGPC resorted to install two special units that would generate oxygen from atmospheric air with the help of pressure swing absorption (PSA) technique.Eight months ago, after getting requisite approvals from the PM’s office and the Ministry of Health, the SGPC had entered into an MoU with a Gujarat-based firm, Inox, to set up a full-fledged oxygen generation plant on the basis of operation and maintenance (O&M) mode.Hospital dean Dr AP Singh said, “Now, that the pandemic impact has escalated and critical patients were under treatment, so we fell short of oxygen as the firm showed helplessness in operating the plant for the want of the Centre’s nod to provide the liquid oxygen. Once we get it, it would have a capacity to produce medical gas equivalent to at least 170 cylinders a day, making all our hospitals self-reliant,” he added. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said numerous reminders to the PM office and Health Ministry were sent, but in vain. She said as an alternative, two PSA oxygen generation units worth Rs 2.5 crore were being installed at Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Vallah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oxygen-plant-at-sgpc-hospital-lying-defunct-252988
15-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna
||Door-to-door campaign in villages to contain spread||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 14 Amid talks of an impending third wave of the pandemic and a high case fatality rate (CFR) in rural areas, the Punjab Government has stepped up its efforts to stop the transmission of Covid in villages. The CFR in rural areas of Punjab is 2.6 and in urban areas 0.69. The positivity rate in rural areas is 22 per cent, much lower than that in urban areas (78 per cent). The low positivity rate in rural areas is because of low testing. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the main problem in rural areas was people were not wary of the pandemic. “In most cases, people getting symptoms are visiting medical practitioners, who, we have found, have been treating patients for typhoid. When the patient becomes serious, they are brought to the hospitals, by then it is too late, leading to a high CFR in rural areas,” he said. The minister said they now have a concrete plan in place. He said, “Teams of the Health Department along with local influential political leaders will start a door-to-door campaign in all villages, checking on all symptomatic persons and conducting random Covid tests. We will home isolate most positive persons with mild symptoms.”   He said NGOs and religious deras, too, were being roped in to create bed capacity and special wards were being created in all civil hospitals to treat post Covid complications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/door-to-door-campaign-in-villages-to-contain-spread-252990
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||BJP flays govt over ventilators||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh today slammed the Congress government for its “inefficiency and slackness” in utilising ventilators provided to Punjab from the PM Cares fund. In a statement, Chugh said more than 800 ventilators were provided to the state way back in December. Among these, the three government medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot got 300 machines. “The state government was reminded twice by the Centre to make these operational at the earliest, but it has been lazy and inefficient to respond, putting lives of hundreds of Covid patients to grave risk,” said Chugh. He slammed the administration of the three medical colleges for raising a false alarm over technical snags. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-flays-govt-over-ventilators-252991
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hand over centres to Army: SAD||SAD leader and former MP Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra today demanded that the Congress government should hand over its Covid centres at Mohali, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Bathinda to the Army’s Western Command as people’s faith in the ability of the state to run medical facilities had eroded.Ramp up infra at bathinda AIIMS: MPBathinda: MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal has requested Health Minister OP Soni to upscale Level-3 facilities at AIIMS by providing ventilators and additional oxygen for Covid patients.He also asked the government to spend Rs 660 crore, which had been earmarked for the state from the National Disaster Management Fund, to provide much-needed economic relief to people.Chandumajra said in this hour of crisis, the prime goal was to save lives. “Punjabis have been hit by a severe second wave of the pandemic and the government has been found wanting in dealing with the situation. It is best the Army Medical Corps is taken on board and handed over major Covid centres,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hand-over-centres-to-army-sad-252992
15-05-2021||---||Move Covid care facility out of residential area, officials urged||Bathinda, May 14People living in the Birla Mill road area of Bathinda have alleged that a Covid care centre operating from there has put their lives at risk. They fear the densely-populated residential area has been exposed to the deadly virus due to the centre.Therefore, area residents have written to the Health Department, Municipal Corporation, Bathinda, and senior officials seeking their immediate intervention to close down the Covid centre on a priority basis.Darshan Garg, an area resident, said: “I am a senior citizen and there are small kids in our house. The Covid care centre shares a wall with our house. We are not able to sleep in the night as ambulances keep honking round the clock. Besides other vehicles carrying oxygen and other material keep coming to the hospital regularly. Attendants along with patients park their vehicles in the narrow streets.” Residents said moving outside their houses had become a risky affair.Dr Amit Aggarwal, who is running the Covid centre, said: “There are many Covid centres that are operating from residential areas in the city. People need to cooperate in this hour of crisis. Moreover, we have taken the requisite permission from the authorities concerned to run the centre. We have been following all precautions as well.”Bathinda Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan, too, sought cooperation from the people. He assured, “All centres are granted approval after verifying that they conform to all Covid protocols.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/move-covid-care-facility-out-of-residential-area-officials-urged-252994
15-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Police serve food to needy||As part of the state government initiative to provide free meals to needy Covid patients, the Amloh and Mandi Gobindgarh police in the district have launched the campaign in their respective areas. Amloh police station SHO Raj Kumar said on the directions of SSP Amneet Kondal, helpline numbers ‘181’ and ‘112’ had been activated allowing poor infected patients or their family members to order meals. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-serve-food-to-needy-252995
15-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Every third Covid patient at Rajindra hospital dying||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 14Every third Covid patient admitted to the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital is likely to succumb to the virus, reveals official data. With around 30 Covid deaths a day, the fatality rate at hospital is 35 per cent. As per the hospital authorities, around 1,781 positive patients of 5,053 admissions have died of Covid since the pandemic broke out last year.The death rate is much higher in the second wave when compared to the first, and continues to surge as of now. In May so far, 422 Covid patients have died. The figure stood at 415 in April and 113 in March. The number of recoveries at the hospital, tragically, is very low, say experts.Hospital authorities have blamed the late reporting of the severe patients as the major reason for the rising Covid deaths at the hospital. In some cases, patients are even brought dead, adding to the hospital’s official toll, say the authorities.Dr RPS Sibia, Head of the Department of Medicine, said, “Rajindra Hospital is a referral tertiary healthcare institute. Therefore, very sick patients are admitted to the hospital that leads to a higher number of fatalities. Moreover, compared to the first wave, the number of sick patients is three times higher in the second wave. Currently, around 240 patients, who are very sick, are undergoing treatment.”Doctors at the hospital have claimed that the majority of the deaths so far have happened within the first 24 or 48 hours of admission as the oxygen saturation, in most of the cases, was at critical level. Last week, Medical Education Minster OP Soni had said if the admission of severe patients was higher, the death rate was bound to be on a higher side.Given the availability of continuous oxygen supply, life saving drugs, and ventilators at the hospital, experts say the death rate is an unexpected one. The experts have also expressed concerns over the deployment of doctors, at the Isolation, other than that of core expertise: medicine, chest, TB and anesthesia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/every-third-covid-patient-at-rajindra-hospital-dying-252996
15-05-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal
||Quacks make a killing in rural areas of Gurdaspur||Tribune News Service Gurdaspur, May 14 Covid is being seen through a lens of superstition by a majority of villagers living near the International Border because of their steadfast belief in quacks. This development has forced health officials to up their ante against such “medical practitioners”.  The literacy rate is abysmally low in the border belt. This is the prime reason being attributed by health officials for gullible villagers falling into the trap of these ‘doctors’ whenever they develop Covid symptoms. Many even believe that the virus is an “evil spirit” and hence it can be treated only through excruciatingly painful treatment.    Health officials admit that they were fighting quackery with their hands tied to their backs following lack of proper government guidelines to deal with the scourge.   Civil Surgeon Dr Harbhajan Raj said he held regular meetings with Registered Medical  Practitioners (RMPs).  “But seldom do these people listen to us. They keep on treating patients. To complicate matters, for every registered practitioner there are four unregistered ones,” he said.  His views were corroborated by SMO  Dr Vijay Kumar.  He said: “Border villages of Gurdaspur have become a favourite playground for these quacks. The situation is particularly bad in the Dorangla block where Covid cases have witnessed a spike. There are nearly 3,000 of quacks masquerading as medical specialists.” The virus has brought in its wake various types of rumours and these quacks thrive upon them to make a killing. “Unsuspecting villagers are being given steroids to ensure Covid disappears overnight,” admitted a doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quacks-make-a-killing-in-rural-areas-of-gurdaspur-252998
15-05-2021||Abohar||Helpline boon for infected patients||Local chapter of the “Farz Manukhta Da” helpline launched by the Punjab Congress has proved helpful to many families in resolving Covid-related problems.  Two phone numbers had been floated on social media to facilitate people in contacting the local team as and when they were in need of any help related to the pandemic that had recorded huge resurgence in the area in past six weeks. The team has been bridging the gap between the needy and the administration. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/helpline-boon-for-infected-patients-252999
15-05-2021||---||5 minors among 6 drown in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 14Five minors, including four siblings, drowned in a pond at Maangarh village on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway this afternoon. A man tried to save the children by jumping into the pond but he also drowned.The minors were taking a bath when they got stuck in a marshy area. A villager who saw the children drowning jumped into the pond but he too got stuck.The authorities called in divers who struggled for over two hours to retrieve the six bodies. Koom Kalan SHO Harshpal Singh Chahal, who visited the scene, said the five children were aged between 4 and 10 years.The siblings have been identified as Priya (4), Monu (6), Chhoti (8) and Laxmi (10). The fifth child has been identified as Kalim (10).The minors’ parents worked as migrant labourers. The siblings’ father Sanjay is a native of Lucknow and currently lives at Maangarh village. Kalim’s father Mohd Fahim, too, is a native of UP and a resident of the village.The SHO said the sixth victim had been identified as Rahul (22). His father Nirgun Saha is a native of Bihar and currently residing at Maangarh. The bodies were later handed over to parents.CM announces Rs50,000 ex gratia  Expressing deep shock over the tragic incident, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced ex gratia of Rs50,000 to the families of each of the five children who drowned in a pond in a Ludhiana village, as well as for the migrant who also died while trying to save them. The CM extended his heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved migrant families, and directed the district authorities to offer all possible support to them in this hour of grief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-minors-among-6-drown-in-ludhiana-253000
15-05-2021||New Delhi||Jarnail Singh, former AAP MLA, dies of Covid||Former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Rajouri Garden Jarnail Singh died of Covid-related complications here on Friday morning. He was in the ICU at a Delhi hospital for over nine days.Jarnail had notably resigned from his seat in the Delhi Assembly to contest the 2017 Assembly poll in Punjab. He contested the high-profile Lambi seat against Parkash Singh Badal and Capt Amarinder Singh. Badal won the seat.Jarnail, a former journalist, had quit his job after he hurled a shoe at the then Union Home Minister P Chidambaram in 2009 at a press conference. He was angry that Chidambaram had welcomed the clean chit to his party colleagues – Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar — in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots case. Jarnail was taken into custody, however, the Home Minister did not press for charges and asked the journalist be released.A survivor of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, Jarnail was a resident of Lajpat Nagar in Delhi. He authored a book titled ‘I accuse: The Anti-Sikh Violence of 1984’, detailing several unknown aspects.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia condoled his demise. “Deeply saddened by the untimely demise of former Delhi MLA Sh Jarnail Singh. May God bless his soul. He will always be fondly remembered for his contributions to society,” Kejriwal tweeted. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted: “My condolences to his family and followers in their hour of grief. May God grant him eternal peace.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jarnail-singh-former-aap-mla-dies-of-covid-253001
15-05-2021||---||Bittu joins chorus against Sidhu||Chandigarh, May 14Days after advising Capt Amarinder Singh to give his Home portfolio to some other minister if he could not deliver justice in the Kotkapura police firing case, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu today came out in support of the Chief Minister by targeting Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu.He said Sidhu’s expiry date for jumping ship was near and that he would change the party soon. Bittu’s attack on Sidhu came hours after the latter targeted the CM by tweeting: “Why after six years we are still awaiting another investigation by SIT. Since cognisable evidence is available — Why not immediately arrest the main accused? The police can easily take action in normal course! Statement from 2018, visiting families of victims with senior party leaders.”Air grievances at party forum: KangFormer minister Jagmohan Singh Kang has urged Congress leaders and party colleagues to stay united at this critical juncture. “If there are any differences of opinion, these should be discussed at the party forum appropriately,” he said.Bittu said he had always opposed Sidhu as he was not a traditional Congress man and was a parachute leader. Bittu, who had challenged Sidhu after he quit as Cabinet minister, said his stand on the SIT investigation into the Kotkapura police firing remained the same and he hoped the CM would fulfil the poll promise.A few days ago, Bittu was part of the meeting attended by MP Partap Bajwa and ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi as part of the regrouping to pressure the CM to act fast against the perpetrators of sacrilege and subsequent police firing cases.For the past few days, the CM’s camp has been actively targeting Sidhu through ministers. So far, seven ministers have sought Sidhu’s suspension for indiscipline from the high command.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bittu-joins-chorus-against-sidhu-253002
15-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||2 linked to Sena held for duping leaders||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14The police claim to have busted a gang allegedly involved in duping leaders of various political parties, mainly the Congress, in the state with the arrest of two persons, both Shiv Sena (Suryavanshi) leaders.The kingpin used to make calls to leaders posing as election strategist Prashant Kishor, principal adviser to the Chief Minister. The Tribune had earlier highlighted how the gang had been targeting political leaders by promising them party ticket in lieu of money.Tried to trap ludhiana MLAThe gang had offered a Congress MLA from Ludhiana a party ticket for the upcoming Assembly elections. The MLA informed the Ludhiana police and a trap was laid, leading to the arrest of two members.Those arrested have been identified as Rajat Kumar, alias Raja, alias Madan, and Rakesh Bhasin, both Amritsar residents. Kingpin Gaurav Sharma, also from Amritsar, who impersonated Kishor is yet to be arrested.Sources said the three-member gang was involved in swindling crores of rupees from leaders by promising political gains either by arranging ticket for the Assembly elections or plum political posts.Joint CP (Rural) Dr Sachin Gupta said the gang had amassed crores of rupees by duping general public and political leaders. A stolen Scorpio car with a fake registration number had been seized. Rakesh was arrested from Jalandhar on May 11, while Rajat was nabbed yesterday near Phagwara.Targeted AAP members tooThe gang had duped some state AAP members by posing as Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, said sources. A police official said some leaders were contacted by the kingpin, who took huge sums in lieu of giving them party ticket.Investigation revealed Rakesh was the national president of Shiv Sena (Suryavanshi), while Rajat was the national secretary of the outfit.Rakesh had received four gunmen for his personal security from the Punjab Police. The suspects faced cases of drug smuggling, fraud, forgery, etc. at various police stations of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Bihar. Gaurav was allegedly linked to international smugglers dealing in drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-linked-to-sena-held-for-duping-leaders-253003
15-05-2021||Abohar||Man sexually exploits minor, held||The police arrested a man for allegedly exploiting a 16-year-old girl, his distant relative, for the past four months. A complaint was submitted to the police in this regard and a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered.  Father of the victim Jaswinder Singh of Tootwala village said they had recently shifted to Khuyiansarwer village and had been visiting the house of the accused, their distant relative. He said his daughter, a Class X student, revealed that the accused had been forcing her for physical relations whenever other members of the family were away. The girl has been medically examined. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-sexually-exploits-minor-held-253004
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy transplantation advanced to June 10||In wake of the pandemic endured labour shortage, the Punjab Government has again advanced the date for paddy transplantation to June 10 this year. Last year too, the state government had advanced the date in order to ensure that the transplantation was not affected because of labour shortage. This year, the government is also aggressively promoting direct seeding of rice and targeting to bring 1 million hectares area under this technique. The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has recommended that the direct seeding be started from June 1 onwards. Following this, the Agriculture Department has asked the Power Department to ensure smooth electricity supply to pump set consumers from May 25 onwards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-transplantation-advanced-to-june-10-253005
15-05-2021||Ludhiana||Rs1.07 cr sanctioned for gaushala at vet varsity||The Punjab Government has sanctioned a project to the tune of Rs 1.07 crore to Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) to set up a model gaushala on the campus. Nearly 1.6 lakh stray cattle roaming on the roads of Punjab are one of the major reasons for road accidents, damage to crops and forest plantations. The project will be launched to manage the stray cattle menace.  Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice Chancellor, GADVASU, Ludhiana, said the gaushala would demonstrate the actual potential of stray cattle (a national resource) that could be harnessed in the form of income generation and genetic improvement of germplasm etc. Dr SPS Ghuman, dean, College of Veterinary Sciences, said the aim of the gaushala would be to manage the stray cattle in self-reliant basis on scientific lines with available inexpensive techniques involving low-cost comfortable housing, feeding and healthcare facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs1-07-cr-sanctioned-for-gaushala-at-vet-varsity-253007
15-05-2021||Abohar||Man held for vehicle theft||The police have arrested Dilbag Singh (35) of Balluana village and recovered a pick-up van that his gang had looted last month. Ghamurwali police station in charge Kartar Singh said gang members Himanshu (22) of Dharam Nagari, and Bharat Valmiki (18) of Sant Nagar had been arrested earlier too. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-vehicle-theft-253008
15-05-2021||---||Bhagat Singh’s nephew succumbs to infection||Mohali, May 14 Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s nephew Abhay Singh Sandhu passed away from post-Covid complications at Fortis Hospital here today. Sandhu was the son of Kulbir Singh, the younger brother of Bhagat Singh. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder mourned Sandhu’s demise on Twitter, saying: “Saddened to know about the demise of Abhay Singh Sandhu, nephew of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, who passed away after a long illness. My heartfelt condolences to his family. We will bear the expenditure incurred on his treatment. May Waheguru grant him eternal peace.” Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, too, mourned the demise. He recalled the role Sandhu played as a social activist, working relentlessly to spread the ideology of Bhagat Singh at the world level. He shared his sympathies with the bereaved family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagat-singhs-nephew-succumbs-to-infection-253009
15-05-2021||---||Eid gesture: Malerkotla to be Punjab’s 23rd district||Chandigarh, May 14Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state. The Muslim-majority city is currently a part of Sangrur district.Initially, the sub-divisions of Malerkotla and Ahmedgarh and Amargarh sub-tehsil would be included in the new district. The process of bringing villages under the jurisdiction of Malerkotla district would begin after the conclusion of the Census, the CM said at a state-level function to mark Eid. Capt Amarinder directed the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner to find a suitable building to immediately start the functioning of the district administration office. The Deputy Commissioner for the newly carved out district would be appointed soon, he said.Announcing other projects for Malerkotla, the CM said a medical college, to be named after Nawab Sher Mohammed Khan, would be set up at a cost of Rs 500 crore. An area of 25 acres had been earmarked for the project on the Raikot road and the first installment of Rs 50 crore had also been released, he said. A government college for girls, an all-women police station and a bus stand were also announced for the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eid-gesture-malerkotla-to-be-punjabs-23rd-district-253031
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bhagat Singh’s nephew Abhay Sandhu dies of COVID-19||Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s nephew Abhay Singh Sandhu died of COVID-19, a press release from the state government said on Friday.Abhay Singh Sandhu was the son of Kulbir Singh, the younger brother of the revolutionary leader Bhagat Singh. He died at Fortis Hospital in Mohali, the press release said.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his cabinet colleague Balbir Singh Sidhu sent their condolences.  "Saddened to know about the demise of Abhay Singh Sandhu Ji, nephew of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Ji who passed away after a long illness. My heartfelt condolences to his family. We will bear the expenditure incurred on his treatment. May Waheguru grant him eternal peace," Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said in a tweet.  Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu remembered Sandhu as a social activist who strived hard to spread Bhagat Singh's ideology.Saddened to know about the demise of Abhay Singh Sandhu Ji, nephew of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Ji who passed away after a long illness. My heartfelt condolences to his family. We will bear the expenditure incurred on his treatment. May Waheguru grant him eternal peace. pic.twitter.com/hVtcsKhOie||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagat-singhs-nephew-abhay-sandhu-dies-of-covid-19-252860
15-05-2021||Ludhiana||Five children among six who drown near Ludhiana village||A man and five children drowned in a pond near Sahnewal village in Ludhiana, district officials said.Four of the five children were siblings. The children had gone for a swim, but got stuck in a swamp, officials said. The man was a resident of the village who jumped in to rescue them but died officials said.Rescuers have fished out the bodies of four of the five children. Search continues for the bodies of the fifth child and the villager.Punjab CM mourns deaths; announces Rs 50,000 each for the familiesExpressing deep shock over the tragic incident, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday announced ex-gratia of Rs 50,000 to the families of each of the five children who drowned in a pond in a Ludhiana village, as well as the migrant who also died while trying to save them.The incident happened in village Mangarh, where the five migrant children, aged between 7 and 10 years, accidentally drowned to death.The 22-year-old migrant who jumped into the pond in a futile attempt to rescue them also lost his life.The chief minister extended his heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved migrant families, and directed the district authorities to offer all possible support to them in this hour of grief.According to Deputy Commissioner Ludhiana Varinder Kumar Sharma, four bodies had so far been recovered and search for the remaining two was in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-children-among-six-who-drown-near-ludhiana-village-252837
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Malerkotla to be Punjab's 23rd district; Capt Amarinder's Eid gift||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday announced the creation of a new district of Malerkotla, carving the state’s only Muslim-majority town from Sangrur district.Adjoining Amargarh and Ahmedgarh will also form part of Punjab’s 23rd district, according to the announcement at a state-level event on Eid-ul-Fitr.According Malerkotla, which is 35 km from the Sangrur district headquarters, a district status was a pre-poll promise by the Congress.The chief minister also announced a Rs 500-crore medical college, a women’s college, a new bus stand and a women police station in Malerkotla.“I know this has been a long-pending demand,” he said through video conference.In a tweet later, he said, “Happy to share that on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr, my govt has announced Malerkotla as the newest district in the state. The 23rd district holds huge historical significance. Have ordered to immediately locate a suitable site for the district administrative complex.”       The chief minister said Punjab had 13 district at Independence.The chief minister underscored India’s secular character, which he said was manifested in the defeat of “communal forces” in the recent assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Recalling the rich history of Malerkotla, Amarinder Singh said the creation of the new district will ease hardships of people in dealing with administrative problems.  Initially, subdivisions of Malerkotla and Ahmedgarh as well as the sub-tehsil of Amargarh will be included in the district.The process of bringing villages under the jurisdiction of Malerkotla district will begin later after the conclusion of the Census operations, he added.Amarinder Singh directed the Sangrur deputy commissioner to find a suitable building to immediately start the functioning of the district administration office, according to an official statement.The deputy commissioner for the newly carved out district will be appointed soon, he said. Announcing various development projects, the CM said a government medical college in the name of Sher Mohammed Khan, who had been a Nawab of Malerkotla, will soon be set up and the state government has already allotted 25 acres on the Raikot road for it. The first instalment of Rs 50 crore has already been sanctioned, he added. The chief minister also announced the establishment of a government college for women. A new bus stand will be constructed at a cost of Rs 10 crore, he said, adding Malekotla will also get a women police station.To ensure holistic development of Malerkotla, the CM also announced a sum of Rs 6 crore under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP).To promote the cultural heritage of Malerkotla, the CM said he has written to  Aga Khan Foundation to undertake conservation and restoration of the Mubarak Manzil Palace.The Punjab government has acquired the 150-year-old palace and its restoration and upkeep will be a befitting tribute to the Nawabs of Malerkotla, he said.Tracing the town’s history, the chief minister said it was established in 1454 by Sheikh Sadruddin-i-Jahan from Afghanistan and subsequently the State of Malerkotla was established in 1657 by Bayazid Khan.Malerkotla was later merged with other nearby princely states to create the Patiala and East Punjab States Union (PEPSU). During the reorganisation of states in 1956, the territory of the erstwhile State of Malerkotla became part of Punjab.Going down memory lane, the chief minister, who belongs to the erstwhile Patiala royals, recalled his cordial ties with the then Nawab of Malerkotla, whom he fondly called “chachaji” and who lovingly addressed him “bhateej” (nephew) during his early childhood visits to the town.The CM said people across the globe, especially Sikhs, revered Sher Mohammed Khan, former Nawab of Malerkotla, who protested against the inhuman act of torture and bricking alive of younger sons of Guru Gobind Singh—Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh—by the then governor of Sirhind Wazir Khan. Amarinder said thereafter, Guru Gobind Singh blessed Nawab Sher Mohammed Khan and people of Malerkotla that the town will live in peace and happiness.Malerkotla remained largely peaceful during the Partition in 1947, which saw communal clashes and large-scale migration of people across the India-Pakistan border.He further noted that the town is also blessed by Sufi saint Baba Haider Sheikh, whose “dargah” also exists there.Punjab minister and Malerkotla MLA Razia Sultana and state Congress president Sunil Jakhar also spoke on the occasion. --- PTI [Live] from the State Level Program to greet the people of Punjab on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. https://t.co/ZJ3OT5AgPf||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malerkotla-to-be-punjabs-23rd-district-capt-amarinders-eid-gift-252772
