17-05-2021||---||PSEB Class X & VIII result declared||Chandigarh/Amritsar, May 17Amidst the mini lockdown imposed by the Punjab government, the Punjab School Education Board, Mohali today announced the results of Class VIII and X. The results have been prepared based on Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) because the examinations for both the classes were cancelled owing to the second wave of Covid 19.Government schools have excelled in the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) results for the third year in succession as compared to private schools for Classes VIII and X.An official press note said: “The pass percentage of government schools for Class X remained 99.96 per cent against the 99.93 pass percentage of the PSEB. The result of as many as 3,576 government schools was cent per cent. Similarly, in Class VIII, the pass percentage of government schools was 99.91 against the overall 99.88 pass percentage of the PSEB. The result of 6,215 government schools remained cent per cent.”Secretary (School Education) Krishan Kumar said school heads, teachers, students and parents had made concerted contributions towards ‘Mission Cent Percent’ despite facing many odds due to the Covid pandemic.He said the Education Department had launched ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhya’ programme to cater to the educational needs of students during the pandemic and school teachers toiled hard and adapted to the latest digital applications to prepare lessons for TV/radio channels and even set up their own digital classrooms via Youtube, Google and Zoom apps to reach out to students.AmritsarAmritsar District Education Officer (Sec) Satinder Bir Singh said 3, 21,384 students from district had appeared for the Class X examination in the state out of which 3,21, 163 students have passed.Similarly, 3,07, 272 students from district were evaluated for Class VIII examination, out of which 3, 06, 893 students had passed.He added that in Class X, the pass percentage of girls was 2% higher than boys, the performance of rural students was better than that of students of urban schools.Similarly, in Class VIII, the pass percentage of girls had increased by .4% while the pass percentage of students from rural and urban areas had been almost equal.“It’s an achievement for us since last year, most of the syllabus was covered through online classes,” said Satinder Bir Singh.When the state government had ordered closure of schools and colleges in March due to second Covid 19 wave, the government schools were in the middle of conducting offline exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pseb-class-x-viii-result-declared-254194
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dhindsa, Brahmpura launch a new political party, Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukat)||Ending the long wait and speculation in the political circles on Monday, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa announced to launch a new political party called Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukat).The new political outfit was formed after the dissolution of the former Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali), formed by Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Shiromani Akali (Democratic) launched by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali)—both breakaway parties of the Shiromani Akali Dal— had announced on April 19 that they were dissolving both outfits to make way for a new party.But due to Covid-19, the launch of the new party got delayed.The announcement of making of the new political party was made in the presence of some selective senior leaders of both the parties from the main office of the party.“We have decided to launch new political party Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukat) today and the organising structure of the party would be set up soon,” said Dhindsa and Brahmpura in a joint statement to the media after a meeting of the two stalwarts in the office of Shiromani Akali Dal in Chandigarh.Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa is the president of the new political party while Ranjit Singh Brahmpura will be its patron.Coming down heavily on Sukhbir Singh Badal, president of Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal), the Akali stalwarts sought his clarification on the acceptance of donations from the people responsible for Sikh genocide as Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has accepted Rs 12 crore donation from Amitabh Bachchan alone.“We also demand from Sukhbir Singh Badal that SGPC and DSGMC should release a white paper on how much donations have been received and from whom during the Covid-19 pandemic and farmers protest by the two Sikh bodies so that the people can learn about the donors.“As it has come to light that DSGMC has accepted nearly Rs 12 crore from film actor Amitabh Bachchan who was responsible for instigating mob to attack the innocent Sikhs after the assassination of Indira Gandhi during which thousands of Sikhs were killed and got no justice so far,” said Dhindsa and Brahmpura in a joint statement today.They further questioned Sukhbir whether he could justify the acceptance of donation from someone responsible for Sikh genocide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhindsa-brahmpura-launch-a-new-political-party-shiromani-akali-dal-sanyukat-254183
17-05-2021||---||Capt Amarinder 'baiter' Punjab minister Channi faces trouble in over 2-yr-old woman IAS officer harassment case||Chandigarh, May 17After Congress MLA Pargat Singh alleged he received a threatening call from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh's political adviser, another party leader, Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi, who is part of a group demanding action against perpetrators in sacrilege and police firing cases has landed in trouble.On Monday, the Punjab Women Commission issued a notice to the Chief Secretary seeking a status report within a week in a two-and-a-half years old case of alleged harassment of a women IAS officer involving Channi. Though the commission has not lodged any complaint, it has taken cognisance of a report published in a vernacular newspaper. Sources said the government was trying to isolate rebellion among ministers and MLAs by digging out their old cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-baiter-punjab-minister-channi-faces-trouble-in-over-2-yr-old-woman-ias-officer-harassment-case-254158
17-05-2021||---||Punjab Congress MLA Pargat Singh alleges threat call from CM's adviser for raising voice on sacrilege, police firing cases||Chandigarh, May 17The crisis in the Punjab Congress has deepened further with Jalandhar Cant MLA Pargat Singh on Monday alleging that Capt Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, threatened him of a police case for raising voice against the CM on the issue of sacrilege and police firing.Also read: Capt Amarinder 'baiter' Punjab minister Channi faces trouble in over 2-yr-old woman IAS officer harassment caseAddressing a press conference, Pargat Singh alleged the political secretary, while conveying the message of the Chief Minister last week, said he should be ready to face action.“Being a former captain of the Indian hockey team, I was shocked to have got such a message. But if speaking truth on sacrilege and police firing cases was not acceptable to them, let them do whatever then want,” said the MLA.Capt Sandeep Sandhu did not respond to calls to know his version to the allegation levelled against him by the MLA. There has also been no reaction from the Chief Minister's office so far. Pargat Singh was among those participating in a meeting of MLAs and ministers to pressurise the Chief Minister to act against the perpetrators of sacrilege and police firing cases. He had held ameeting with ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Charanjit Channi, MP Partap Bajwa and MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu among others on the issue.He alleged other MLAs and ministers too were being arm-twisted as senior adviser to the CM, BIS Chahal was the de facto DGP, Vigilance. “If Vigilance has to do something, it should take irrigation scam involving an XEN to its logical conclusion. But efforts are being made to save the big fish,” he said, alleging other cases were not being probed by the Vigilance.Pargat Singh said being a former hockey player, his efforts were always to work as a team for the betterment of Punjab, but discussing important issues was now being taken as a "rebellion". He said he was left with no option, but to raise voice. He said the party high command should have taken note of the issue.Congress MP Partap Bajwa also reacted to the developments. "Would have been pleasing to the eyes and ears of Punjabi's had the Vigilance knocked at the doors of Badal’s for their acts of omission & commission from 2007- 2017 . Sudden spurt against Sidhu and colleagues is ill advised, ill timed & detrimental to interest of the Congress.'' he said.Pargat S being threatened by advisors of CM for doing his duty to the people & raising his voice is extremely distressing.I stand with him & his democratic right to speak about issues affecting Punjab.This continuous attempt to browbeat INC MLAs for raising their voice must stop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-mla-pargat-singh-alleges-threat-call-from-cms-adviser-for-raising-voice-on-sacrilege-police-firing-cases-254143
17-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||After 3 months, Punjab active cases dip||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16For the first time in three months, Punjab has witnessed a slight decline in the number of active cases over the past five days.Areas of concern11,000 deaths during second wave58% fatalities in rural areas against 30% cases reported thereOn May 12, the number of active cases touched 80,000, the highest ever in the state. Since then, the cases have dipped, sliding to 75,478 on Sunday. In January, the number of active cases had fallen to 2,000. But with the onset of the second wave in February, the cases continued to increase for the next three months.Among the districts, Ludhiana tops the chart with 12,832 active cases, followed by SAS Nagar (10,110), Bathinda (7,262), Jalandhar (5,474) and Amritsar (5,448). Barnala, SBS Nagar and Fatehgarh Sahib have 549, 831 and 849 cases, respectively.Experts say the decline could be the outcome of the lockdown or the state hitting the peak. “But the next few days are crucial. If the count remain static, soon the number of daily cases will begin to decline as well.”The biggest worry for the state is rural Punjab, where people are neither going in for vaccination nor testing. According to the state data, the mortality is higher in villages than in urban areas. Among over 11,000 deaths due to Covid during the second wave , 58 per cent have been registered in rural areas against around 30 per cent cases reported there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-3-months-punjab-active-cases-dip-253938
17-05-2021||---||Punjab curbs till May 31||Chandigarh, May 16As Punjab continues to report high Covid positivity and fatality rate, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered extension of the existing restrictions till May 31. He also gave directions for strict enforcement of all curbs.Exploring Sputnik for 18-44 age groupAmid vax shortage, the CM has asked the Chief Secretary to explore the possibility of procuring Sputnik V for the 18-44 age group. Captain said the 1 lakh doses received for the category had almost been completely utilised.The CM said the deputy commissioners would continue to determine opening of shops in a staggered manner and enforce other restrictions to check the spread of the virus, especially in rural areas. The DCs could make suitable amendments based on local conditions as long as these did not dilute the state’s overall restrictions, he said at a meeting called to review the state’s Covid situation.The CM said the restrictions had led to some decline in day-to-day positivity with cases coming down from around 9,000 to 6,000, but the overall positivity and case fatality rate still stood at a high of 13.1 per cent and 2.4 per cent, respectively.Stressing the need to avoid the kind of situation that was prevailing in the villages of Uttar Pradesh, Capt Amarinder announced a unique ‘Covid Fateh’ programme as part of a ‘Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyaan’ to tackle the spread of Covid in rural areas. He directed the health and rural development departments to spearhead the campaign with large-scale mobilisation of the community in villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-curbs-till-may-31-253951
17-05-2021||---||All Covid curbs in Punjab extended till May 31||Chandigarh, May 16With the state continuing to report high Covid positivity and CFR, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered extension of all the existing restrictions up to May 31, with directions for strict enforcement of all the curbs.The Chief Minister said the DCs will continue to determine opening of shops in a staggered manner and enforce other restrictions to check spread of Covid, especially in rural areas. They can also make suitable amendments based on local condition as long as these do not dilute the state’s overall restrictions, said the Chief Minister.The district authorities shall continue to ensure strict implementation of all the directives of the MHA/state government on Covid-appropriate behaviour, including social distancing norms, regulating crowds in market places and public transport, and imposition of penalties prescribed for violation of norms/restrictions.Reviewing the state’s Covid situation at a high-level meeting, the Chief Minister said while the restrictions so far had shown results, with some decline in day on day positivity and cases coming down from around 9,000 to 6,000 in this period, there was need to extend the same in view of the high positivity of 13.1% as of the May 9-15 period, with CFR standing at 2.4.The Chief Minister also directed the district administrations to investigate complaints of fleecing of patients by some private hospitals, warning that these would be shut down if they continue to indulge in such practices. Such cases have to be strictly dealt with, he said, directing the police department to crack down on those found indulging in hoarding or black marketing of any Covid related essentials or medicines.The Chief Minister also expressed concern over the spread of the new fungal disorder associated with Covid. He stressed the need to increase surveillance for this disease as, if it is not treated early, it can cause severe complications.Dr KK Talwar termed the fungal infections as a serious issue, which could be attributed to either high use of steroids or use of undistilled water in Oxygen.On the availability of oxygen, the Chief Minister said while the state, through judicious measures, had been able to prevent any mishap, the situation should be closely monitoring by the health department. The state government had successfully arranged for PSA plants, oxygen concentrators, etc., which will further help tackle oxygen shortages, he added. The state was expecting over 2,500 oxygen concentrators on the ground within this month, he said, directing the department to ensure the best use of the same.Amarinder further directed the Health and Medical Education departments to continue to ensure that there is no problem at any point with respect to hospital capacity, especially with regard to L-3 beds.He asked the DCs to ensure that food kits are delivered to those in quarantine, reiterating that nobody should be allowed to go to sleep hungry. He complimented the DGP on the successful launch of the ‘Bhojan Helpline’.The situation continues to be grim, leaving no scope for laxity, said the Chief Minister, directing DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict compliance of the restrictions, with no deviation to be allowed. While appreciating the efforts of various departments in combating the pandemic, he said the battle continues amid apprehensions of more possible waves ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-covid-curbs-in-punjab-extended-till-may-31-253734
17-05-2021||---||Bebal Kalan firing: IG Naunihal Singh to head 3-member SIT||Chandigarh, May 16Punjab police have reconstituted the Special Investigating Team (SIT) probing the Behbal Kalan firing case.IG Naunihal Singh will head the three-member probe team. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh and SP Swarandeep Singh will be the members.The SIT has been reconstituted after IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap, who headed it earlier, resigned.The High Court quashed the SIT investigation on April 9 and asked Punjab to form a new probe team sans Kunwar Vijay Pratap following which the IG resigned on April 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bebal-kalan-firing-ig-naunihal-singh-to-head-3-member-sit-253785
17-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Double mutant B.1.617 behind second Covid wave in region: PGI Director||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16The PGIMER on Sunday confirmed that the presence of the double mutant B.1.617 variant was behind the second wave in the region after the reports of sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 samples sent by the institute came from National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi.“Reports of sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 from twenty-three nasopharyngeal swab samples of Covid-19 patients sent from PGIMER, Chandigarh, were received on May 13 from NCDC, New Delhi. Presence of the double mutant B.1.617 variant having the signature mutations L452R and E484Q has been confirmed in 22 per cent (5/23) of the samples after sequencing,” PGIMER Director Jagat Ram said today.The Director further stated that the B.1.617 variant first identified in India last year has been found in more than 40 countries and has recently been classified as a “variant of concern” (VOC) by World Health Organization (WHO). It has been found by researchers that the mutations in the double-mutant strain render it to be more transmissible and vaccine induced antibodies are somewhat less potent in neutralising this variant.“The surge of cases during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has somewhat been attributed to the B.1.617 variant strain,” Jagat Ram added.Detailing further on the findings, he said, “Of the other samples, the UK variant B.1.1.7 which is also a VOC and associated with higher transmissibility was found in 39 per cent (9/23) samples. The UK variant B.1.1.7 carries the signature mutations N501Y, P681H, 69/70 Del. The rest of the samples carry the P681R mutation in the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/double-mutant-b-1-617-behind-second-covid-wave-in-region-pgi-director-253786
17-05-2021||---||100-bed Covid centre unveiled in Sangrur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-bed-covid-centre-unveiled-in-sangrur-254019
17-05-2021||Abohar||Philanthropists turn Covid warriors||CM pats cop for timely helpAbohar: Impressed by Abohar DSP Rahul Bhardwaj, who was seen visiting Covid-affected families to deliver free food at their doorsteps, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday called the cop and appreciated the work done by him. The CM also encouraged Bhardwaj to continue the same spirit and carry on this humanitarian work. The call was unexpected but morale-boosting, Bhardwaj said. “In addition to positive patients, if their family members need food, the same should be provided at their home. For this 24-hour service, families were requested to call the helpline number 112 and 181 to inform them about the need for food. Arrangements have been made to deliver food packets at their homes with utmost vigilance, he said.NGO gets foreign funds for initiativeFatehgarh Sahib: The Federal Government of Canada has selected Mehar Baba Charitable Trust, an NGO from the district, for Canada Fund for Local Initiatives (CFLI). It received $36,268 (Rs 20.16 lakh) for its project “Digital Empowerment of Rural Women of Punjab”. The trust is running the project in collaboration with High Commission of Canada in India and the INUS Global Charity, US. “The aim of the project is to increase the social status, economic empowerment, skills and decision-making power of more than 500 rural women artisans belonging to 51 villages of the district during the Covid crisis,” said Robin Gupta, manager of the Trust.MLA’s goodwill gestureFazilka: Jalalabad Congress MLA Raminder Singh Awla has donated an ambulance costing Rs 40 lakh from his own pocket for Covid patients of the border areas of Jalalabad segment. The ambulance named as mini mobile hospital is equipped with all facilities, including oxygen. It will visit villages, particularly containment zones, to offer medicines, pulse oximeter, thermometer, etc, to patients. A doctor and other staff will also accompany the ambulance. The MLA had also donated four ventilators, PPE kits, 30,000 senitisers, 3,000 ration kits and two-year salary being offered to him as member of the legislative Assembly last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/philanthropists-turn-covid-warriors-254018
17-05-2021||Bathinda||Kangar hits back at Akalis||A day after SAD chief Sukhbir Badal challenged Congress leaders to bring the proof in the public domain on the involvement of Akali leaders in sacrilege and firing incident, Cabinet minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar said to regain lost ground, Sukhbir was making such statements to divert public attention, whereas people were fully aware of who was behind the sacrilege. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kangar-hits-back-at-akalis-254017
17-05-2021||Sangrur||Top officials in villages to boost testing||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the rural belt, the Deputy Commissioner and other senior officers have started visiting villages across the district to convince residents to undergo testing in a bid to prevent the spread of the virus. To avoid gatherings, the officers have been addressing residents through the public address system at gurdwaras, while in many villages, panchayat members have been making such announcements. As a result, announcements such as “Waheguru ji ka khalsa, Waheguru ji ki fateh, main Sangrur DC bol riha haan” are commonplace in villages these days. “I along with senior officers of the district have been visiting villages as residents are still unwilling to get tested. Since there is a surge in deaths and cases, we must undertake quick sampling to prevent further spread. I have directed all SDMs and other senior officers to visit villages under their jurisdiction,” said Sangrur DC Ramvir. The surge in Covid cases in the rural areas is a cause for concern as many residents are unwilling to go for testing and vaccination. “The intervention of senior officers will boost testing as many a time, junior officers fail to convince residents,” said Jagrup Singh, a resident of Mangwal village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-officials-in-villages-to-boost-testing-253825
17-05-2021||Aman Sood||Administration keeps strict vigil at Haryana border||Tribune News ServiceSamana/Rajpura, May 16As Covid ravages rural Punjab, the district administration has ensured that every death “is reported and cremation monitored”.Meanwhile, the lanes in majority of the villages bordering Haryana, which are normally abuzz with activity, wear a deserted look with thikri pehras to check any movement round the clock.The Tribune team visited a few villages. In some villages, residents were not even letting children step out of their homes amid rising cases.Harwinder Singh, 36, from Samana, who is in construction trade, said many residents were scared of symptoms associated with Covid-19. “Though many suffer from these, hardly anyone reports to a doctor,” he said.In Ghanaur, many believe that if one person of a family tests positive, the kin will also be sent to hospital. “Misinformation that free vaccination can make one sicker, etc., has also made people in rural areas reluctant to undergo voluntary testing,” he said.The last rites of many people have been performed hurriedly over the last few weeks. “Majority of them did not get tested, so they are counted as non-Covid deaths,” said a senior police officer, preferring anonymity.A visit to over a dozen villages revealed that testing is rare despite high death rate and many deaths were reported natural. Villagers claim to have informed the only frontline health workers they are in touch with — local ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) and ASHA worker. The DC said they were in direct touch with officials in every village along with “elected representatives and dignitaries, including sarpanches and gram panchayats”. “We are daily monitoring the situation through our dedicated team and identifying hotspots, if any,” he said.“Though special nakas bordering Haryana are manned by villagers, we are seeking test reports of commuters at the Shambhu barrier. Villagers have been asked to report every death or any case where a family has cough or other symptoms,” said Ghanaur DSP Jaswinder Tiwana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/administration-keeps-strict-vigil-at-haryana-border-253826
17-05-2021||Karam Prakash||‘Trust deficit’ major hurdle in rural areas||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 16Amid rising Covid fatalities in the rural areas, villagers continue to avoid hospitalisation, owing to the prevailing misinformation about treatment. Consequently, the health department is struggling to convince the countryside people for timely testing and treatment.A rumour has already spread that people who are hospitalised never return alive. In Ajanuda Kalan village, where six persons have already succumbed to the virus, people strongly believe whoever from their village was hospitalised didn’t return alive. Following the prevailing mistrust in big hospitals, villagers continue to fall prey to inexperienced practitioners that delay the timely treatment.Dr Sarabjeet Kaur, Medical Officer, Ajanuda Kalan, said, “Those who died at hospital reached only after their health had already deteriorated. Consequently, villagers are afraid of hospitalisation. But we have been trying to convince them that hospitalisation is required only in a few cases. We have isolated many people there in the village itself and have started treatment.”Gurpreet Singh, a resident, Ajanuda Kalan, said, “All four patients of our village, who had been hospitalised at the government hospital in Patiala, could not survive. My own aunt, Manjeet Kaur, died within a few days of admission at the Rajindra hospital.”Jaspal Singh, son of one of the deceased, Gurcharan Singh, said, “My father died after a few days of admission to the hospital. None of the family members exhibited any Covid symptoms – so far. Now we are confused about what to do?”Dr Aslam Parvez, state president, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab, said, “The village panchayats will have to come forward and work along with the health department wholeheartedly. Otherwise, it will be a tough task for us to stave off the spread in the rural areas.”Sources in the health department said there was trust deficit between the villagers and government, therefore, they had to face a lot of resistance.“Most of the energy gets wasted in convincing people for Covid testing. They lock their houses from outside whenever our team approaches them,” said a senior health official, who has been working in rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trust-deficit-major-hurdle-in-rural-areas-253827
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Announce relief, pension for Covid victims’ kin, say Akalis||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to provide Rs 2 lakh compensation to Covid victim families, a monthly pension of Rs 6,000 to Covid orphans and monthly cash assistance of Rs 6,000 per month to all BPL families for a six-month period.“It has already been pointed out how private hospitals are charging Rs 2.50 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for Covid treatment. Similarly, there is a free for all as far as life-saving drugs and injections are concerned,” Sukhbir said. He demanded the government should provide monthly cash assistance of Rs 6,000 to all BPL families and taxi drivers for a period of six months to help them tide through the crisis.He said the compensation for Covid-hit registered labourers should be increased to Rs 3,000 from the present Rs 1,500 and in case any member of their family was infected, the compensation should be increased to Rs 5,000 instead of Rs 3,000. — TNS50 Oxygen concentrators for Bathinda AIIMSBathinda: The SAD has handed over 50 concentrators to AIIMS, Bathinda, to help it increase its level-2 beds to provide affordable healthcare services to Covid patients. Ex-CPS Sarup Chand Singla handed over the concentrators on behalf of MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal to the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/announce-relief-pension-for-covid-victims-kin-say-akalis-253828
17-05-2021||Manav Mander||Injections to treat black fungus out of stock||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 16With sudden increase in the cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) in many parts of the country, there is acute shortage of key drugs used to treat it.Not only patients from Punjab, but also from Delhi, Noida and Gurugram are running from pillar to post to procure the drugs. Injections such as liposomal amphotericin B, amphomul, abhope are used to treat this rare infection. Nearly 30 injections are required for a single patient.Being sold for Rs12-14K in Delhi“Suddenly, the demand has spiked and there is no stock left at present. Earlier, the demand for these drugs used to be minimal,” said GS Chawla, president, Ludhiana Chemist Association.A few days ago, people from Delhi enquired about the drugs and their relatives sent those to them. “An injection that costs around Rs 7,000 is being sold for Rs 12,000-14,000 in Delhi due to which they were buying it from Punjab through their contacts, but now we are also left with no buffer stock,” said another wholesaler chemist from Pindi Street Market, Ludhiana.As of today, no wholesaler, retailer or dealer in the district had these injections.Aman Ahuja, president, Ludhiana Retail Chemists’ Association, said they had the injections till three days ago but now these were not available in other districts as well.Raghav, a local whose relative was hospitalised in Noida, said he was looking for injections amphomul or abhope, but was unable to arrange.“My relative has contracted black fungus infection and was prescribed this injection. They could not find it in Delhi and Noida and now it’s not available in Ludhiana also,” he said.Kulwinder Singh, Zonal Licensing Authority, said they had informed the government about the shortage. “We have come to know that the stock has dried up with the manufacturing firms. The government will take a decision on regulating the supply,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/injections-to-treat-black-fungus-out-of-stock-253829
17-05-2021||Ropar||New  jab centres to decongest Ropar hospitals||To minimise chances of spread of hospital-borne infection to people coming for  vaccination, the district administration has designated new inoculation sites. Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said it would ensure dual purpose of decongestion of hospitals and prevention of cross-infection.  She said the new vaccination sites included Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Ropar; Government Senior Secondary School, Bharatgarh; PHC Purkhali; Fateh Singh Khalsa Girls’ College, Morinda among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-jab-centres-to-decongest-ropar-hospitals-253830
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt stands exposed with rural spread: AAP||AAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema said people in villages and towns of Punjab were dying with Covid-19, but the Congress was busy fighting the battle for seats.  He said the ruling Congress government had no concern for the people of Punjab as incumbent MLAs were fighting to save their seats for contesting the 2022 election. Cheema said due to the incompetence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Covid had spread to the villages and towns of Punjab. He said the state government had failed miserably in fulfilling its responsibilities to make arrangements and prevent the spread of pandemic in the villages.  He said the government hospitals had no doctors, no nurses, no paramedical staff and no life support system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-stands-exposed-with-rural-spread-aap-253831
17-05-2021||Sangrur||Officials trace recovered patients for oximeters||With the rising number of Covid patients, health authorities of Sangrur and Barnala districts are facing an acute shortage of pulse oximeters. Officials have requested recovered patients to hand over their oximeters to them so that they can distribute these among new patients. “The number of Covid patients has increased sharply. We have requested recovered patients to deposit their oximeters with health officials for their reuse after sanitisation,” said Yashpal Sharma, SDM, Sangrur.  Residents can deposit their oximeters at nearest health centres or at SDM office in Sangrur. Besides, health officials have been trying to trace oximeters distributed with ‘Fateh kits’ for their reuse, as the shortage has caused black marketing of equipment.  “The price of oximeter has almost doubled on black market. In many areas, prices have increased threefold. The administration must prevent the fleecing,” said Surjan Singh, a relative of Covid patient. Medical experts are also stressing the use of oximeters to check the oxygen level at home to prevent unnecessary hospital visits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-trace-recovered-patients-for-oximeters-253832
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Centre harassing people serving humanity: Jakhar||PPCC president Sunil Jakhar has said the BJP-led Centre had stooped to harassing people who were sincerely engaged in public service. He accused the Centre of trying to save the PM’s image rather than working to save lives.  Condemning the Delhi Police’s interrogation of Youth Congress chief BV Srinivas, who was in the forefront of coordinating Covid-19 relief, Jakhar said the government was working to destroy the democratic values and traditions. Jakhar said the way bodies were being found in and around the banks of the Ganga had exposed the horrendous record of the Covid management of the Modi-Yogi duo. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-harassing-people-serving-humanity-jakhar-253833
17-05-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||In U-turn, Sunny Deol against shifting of ventilators||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 16Barely a week after giving the green signal, local MP Sunny Deol has started picking holes in the rationale being forwarded by the district administration to shift ventilators lying in the Civil Hospital to Ludhiana.A week ago, DC Mohammad Ishfaq had ordered the shifting on the basis of a request put in by his Ludhiana counterpart. The DC had taken approval from Deol and Oberoi before taking the decision.Two machines provided by actorTwo of the four machines installed at the Civil Hospital were provided by the MP from his MPLAD funds, while the other two were donated by Dubai-based businessman SPS OberoiIn what appears to be a U-turn, Deol said, “he was left with no option except to grant permission”. In a letter to the DC, he said, “I was astonished to read your message regarding transfer of ventilators to Ludhiana on the grounds that the hospital does not have infrastructure, skilled doctors and supporting staff for treating patients. You will kindly recall that these ventilators were given on your demand under my MPLAD funds.”The MP said he was informed by the administration that a private institution had trained staff to operate the machines following which these should not have been shifted.To this, a doctor said, “The actor should understand that ventilators are sophisticated pieces of medical equipment and cannot be operated in an amateurish manner. It requires a professional team of four or five doctors. Such teams are available only in multi-specialty hospitals or in well-equipped civil hospitals like the one in Ludhiana.” The MP also pointed out that the necessary training could have been imparted ever since the ventilators were installed a year ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-u-turn-sunny-deol-against-shifting-of-ventilators-253834
17-05-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda deaths up fivefold in 3 weeks||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 16While the district Health Department and administration claim to have taken requisite measures to reduce mortality and positivity rates by scaling up testing and expediting vaccination, the reality on ground paints a completely different picture.As per records of the department, the district has seen a five-fold increase in the mortality rate, while fresh cases have almost doubled in the past three weeks, i.e. since April 25. The data suggests as many as 329 patients have succumbed to the virus in the past three weeks alone in the district and more than 14,750 fresh cases have been reported during the period.With only 59 deaths being reported till April 25, there has been a fivefold jump in the mortality rate. There were 17,926 positive cases in the district as on April 25, following which a spike was witnessed, taking the tally to 32,676.A senior health official said: “Although the recovery rate in the district is quite high, a sudden spike in the mortality rate has put the department and senior administration officials under a lot of stress. As many as 329 deaths in three weeks for a small city is certainly a cause for concern.”“At a time when the medical infrastructure at government-run hospitals remains dismal and patients are being forced to spend lakhs of rupees on treatment at private hospitals, the worries of the Health Department are only going to mount.“Amid reports of private hospitals charging exorbitant sums from patients despite a price cap on treatment, both the administration and department have been mute spectators to gross neglect. It is time they set their house in order before things go haywire,” said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-deaths-up-fivefold-in-3-weeks-253835
17-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||No ventilators, ICUs in Mansa of little help to critical patients||Tribune News ServiceMansa, May 16As people across the country are scurrying for oxygen cylinders and ventilators, none of the hospitals in Mansa district is equipped to treat critical Covid patients.Even as the entire district has around 60 hospitals (both government and private), none is equipped with ventilators. Only able to handle Level-2 patients, the hospital staff in the absence of required infrastructure is referring Level-3 patients to Bathinda or Faridkot, 60-100 km from here.48 die in 15 daysWith 48 deaths and 4,658 cases in the past 15 days in the district, panic has gripped local residents. The total number of deaths has climbed to 123 with 40 per cent in the past 15 days alone.The lack of required infrastructure is adding to patients’ woes. Neither any government nor private hospital has an ICU bed with ventilator for Covid-19 patients. Even Level-2 patients are facing problems as Mansa city is catering to 250 villages and six towns for Level-2 beds with oxygen. The situation is turning grim as Level-3 beds in Bathinda are also filling up fast with 97 per cent currently occupied.A critical patient needs attention on ventilators equipped with two high-flow nasal oxygen therapy machines, multi-para monitors, pulse oximeters, infusion pumps and suction machines.A ventilator helps patients who cannot breathe properly on their own by pumping air into their lungs through a tube that has been inserted into their windpipe. As Covid-19 affects the respiratory system, the number of hospitalised patients in need of breathing assistance has exploded since the pandemic began.Dr Janak Raj Singla, IMA unit Mansa president, said: “We don’t have any Level-3 bed in the district. We are just treating Level-2 patients, while the serious ones are referred to Bathinda or medical college in Faridkot.”Bathinda MP Harsimrat Badal lashed out at the state government, accusing it of failing to provide basic medical facilities as Mansa district did not have even a single ventilator.“It is sad that 250 villages and six towns in the district have only Level-2 beds with oxygen facility at Mansa city and there’s no ventilator facility in the district. Due to this patients are being forced to travel up to 60-100 km for treatment to Bathinda and Faridkot,” she said. She today donated around 50 oxygen concentrator machines to AIIMS-Bathinda, which will be used to treat poor patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-ventilators-icus-in-mansa-of-little-help-to-critical-patients-253836
17-05-2021||Balwant Garg
||Submit +2 pre-board results: PSEB to schools||Tribune News Service  Faridkot, May 16 In wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases and the demand for cancellation of upcoming Class XII board exams growing louder, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has started compiling the marks obtained by students in pre-board exams in February. In a letter to all government, government-aided, affiliated and associated schools affiliated to it, the PSEB secretary on Sunday asked schools to upload the marks obtained by Class XII students in pre-board exams on a portal of the Board before May 25.  The schools have been directed to constitute a five-member committee before uploading pre-board exam result of students on the portal.   In February, the State Council of Education Research and Training had conducted the pre-board exams for all primary, upper primary, secondary and senior secondary school classes. While there was option of offline and online exam for Class I to Class VIII students, for the evaluation of Classes IX to XII students, there were only offline exams.   These tests were aimed at making continuous and comprehensive evaluation of every student as there was no regular mid-term and other pre-board exams due to the pandemic. However, now the PSEB is contemplating to use this pre-board exam result for preparing the final exam result.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/submit-2-pre-board-results-pseb-to-schools-253837
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||After SAD dare, Sidhu shares two video clips||Accepting the challenge of SAD president Sukhbir Badal to bring proof in public domain on the involvement of Akali leaders in the sacrilege and police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan, senior Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday shared two old video clips and contents of Justice Ranjit Singh Commission report on his Twitter handle.   Sidhu continued with verbal attacks on the Chief Minister, as he questioned his own government for protecting Badals.  Though the SAD chief had dared Congress leaders, including Sunil Jakhar, and AAP leader Bhagwant Mann to bring the proof in public domain, Sidhu was the first one to respond.  Sidhu wrote, “This CCTV footage was hidden from Justice (retd) Zora Singh Inquiry Commission during the Badal regime. Later, (it was) dug up by Justice Ranjit Singh. I brought this footage to public domain, which shows the role of the police, acting at the behest of Badals.” One video clip was of his 2018 press conference in which he is seen reading the contents of the Ranjit Singh Commission report that claimed the involvement of Badals in the violence. SAD chief’s principal adviser Harcharan Bains tweeted: “For 4½ yrs, @sherryontop boasted he had sensational evidence… Where’s the much-touted evidence.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-sad-dare-sidhu-shares-two-video-clips-253838
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Need to propagate Guru Teg Bahadur’s ideology, says CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday underscored the need to propagate the ideology of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib around the world to promote the values of peace, harmony, secularism and co-existence, which Guru Sahib upheld through his supreme sacrifice. Taking part in the deliberations during a webinar organised by KS Raju Legal Trust on “Sri Guru Teg Bahadur, the Epitome of Resistance against Genocide and Conversion of Hindus and Sikhs under Islamic Rule in India”, the Chief Minister said the secular character enshrined in the Constitution of the country was a shining example of ‘unity in diversity’ – a deep-rooted philosophy of ‘Hind Di Chadar’ Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib. Founder of the Art of Living, Sri Sri Ravishankar said the unique sacrifice of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib practically demonstrated that ‘one should never forsake those who had come to you seeking shelter even if that means sacrificing your life’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-to-propagate-guru-teg-bahadurs-ideology-says-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-253839
17-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||MoS Som Parkash contradicts party, praises move||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 16UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanth had two days ago slammed the state government for playing divisive politics on the creation of Malerkotla as a new district in Punjab, Union Minister of State Som Parkash has taken a divergent view on the issue.Even the party’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh had yesterday tweeted on the issue, taking sides with the UP CM. He even issued a statement terming CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s decision to create Malerkotla as a new district as “administratively imprudent and politically communal”.However, today Som Parkash, in his three tweets, appreciated Capt Amarinder’s move, saying, “I congratulate the people of Malerkotla and thank CM Capt Amarinder Singh for declaring Malerkotla as a district. It is a rich tribute to the Nawab of Malerkotla Sher Mohammad Khan, who protested the execution of the two Sahibzadas. Malerkotla is a symbol of communal harmony…”The Hoshiarpur MP has also gone on to demand Phagwara as new district, “I request the Punjab CM to declare Phagwara as a district.”In the evening, he even issued a statement saying, “Phagwara residents face a lot of inconvenience in going to Kapurthala district to get their work done. Phagwara city is separated from the district headquarters by a distance of 40 km. The creation of Phagwara as a separate district will give relief to the residents”.Subhash Sharma, general secretary, BJP Punjab, said: “The party maintains the same stand as of Tarun Chugh. I am not aware of Som Parkash’s tweets. I will surely check them and talk to him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mos-som-parkash-contradicts-party-praises-move-253840
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh slams BJP for echoing Yogi’s Malerkotla remark||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday launched a scathing attack on BJP national and state leaders parroting UP Chief Minister Adityanath Yogi’s provocative statement on Malerkotla, warning that their blatant attempts to drive a communal wedge among the peace-loving Punjabis will backfire on them. “The BJP leaders are trying to light the bomb of communal hatred in Punjab, which will blow up in their faces,” said Captain Amarinder. Lashing out at BJP leaders for blindly jumping to the defence of the UP CM, Capt Amarinder said, “he, in any case, is hell-bent upon destroying his own state, which is reeling under total lawlessness, communal and caste divisions, and lack of governance, along with insensitive handling of the Covid situation by a government which files criminal cases against those pleading for help to save their loved ones.” Pointing to the BJP’s “gory history” of spreading communal hatred and violence across the country, from Gujarat in 2002 to West Bengal in 2021, the CM said even in the 1984 Delhi riots, he had personally seen complaints filed against 22 BJP supporters, who had fuelled the violence.  In Punjab too, the cases of sacrilege that sought to disturb the state’s peace and harmony took place under the watch of the BJP, which was then in power in alliance with the SAD, he observed. The CM asked BJP leaders not to forget that even in the 1965 war, it was Abdul Hamid who laid down his life in Assal Uttar to save Punjab. As for Malerkotla, said the CM, it was evident that the BJP leaders do not know that it was the Nawab of Malerkotla, Sher Mohammed Khan, who stood up and opposed the then Governor of Sirhind, who was bricking alive the younger sons of Guru Gobind Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-slams-bjp-for-echoing-yogis-malerkotla-remark-253841
17-05-2021||Batala||Nihang killed in group clash||Tension prevailed in the city following the killing of a Nihang after two warring groups clashed at a crowded locality this afternoon. DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur said two groups of Nihangs clashed near Jassa Singh hall. “However, police rushed to the scene and brought things under control. We have registered an FIR against two suspects, Sahib Singh and Major Singh. Teams have been dispatched to suspected hideouts to nab them,” said the DSP. A police officer said a few days ago, Tarna Dal followers Baba Narinder Singh and Baba Dheer Singh Khalsa had warned another group of Nihangs against bringing disrepute to gurdwaras by consuming bhang. However, the group felt offended and hatched a plan to attack the two. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nihang-killed-in-group-clash-253842
17-05-2021||Fazilka||Heroin, pistol seized along IB||The BSF claimed to have recovered three packets of heroin, a Turkey-made pistol and a magazine in the Border Outpost Shamaske area this morning. The personnel of 2nd Battalion of the BSF during patrol recovered three packets of heroin, weighting 2.580 kg, worth over Rs 12.5 crore in the international market and arms across the fencing along the Pakistan border. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-pistol-seized-along-ib-253843
17-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Wanted gangster Jaipal, 3 accomplices booked||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 16The Ludhiana rural police have booked wanted gangster Jaipal Singh and three of his aides in connection with the killing of two assistant sub-inspectors at New Grain Market in Jagraon yesterday.Besides Jaipal, who belongs to Dashmesh Nagar, Ferozepur, the police have booked Baljinder Singh, alias Babbi, of Mahala Khurd, Moga; Jaspreet Singh Jassi of Kharar; and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village, Ludhiana, for murder.AAP seeks Rs1 cr relief for cops' kinChandigarh: AAP’s Jagraon MLA Sarvjit Kaur Manuke on Sunday said the law and order situation in the state had deteriorated under the Congress govt. The AAP asked the government to provide Rs1 crore to the families of the martyred cops and a government job. TNSThe case was registered on the complaint of Punjab Home Guard jawan Rajwinder Singh, who had managed to save his life in yesterday’s attack. As per Rajwinder, when he along with ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh reached the New Grain Market area during routine patrol, they saw an i10 car with two turbaned men sitting inside. The suspects emerged from the car holding a suitcase and handed it over to the occupant of a Canter parked beneath a shed.“ASI Bhagwan Singh identified the man seated in the Canter as gangster Jaipal. In no time, Jaipal and others caught hold of the ASI and shot him from close range. The bullet hit him in the neck. ASI Dalwinderjit tried to escape but he was shot from behind,” said Rajwinder.The jawan said he saw Jaipal and others removing a suitcase from the Canter and putting it in their car. The assailants also took away the service pistol of ASI Bhagwan and the mobile phone of ASI Dalwinder.Ludhiana rural SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said several associates of the accused had been rounded up and a cash reward would be given to anyone giving information leading to the arrest of the suspects. “We assume the suitcase held by the gangsters was a drug consignment. The exact contents will come to the fore once the accused are arrested,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wanted-gangster-jaipal-3-accomplices-booked-253844
17-05-2021||---||Police failed to arrest suspect involved in 2017 Banur heist||Patiala, May 16Failure to nab gangster Jaipal Singh, whose name first figured in the May 2017 Banur robbery case in which in which six armed men fired gunshots and escaped with Rs 1.33 crore after wounding a guard, has cost the state police dear. On Saturday, the police alleged Jaipal along with aides were behind the killing of two ASIs in Jagraon.Case with Organised Crime Control UnitSources say for the past four years, the Banur police have failed to conduct any major raid to arrest Jaipal, despite the fact that his close associate Tirath Singh Dhilwan, also involved in the Banur case, was arrested by the Khanna police in 2018. “The Banur police tried to nab the accused for the first few months, but the case was later transferred to the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU),” said a source.A senior police officer said all cases related to Jaipal and gangsters were transferred to the OCCU, but the district units shouldn’t have halted their investigations. “In the recent past, whenever any crime by a gangster happens, all that districts do is inform the OCCU after a preliminary probe. We will look into this aspect,” said the officer.During his arrest in Khanna, Dhilwan, an “A-category” gangster, revealed Jaipal had planned the robbery and involved him and another gangster Kaka Bhalwan.“Jaipal kept the maximum booty and gave Rs 20 lakh to the others involved. Dhilwan carried a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head,” said a top police officer who had questioned him in 2018.An official privy to probe into the Jagraon incident said Jaipal’s movement was traced a day before the crime near Khanna and police from Ludhiana and other districts were in the know of his possible movement. “We knew he was roaming in this belt, but we couldn’t imagine he would do something like this,” said a senior police officer.Jaipal was a close associate of gangsters Vicky Gounder and Prema Lahoria who were killed in a police encounter in 2018 and was also wanted by the police for his alleged involvement in the murder of rival gangster Sukha Kahlwan in 2015 and Jaswinder Singh Rocky in 2016.Banur SHO Balwinder Singh said the challan had already been presented and Jaipal was an absconder in the robbery case. “He is yet to be arrested,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-failed-to-arrest-suspect-involved-in-2017-banur-heist-253845
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Working class poet Sathi passes away at 85||Mahinder Sathi might have lost the battle of life but his verses will keep inspiring the generations of workers to fight for their rights. He was 85. Moga-based revolutionary poet, who belonged to the working class, passed away at a hospital in Ropar’s Nurpur Bedi, where a group of fans took care of him. Sathi penned famous song ‘Mashala baal ke chalan jadon tak raat baki hai, sambhal ke har kadam rakhna jadon tak raat baki hai (We will keep alive the flame, as long as dusk is there)’ became the anthem of the struggling masses in the 1980s and 90s. Sathi was one of the few poets who hailed from the working class and till his death, he lived in penury. Even cost of his treatment was taken care of by some admirers of his poetry. The Punjab Government tried to help by bearing the cost of his treatment but it was too late. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/working-class-poet-sathi-passes-away-at-85-253846
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||IG Naunihal to head Behbal SIT||The Punjab Police have reconstituted the SIT probing the Behbal Kalan firing case. IG Naunihal Singh will head the three-member probe team.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh and SP Swarandeep Singh will be the members. The SIT has been constituted after IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap, who was the key investigator, resigned earlier. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ig-naunihal-to-head-behbal-sit-253847
17-05-2021||Faridkot||Six dera men held in 2015 sacrilege case||The new SIT of the Punjab Police, constituted following the January 4 orders of the Punjab and Haryana HC to investigate three sacrilege incidents of 2015, arrested six Dera Sacha Sauda followers in the district this evening. Those arrested have been identified as Sukhjinder Singh Sunny, Shakti Singh, Ranjit Singh, Baljeet Singh, Nishan Singh and Pardeep Singh. The SIT is investigating FIRs pertaining to the theft of ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015, pasting of posters containing sacrilegious content at the gurdwara on September 29 and tearing of pages of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari. While the accused were released on bail in the first two cases, the SIT has arrested them in the third case. While SSP Swarandeep Singh did not take calls for comment, sources said the accused were arrested in the case relating to the scattering of pages of Guru Granth Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-dera-men-held-in-2015-sacrilege-case-253848
17-05-2021||---||Patiala district grapples with vaccine shortage for 45+||Patiala, May 16For the third consecutive day, the Health Department could not inoculate beneficiaries aged 45 and above due to the shortage of vaccine.The Patiala Health Department said those above 45 years would not be inoculated on Monday also. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder said they had not received vaccine for people aged above 45 years. He said: “As we have not received vaccine from the Centre, the drive cannot be carried out for those above 45 years.”The Department clarified that beneficiaries above 45 were being vaccinated from the doses of Central pool while above 18 years were vaccinated from state pool of vaccines.Meanwhile, the Health Department said they vaccinated 3,602 beneficiaries aged 18- 45 today. Meanwhile, long queues were witnessed at various vaccination centres and social distancing norms went for a toss at a few centres.A doctor of the Health Department said: “Hundreds of people gathered at vaccination centres. It appeared like a super-spreader event.”31 deathsAs many as 31 patients, including three suspected Covid patients, died at the isolation wing of Government Rajindra Hospital during the past 24 hours. Only 11 of them were from Patiala while 15 belonged to other parts of the state. Only 12 patients were discharged from the hospital in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-district-grapples-with-vaccine-shortage-for-45-253876
