18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Badals never indicted in sacrilege cases: Majithia||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said neither the one-man commission set to probe the 2015 desecration incidents nor the earlier constituted SIT indicted former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Badal in the cases.“In fact, both reports categorically and forcefully refused to indict Parkash Singh Badal or Sukhbir Singh Badal for either the firing or the sacrilege incidents in question. Nowhere in the reports' recommendations is either Parkash Singh Badal or Sukhbir Badal found guilty of any wrongdoing on the allegations levelled against them by their political opponents,” said Majithia here.Majithia's remarks came two days after Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu shared on his Twitter handle video clips of purported police action on people protesting the desecration of a religious text in Punjab's Faridkot in 2015 and purported contents of the report of Justice Ranjit Singh Commission that had probed incidents of the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib.Sidhu's tweet was in response to SAD chief Sukhbir Badal's statement in which he had dared the Congress leaders to share the proof, if they have any, on the "planning and execution" of the alleged acts of the desecration of a religious text in the state's Faridkot in 2015.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had last month quashed a probe report of the Punjab Police Special Investigation Team into the Kotkapura firing incident.Majithia on Tuesday said the SIT had relied on the commission's report and the HC judgment found no truth or merit in both.The Akali leader reiterated the party's open challenge to its critics in the Congress or the Aam Aadmi Party to submit to the court any evidence which they claim they have against Akali leaders.During the previous SAD-BJP regime, torn pages of the religious text were found at Bargari in Faridkot. Later, in police firing incidents at anti-sacrilege protesters, two people were killed at Behbal Kalan and many injured at Kotkapura. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-never-indicted-in-sacrilege-cases-majithia-254780
18-05-2021||---||Two of 4 ‘black fungus’ patients die at Patiala’s Rajindra hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 18Two Covid patients, who had been found infected with mucormycosis -- popularly known as ‘black fungus’ – died at isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital, here on Tuesday. These were the first such cases at Rajindra hospital which were infected with black fungus.The hospital authorities claimed that both the patients died of Covid and not of the black fungus. Dr RPS Sibia, head, Department of Medicine, said patients were already sick with Covid. “They had black fungus, but they died due to Covid-related complications. Both the patients were on ventilator support,” Sibia said.It has already been reported that four patients – admitted to the isolation wing – were found infected with ‘black fungus’ after clinical confirmation. “Of six suspected patients at the hospital, four have been infected with black fungus,” said Dr Sibia – who is also heading the isolation wing of the hospital.Finally, he said they had received the medicine for the black fungus and treatment of the infected and suspected patients were under way.Meanwhile, it has been learned that sporadic cases of black fungus have been reported in private hospitals as well, however, they have not been documented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-of-4-black-fungus-patients-die-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-254778
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Punjab sees record 231 more deaths, 7,143 new cases||Punjab on Tuesday registered a record 231 deaths due to COVID-19, pushing the toll to 12,317, while 7,143 fresh cases took the tally to 5,11,652, according to a medical bulletin.The state’s single-day recoveries, which were registered at 8,174, again surpassed the single-day infections of 7,143.The number of active cases also dropped from 73,616 on Monday to 72,277, according to the bulletin.Thirty-four deaths were reported from Bathinda, 21 from Ludhiana, 19 each from Muktsar and Patiala and 16 from Amritsar, among the fatalities witnessed in the past 24 hours.Ludhiana reported the maximum 991 cases, followed by 754 in Bathinda, 717 in Mohali and 663 in Jalandhar, among fresh cases.The state’s positivity rate stood at 11.51 per cent, it said.With 8,174 recoveries, the number of those recovered reached 4,27,058, the bulletin stated.There are 422 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 1,213 other critical patients and 8,202 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 83,37,236 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-punjab-sees-record-231-more-deaths-7-143-new-cases-254777
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab villages achieving cent per cent Covid vaccination target to be given Rs 10 lakh: CM||Villages achieving cent per cent COVID vaccination target in Punjab will get Rs 10 lakh as a special development grant, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said here on Tuesday.The idea behind this grant is to incentivise villages to give up vaccine hesitancy, he said while interacting online with village panchayats in view of the rise in coronavirus cases in rural areas.He also appealed to sarpanches (village heads) and panches (members) across the state to lead their villages in the fight against COVID under the state government’s ‘Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyan’, an official statement said here.The chief minister urged them to motivate the people to undergo testing even in case of mild symptoms and to get themselves vaccinated.He informed the sarpanches that his government had already given them permission to utilise up to Rs 5,000 per day from panchayat funds for emergency COVID treatment and a maximum of up to Rs 50,000.He asked the panchayats to organise special medical camps and to rope in the services of ex-servicemen in this fight against the pandemic.He asked the sarpanches and panches to start ‘theekri pehra’ (patrolling by a group of villagers) in their villages to prevent infected people from coming in, besides ensuring proper treatment to those whose oxygen saturation level goes below 94 per cent.He urged the people living in villages to immediately quarantine themselves in case of any symptoms, and get tested to ensure early detection of the infection. “Any laxity or complacency on their part could lead to severe complications at a later stage which often has fatal results,” Singh said.Pointing out that Punjab has a healthcare network with 2,046 health and wellness centres, and another 800 to be made functional soon, he asked the sarpanches and panches to avail healthcare services at these centres for the treatment of infected villagers.The chief minister said that the state government was making efforts to procure sufficient stocks of the vaccine from different sources for inoculation of the 18-44 age group, besides urging the Centre for more vaccine doses for its population of above 45 years.Calling for collective efforts and cooperation to check the spread of the virus, he said, “I alone can’t do anything as a captain, concerted efforts put in by the team will help us achieve our goal.”While the cases have come down from a daily average of around 9,000 to 6,947 on May 17, the situation continues to be grim with many people still dying, mainly because they are seeking medical intervention too late, he said.This, he said, was evident from the fact that there was 64 per cent occupancy at level 2 (moderate illness) beds and 85 per cent at level 3 (severe illness).“Had these people sought medical aid at an initial stage, several precious lives could have been saved,” the chief minister added.He said home isolation patients are also being given food kits comprising 10 kg atta, 2 kg chana, 2 kg sugar for each member of the family, in addition to 10 kg atta being provided by Government of India. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-villages-achieving-cent-per-cent-covid-vaccination-target-to-be-given-rs-10-lakh-cm-254762
18-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra shares a candid moment with Sadhana; talks about a 'regret' in life||Dharmendra took a trip down memory lane, and shared a candid moment with veteran actor Sadhana.  The 85-year-old actor is known for being quite active on social media. The veteran actor has also penned a few words of praise for the late actor, and also expressed a certain 'regret'. A post shared by Dharmendra Deol (@aapkadharam)Dharmendra called her “a fine artist and lively person”. He then expressed his regret of having worked in only one film with her during the course of his career.The post received warm reactions from fans. Dharmendra and Sadhana had worked opposite each other in the 1970 film 'Ishq Par Zor Nahin'. The film was directed by Ramesh Saigal, and it had become one of the popular movies of that year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-shares-a-candid-moment-with-sadhana-talks-about-a-regret-in-life-254688
18-05-2021||---||Manpreet Badal's maternal uncle Gurraj Fattanwala passes away||Muktsar, May 18Gurraj Singh Fattanwala, maternal uncle of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, passed away on Tuesday.Sources said Gurraj Singh had not been keeping well since a long time. He was admitted to a hospital in Bathinda a few days ago where he breathed his last this morning.A resident of Muktsar town, Gurraj Singh had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election as the SAD candidate from Muktsar in 1985. He had lost the election by a narrow margin to former Punjab CM Harcharan Singh Brar's wife Gurbrinder Kaur.Gurraj Singh's father Harchand Singh Fattanwala had remained an MLA from Muktsar in 1980.His younger son Jagjit Singh Honey Fattanwala had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election from Muktsar in 2012 as a People's Party of Punjab (PPP) candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/manpreet-badals-maternal-uncle-gurraj-fattanwala-passes-away-254672
18-05-2021||---||Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee condemns lathi-charge on protesting farmers in Haryana||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, May 17The core committee of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee(KMSC), Punjab, at its meeting held here on Monday condemned the Manohar Lal Khattar government for lathi-charge on farmers protesting peacefully and arresting more than 200 of them.The organisation demanded immediate release of the arrested farmers. The committee workers held protests in different villages across the state against and the Union Government.Satnam Singh Pannu, state president, and Sawinder Singh Chutala, vice-president of the organisation, while addressing the protesters, said the village-level units of the committee would observe a black day on May 26 on the completion of six months of the farmer agitation on Delhi borders. The leaders said that the committee activists would hoist black flags at rooftops and burn effigies of the Modi government. The leaders demanded repeal of the three farm laws. The leaders alleged that the Union and state government had failed to provide proper treatment to the Covid-19 infected persons. The organisation demanded vaccination for all in government hospitals.The protesters warned the government that if their demands were not accepted they would intensify their stir in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-condemns-lathi-charge-on-protesting-farmers-in-haryana-254534
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura float SAD (Sanyukt)||Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Ranjit Singh Brahmpura today announced to launch a new political party—Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt).The outfit was formed after the dissolution of SAD (Taksali), formed by Brahmpura, and the SAD (Democratic), launched by Dhindsa.“We have decided to launch the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) today. The organising structure of the party will be set up soon,” said Dhindsa and Brahmpura in a joint statement after a meeting in Chandigarh. Dhindsa is the president of the new party, while Brahmpura will be its patron. Coming down heavily on SAD presidentSukhbir Singh Badal, the two leaders sought a clarification on accepting donations from those “responsible” for the Sikh “genocide”.“The SGPC and the DSGMC should release a white paper giving details who donated how much to them during the Covid-19 pandemic and farmers’ protest. It has come to light that the DSGMC received around Rs 2 crore from Amitabh Bachchan who was responsible for instigating attacks on innocent Sikhs after Indira Gandhi’s assassination,” said Dhindsa and Brahmpura. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhdev-singh-dhindsa-ranjit-singh-brahmpura-float-sad-sanyukt-254344
18-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||Vaccine drive slackens amid shortage, Covid fight hit in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17When the state is struggling with high Covid mortality, the vaccination drive has seen a steep dip. Last week between May 9 and May 15, just 2.69 lakh doses of the vaccine could be administrated. Earlier weeks’ average remained between 5 and 6 lakh doses.Till mid April, on an average the state was administering between 6 and 7 lakh doses. But due to the shortage of vaccine, it started to decline over the next five weeks.As per the data of the state Health Department, in the last two weeks, the situation was such that between May 2 and May 8, the state administered just 3.38 lakh doses and in the next week it came down further to 2.69 lakh in the last week. The situation is such that on Sunday just 39,000 doses of vaccine could be administered in the entire day.In March, the state had announced to administer 1.5 lakh doses of vaccine everyday, but for the past one-and-a-half month due to the shortage of supply by the Centre, the drive witnessed a steep decline.So far the state has administered 41.48 lakh doses to various groups, including healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above the age of 18.41.48 lakh doses administered30.32 lakh shots given to above 45-year population0.95 lakh doses administered to 18-44 age group||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccine-drive-slackens-amid-shortage-covid-fight-hit-in-punjab-254261
18-05-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab health officials fear spike as labourers arrive in villages||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17Amid rising number of Covid cases in rural Punjab, the return of migrant labourers has added to the concerns of the government. While farmers are eager to welcome the migrant paddy labour, experts warn of testing and vaccination.Twenty-five villages in the state have already been declared containment or micro-containment zones.The health department claims that regular check-up camps and tests would be conducted to keep tabs on labourers returning from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, but only if reported.Experts suggest that any laxity on part of the farmers could be a threat to villagers. “Testing is the key and minimum 10-day isolation should be mandatory for those entering villages,” they say.Migrants have started contacting farmers and have reportedly assured them of returning to Punjab before the paddy season begins. “They are urging me to ensure their ration and stay even if lockdown is extended after the paddy season is over. They have also asked me to arrange for their safe return if crisis deepens,” said Jasdeep Singh Garcha, who own over 40 acres in Punjab and 20 acres in Uttar Pradesh.Bade Lal, a paddy labour contractor, said: “For the past three generations, my family has been involved in arranging labourers for paddy transplantation. While lakhs of migrants returned to their villages amid lockdown, I have arranged nearly 150 workers from my village in UP. They will be brought in buses next week.” When asked if they will carry Covid-negative reports, he said he did not want to put such conditions, otherwise the labourers would get scared. “Let them reach and we will see,” he said.What worries health officials is that majority of the labourers entering Punjab have refused vaccination in their native state and are even entering Punjab without getting themselves tested. “The only fear is that thousands of these migrants will enter Punjab, as they do every season, but will not be isolating themselves. They won’t even be carrying mandatory Covid-negative report,” said a top health official.Patiala DC Kumar Amit said as per the government directives, it had been decided “to sensitise the rural masses” regarding the seriousness of the spread of pandemic in villages. “There will be sub-divisional and village-level committees to act swiftly to sensitise the rural masses about Covid symptoms and testing, besides vaccination,” he added.Migrants want food, stay if crisis deepens||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-health-officials-fear-spike-as-labourers-arrive-in-villages-254262
18-05-2021||Ajay Joshi||24-year-old dies of Covid in PIMS, mom says wasn’t given Oxygen for 3 days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 17Two days after a woman blamed the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) for not supplying oxygen to her ailing mother, who later died while being shifted to another hospital, another woman today accused the hospital of not providing enough oxygen to her 24-year-old son, who also succumbed to the virus today.Amit Singh, Official, Punjab Institute of Medical SciencesCharges baselessThe youth’s saturation level had already lowered to 45% when he was admitted to the hospital on May 13. He was on constant oxygen support. Due to peripheral hypoxia, he wasn’t sure of what he was saying.Gursevak Singh, 24, a resident of Nawanshahr, reportedly died of Covid-19 today. After his health deteriorated a few days ago, his mother admitted him to the PIMS. But after he died, his mother Kamaljit Kaur accused the PIMS authorities of negligence.Sharing a screenshot of the WhatsApp chat with her son, Kamaljit claimed that her son texted her that the he wasn’t given oxygen for three days. “In the chat, my son has clearly said that despite being at the hospital, he believes that he would die. Nobody was even giving water to him. Even after facing difficulty in breathing, he was without oxygen support for three days. My young son has died due to the negligence of the hospital staff,” she said.After doctors in Nawanshahr referred Gursewak to the PIMS, he was declared Covid-positive and also diagnosed with pneumonia.In a similar incident, Jyoti, a resident of Jaimal Nagar, had also accused the hospital authorities of carelessness. She said her mother Radha Rani, 54, died after the hospital failed to provide her oxygen. He husband also claimed that despite low oxygen saturation level of the patient, an empty cylinder was attached with the oxygen pipe. It was also brought to the notice that the PIMS administration demanded Rs 98,000 from the kin of the patient before admission, flouting the price cap fixed by state government.Amit Singh, administrative authority at PIMS, denied the charges, saying Gursevak was admitted to the hospital on May 13 and his saturation level had already lowered to 45 per cent, owing to which he was on constant oxygen support. “Due to peripheral hypoxia, he didn’t know what he was saying and in that condition he must have told his mother about insufficient oxygen provided to him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/24-year-old-dies-of-covid-in-pims-mom-says-wasnt-given-oxygen-for-3-days-254263
18-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Oxygen plant started, two more sanctioned||Abohar/Sriganganagar, May 17The Rajasthan Government has announced installation of medical oxygen plants in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh over the next 60 days to tackle the second wave of the pandemic.Each plant will provide piped supply to 86 beds in district-level hospitals, which also accommodate patients from Abohar and Fazilka. The company installing the plants will maintain these for two years.Another 20 ton plant, installed by a businessman, Harshit Grover, at a cost of Rs 1 crore, has begun functioning in Hanumangarh. During a visit to the plant, MLA Vinod Chaudhary said state Health Minister Dr Raghu Sharma had accepted his request to rush 8 ton liquid oxygen to refill 900 cylinders every day.Doctors of the District Hospital in Sriganganagar apprised the District Collector of the problems being faced due to the expansion of beds in the Covid dedicated centre from 100 to 250 after more patients had to be accommodated from Abohar and neighboring areas. It was decided that an additional 100-bed facility be arranged at Jan Sewa Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oxygen-plant-started-two-more-sanctioned-254264
18-05-2021||Manav Mander||Pandemic-induced stress ‘on rise’||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 17The ongoing pandemic is triggering stress in a large number of people. The category of patients includes students, especially from Class XII and young professionals. Hospital OPDs in Ludhiana are receiving at least 10 such patients every day. On World Hypertension Day today, the load of patients with high BP and stress has increased manifold.Dr Sandeep Chopra, Additional Director, Fortis HospitalStudents seek helpStudents are visiting doctors more often than earlier. Those in Class XII are stressed as they are not aware of their exam schedule… They are treated through counselling.People are losing jobs, facing financial crisis and students are having a tough time. Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist, DMCH, said the pandemic had increased the number of people suffering from hypertension.“Many students are coming to the OPD these days. They are mostly those studying in Class XII. Since the board has yet not announced anything about their exam schedule, it is causing panic among them. Professionals are facing tough times due to the ongoing pandemic as some lost their jobs, others are facing salary cuts and thus becoming prone to hypertension,” he said.He said such patients were reassured that everything would become fine with time and were told to do breathing exercises. Not medicines but counselling helps such patients to recover. Dr Sandeep Chopra, additional director, cardiology, Fortis Hospital, said he was getting eight-10 patients with stress issues in his OPD every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pandemic-induced-stress-on-rise-254265
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||So far, 804 MT Oxygen received by Punjab||Punjab has received 804.26 metric ton liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to date by operating 30 flights with assistance of the Indian Air Force since April 17.A spokesperson for the state Covid control room said due to the long journey involved in taking trucks to and from Bokaro, Jharkhand, and Hazira, Gujarat, from where Punjab gets its LMO quota, the state decided to airlift the oxygen tankers to the two plants from the Chandigarh air base and bring these back by road.The decision turned the situation in state’s favour as it was able to obtain adequate oxygen supplies.The control room (02) officials said they were in touch with oxygen generation plants across the country giving supplies to Punjab. The government was closely monitoring and ensuring timely movement of trucks carrying LMO.“The movement of trucks was being monitored by the state Covid control room and a police constable was accompanying each truck to check delays. Besides, two ‘Oxygen Express’ trains have been sent to Bokaro and Hazira,” said the spokesperson. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/so-far-804-mt-oxygen-received-by-punjab-254266
18-05-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Covid patients treated for free||While complaints suggested that many private hospitals and labs were fleecing Covid patients in different states, Rajasthan CM’s Chiranjeevi Health Insurance Scheme is proving to be a boon for the patients at Covid centre that was recently set up at the Jan Sewa Hospital in Sriganganagar, 40 km from Abohar.In the Bikaner division, a maximum number of Covid patients were being given the benefit of the scheme in this hospital. According to Dr Mohit Tantia, director of the hospital, the scheme had ensured full benefits to eligible patients. Chief Administrative Officer Baljit Singh Kuldiya said a separate help desk had been set up for the convenience of patients and their families and counters were installed to give information on the availability of beds under the scheme.Free treatment of Covid-19 is given to patients according to the prescribed package and procedure. If due to emergency a family is unable to submit the prescribed documents, 15 hours relaxation is provided to ascertain the eligibility under the scheme. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-patients-treated-for-free-254267
18-05-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||‘Fateh’ kits in short supply, Qadian MLA comes out with own||Tribune News ServiceQadian (Gurdaspur), May 17Staring at a shortage of ‘Fateh kits’ in his Assembly seat of Qadian, Congress MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa has hit upon a novel idea by packing the contents of the kit in packets named under his charitable organisation — Satbachan Welfare Foundation — and distributing the same among his constituents.The MLA, who has made Qadian his base ever since the advent of the second wave, rubbished claims of his detractors who insisted that he is using Covid as a double-edged sword. “By distributing these kits he is just fortifying his vote bank ahead of the Assembly polls,” said a SAD leader.“The polls are the last thing on my mind. My priority is to ensure my people do not catch the virus. Everybody knows how difficult it is to convince villagers to get inoculated because of their mental block. These psychological barriers are being knocked down following which things have become different in Qadian. People themselves are willing to get tested and also vaccinated,” said the MLA’s son Arjun Partap Bajwa who incidentally is the nodal officer.“In every village I have selected five ‘Covid Warriors’. These youngsters are guiding the elderly on how and where to get vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fateh-kits-in-short-supply-qadian-mla-comes-out-with-own-254268
18-05-2021||Archit Watts||116 test +ve in a day at Muktsar village||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 17Setting the alarm bells ringing, 116 persons tested positive for Covid at Bhundar village in Muktsar district today, taking the village caseload to 178. Unfortunately, some children, including a month-old baby, too, have tested positive.Dr Ranju Singla, Muktsar CMOoSchool to be made level-1 hospitalAfter seeing such a high number of Covid cases, we are working to establish a Covid Level-1 hospital at a school in the village. Now, all villagers will be tested.District Magistrate MK Aravind Kumar has declared the village a macro-containment zone. The village has a population of 4,000 persons, of whom nearly 700 have undergone the test and some reports are pending. Asked whether farmers returning from the Delhi protest are being tested positive, Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Muktsar, said: “We have not got any such data.”Meanwhile, Sahib Singh Bhundar, chairman, Cooperative Bank, Muktsar, a resident of the village, said, “The reports of nearly 170 are pending. A high number of positive cases has worried all of us. We have now decided to paste the Covid status of all outside their houses.” “The village doesn’t have any healthcare facility. Four health workers, who visited the village daily, have also tested positive. Two village residents succumbed to the virus yesterday,” he said.Bhundar sarpanch Sukhdev Singh said: “The police have already sealed the village. Residents are cooperating with the police and civil administration. The District Magistrate declared Kuraiwala village, too, a macro containment zone after 22 residents tested positive. In the past 24 hours, 619 persons, including 400 villagers, have tested positive for Covid in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/116-test-ve-in-a-day-at-muktsar-village-254269
18-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Despite slowdown, Punjab govt meets 85% of revenue target||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Despite lockdown and economic downturn amid Covid, the state government has been able to better manage its finances in the last financial year as compared to the previous fiscal.The revised estimates of the government’s finances for 2020-21 reveal that the state had managed to achieve 84.62 per cent of its revenue targets for the last fiscal. In 2019-20, before the pandemic, the state had managed to achieve just 75.48 per cent of its targeted revenue collection.The accounts for 2020-21 show that the state had achieved 81.84 per cent of its estimated tax revenue collection (Rs 40,595.81 crore against target of Rs 49,845.61 crore) and 48.59 per cent of its targeted non-tax revenue (Rs 3,909.92 crore against a target of Rs 8,045.99 crore).Comparatively, in the previous year, Punjab had achieved just 78.47 per cent of its targeted tax revenue and 47.91 per cent of its targeted non-tax revenue. It may be mentioned that in the past several years, the collection of non-tax revenue in the state has always been low, in spite of the issue being deliberated upon and this being a focus area for improving the state’s finances.In every parameter, other than receiving the state’s share of Union taxes, Punjab has outperformed itself over the previous year. Punjab was targeting to receive Rs 14,021.16 crore as its share from the central taxes, but it received just Rs 10,631.35 crore between April 2020 and March 2021. The collection of capital receipts (recovery of loans and advances, borrowings, etc), too have been higher this year (at 66.39 per cent of the target of Rs 18,873.13 crore) as against just 38.14 per cent of the target achieved in 2019-20. As a result, the total receipts in 2020-21 were at 81.40 per cent of the target set for the year, against just 63.89 per cent of the targeted revenue achieved in 2019-20.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal told The Tribune that good performance on the financial front was because of the will of people to take the state forward. “Punjabis are industrious and perform well in adverse situations. The state’s share from Union taxes has been lower because the Centre’s own tax collection in the last fiscal was hit badly due to pandemic,” he said.The state managed to keep its expenditure under check and against an estimate of Rs 95,716.04 crore, Punjab spent Rs 81,483.55 crore in 2020-21. The only head in revenue expenditure, where the state has spent more than its target, is on payment of pensions (Rs 1,324.66 crore is the additional expenditure). As a result, the state has been able to reduce its revenue deficit from a targeted Rs 7,711.73 crore to Rs 7,015.35 crore — a reduction of Rs 696.38 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-slowdown-punjab-govt-meets-85-of-revenue-target-254270
18-05-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Border village parries infection, battles skin ailment||Ferozepur, May 17Sandwiched between the Sutlej on the one side and the hostile Pakistan on the other, it’s like a blessing in disguise for the remote Kaluwala village situated along the zero line that to date, no Covid case has been reported here.Mangal Singh, Kaluwala Village ResidentSocial distancing happens naturallyWe have to often wade through the Sutlej, which is polluted due to toxic discharge from tanneries. Due to the contaminated water, several villagers suffer from skin ailment, forcing them to maintain social distancing.Notably, the village is surrounded by the Sutlej from three sides with a barbed wire fencing separating it from Pakistan on the fourth. Even after more than seven decades post Independence, the only mode of transportation available in the village is a wooden “bera”, which ferries residents to the town.“Owing to its location, not many relatives or friends visit us here,” said Harbans Singh, sarpanch, adding that the fact had come to their advantage during the pandemic times. Situated in proximity to Pakistan, the relatives feel there is always a lurking danger of war which prevents them from visiting the village. “Na koi rishtedaar na hi koi afsar ithe aaunda hai (no relative or official visits us),” said resident Kala Singh, adding that no one even from the Health Department had come here in the recent past.Talking about social distancing, nambardar Mangal Singh said the villagers remained naturally isolated. “We have to often wade through the Sutlej which has been polluted due to discharge of toxic effluents from leather tanneries situated in nearby Kasur district. Due to this contaminated water, several villagers suffer from skin problems forcing them to maintain social distancing in homes,” he said.Another resident Swaran Singh said though they had been saved from Covid till now, no medical facility was available to them. When asked by The Tribune team, the villagers were not aware about any instructions like wearing of mask or social distancing. The adverse circumstances under which they live day in and day out have, however, saved them from the pandemic.Living on the edge, there is already a lot to worry about apart from Covid for these border villagers. From education of their children to matrimonial blues, to making both ends meet, they have a whole lot of issues to deal with. However, they do not have any remorse of staying in the hamlet. And the pandemic has only added to their belief of staying in their nondescript village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/border-village-parries-infection-battles-skin-ailment-254271
18-05-2021||Sangrur||Missing oximeters: Kits to be checked before delivery in Sangrur||The Civil Surgeon (CS) has made it mandatory for staff to open ‘Fateh kits’ and ensure presence of all items before handing these over to patients. This comes after The Tribune highlighted that pulse oximeters were missing from some kits given to Covid-19 patients in the district.Dr Anjana Gupta, Sangrur CSOpen in front of kinI have directed senior medical officers to ensure our rapid response teams examine kits in the presence of relatives of patients.The CS has directed officials to ensure any of the items not present in the kits are made available to patients. “I have directed my staff to ensure availability of all items in the kits. Though our officers are working hard to ensure the supply, they will be more cautious in the future,” said Dr Anjana Gupta, Sangrur CS.The kit includes a pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, steamer, hand sanitiser, giloy tablets, vitamin C tablets, vitamin D3 tablets, zinc tablets, topcid, amunity plus liquid, Doxycylin tablets, Ivermectin tablets, Dolo tablets, multivitamin tablets, cough syrup, Betadyne gargle, Levo Cetirizine tablets, face masks and a large balloon. Patients are also advised to use fresh tulsi leaves.“I have directed senior medical officers to ensure our rapid response teams examine the kits in the presence of relatives of patients,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-oximeters-kits-to-be-checked-before-delivery-in-sangrur-254272
18-05-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Green corridor facilitates Oxygen transport near Abohar||A foolproof VIP-level security and a green corridor were offered to an oxygen tanker that left Bhiwadi at 1.35 am and reached Sriganganagar at 12 noon. The Transport Department and the state police escorted the vehicle that covered a distance of 442 km on the national highway. Cops were deployed at all terminals on the route.As Sriganganagar is located around 40-km from Abohar, Covid patients here prefer to avail facilities in Sriganganagar instead of travelling 98-km to Faridkot where the number of available beds was insufficient. A private lab in Sriganganagar gives Covid reports on the same day while reports from Faridkot state lab are received here after four to five days. The tanker was taken directly to a private medical oxygen refilling plant at Rico Udyog Vihar on Hanumangarh Road. The tanker was not allowed to stop anywhere. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/green-corridor-facilitates-oxygen-transport-near-abohar-254273
18-05-2021||---||Manjit Singh GK moves Akal Takht over Big B’s donation to DSGMC||Amritsar, May 17Former president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (DSGMC) Manjit Singh GK today filed a complaint to the Akal Takht against the current committee for accepting financial aid from actor Amitabh Bachchan.Hours later, the DSGMC legal cell appealed to Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to take action against GK for maligning the image of DSGMC for political gains.Sikhs want money returnedDSGMC cell chairperson Jagdeep Singh Kahlon stated that GK, during his stint as DSGMC president never spared a thought about 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims or spoke about Bachchan’s involvement in it.Bachchan had recently extended a sum of Rs 2 crore to the DSGMC for Sri Guru TeghBahadur Covid Care Facility for patients at Gurudwara Rakabganj, New Delhi.GK claimed that a total of Rs 12 crore was accepted from Bachchan, as on earlier occasion Rs 10 crore was given for MRI machines at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib too. The issue gained attention when Sirsa glorified Bachchan’s move on social media.GK said when Sirsa inaugurated the diagnostic centre on March 11, it was told that the machines were served by one Chawla and Juneja families. However, on May 10, when Bachchan claimed in his blog that he had given all expenses of the diagnostic centre, the DSGMC said the machines were procured with the assistance from Harivansh Rai Bachchan Trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/manjit-singh-gk-moves-akal-takht-over-big-bs-donation-to-dsgmc-254274
18-05-2021||Barnala||Barnala administratraion forms panel for better treatment||The Barnala administration has formed a Pendu Sanjeevani Committee (PSC) for timely medical treatment of Covid patients in Chananwal village. The committee consists of RMPs, health workers, a patwari and other volunteers. The administration plans to form such committees in more villages.The committee members have been given training by the administration and they will categorise all patients in the village in level-1 and level-2 stages. They identified 16 sick patients with Covid symptoms on May 15. Of these, 11 got their Covid test done after being motivated by the PSC. Deputy Commissioner TPS Phoolka said the purpose of the committees was early detection of sick patients in the village and facilitating their testing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-administratraion-forms-panel-for-better-treatment-254275
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Provide Rs 10K help to poor in rural belt: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) SC wing president Lal Chand Kataruchakk has demanded from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to provide financial assistance of Rs 10,000 to poor families living in villages and cities and Rs 600 to MGNREGA workers.He said the Captain government should immediately implement the announced pension of Rs 2,500 for old age, widows, disabled and dependent children as per its election promise. In a memorandum sent to the Chief Minister through the Deputy Commissioner on Monday, Kataruchakk said due to lax health arrangements of the Punjab Government and the inability to get expensive treatment in private hospitals, the common man, especially the poor, was being pushed to the brink of death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/provide-rs-10k-help-to-poor-in-rural-belt-aap-254276
18-05-2021||Abohar||Abohar: Drive to boost immunity||Amid the ongoing pandemic, an “Amrit Kadha Rath” arranged by the ‘Apna Abohar, Apni Abha’ was flagged off with the help of Daksha Ayurvedic Hospital and Panchakarma Centre on Monday.Earlier, thousands of ‘kadha’ (decoction) glasses were served by Jansewa Hospital and other nongovernmental organisations to policemen and health workers in Sriganganagar. The ‘rath’ will visit different parts of the city over the next two-three days and distribute free decoction to people. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-drive-to-boost-immunity-254277
18-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Improvement Trust case: 20 years on, Punjab and Haryana High Court raps Punjab for inaction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Two decades after an FIR was registered following alleged fraud by a former Chairman, officials and officers of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust along with office-bearers of a house building society, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the state of Punjab for inaction after expressing its anguish.Taking up a petition by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust and another petitioner against Shaheed Bhagat Singh Coop House Building Society Ltd and others respondents, Justice Anil Kshetarpal made it clear that a special investigation team looking into the matter would conclude the probe positively within three months before filing a report. The Ludhiana Commissioner of Police was also directed to furnish his own affidavit disclosing the detail of steps from the FIR registration till report submission.Justice Kshetarpal asserted it was clearly established that the allotment of the plot procured by the respondent-society was a result of fraud carried out in connivance with the officials/officers of the Trust. “The government after having registered the FIR in 2001 did not take any action for 20 years. It is a sad reflection of the state officials, who miserably failed to discharge their duties. The prosecution swung into action only after this fact was pointed out to the state’s counsel and Punjab Principal Secretary, Local Government, was requested to appear,” Justice Kshetarpal asserted. The Bench was told that the respondent-society claimed itself to be the owner of 16,800 sq yards in Dugri village of Ludhiana district. The Trust proposed a scheme for planned development of approximately 400 acres as ‘Model Town Extension Part-II’, including the respondent-society’s land. The society challenged the proposed compulsory acquisition, but its petition was withdrawn in May 1976. The government, vide a notification dated June 25, 1981, decided to release the society’s entire land from compulsory acquisition subject to certain terms and conditions.The Bench was also told that plot allotment process to six societies gained momentum despite rejection of their requests for eight years after PCS officer BD Aggarwal’s joining in May 1990 as the Trust chairman. “A fraud was sought to be perpetrated by adopting a layout plan of 400 acres in such a manner that the respondent-society’s land in possession of jhuggi dwellers was reserved for vacant area and a piece of land owned by the Trust and other societies was planned to be given to the respondent-society in the shape of developed plots,” the Bench was told.The Ruling||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/improvement-trust-case-20-years-on-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-punjab-for-inaction-254278
18-05-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Tussle within Congress on sacrilege probe spills over||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17The ongoing tussle between Capt Amarinder camp and his baiters over delay in justice in the sacrilege and subsequent police firing cases spilled out in the open today with Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh alleging he was threatened with a police case by the political secretary to Chief Minister and the Punjab Women Commission Chairperson asking the Chief Secretary to submit a status report in a two-and-a-half-year-old case of alleged harassment of a Punjab-cadre woman IAS officer by minister Charanjit Singh Channi.Pargat Singh, Congress MLABid to save big fishIf the Vigilance has to act, it should take the multi-crore irrigation scam involving an XEN to a logical conclusion. But efforts are being made to save big fish.Questioning the timing of both incidents, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa expressed serious concern over the turn of events and their impact on the party. While neither the CM nor his office reacted to the events, Jakhar claimed no Vigilance probe had been launched against any party leader.Both Channi and Pargat, besides minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and other MLAs, have been holding meetings to press upon the CM to act fast in the sacrilege and police firing cases. Channi and Randhawa had recently joined ranks with Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu and MP Partap Bajwa, a move being seen as an act of defiance by the CM’s camp. The CM’s baiters are expected to announce their next line of action tomorrow.Partap Bajwa, Congress MPWhy Badals sparedIt would have been better had the Vigliance knocked at the doors of Badals for their acts of omission and commission. The action against Sidhu and Pargat is ill-advised.Earlier in the day, Pargat Singh at a press briefing pointed out political secretary to the CM Sandeep Sandhu called him up last Thursday and told him he was conveying CM’s message that he should be ready to face action. Sandhu did not respond for comment.“Being a former captain of the Indian hockey team, I was shocked to have got such a message. But if speaking truth on sacrilege and police firing cases, mining, liquor and transport mafia was not acceptable to them, let them do whatever they want. I am ready to face any probe, provided they send an officer who can stand with the truth,” said the MLA. Coming out in Sidhu’s support, he said other MLAs and ministers too were being arm-twisted as senior adviser to CM BIS Chahal was the de facto DGP (Vigilance).While Channi refused to comment on the harassment case, Women Commission Chairperson Manisha Gulati said though there was no complaint against the minister, a lobby of IAS officers was questioning her over inaction against Channi, forcing her to seek status report after two-and-a-half years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tussle-within-congress-on-sacrilege-probe-spills-over-254281
18-05-2021||Faridkot||Sacrilege case: 4-day police remand for six dera followers||The new special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police today produced the six Dera Sacha Sauda followers, who were arrested yesterday in connection with a sacrilege case, in a local court, which remanded them in four-day police custody.Earlier, counsels for the dera followers — Sukhjinder Singh Sunny, Shakti Singh, Ranjit Singh, Baljeet Singh, Nishan Singh and Pardeep Singh — opposed their remand, saying the SIT had no fresh evidence against them and that they had already been granted bail in one of the three sacrilege cases of 2015.The new SIT, headed by IGP Surinder Singh Parmar, is investigating three FIRs pertaining to the sacrilege incidents of 2015 at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari villages in Farikdot, which had led to protests and subsequent police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in October 2015.The SIT was constituted following the January 4 orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court after one of the accused, Sunny, accused the head of the earlier SIT, Ranbir Singh Khatra, of bias. In June 2018, Sunny was arrested by the Moga police, which claimed he had confessed to his and other suspects’ role in the sacrilege incidents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-case-4-day-police-remand-for-six-dera-followers-254282
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||SAD seeks special Assembly session||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today demanded a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to be convened to discuss the alleged manner in which ministers and legislators were being first encouraged to engage in corruption and then blackmailed to prevent them from speaking against the government.Reacting to the statements of Congress legislator Pargat Singh, former SAD minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema claimed it was shocking that the Congress legislator had laid bare the fact that the government was creating files against its own legislators to prevent them from raising their voice against the Chief Minister. “This is a clear case of breach of privilege and the Vidhan Sabha should deliberate on this to ascertain who patronised the acts of corruption, who created the files of the said acts and who was blackmailing the legislators to buy their silence”.He said all legislators irrespective of their party affiliations should condemn any move to use corruption as a weapon to purchase the loyalty of the MLAs. “This is against the very grain of democratic functioning. Those doing so should be booked and due action should be taken against them,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-seeks-special-assembly-session-254284
18-05-2021||Sangrur||DDPO booked, patwari held on graft charge in Sangrur||The Vigilance Bureau has registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act against the District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO), Sangrur, and a patwari.The Vigilance arrested the patwari red-handed while allegedly accepting Rs 25,000 in bribe, while the DDPO had joined the investigation.Investigation officer Sudarashan Saini said complainant Jagsir Singh from Gobindgarh Jejiya had taken a panchayat pond on lease for 10 years for fish farming. But in September last year, Gurpreet Singh and Shingara Singh of his village lodged a case against him at the DDPO’s office, alleging it would cause drainage problems in the village. While both sides later reached a compromise, the DDPO did not quash the case. “When Jagsir approached DDPO Parmjit Singh, he sought Rs 25,000 through patwari Jagsir Singh to quash the case,” said Saini. The patwari was arrested red-handed while accepting the bribe, while the DDPO had joined the investigation. A case had been filed against the two, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ddpo-booked-patwari-held-on-graft-charge-in-sangrur-254286
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||No Vigilance probe against any Congress leader: Sunil Jakhar||PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar today trashed the rumours of a Vigilance probe against party leaders and asserted there was no truth in it.Describing party MLA and veteran sports star Pargat Singh as a role model for the youth, he said the party respects his sentiments. The main agenda of the party at present was to save the people from the Covid resurge and to punish the perpetrators of sacrilege incidents that happened in the previous regime, he added.Jakhar said the Congress never indulged in vendetta politics. It was the principle of the party not to use constitutional institutions for personal interests or to settle scores and it was unthinkable to do so against its own MLA. — TNSRawat intervenesCongress Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat called up Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday, expressing concern over the sequence of events. He advised them not to escalate the issue as the high command was intervening in the matter. In light of Rawat’s intervention, the proposed briefing by the ministers and MLAs against the government action is likely to be postponed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-vigilance-probe-against-any-congress-leader-sunil-jakhar-254287
18-05-2021||Pest management||Sensitise farmers to minimise pesticide residue||SS ChahalRice is one of the major foodgrains and a dominant crop of India. With 120 million tonnes in the 2020-21 financial year, India accounts for 20 per cent of the rice production worldwide. Basmati and white rice are preferred the most for general consumption. The area under basmati generally falls in northern states/UTs such as Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh. In 2019-20, India exported 44.55 lakh metric tonnes of basmati worth $4.25 billion. However, the export consignments have to undergo stringent quality checks before acceptance by the importing countries. According to data provided by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), the export of basmati decreased consistently to countries such as UAE, Qatar, Belgium, Germany, Italy, Brazil, Croatia, France, Greece, Portugal, Spain and Switzerland between 2017-18 and 2019-20. In 2013, the export of basmati to the US suffered a setback after the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) stopped all basmati consignments which were having tricyclazole level more than 0.1 parts per million (ppm).The issue of pesticide residue has hit basmati export from India like never before. Around 10 per cent of the country’s annual export is to the member countries of the European Union (EU). The EU has reduced the maximum residue limit (MRL) from 1.0 ppm to 0.01 ppm for tricyclazole, a systemic fungicide applied against the blast disease of rice. This has reduced the export by more than 45 per cent to EU countries. To avoid such rejection, the Central Government has made testing compulsory before exports. The Export Inspection Agency (EIA) examines rice consignments for pre-shipment testing of 22 pesticides for their residue. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has also taken the initiative to develop Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), initially for tricyclazole and buprofezin, and Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) for the farmers to follow, enabling them to eliminate residue of these pesticides in rice grains.It is estimated that various insect pests and diseases cause 25-30 per cent yield losses every year under humid and warm weather conditions in almost all rice ecologies. Pesticides are used to reduce such huge losses caused by pests infecting the rice crop from the seedling to the panicle stage. About two dozen insect pests and mites cause biotic stresses in rice-growing areas, including rice stem borers, which are widespread under all conditions. Asian rice gall midge, leaf folder, brown plant hopper, white-backed plant hopper and green leaf hopper cause enormous losses. Gundhy bug mainly appears in irrigated and low land areas. The major diseases are sheath blight, bacterial leaf blight, brown leaf spot, pyricularia blast, false smut, kernel bunt, sheath rot and stem rot. Basmati rice also suffers from foot rot or bakanae.Usually, factors like monoculturing, heavy fertilisation and an intensive cropping system create a favourable environment for insect pests and diseases. Hence, various contact and systemic pesticides are widely used as part of the control measures. Often, these prescriptions are not adhered to as per the specified procedure, dosage, economic threshold level (ETL), timings, time intervals and without following other SOPs and GAPs. Mostly, farmers are prone to using a higher quantity of chemicals and non-judicious and indiscriminate pesticide applications because of their foremost interest to get maximum returns for their produce and aim to get shiny and marketable grain free from pests, thus leading to pesticide residue in the grains of such crops. Systemic pesticides applied less than 25-30 days before ripening are almost sure to persist in the grains. Where there is a need to curb such practices, efforts should be made to develop SOPs and GAPs for all 22 pesticides identified for pre-shipment testing by the EIA for residue in export consignments of rice to the EU and other countries. It can only be achieved through sensitisation of farmers for their implementation as well as discouraging the use of harmful pesticides. It is equally important to come out of pesticide-dependant pest control and promote the adoption of alternative pest and disease management practices in an integrated fashion in paddy cultivation.The adoption of pest-resistant varieties is a key component of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) strategies. Green manuring with Sesbania or mungben enhances soil health by increasing the percentage of organic matter and also supports the multiplication of plant growth promoting microflora. Sesbania cannabina, commonly known as dhaincha, grown as a pre-kharif crop and used as green manure, is reported to contribute almost 25-kg nitrogen/hectare. Rice seeds may be treated with a generic fungicide, carbendazim, or bioagent trichderma viride or T. harzianum against seed and soil-borne diseases. Seed treatment with chloropyriphos is useful in termite-endemic areas. Biological control is the basis for IPM strategies to exploit the potential of naturally occurring antagonistic fungi, bacteria, parasitoides, predators and entomopathogens. Other activities under IPM include planting of 2-3 seedling/hill, adequate spacing, judicious fertiliser application, use of straw bundles for augmentation and conservation of beneficial insects like spiders, application of fungicides and pesticides based on ETL and manual weed management. While carrying out validation and impact analysis of such IPM modules on basmati rice, the National Research Centre for Integrated Pest Management has found significant reduction in the incidence of bakanae, brown plant hopper, conservation of beneficial organisms under ETL-based application of pesticides and carbendazim residue below the detectable level with highly favourable yield benefit-to-cost ratio.There is great scope for young innovators to set up startups employing modern digital technologies like artificial intelligence and drones for bringing precision to the application of pesticides to targeted sites only, which can reduce indiscriminate use of pesticides. Last year, Punjab, a major basmati-growing state, had banned the use of acephate, carbendazim, thiamethoxam, triazofos, tricyclazole, buprofezin, carbofuran, propiconazole and thiophanate methyl on basmati rice, necessitating the popularisation of IPM procedures for raising healthy crops, avoiding yield losses and improving quality of the produce.Organic cultivation of basmati rice has the potential to supply world-class produce in the international market. However, it is yet to pick up to the desired level.The author is former V-C of Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, UdaipurSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sensitise-farmers-to-minimise-pesticide-residue-254016
