19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Entire rural population of Punjab will undergo rapid test for Covid-19: State health minister||The entire rural population of Punjab will undergo Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) as Covid-19 positivity rate in the state’s villages is rising at an alarming rate, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Wednesday.The drive will be conducted under ‘Mission Fateh 2 as part of efforts to break the chain of transmission of the coronavirus, according to an official statement.Under ‘Mission Fateh 2’, additional deputy commissioners have been nominated as nodal officers of their respective districts to conduct RAT on the rural population, it said.‘Mission Fateh’ symbolises the resolve of the people of Punjab to halt the spread of the coronavirus. Its first leg was launched by the state government in June last year, the statement added.Sidhu said community health officers (CHOs) have been directed to ensure monitoring of all patients in home-isolation.‘Corona Fateh Kits’, containing medicines and other supplements to deal with Covid-19, will be provided to every patient for speedy recovery by the health department, he said.An active surveillance survey will be done in every village to detect influenza-like illnesses or severe respiratory infections by accredited social health activists (ASHA), the minister said.Data of symptomatic patients will be shared with CHOs and senior medical officers, he added.Sidhu further said deputy commissioners would constitute three-member committees at block levels which would depute teams for sampling at the village level.The minister said ASHA workers will go door to door in every village to check for symptoms of Covid-19 such as fever, cough and shortness of breath.The total number of villages in Punjab is 12,729. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/entire-rural-population-of-punjab-will-undergo-rapid-test-for-covid-19-state-health-minister-255350
19-05-2021||Patiala||Professor GS Bajpai appointed new VC of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law||Professor GS Bajpai, faculty member, National Law University, Delhi and its former Registrar has been appointed as the Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) Patiala for a term of five years. The professor said he aims to join the office from Friday.He is otherwise a member secretary of a committee on criminal law reforms appointed by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.He has also served as professor of law and development and chairperson at the centre for criminal justice administration, National Law Institute University, Bhopal (MP) from 2007-11 and held positions at the Indian Institute of Public Administration, Bureau of Police Research and Development among others.While talking to The Tribune, the professor said he wants to focus on faculty development, strengthening research culture on the campus and student initiatives on the campus during his tenure.He said, “Normally the universities are focussed on teaching undergraduate programs. My priority will be to work on research and student initiatives.”He aims to focus on criminology and access to justice. “I am running a centre at NLU, Delhi on the subject. I am also the convener of the criminal law reform committee, appointed by the Government of India. So, I would definitely bring some focus on criminal law reform, criminology and access to justice because these areas are very important these days in several ways,” he added.He said it is important to make students participate in legal aid committees, moot courts and feels that the students need to be enabled more in order to bring excellence.“We will also hone and properly utilise the staff for best outcomes,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/professor-gs-bajpai-appointed-new-vc-of-rajiv-gandhi-national-university-of-law-255336
19-05-2021||New Delhi||Women activists demand safety at protest sites, say time to look||She remembers a man who just would not leave her friend and her alone at the Singhu protest site. They would be followed everywhere. Eventually, her breaking point came. She punched him hard in the stomach."Imagine the first word that came out of his mouth—'sister'. I told him to get lost and go back to his hometown," says activist and research scholar Kanupriya, the first and only woman President (2018) in the history of Panjab University's Students' Union in Chandigarh who has spent months at the farmers' protest site at Singhu and has been instrumental in mobilising urban women from across Punjab and Chandigarh in joining the protests against the new farm laws.Even as the alleged gang rape of a 26-year-old woman from Bengal at Tikri a few days has been making news, several young women are coming forward with charges of sexual misconduct at the protest sites.Recently, another survivor opened up to Kanupriya. She told her that a man had been constantly following her throughout the protests even as she was with her mother and friend. The person then started taking pictures of her, post which she snatched his phone and confronted him. "Despite scores of people around, no one came forward to support her. That was really shocking for us. You have to respond and take action. When we challenge such men in the society, why not in progressive circles as well?" Simran Atwal is a Chemical Engineering graduate, now pursuing a degree in Law. Not affiliated to any organisation, she has been going to the Singhu protest site in her individual capacity and has stayed there thrice. Recalling her experience at the site during one of her visits, she says, "A young man from Punjab, formerly a member of Students For Society (SFS), very active in progressive circles, who has been called out by many women activists on the social media, was a permanent fixture at the Singhu protest site. Every time I would bump into him, he would propose to me, and just not leave me alone. He touched my face a few times, despite me telling me that I was very uncomfortable with that. Once when I had gone with my sister, he touched her too. I never interacted with him after that." In fact the same young man, a permanent fixture at most protests in Punjab and Chandigarh, also active during CAA-NRC protests at Shaheen Bagh has been called out by multiple women for harassing them at different times and places.Stressing that she personally knows about more than 10 women who have faced harassment at the farmers' protest sites, Atwal feels that it is high time that Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) realises that if a sizable number of women are coming out in their support, they too have a responsibility towards them. "It cannot be one-way traffic, no? You can't have us supporting you, but neglect our issues completely. That is not how it should be," she adds.Kanupriya says that initially they did not want to come out individually for fear of being "labelled". "We were also anxious about the morcha as the girls were afraid that it could be at at stake." Post coming out publicly, they approached 'Women Against State Repression and Sexual Harassment' (WSS). "Our purpose was to pressurize the leaders of the SKM. We wanted a support system. It is very important that there be an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) with helpline numbers and members ready to listen," says Kanupriya.Recalling a tweet by a woman activist, which read—'Not going to support any movement unless it is safe for women', the former student leader got in touch with her. "When I spoke with her, I realised that she was referring to the farmers' movement. The women are standing strong with the agitation. But they will not put up with harassment and misogyny." Contrary to popular perception, women activists have not really had it easy at the agitation. "I remember in the beginning, the day before I went over there, young women who had accompanied the morcha on November 26, stood up to some men who had been hurling abuses at one another. There were several who had been throwing up all over the place after getting drunk and dancing to lewd songs. But we women are always challenged and nobody ever questions those miscreants." Another activist from Abhor adds, " I have been pushing strongly for an IIC from day one. Earlier, I was working as an individual, so, my voice did not matter much. We recently formed a group for the survivors of harassment, in order to put collective pressure. Then there is another group 'WSS', which I recently joined through some girls. That group is working with a lot of organisations. So, they have a heavy presence and have a strong voice. They have been doing really good work in putting pressure on the SKM." Speaking to IANS, Sukhwinder Kaur, State Committee Member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) says that steps are being taken to address the issue. "The key is to address the problems that emerge. I know the state will make a great deal of this in order to discredit the movement but it is important to ascertain that everyone's problems are looked into. I am in Bathinda right now. The moment I am back at Singhu, we plan to formulate a five-member committee so that complaints regarding sexual harassment can be lodged immediately."President of the women's wing of the powerful Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), Harinder Bindu, who heads more than 40,000 women associated with the union, clarifying, that the accused in the alleged gang rape were not even camping near their protest site, says, "They were in Tikri, but in the other part. In fact, the moment we came to know about the incident, it was us who raised the issue. Our leader personally met the father of the deceased girl and assured that we stood by him." Ask her if they plan to address the issues of harassment on protest sites, and she says, "Yes, we are going to make an office manned by women near our protest site at Tikri. By the way, we have always ensured patrolling in cars and on foot near the tents where our women cadre put up. There is a constant dialogue with them to ensure that they feel safe." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-activists-demand-safety-at-protest-sites-say-time-to-look-255253
19-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Photos: AIIMS-Bathinda nurses say 4 living in one room, go on hunger strike||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 19Alleging poor quality food and accommodation, around 50 nursing staff of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, have been protesting since Tuesday night against the Punjab Government in Patiala.The nursing staff deployed at the Isolation wing of Government Rajindra Hospital have been put up at the boys hostel of the state physical education college in the city.The nursing staff have gone on hunger strike against the alleged ill-treatment by the state government. The protesting male nurses said that the authorities, in disregard of Covid-appropriate behaviour, asked four of them to huddle in a single room.The Tribune visited the accommodation site and found that conditions at the hostel were not good. There was no water supply in some of the washrooms and rooms were dingy. Clogged toilet and broken bath fittings were seen in most of the bathrooms.Mukesh Saini, a nurse, said, “Despite being on the forefront of this pandemic, the state government, by giving such accommodation, is degrading our profession and insulting us.”Vivek, another protesting nurse, said, “Please, don’t insult frontline workers like this. We are demanding only good food and worth-living accommodation.” The protesting nurses said that they had mailed a complaint to the district administration, but to no avail.Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, however, refuted the charge of the protesting nurses. “I along with the Medical Superintendent visited the accommodation and eve ate food at the canteen. The accommodation as well as the food are very good.”It has been learnt that some male nurses have already left the accommodation owing to the “poor facilities”.Dr Vitull K Gupta, health and human rights activist, has demanded immediate arrangement of proper accommodation for the staff and action against the officials responsible for this poor arrangement.Meanwhile, the district administration has called the protest “poor theatrics”. "Patiala Administration denounces the cheap theatrics of the protesting male staff nurses to shun Covid duty. The ground reality is not what shown by them. We have arranged a good accommodation and food for them," the administration tweeted."These nurses are totally acting in an irresponsible behaviour that is totally unbecoming of a nurse," it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/photos-aiims-bathinda-nurses-say-4-living-in-one-room-go-on-hunger-strike-255224
19-05-2021||---||Jassa Singh Ahluwalia: Remembering the forgotten hero||Amritsar, May 18Sultan-ul-Quam Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, Sikh ruler of Misl era, has contributed immensely for the development of the city.Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was born in 1718 at a village called Ahluwal near Lahore, established by his ancestor, Sadda Singh, a devotee of Guru Hargobind. Hence, the name Ahluwalia stuck to him. He was the fourth Jathedar of Budha Dal and fifth Jathedar of Akal Takht. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was honoured with the title of Sultan-ul-Qaum (King of the Nation). Legend has it that the historic Qila Ahluwalia was built as a military fortress to protect Golden Temple. Katra, a planned and secured residential locality, was also developed alongside the fort by Ahluwalia.He put up a brave fight against AfghansUnder the leadership of Jassa Singh, the Dal Khalsa took over Lahore, the capital of Punjab, for the first time in 1761. Abdali thought that having demolished their fort and desecrated their holy sarovar, he had weakened the Sikhs to face the Afghans. However, within months, the Sikhs, guided by Ahluwalia, were strong enough to make Afghans their prisoners and also make them clean up the Amrit Sarovar.With the resources available to him, he got the buildings repaired, improved the management of gurdwaras and provided better civic facilities to residents of Amritsar.In 1762, when Abdali attacked the Golden Temple and demolished the main building, the Misl Sardars recaptured the city soon and secured the shrines and residential areas. They constructed gates and military posts to secure the localities. Ironically, the fort and other heritage buildings were demolished or encroached over the time.Now, the state government and the local administration woke up from deep slumber and are planning to revive the heritage of Ahluwalia gate. The Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board and Asian Development Bank initiated the preservation of Qila Ahluwalia in Katra Ahluwalia at a cost of Rs 2.22 crore.Meanwhile, with the efforts of Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu, Municipal Corporation (MC) will execute a plan to construct the gate there. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu stated that project was in the pipeline and it would be executed soon. The inauguration of project is being delayed due to the outbreak of second wave of Covid-19.The Sultan-ul-Quam Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society celebrated the 303th birth anniversary at his Samadh backside Gurdwara Baba Atal. A book on Jassa Singh Ahluwalia originally written by Dr Harbans Kaur Sandhu and translated in English by Dr Sarbjit Singh Cheena was also released.Pardeep Singh Walia, president Sultan-ul-Quam Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society, said, “We have fought a long struggle to revive heritage of the great Sikh ruler Jassa Singh Ahluwalia. A major portion of the fort is still under encroachment and we have been making efforts to set it free.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jassa-singh-ahluwalia-remembering-the-forgotten-hero-255110
19-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||Covid cases dip in Punjab, but fatality rate highest in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 18While Covid cases have started to decline in Punjab, the high rate of deaths remains a concern for the authorities.Record 231 daily deaths in PunjabThe state reported 231 deaths on Tuesday, which is the highest-ever single day toll. The previous single-day highest toll was 217, reported last week. Besides, 7,143 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 5.11 lakh with 12,317 deaths. Bathinda topped among districts with 34 deaths, followed by Ludhiana (21), Muktsar and Patiala (19 each), Amritsar (16) and Fazilka (15).The state reported 1,382 deaths and 53,812 cases over the past seven days (May 11-17). However, last week’s case fatality rate (CFR) remained 2.56, which is higher than the state’s overall rate. It had fallen to 2.4 per cent in the second wave.The fatality rate of the state still remains highest in the country, which has the average rate of 1.1 per cent. Punjab is the only state with over 2 per cent rate. It is followed by Sikkim (1.8), Uttarakhand (1.7), Delhi and Goa (1.6 each); and Maharashtra and Manipur 1.5 (each).According to experts, the high rate can either be due to underreporting of cases or handling of critical patients. Among the neighbouring states, Himachal has the CFR of 1.4 per cent, followed by Jammu & Kashmir (1.3), UT Chandigarh (1.1) and Haryana (1 per cent).Still, the situation remains better as compared to the first wave peak. In September last year, the state’s CFR stood at 3.3 per cent. Till March, it remained above 3 per cent. The state reported 231 deaths on Tuesday, which is the highest-ever single-day toll. The previous single-day highest toll was 217,reported last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-cases-dip-in-punjab-but-fatality-rate-highest-in-country-255079
19-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Health officials visit Patiala villages under police cover||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 18Fearing violence and threat to life, health officials are now taking along police officials for any Covid-related activity in rural areas.Medico beaten up, another threatenedDespite rising number of deaths in the countryside, officials continue to face opposition there. They said villagers were not cooperating and usually only a few turn up for sampling.Dr Davinderjit Kaur, Senior Medical Officer, Bhadson, said: “Villagers, especially youngsters, oppose testing and claim that they don’t have any symptoms. Even if they test positive, they don’t concede.” Consequently, they have to undergo a tedious process of engaging police personnel.A team of health officials leaving for Passiana village said first they had to inform the nearest Station House Officer two days in advance. “Only after getting a go-ahead from the respective police station, we, along with police personnel, can leave to collect samples,” an official said.It is learnt that many villagers locked their houses, while some ran away to avoid sampling in Passiana.Dr Aslam Parvez, in charge, Rapid Response Team, overseeing 100 villages, said: “In the past, we had to file two FIRs after we were attacked by villagers. Now, in most of the cases, we have to waste a lot of energy in convincing people to get tested. Consequently, we could collect only around 100 samples against the target of 200 due to villagers’ non-cooperation.”A medical officer posted in Dhudhan Sadhan Blocks was allegedly beaten up during the cremation of a Covid patient.Dr Kiran Verma, Senior Medical Officer, Dudhan Sadhan, said one of their medical officers was threatened by a patient for visiting him for any follow-up. “Threatening the staff, the patient refused to give samples of his family members, which was a must as per the protocol. He said he would not let any health official enter the village,” Dr Verma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-officials-visit-patiala-villages-under-police-cover-255080
19-05-2021||Patiala||Patiala: Rajindra Hospital doctor succumbs||After battling Covid-19 for around 20 days, a senior resident doctor of Government Rajindra Hospital succumbed to the infection here today. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a private hospital here on April 30.The victim, Dr Rajan Singh, 37, had been performing Covid duties at the isolation wing of the hospital before testing positive for the virus.The doctor belonged to Banga town in Nawanshahr district. He is survived by his wife and a child. His father is also admitted to Rajindra hospital with post-Covid complications.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Rajindra hospital, said: “It is a great loss for the medical fraternity. He was very sincere and hardworking.”Patiala MP Preneet Kaur expressed grief at the demise of the young doctor, tweeting: “Saddened to learn about the untimely demise of Dr Rajan Singh… As a senior resident of surgery at the Rajindra hospital, he had been at the forefront of our battle to save lives from this deadly disease. My heartfelt prayers and condolences are with the family.”The Resident Doctors’ Association, Government Medical College, Patiala, has urged the Chief Minister to waive the hospital bills of the deceased doctor and provide Rs 50 lakh financial help to the family. The association said the doctor was the sole breadwinner in his family. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-rajindra-hospital-doctor-succumbs-255083
19-05-2021||---||Skeleton staff, poor infra plague rural healthcare in Majha||Tribune ReportersTarn Taran/Gurdaspur, May 18Battling the lack of health infrastructure and staff, the rural areas in the Majha belt are dependent on medical facilities at the district headquarters, especially for the treatment and care of Covid-19 patients.Posts lying vacantThe Centre had recently advised setting up of 30-bed Covid care centres for asymptomatic cases with comorbidities or mild cases, but many in the Health Department said given the available resources and infrastructure in rural areas, it was not possible. A majority of the community and primary health centres in Tarn Taran and Amritsar are facing shortage of medical officers. In the name of ambulance, these centres have old and worn-out vehicles.Tarn Taran district alone is short of at least 100 medical officers. The district has a total of 220 sanctioned posts, of which only 120 are filled. At several CHCs and PHCs of Amritsar, many among the health staff have been assigned more than one health centre. At Kairon village in the border belt, the CHC, which was meant to be a 30-bed facility, is still working with 10 beds. The ambulance is not equipped to provide oxygen to patients. The situation is similar at other health centres in Ghariala, Khemkaran, Kasel, Chabal, Sursingh and Miandwind.The Tarn Taran Civil Hospital does not have a single ventilator as two from here were shifted to Patiala. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta admitted shortage of infrastructure and manpower. He said they were trying to make the best possible use of the available resources. In Amritsar, apart from Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, no other facility is authorised to admit Covid patients.The residents of Daoke, Bharowal and Bhaini on the border in Amritsar said in case of an emergency, they were forced to rush to the city, 35 km away. Gurdaspur Civil Surgeon Harbhajan Ram said in one village, a co-morbid patient got vaccinated but soon died, not of Covid but of a multi-organ failure. “This was enough to scare the villagers. Now, people in several villages of Dorangla block have refused to get the jab despite our best efforts,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skeleton-staff-poor-infra-plague-rural-healthcare-in-majha-255086
19-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Decades-old practice in Malwa makes a comeback amid Covid surge||Tribune News ServiceMansa, May 18Many villages in the region have started the age-old practice of ‘thikri pehra’ (community policing) to curb the movement of people in and out of villages in wake of rising Covid cases.Alarmed over deaths in rural areas, local panchayats have sealed villages and started the ‘thikri pehra, disallowing entry of outsiders in villages in Bathinda and Mansa districts.The tradition made a comeback after more than two decades — the communities guarded their villages in the aftermath of the terrorism and when the infamous ‘Kala Kachcha’ gang gave them sleepless nights years ago.In order to prevent Covid from spreading in villages, rules have been strictly enforced through formation of WhatsApp groups of prominent people of the village.“A team of four persons each guards the streets from 8 am to 2 pm. Another team does the same from 2 to 10 pm. The strength is half at night,” said Surinder Singh, a Mansa resident.Mansa SSP Surender Lamba said ‘thikri pehras’ had been started in villages in public interest. Increasing vigilance in the villages was the need of the hour to save humanity, he added.The SSP said poor patients could call helpline numbers 118 and 112 to get cooked food. The Punjab Police would deliver food to needy people at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decades-old-practice-in-malwa-makes-a-comeback-amid-covid-surge-255087
19-05-2021||Archit Watts||Day after Covid spike at Gidderbaha's Bhundar village, nearby villages plan to seal borders||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 18A day after Bhundar village in Gidderbaha subdivision here was declared a macro-containment zone, residents of some other neighbouring villages have started planning to seal the entry points for outsiders.Vax only solutionI am repeatedly urging villagers to take the Covid test and get vaccinated as well. Only this way we can stop the virus spread and bring down the cases. - Dr Ranju Singla, Muktsar CMONotably, 178 people had tested positive for Covid at Bhundar village here till Monday. Further, as per the Health Department’s daily report, five more people tested positive in the village on Tuesday.Sukhdev Singh, Bhundar village sarpanch, said the rapid antigen tests of 250 people were conducted in the village on Tuesday, of which eight tested positive. The village has a population of nearly 4,000 and so far, just about 1,000 people have taken the Covid test.The sarpanch said a school in the village had been converted into a basic healthcare facility to provide accommodation to poor Covid patients living in small houses or shanties. “The civil administration and Health Department workers distributed 100 ‘Fateh’ kits in the village. They also assured us of distributing free facemasks and holding a vaccination camp on Wednesday. We have displayed some posters at public places, giving information about the infected persons in the village. The entire village has been sanitised as well,” he added.On the other hand, Ranjit Singh, a social activist from Gurusar village, located close to Bhundar village, said, “A large number of people called me on Tuesday to seal the entry point for outsiders and start keeping a vigil in the village. We fear that a similar situation may occur in our village. Last year too, we had sealed the entry points of the village as a preventive measure. Residents of some other neighbouring villages too are planning to do the same.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-covid-spike-at-gidderbahas-bhundar-village-nearby-villages-plan-to-seal-borders-255088
19-05-2021||---||Infection spirals in Fazilka, but all 4 ventilators shifted to Ludhiana||Praful Chander NagpalFazilka, May 18All four ventilators in Fazilka district have been shifted to Ludhiana despite positive Covid cases rising here. The positive cases in rural areas have outnumbered infections reported in the three towns of the district.Free petrol for govt ambulancesMuktsar: A Reliance filling station on the Jalalabad road on Tuesday unveiled a scheme to offer 50 litre petrol/diesel for free to any government-run ambulance carrying Covid patients till June 30. TNSCivil Surgeon, Fazilka, Dr Parminder Kumar said on the instructions of the higher authorities, the ventilators had been shifted to the Deputy Medical Commissioner’s office in Ludhiana on the plea that there were more cases there. Now, there is no ventilator in the government hospitals of Fazilka to treat the patients.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that during the past one week, 3,580 positive cases had been reported in Fazilka and 93 persons succumbed to the disease.The district is represented by PPCC president Sunil Jakhar and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu happens to be the chairman of the District Grievances Redressal Committee here but most of the Covid patients have been left to fend for themselves.Official sources said presently, there were 4,413 active cases in the district but there was only one level-2 Covid centre at the Jalalabad Civil Hospital which could accommodate only 60 patients. Most of the remaining patients were in home isolation and the serious ones had been shifted to the Faridkot Medical College, which was already overburdened.“A second centre is being set up at the Ramasara hospital in Abohar subdivision, which will start functioning in a couple of days,” claimed Dr Parminder Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/infection-spirals-in-fazilka-but-all-4-ventilators-shifted-to-ludhiana-255090
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Apologise for failing in Covid fight:  AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan to CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Reacting to the new programme launched by Capt Amarinder Singh of connecting with sarpanches, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said instead of a deceptive ‘Mann ki Baat’ with the village heads, the Chief Minister must apologise for failing to tackle the Covid outbreak in the state.Also, instead of making big claims, the Captain government should issue orders to provide financial assistance to the poor, shopkeepers and labourers sitting at home, he added.Sandhwan said the situation was so grim that people were struggling to get Fateh kits, oxygen and medicines. Sandhwan said while the Punjab Government had failed to make adequate arrangements, the ventilators sent by the central government were also faulty. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/apologise-for-failing-in-covid-fight-aap-mla-kultar-singh-sandhwan-to-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-255091
19-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Fertiliser prices zoom, input cost to go up in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 18State farmers will have to spend more on growing paddy and other crops during the kharif marketing season, sowing for which will begin next month, with the rates of fertilisers such as diammonium phosphate (DAP) and nitrogen phosphorus potash (NPK) and diesel having gone up substantially.Centre’s move anti-farmer: AAPSenior AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema condemned the Centre for raising the price of DAP by Rs700 per bag, saying the loot will break the back of farmers.The prices of these fertilisers, which have started arriving in the market, have gone up by over 50 per cent. The price of a 50 kg bag of DAP has gone up from Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,900 (a hike of 58 per cent), while that of the NPK has gone up from Rs 1,000-1,100 to Rs 1,500-1,800 a bag, a rise of 46-51 per cent. Both these fertilisers are used in sizeable quantity in paddy and maize cultivation. The reason for the steep hike in prices is the sky-rocketing prices of raw materials in the international market. This has been triggered by a Covid-induced global demand-supply gap in raw materials (phosphoric acid and ammonia). The prices are up by $200 a tonne since November.Though the farmers who purchased these fertilisers from cooperative societies got these at cheaper rates (Rs 1,275 per bag for DAP), others will have to buy these at the market rates.Officials in Markfed said they generally got advance supplies of the nutrients in November-December, and the supplies came at the old rates of Rs 1,300 per bag of DAP. “Earlier, after getting a subsidy of Rs 10,400 per ton, the DAP would cost suppliers Rs 24,000 per tonne. This will now cost them Rs 38,000 per ton, and this hike will have to be transferred to the farmers. The cooperative societies were instructed to sell the stocks available with them at the old price,” said a senior officer.Director Agriculture, Punjab, Sukhdev Singh, said for the kharif marketing season, the demand of DAP was 2.25 lakh tonne. “We already have stocks of 1.10 lakh tonne, and the remaining stock will also be available, though at a much higher price,” he said. Farmers rue a majority of them buy fertilisers and nutrients from the open market, because supply through the cooperative societies is often “politicised”, and the societies have already exhausted their low-priced stocks. The loyalists of the ruling party get these from societies, while the rest have to buy it from the market, they claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fertiliser-prices-zoom-input-cost-to-go-up-in-punjab-255092
19-05-2021||---||2 ministers, 5 MLAs back Charanjit Channi, Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 18Two ministers, including Bharat Bhushan Ashu, and five MLAs today came out in support of minister Charanjit Singh Channi and MLA Pargat Singh over their alleged arm-twisting by aides of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, as the pressure group of party leaders comprising ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Channi, MP Partap Bajwa and Pargat at a meeting decided to continue to raise voice over unfulfilled poll promises, including punishment to perpetrators of sacrilege and police firing cases.No factionalism, says cong spokespersonPolitical secy must goIf it (‘threat’ to Pargat) has not happened at CM’s insistence, the political secy should be removed. This vendetta against own leaders is damaging the party’s prospects. - Partap Bajwa, MPCM’s insecurity to foreLeaders raising people’s issues are strengthening the party... but anyone who speaks the truth is your enemy. So, you threaten colleagues, exhibiting fear, insecurity. - Navjot Sidhu, Congress leaderThough no timeline was given to carry forward their agenda, the leaders who gathered at Channi’s residence discussed the circumstances under which he had been dragged into a two-and-a-half-year-old case of alleged harassment of a woman IAS officer by the Punjab Women Commission Chairperson.The initial plan of holding a joint press conference led by minister Channi was cancelled at the intervention of Punjab affairs in charge and AICC general secretary Harish Rawat, who promised intervention by the party high command.While MLAs Nathua Ram and Surjit Dhiman were present at Channi’s residence today, legislators Kiki Dhillon, Dr Raj Kumar Verka and Fateh Jung Bajwa are learnt to have expressed their solidarity over the phone with Pargat and Channi.The participants said attention was being diverted from the core issue of sacrilege and police firing by raking unnecessary controversies against those raising voice against the government.Initially, the pressure group had decided not to challenge the leadership by not indulging in the number game, but the alleged arm-twisting of leaders seems to have reshaped the political drama, putting the government on the back foot.After the meeting, Randhawa asked the women panel chairperson to respect the dignity of the constitutional body. “It is not a political body and its chairperson cannot threaten to sit on dharna,” said the minister, as he sought to know why she didn’t raise the matter all this while.“I will be the first to go to the Vigilance office if the government wants to open an inquiry against him,” he added. Pargat Singh seconded Randhawa’s views.Meanwhile, Congress’ Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat, who is learnt to have attended the dissidents’ meeting via video link, will hold one-on-one with party MLAs, including ministers, by the weekend. Rawat had last evening advised the CM baiters to stay put for a few days.Sources said Rawat was being sent on the instructions of the party high command after reports of the deepening crisis reached Delhi. They said the high command was upset at the turn of events and alleged arm-twisting of party MLAs and ministers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-ministers-5-mlas-back-charanjit-channi-pargat-singh-255093
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leaders’ claims on sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib false, says SAD||Senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia today said contrary to the Congress claims, reports of both Justice Ranjit Singh Commission and the SIT filed by Kunwar Vijay Pratap never blamed then CM Parkash Singh Badal or Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal in the police firing cases post sacrilege protests.it’s all dramaCapt Amarinder and his gang are enacting a drama of political differences on the issue. - Bikram Majithia, SAD LeaderAddressing mediapersons here, he said: “In fact, both reports categorically refused to indict the Badals for either the firing or the sacrilege incidents in question. Nowhere in the reports’ recommendations is either PS Badal or SS Badal found guilty of any wrongdoing on the allegations levelled against them by their political opponents.”“If they had or have evidence but never produced it before the Khalsa Panth or SIT or the court, it is an act of betrayal and treachery against Guru Granth Sahib and the Panth,” said the Akali leader.Joining the ongoing confrontation between Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu, Majithia produced a pictorial and video proof of Sidhu touching the feet of Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmit Ram Rahim and comparing him with Guru Nanak Dev. “This is the truth about the character of this hypocrite and “bhakt of Ram Rahim,” he said.Majithia added the dera chief had committed sacrilege by donning the robe associated with Guru Gobind Singh. “Instead of being outraged by this, Sidhu compared Guru Nanak with this thug,” he said. On the wrangling within the Congress, he said: “Capt and his gang are enacting a drama of political differences on this issue.”He condemned the “misuse” of the VB to falsely implicate CM’s political opponents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leaders-claims-on-sacrilege-of-guru-granth-sahib-false-says-sad-255094
19-05-2021||Amritsar||Banker’s hand chopped off, bag with Rs 1.5K snatched in Amritsar||Two unidentified persons, including a Nihang, chopped off a hand of a bank employee at Naushehra Kalan village and decamped with his bag containing Rs 1,500, a tablet and a register here on Monday.RAIDS ON TO ARREST ACCUSEDThe victim has been identified as Anand Vishwas of West Bengal. He was returning to his office after collecting monthly instalments when the incident took place, a video of which has gone viral. A case was registered at the Kamboh police station on the statement of Vishwas’s colleague Ankit Mittal. The police were yet to record Vishwas’s statement.Mittal said they were on their way back from Naushehra Kalan village when two motorcycle-borne men came from behind. “A Nihang, who was riding pillion, hit Vishwas with his sword, chopping off his hand in which he was holding the bag,” he said. Vishwas was rushed to a hospital. Kamboh SHO Yaadwinder Singh said they were carrying out raids to nab the accused who were captured on a CCTV camera. A case under Sections 307 and 379-B of IPC had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bankers-hand-chopped-off-bag-with-rs-1-5k-snatched-in-amritsar-255095
19-05-2021||Muktsar||FM Manpreet Badal’s maternal uncle dies at 77||Gurraj Singh Fattanwala, 77, the maternal uncle of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, passed away today following a prolonged illness.The family said he was admitted to a Bathinda hospital a few days ago.A resident of Muktsar town, Fattanwala had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election as a SAD candidate in 1985. He had lost by a narrow margin to former CM Harcharan Singh Brar’s wife Gurbrinder Kaur. His father Harchand Singh Fattanwala was elected MLA from Muktsar in 1980. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fm-manpreet-badals-maternal-uncle-dies-at-77-255096
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Govt schools excel in Punjab board exams||Government schools have excelled in the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) results for the third year in succession as compared to private schools for Classes VIII and X. The results were declared today.A press note said: “The pass percentage of government schools for Class X remained 99.96% against 99.93 pass percentage of PSEB. The result of 3,576 government schools was cent per cent. Similarly, in Class VIII, the pass percentage of government schools was 99.91 against the overall 99.88 pass percentage of the PSEB. The result of 6,215 government schools remained cent per cent.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-schools-excel-in-punjab-board-exams-255097
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers rescue calf from 10-foot pit in Chandigarh||A number of people gathered near the traffic light points of Sector 46 and Sector 47 to mark 100 days of protest against the 2020 agro-market laws this afternoon. The gathering was interrupted by the cries of an animal, from the vicinity. Following the sound, they saw a calf stuck inside a deep pit, which the locals said was dug for construction purposes.At the site, Satnam Singh Tanda of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta, shared: “We saw a baby cow stuck inside the pit, which was dug for construction purposes, maybe 10 feet deep. It kept crying and it was intrinsic for us to go and help.”He explains: “At first, a bunch of us got a rope and tried to pull the calf out. We needed more people so, everyone joined in, men, women and children. Balwinder Balli, who stages the protest there, had called more people. In maybe half an hour, we were able to pull it out of the pit.”He added: “In fact, the Municipal Corporation also came to help, but by the time they arrived, most of the job was done.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-rescue-calf-from-10-foot-pit-in-chandigarh-254955
19-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||#Trending: Covid is thirsty for some young blood now||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18A 26-year-old woman from Lakhan Kalan village of Kapurthala and another 24-year-old youth from the city lost their lives to coronavirus on Tuesday. Among the seven casualties reported from the district, two were less than 30 years old.In Hoshiarpur, of the 10 fatalities today, four were of the 30-40 years age group. These included a 32-year-old man from Nangal Kalan village and three women aged 36 from Rahimpur, 37 from Talwara and 40 from Adarsh Nagar.From Nawanshahr, a 24-year-old youth and a 37-year-old doctor were among the two fatalities reported in the past two days. In Jalandhar, more than 25 youths have reportedly lost their lives in the month of May. The doctors who have been watching the younger age group falling prey to the virus are terming it a very disturbing trend. Says Dr Parminder Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala, “The younger age group is increasingly getting vulnerable to the virus. This observation is being made all across the country and is indeed quite worrying for everyone. That is why the state government is giving priority to the 18 to 44 years of age group for vaccination.”Asked about the possible reasons for the same, she said, “This could be because of the fact that the youth keep on loitering around and sometimes go casual about illness. They generally do not show initial signs of illness as their body fights well to the infection. They perhaps are taking medical treatment quite late.”Nodal officer for Covid in Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh, told, “In May, 15 per cent of the casualties in Jalandhar are of those aged less than 45 years. In most of these cases, we did not find any co-morbidities. More kids have fallen ill to the infection in the second wave but thankfully there have been no fatalities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trending-covid-is-thirsty-for-some-young-blood-now-255017
19-05-2021||---||To spur vax drive, Rs 10L for Punjab villages with 100% coverage||Chandigarh, May 18With villagers reluctant to get vaccinated against Covid, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today announced a special development grant of Rs 10 lakh to every village that achieved 100 per cent vaccination under the state’s “Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyan”.He urged villagers to get vaccinated as soon as possible and undergo testing even in case of mild symptoms.He was interacting virtually with village panchayats represented by over 2,000 heads/members across over 4,000 locations in rural areas. He said the government had already allowed sarpanches to utilise up to Rs 5,000 every day from panchayat funds for emergency Covid treatment, up to a maximum of Rs 50,000.He asked sarpaches and panches to start “theekri pehra” in their villages to prevent infected persons coming there and distribute Fateh Kits to all those testing positive. He urged villagers to move into isolation in case of symptoms and get themselves tested to ensure early detection of the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-spur-vax-drive-rs-10l-for-punjab-villages-with-100-coverage-255035
19-05-2021||New Delhi||Himachal Pradesh may see a peak in the cases by May 24, Punjab by May 22: SUTRA model||States like Tamil Nadu, Assam and Punjab may see the peak of the second wave of coronavirus cases in the next two weeks, the SUTRA model that charts the trajectory of Covid-19 suggests.However, the relief is that Delhi and states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh have well passed their peak, the model further suggests.It also says that the country reached its peak by May 4 and then the daily cases have seen downward trend. However, on May 7, the country recorded 4,14,188 cases, the single highest in any day. "Big states like Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Assam are yet to see their peak," said Prof. M Vidyasagar of IIT-Hyderabad, one of the three scientists working on the modelling. The models suggest Tamil Nadu may see a peak by May 29-31 while Puducherry may witness a peak on May 19-20. States in east and northeast India are yet to see their peak. Assam may see a peak by May 20-21, the model suggests. On Monday, the state detected 6,394 new cases, which is also the highest on a single day. Chief minister Himanta Biswas Sarma said the state also recorded 92 more Covid-19 deaths on Monday, its highest single-day fatality. Models predicted a dip in infection in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and the cases in these states did record a decline, but they have started increasing marginally. Meghalaya could see a peak on May 30-31, while Tripura could see a peak on May 26-27, the model suggests.In the north, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are witnessing a surge in the cases. Himachal Pradesh may see a peak in the cases by May 24 and Punjab by May 22. Odisha was to peak by May 16-17.States like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Kerala, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Haryana besides Delhi and Goa have already seen their peak. The health ministry in its press briefing on Tuesday said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases and a decline in positivity. It added that Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in cases and a decline in positivity, it added.Mathematical models help predict the intensity of coronavirus cases and policy decisions can be taken on its basis.  The SUTRA model came into existence last year after the Department of Science and Technology formed a group of scientists to work on mathematical models to forecast the surge of coronavirus.The modelling faced intense criticism after it could not predict the exact nature of the second wave.A statement issued by the DST and signed by Vidyasagar, IIT Kanpur Professor Manindra Agrawal and deputy chief of Integrated Defence Staff Madhuri Kanitkar, said mathematical models had predicted a second wave of coronavirus and its peak in the third week of April with daily cases of 1 lakh. But the numbers were much higher than the model predicted. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/himachal-pradesh-may-see-a-peak-in-the-cases-by-may-24-punjab-by-may-22-sutra-model-254746
19-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||Miscreants chop off bank employee’s hand in Amritsar, flee with belongings||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 18Two unidentified persons, including a ‘Nihang’, allegedly chopped off a hand of a bank employee and took away his belongings at Naushehra Kalan village on Monday.The victim identified as Anand Vishwas, who originally hailed from West Bengal, was returning to his office after collecting monthly instalments.The incident came to light after a video of the incident went viral and a case was registered with Kamboh police station here on the statement of Ankit Mittal, a resident of Akash Avenue.The police said investigations were under progress. The victim was being operated at a private hospital. Everything would become clear after he becomes fit to give his statement.Ankit said they both were associated with Bandhan Bank, a banking and financial services company. He told police that they were returning after collecting instalments in Naushehra Kalan village. Ankit said Anand was on his bike behind him. He said two persons travelling on a bike came from behind. A ‘Nihang’, who was riding pillion, hit Anand with his sword, chopping off his hand in which he was holding a bag. The accused fled away with the bag containing a tablet, register and Rs 1,500 cash.As per information, he had collected the amount from two places in Naushehra Kalan village. The accused, one of whom as wearing Nihang attire, started following him. At a place they intercepted him and tried to snatch his bag. When he resisted, the accused attacked him with a sword and fled away with his bag. Vishwas used to collect instalments in Majitha and other parts of the holy city. The office of the bank was located in the Akash Avenue.The injured was rushed to a hospital by the onlookers. Following the incident, the police sounded an alert and searched the area. The suspects were captured in a CCTV camera installed in the area.Yaadwinder Singh, SHO Kamboh police station, said police parties were carrying out raids to nab the suspects whose pictures were captured in a CCTV camera. A case under Sections 307, 379-B and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/miscreants-chop-off-bank-employees-hand-in-amritsar-flee-with-belongings-254738
19-05-2021||Karam Prakash ||After a 20-day battle, doctor posted at Covid isolation wing of Patiala's Rajindra Hospital succumbs to virus||Tribune News Service Patiala, May 18After battling Covid for around 20 days, a senior resident of Government Rajindra Hospital succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in Patiala on Tuesday morning. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit on April 30. Rajan Singh, 37, had been performing his Covid duties at the isolation wing of Rajindra Hospital before he tested positive and was admitted to hospital after his condition deteriorated. He hailed from Banga town in Nawanshahr district.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, "It is a great loss to the fraternity. He was very sincere and hardworking."Asked whether the doctor was vaccinated, Dr Rekhi said he was inoculated, but it wasn't clear if he had received both the doses.Meanwhile, the Resident Doctors Association (RDA), GMC, Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, has appealed to the Punjab Chief Minister to waive the hospital bills of Dr Rajan and provide Rs 50 lakh financial assistance to his family. The association said the doctor was the sole  breadwinner in his family.The daily treatment charges of the doctor were between Rs 60,000-70,000, which would be very difficult for his family to pay, added the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-a-20-day-battle-doctor-posted-at-covid-isolation-wing-of-patialas-rajindra-hospital-succumbs-to-virus-254673
