21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Punjab reports 172 deaths, 5,278 fresh cases||Punjab on Friday registered 172 more deaths due to Covid-19 as 5,278 fresh cases pushed the state's infection tally to 5,28,676, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has claimed 12,888 lives in the state.Twenty-three deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 19 each from Patiala and Bathinda and 13 from Mohali in the past 24-hours.Ludhiana reported the maximum 687 cases, followed by 565 in Bathinda, 486 in Mohali and 380 in Patiala.Meanwhile, 8,652 people recovered from the infection. The number of active cases also declined from 67,041 on Thursday to 63,470 on Friday, as per the bulletin.The state's positivity rate also dropped from 7.03 per cent on Thursday to 6.92 per cent, it said. With 8,652 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,52,318.There are 418 critical patients who are on ventilator while 7,448 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 85,56,117 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh—the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana—reported 14 coronavirus deaths and 406 fresh cases, taking its infection tally to 57,737, according to a medical bulletin.Till now, the infection has claimed 680 lives in the Union Territory.The number of active cases dropped from 6,073 on Thursday to 5,675, the bulletin said.With 790 patients being discharged after recovering from the infection, the number of cured people reached 51,382, as per the bulletin.A total of 4,77,484 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 4,18,558 have tested negative while reports of 104 are awaited, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-punjab-reports-172-deaths-5-278-fresh-cases-256364
21-05-2021||New Delhi||Samyukta Kisan Morcha writes to PM Modi to resume talks over farm laws||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 protesting farmer unions, on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging resumption of talks over the three farm laws they have been agitating against at Delhi borders since November last year.Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the three Central legislations.  The farmers’ body said in a statement on Friday it has again asked the government to reinitiate a dialogue with the protesting farmers.A government panel had met farmer leaders on January 22. There have been no talks between the two sides since January 26 when the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital turned violent.“Today, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha has written a letter to the prime minister, asking for the resumption of talks with farmers. This letter touches upon several aspects of the farmers’ movement, and the ignorant attitude of the government,” the SKM said in the statement.It said that while the protesting farmers do not wish to expose anyone to the health hazards of the pandemic, it “cannot also give up on the struggle, as it is a matter of life and death, and also of future generations”.“Any democratic government would have repealed the three laws that have been rejected by the farmers in whose name these were enacted, and seized the opportunity to provide legal guarantee of MSP to all farmers...as the Head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you,” the letter reads.The farmers’ body had recently announced to observe May 26 as ‘black day’ to mark six months of their protest at Delhi borders.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal had appealed to people to raise black flags at their houses, vehicles and shops on May 26 to protest against the contentious farm legislations.Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukta-kisan-morcha-writes-to-pm-modi-to-resume-talks-over-farm-laws-256360
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nation forever indebted to Rajiv Gandhi for laying foundation of strong India: Amarinder Singh||Paying tributes to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on his 30th death anniversary, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said the nation is forever indebted to him for having laid the foundation of a strong and modern India.“I pay my solemn tribute to former Prime Minister and my dear friend Rajiv Gandhi Ji on his death anniversary, whom we lost tragically 30 years ago. The nation is forever indebted to him for having laid the foundation of a strong and modern India,” Singh said in a tweet.I pay my solemn tribute to former Prime Minister and my dear friend Rajiv Gandhi Ji on his death anniversary, whom we lost tragically 30 years ago. The nation is forever indebted to him for having laid the foundation of a strong and modern India. pic.twitter.com/03haF7rRySPunjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar credited Rajiv Gandhi for having the vision to modernise India.“Truth , Compassion , Progress and Vision. A vision of a proud modern India,” he said in a tweet while remembering Rajiv Gandhi.Haryana Congress leaders also paid tributes to Rajiv Gandhi.Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda described him as “a creator of modern India” and hailed the former prime minister for his decisions like empowering panchayats and ensuring voting rights for the youth, which he said helped make India a developed nation.“His contribution will always be written in golden letters,” Hooda tweeted.Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja too paid rich tributes to Rajiv Gandhi and distributed food packets to the needy in Karnal, and oxygen concentrators, medicines and masks at a Covid care centre in Kalka.Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on May 21, 1991 at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu by a woman suicide bomber at an election rally of the Congress party. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nation-forever-indebted-to-rajiv-gandhi-for-laying-foundation-of-strong-india-amarinder-singh-256357
21-05-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police file chargesheet against Deep Sidhu, 15 others in Republic Day violence case||The Delhi Police have filed a chargesheet in connection with the case relating to violence at Red Fort on Republic Day. The chargesheet has named Deep Sidhu and others as accused in the case. The chargesheet was filed before a magistrate in Tis Hazari on May 17. The court has listed it for May 28 on further hearing on the issue of cognizance. Police have named 16 persons including Deep Sidhu, Iqbal Singh, Maninder Moni, and Khempreet as accused in the case. The chargesheet said that Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana were among the main alleged conspirators of the violence.Delhi Police have registered a case under various charges dealing with sedition, rioting, violence, attempt to murder, and dacoity. Later the case was transferred to the crime branch of Delhi Police The chargesheet runs in around 3,000 pages. Names of some farmer leaders are also mentioned in the chargesheet.Police said that Lakha Sidhana and six others are named as absconding accused as they are evading arrestDeep Sidhu, who was arrested in this case was later released on bail. Delhi Police have alleged that he allegedly instigated the mob not to follow the permitted route of the Kisan parade and to breach barricades with tractors on January 26.Delhi Police had told the court that there was video evidence to show that Sidhu entered Red Fort with supporters carrying lathis and flags. Delhi Police also told the court that he was at the rampart of the fort where a flag was raised.Protesters broke police barricades and clashed with police in several parts of the national capital during a farmers’ rally against three controversial agriculture laws—Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020—on Republic Day this year.Farmers have been protesting the three laws on the outskirts of the national capital since November this year. The protests, which have been mostly peaceful, have gained widespread sympathy from across the country.A total of 43 different cases were registered with the crime branch, special cell, and local police, and over 150 persons were arrested in connection with various cases relating to Republic Day violence. —Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-police-file-chargesheet-against-deep-sidhu-15-others-in-republic-day-violence-case-256350
21-05-2021||Moga||Punjab: Body of IAF pilot killed in MiG-21 Bison crash found 2 km away from crash site||The body of the Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot, who sustained fatal injuries after his MiG-21 aircraft crashed near Punjab’s Moga this morning, was found two km away from the crash site, informed police.“It is an unfortunate incident. Police rushed to the spot immediately, villagers also reached the spot to provide assistance. IAF’s medical team reached too. The pilot’s body was found two km away from the spot where the fighter aircraft crashed. He was declared dead by the IAF medical team,” Gurdeep Singh, Superintendent of Police, Moga told ANI.The pilot sustained fatal injuries after his MiG-21 aircraft crashed near Punjab’s Moga, the IAF said on Friday.The aircraft was on a routine training sortie when the accident happened. The IAF lost Squadron leader Abhinav Choudhary in the accident.“There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family. A Court of Inquiry (COI) has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector,” said the IAF. ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-body-of-iaf-pilot-killed-in-mig-21-bison-crash-found-2-km-away-from-crash-site-256346
21-05-2021||Ludhiana||One hour curfew relaxation in Ludhiana||Ludhiana’s district administration eased curfew by one more hour in the district, bringing down its weekly down weekday restrictions to 16 instead of the previous 17 hours.Ludhiana’s shops, commercial establishments, and private offices will now be allowed to function between 5 am and 1 pm from Monday to Friday, District Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma said in a new order. Weekend restrictions begin at 1 pm on Friday until 5 am on Monday.The new restrictions will come into effect on May 24 until May 31, the new order said.Dine-in services in restaurants continued to be banned, but takeaway services are allowed up to 8 pm, as are courier and postal deliveries.  Any movement after 8 pm requires curfew passes, the order said.Ludhiana remains among the worst affected district in the state, reporting 26 deaths and 784 new infections on Thursday. The district’s infection count, which until a week ago stood over 1,000 cases a day, appears to come down officially, although fatality continues to be worryingly high.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-hour-curfew-relaxation-in-ludhiana-256312
21-05-2021||Bathinda||Punjab hotel industry face Rs 10k crore revenue hit; write to CM||The Punjab hotel industry has taken a massive hit due to the ongoing global pandemic. About 10,000 crore loss was witnessed in the fiscal year 2020-21, said the Punjab Hotel Association on Friday. Punjab Hotel Association, president Satish Arora said that they have written a letter to the Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh urging immediate support from the government to save the hospitality sector from "imminent collapse, and has requested several measures for this"."We have written to the CM, that with the declining revenue, the entire hospitality and tourism industry is in trouble. Staff salaries, power bills, EMI of loans, PF, ESI, GST, excise fee, water sanitation, cable fee, property tax and licence fee, all have to be paid. We request the government to take concrete steps to help the hospitality sector at the earliest.”Arora demanded the salary of staff for six months, deferment of electricity the charge for six months, deferment of water sanitation, licence fee, property tax and cow cess, waiver of a fee to be paid for renewals of excise and all other permits.Arora said that businesses are steadily closing and non-performing assets (NPAs) are rising as the hotel industry has Rs 1200 crore loan in Punjab, due to which demand RBI extend EMIs for at least a year and waive interest loan because since March 2020, the industry has been struggling and repayment of loans with interest is not just difficult for but impossible under this environment due to the second surge of covid."Empty rooms translate into massive business losses for the stakeholders. This will also lead to the inability to the repayment of EMIs to the banks and financial institutions, payment of salary to staff and other statutory dues,” said Arora.Arora said: “Quite a large number of small and medium hotel and restaurant businesses are facing closure. In such circumstances, it is essential to grant relief and concessions to these sectors”.It is the toughest time for the hotel industry, which was the first one to shut down, amid the Covid outbreak, and now again, it has come to the halt because of the second surge of covid.Around 20-22 lakh people are directly or indirectly employed with the hotel industry in Punjab. These people have been badly affected as the hotel industry is lying closed.  We are facing huge losses and bearing expenditure of all fixed charges, Arora added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-hotel-industry-face-rs-10k-crore-revenue-hit-write-to-cm-256310
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Army establishes 50-bed Covid facility at Sri Ganganagar||The Indian Army's Sudharshan Chakra Division on Friday dedicated a 50-bed hospital to civilians in Sri Ganganagar—located at the Southern Punjab border—to combat the rapid surge in coronavirus cases.   The level-2 facility would provide Covid related medical care—including oxygen—to affected civilians in the district and adjoining areas, according to an official statement. Army doctors and para-medical officials have set up a medical facility with the assistance of the district administration, and Jan Sewa Hospital in record time. The Indian Army would also provide dedicated medical staff and equipment to fight the pandemic.   Ambulances have been made available. Admission to the facility would be co-ordinated by the District Medical Administration and Jan Sewa Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-establishes-50-bed-covid-facility-at-sri-ganganagar-256302
21-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill reaction on fans request to do a film with rumoured BF Sidharth Shukla; she blushes as 'SidNaaz' get complimented||'Bigg Boss' star Shehnaaz Gill was seen all dolled up for her latest Instagram live. As soon as the live session started, the Punjabi star started reading her fans comments, and was left blushing. She was seen wearing a grey and peach outfit sans makeup. Shehnaaz was seen blushing as fans complimented her and Sidharth's on-screen chemistry. A fan wrote: "You and Sidharth both look together." To which, she politely answered: "Thank you".    Shehnaaz and Sidharth emerged as one of the most popular couples from the Bigg Boss 13 season.  To date, their fans continue to ship them together as "SidNaaz".  A post shared by SIDNAAZ UPDATES 👑🥀 (@sidnaazupdates)  During the Instagram live session, their fans were rooting to see them together. Further, a fan requested on the live session that she and Sidharth do a film together. To this Shehnaaz responded that if any director would like, then they could do a movie. A post shared by SIDNAAZ UPDATES 👑🥀 (@sidnaazupdates)  She said, "Kisi director ko lagega toh krega woh movie. (If any director feels like working with us, then will do a movie)" Further, she went onto promote Sidharth's upcoming web series, Broken But Beautiful 3 and urged fans to support him. She said, "Uski abhi aa rahi hai web series. Achi Hai. Aap support karo. (His web series is coming out. It is good. Please support him.)"||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gill-reaction-on-fans-request-to-do-a-film-with-rumoured-bf-sidharth-shukla-she-blushes-as-sidnaaz-get-complimented-256291
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Have ordered 30,000 vials of drug used to treat black fungus: Punjab tells HC||The Punjab government on Friday told the high court that the state had ordered 30,000 vials of the drug used to treat black fungus."We will be placing periodic orders," said Punjab advocate-general Atul Nanda, when a Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh questioned Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on the preventive measures undertaken to beat mucormycosis in Covid-19 patients.UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain told the Bench that 5,000 vials have been ordered to beat the disease.The Bench urged Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to examine, apart from medicine, the adoption of preventive measures that could be introduced to arrest black fungus.UT administration also told Bench that it has been declared mucormycosis an epidemic in Chandigarh.To address the spread of Covid in rural areas, the Punjab government said it had set up 2,400 community health centres for 12, 700 villages in addition to the primary health centres. Each community health centres would cater to a population of 5000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/have-ordered-30-000-vials-of-drug-used-to-treat-black-fungus-punjab-tells-hc-256264
21-05-2021||---||Pilot dies as MiG-21 crashes in Punjab's Moga||Faridkot, May 21An Indian Air Force MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft crashed in a field near Langeana Kalan village, 24 km from Moga district headquarters, around 11.30 pm on Thursday, killing pilot Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary. The aircraft was on a routine training sortie when the mishap took place. The pilot was returning to Suratgarh in Rajasthan after the training sorties near Jagraon in Ludhiana, said Gurdeep Singh, SP (H), Moga.The police got information about the incident around 11.30 pm when it was raining in the area. The police immediately rushed to the spot and started the search for the pilot. The body of the pilot was found at a distance of about 2 km from the MiG-21 crash spot, said the SP.By the morning, senior officers of the Air Force from Halwara and Bathinda along with medical teams reached the spot. There was no other loss to property or human lives in the area when the aircraft crashed, said the SP.A court of inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the crash, sources said.There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pilot-dies-as-mig-21-crashes-in-punjabs-moga-256240
21-05-2021||---||Kingpin of Jalandhar spa centre gangrape arrested||Jalandhar, May 20In a major success, the Commissionerate of Police on Thursday arrested a woman named Jyoti of Ludhiana, who was a mastermind behind the gangrape case that took place at Cloud Spa Centre, Model Town, Jalandhar, last week.Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police teams have arrested kingpin Jyoti (30), a resident of New Patel Nagar, Vaddi Habbowal from Jalandhar bus stand, adding that another person, Sohit Sharma (29), a resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, was already arrested by the police a week ago.The CP further added that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was constituted in this case, which was working round-the-clock to probe the whole incident and arrest the accused. “During investigation, Jyoti was found to be the kingpin, who revealed that she had brought the victim from Ludhiana to this spa centre where four persons raped her. She also revealed that she had been lodged in Ludhiana Jail as she was already booked in two different cases of the NDPS Act and was out on bail. Notably, she was running a salon and is presently working in an export company,” added Bhullar.He also stated that the raids were on to arrest the other accused, Ashish Bahal, a resident of Amritsar district, Arshad Khan and Inder alias Bunty, residents of Jalandhar. He also mentioned that the police remand of the kingpin Jyoti would be sought from the court to ensure in-depth investigation in this case and to arrest the remaining suspects. He stated that the SIT would furnish its investigation in a time-bound manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kingpin-of-jalandhar-spa-centre-gangrape-arrested-256222
21-05-2021||The rural skyline in this part of Punjab is a little different. Since it is the NRIs who dominate the Doaba region||Doaba’s outlandish Water Tank Art||Over the years, the shape of the water reservoirs has evolved from airplanes to ships, army tanks, trucks, birds like eagles and hawks, horses, kangaroos (marking relocation to Australia), bullock carts and of late more popular tractors, bhangra-performing Punjabi couple and sports figures. Since all the shapes desired cannot be used for water storage, some villagers also prefer to install them as artwork only.More recently, people have also started preferring having iconic figures of their choice as larger than life statues. For instance, a house at Dhanoa village near Jalandhar has the statue of Rani Laxmibai riding a horse. Two houses in the ancestral village of Bhagat Singh at Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr have his statues atop an already constructed water tank. The idea of having statue of Dalit icon Dr BR Ambedkar is also a favourite among many.Having a unique showpiece on the house has become such a matter of prestige for some families that they do not mind even if the local artisans or fabricators ask for hefty amount for the work. Their only demand is getting a finely chiseled piece with bright colours such that it makes their house stand apart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doabas-outlandish-water-tank-art-256227
21-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Kin of Covid victims forced to shell out more for performing last rites||After incurring huge expenses on the treatment of Covid patients in hospitals, family members of those who succumbed to the virus are forced to shell out huge sums for a decent cremation.Aggrieved family members are spending between Rs5,000 and 10,000 to cremate bodies of their loved ones.Deepak, a resident of Mundian Kalan, who lost his mother to Covid on May 12, spent a total of Rs10,000 to perform her last rites.“The ambulance was free and Rs10,000 was given to the crematorium. We were given a slip of Rs4,500 and we were told that the remaining amount was for PPE kits that were used for the cremation,” he said. They cremated the body at the crematorium using the LPG.“It’s difficult for families with marginal income to pay such a huge amount,” he said.Kamaljit Singh, a resident of Arjan Nagar, succumbed to the virus at Arora Neuro Centre and his family bore charges of Rs3,000 for performing the last rites and Rs2,400 was charged for the PPE kits. The body was cremated at a traditional crematorium where wood is used for cremation.“I was the only one from the family who went for the cremation but I was charged for three PPE kits. The volunteers who helped me in cremating the body also wore the PPE kits and I was charged for that also,” said Inderpreet Singh, son of Kamaljit.Jaspal Kumar, a resident of Jawahar Nagar, said he lost his father, Mulakh Raj, to Covid and cremated him at one of the gas-operated crematoriums in the city.“Ambulance service was free of cost and at the crematorium we were asked to pay Rs9,500. We paid Rs6,500 and an amount of Rs3,000 was waived off on request, which we were being charged for PPE kits,” he said.Ranjodh Singh, president of the Ramgarhia Educational Council, which manages the gas crematorium at Dholewal, said families are charged Rs4,500 for one funeral which include charges for cylinder, sanitisation and if they need PPE kits, they are charged extra for that.“After cases of overcharging were reported to me, I have fixed the charges. Now, Rs2,500 is charged for four PPE kits and sanitisation, if families do not bring their own kits,” said Ranjodh Singh.The crematorium at Dholewal has four gas chambers and one more will be made operational by Tuesday. One commercial cylinder costs Rs 1,500 and two-three cylinders are used for performing the last rites of the body.“The new gas chamber is made using advanced technology and will reduce gas consumption to 25 kg and cremation time to one hour. The cost of the same will be fixed at around Rs3,000-3,500,” he said.Anil Bharti, president of the Swami Vivekanand Swarg Asharam Trust, said they have fixed the price at Rs4,500 and if anybody was being charged more they should report to them.“I request everybody should take the slip from the Trust so that there is no chance of overcharging,” he said.Gurmeet Singh Kular, member, Swarag Ashram Shivpuri, Dana Mandi Back Side Arora Palace, said they had fixed the rate at Rs3,000 for one cremation and they don’t keep PPE kits at the cremation ground and people bring them on their own.“The team that comes with the body according to the protocol charges Rs2,400 from the family for kits and sanitisation,” he said.Judgepreet Singh, member, Samvedna Trust, an NGO, who is also a member of the cremation cell formed by the district administration, said the ambulance service was provided for free and in addition to this, five PPE kits were given to the marshals for their own selves and the family members of the deceased from the Civil Surgeon office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-kin-of-covid-victims-forced-to-shell-out-more-for-performing-last-rites-256147
21-05-2021||Mukesh Tandon||No death due to Covid at Singhu, say farm leaders||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, May 20Farm leaders of 32 groups of the protesting unions of Punjab on Thursday said that no farmer had died due to Covid at the Singhu border.They alleged that the government was making a conspiracy to defame their protest by spreading lies about the death of a farmer due to coronavirus.Farmer leaders Harender Singh Lakhowal and Kulwinder Singh Sandhu, after a meeting of 32 protesting farmer unions held in Kisan Andolan office in Kundli on Thursday, said no farmer had died due to Covid at the Singhu border.Farmer Balbir Singh of Shankarpur village of Patiala district died due to diabetes as his sugar dipped all of a sudden, while another farmer died due to cardiac arrest.They also said that if the farmer had died due to Covid, why had the Health Department conducted his post-mortem? As per the WHO guidelines, postmortem could not be conducted of a Covid positive patient.Sandhu said the farmer unions were concerned about the spread of Covid and to curb this, they had been giving immunity boosters to the protesting farmers regularly.Sources said the farmers had made a strategy to burn an effigy of the Central Government in all villages and cities across the country on May 26 on the completion of six months of farmers’ protest at Delhi borders against the three farm laws and on the completion of seven years of the Central government on the same day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-death-due-to-covid-at-singhu-say-farm-leaders-256105
21-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||Covid: 83% Punjab victims had comorbidities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20Punjab seems to be paying a heavy price for being among states with a high load of population suffering from comorbidities. Of the over 3,500 people who died of Covid in the last 20 days, a majority had comorbid conditions.Health experts say the state’s 2.4 per cent Covid fatality rate, the highest in the country, is because of the high load of patients with non-communicable diseases, including hypertension and diabetes.A government analysis of the second wave has found that 83 per cent of the over 6,000 victims were suffering from comorbidities.Dr JS Thakur, Professor, School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said a global study had put Punjab among five states with people having the highest burden of comorbidities. “The high case fatality rate is undoubtedly due to the highest burden of comorbidities,” he said.A Health Department report had earlier found that Punjab had 35.7% “unadjusted prevalence” of hypertension compared to 25.3% nationally. The state was also found to be having the highest prevalence of high systolic blood pressure, high total cholesterol and high fasting plasma glucose.Highest fatality rate in country||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-83-punjab-victims-had-comorbidities-256142
21-05-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Overwhelmed with bodies, crematoria feel the heat||With an increasing number of cremations taking place in the district during the second wave of Covid-19, the demand for wood has increased at the cremation grounds. To add to the problem, there isn’t any electrical cremation system in the region.Operators at the cremation grounds said it took 3-4 quintals of wood to cremate a body. Besides, Raj Kumar Mago, president, Baba Dadamal Shamshanbhumi Sudhar Sabha, Maqsudan, said: “From 20 to 25 cremations a month, the average has increased to 40-50 a day.”NGO pitches inAakhri Umeed Welfare Society, a Jalandhar-based NGO, is cremating persons who die of Covid for free. A team of 15-20 volunteers not only performs the last rites of the Covid patients, but also provides PPE kits to the families. Society founder Jatinder Singh said they were cremating eight to 10 Covid bodies a day at different cremation grounds.Gurdayal Bhatti and Harbans Lal, in charges at a cremation ground, said though they weren’t facing any shortage right now, considering the increasing wood consumption due to more deaths, the possibility looms large. “Last week, we cremated five to six bodies, including that of Covid patients, every day,” said Harbans Lal.Amid information on inflated cremation rates, it was discovered that Rs 2,800-3,500 is being charged for cremating a body at present.Shaym Lal, head, Haranamdas Pura Cremation Ground, said: Last Friday, they cremated 20 bodies a day, against the daily average of three to six.Besides, the attendance at funerals is beyond the permissible limit, with 50-80 persons thronging the cremation grounds, increasing the fear of infection. “Due to the unavailability of health staff or any administration official, a large number of people participate in the cremation,” said Harbans Lal.With the surge in Covid fatalities, the pressure to handle the dead has also gone up. Dr Kamraj, in charge, Civil Hospital morgue, said: “We have to increase the staff strength. The bodies need to be sanitised completely and packed in two layers before cremation. Before handing over the bodies, PPE kits are also given to the family members as per protocol.” Due to shortage of PPE Kits, only two family members are being given the kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-overwhelmed-with-bodies-crematoria-feel-the-heat-255890
21-05-2021||Muktsar||Lockers full, ashes kept in open at Muktsar grounds||As a large number of people are dying daily due to Covid, the lockers to keep ashes at the cremation ground have gone full to their capacity. In such a situation, the bags of ashes are now being kept in the open.Shammi Tehria, president, Shiv Dhaam Management Committee, Jalalabad Road, here, said, “We have lockers to keep ashes of 20 bodies. However, more than 50 bags of ashes are lying in the cremation ground. We have even appealed to residents to take the ashes. Now, we are going to make a public announcement that if the ashes are not collected within a short time, we will immerse these in the holy Ganga.”He said, “Basically, people are worried due to Covid so they not coming to get the ashes. Further, a number of trains to Haridwar have been suspended. As a result, the ashes are lying unclaimed here. Usually people come to collect ashes on the fourth day, but nowadays, a number of people are not even coming after 15 days.”Notably, last year too, a similar situation had occurred and some alert residents had immersed the ashes of their loved ones in the nearby canals or buried it in the soil.Even Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had buried the ashes of his parents in the soil and planted a sapling there. In the past one week, 81 people have died due to Covid in Muktsar district. In the past 24 hours, 417 people were found positive, which included 301 villagers. Meanwhile, the Muktsar police started providing free ration and food to needy today. SSP Sudarvizhi appealed to people to call on 112 or 181 for help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lockers-full-ashes-kept-in-open-at-muktsar-grounds-255891
21-05-2021||Bathinda||SAD flags oxygen ‘shortage’ at Bathinda AIIMS||Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal today flagged the issue of oxygen shortage at AIIMS-Bathinda, and the high price of the cylinders.Harsimrat raised the issue by posting on social media. She wrote, “AIIMS-Bathinda has only a day’s supply of O2 left for 70 critical Covid patients. With the highest death rate in Bathinda, oxygen is crucial to save their lives.”However, Bathinda Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “Adequate oxygen is been given to AIIMS and there is no issue pertaining to it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-flags-oxygen-shortage-at-bathinda-aiims-255894
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt to provide Rs 1.5K pension to kids orphaned due to Covid||Beginning July 1, the Punjab Government will provide Rs 1,500 per month as social security pension, along with free education up to graduation for all those children who were orphaned in the Covid pandemic, as well as families that have lost their breadwinner.Terming it the state’s duty to become the foster parents of the children who have lost both their parents in the unprecedented pandemic, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said his government would ensure free education in government institutions for such children as well as children belonging to families that have lost their breadwinner to Covid.Take strict action against hospitalsThe CM directed the officials concerned to take strict action against private hospitals overcharging Covid patients and said they should also be made to refund the payment received. He asked DCs to track all such complaints. The private hospitals should be asked to display the official rate prominently, he said.Affected persons would also be eligible for a grant of Rs 51,000 under Ashirwaad Scheme w.e.f. July 1, and would be entitled to free ration and coverage under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. The state government would also assist the affected family members to find a suitable job under Ghar Ghar Rozgaar te Karobaar Mission, said the Chief Minister, chairing a high-level Covid review meeting.The relief measures will be provided to orphans until they attain the age of 21 years. In the case of families whose breadwinner has died, these would be provided for an initial period of three years, after which their situation will be re-assessed, and where the vulnerability continues to exist, the period may be appropriately increased.Meanwhile, amid projections of a possible third wave and its impact on children, the Chief Minister ordered the Health Department to go into a mission mode with preparation, which will include specialised training of all doctors by the June-end. Reviewing the Covid situation in the state, he directed the state expert group head Dr KK Talwar to look into all aspects and get training modules prepared for the Health Department.Expressing concern over the spread of Covid in rural areas, the Chief Minister directed that teams of health and other departments immediately start house-to-house surveillance in every village. The teams should be equipped to give basic medicines without delay, and RAT testing of symptomatic persons must be got done at the earliest, he said. He also directed that some CHCs in each district be prepared as L2 facilities, with oxygen concentrators and doctors with proper treatment protocols.Captain Amarinder expressed satisfaction at the measures taken by the control room for oxygen and directed the health department to continuously pursue with the Centre the issue of oxygen shortfall, which stands at 700 MT, as well as tankers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-provide-rs-1-5k-pension-to-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid-255914
21-05-2021||Faridkot||Audit panel to cut oxygen wastage in Faridkot hospital||In the wake of shortage of medical oxygen and to ensure that the hospital does not face any problem with regard to its supply, Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot has constituted an oxygen audit committee.Besides constantly monitoring the stock and its consumption, the committee has been tasked to carry out daily stock of receipts, consumption and balance stock.The committee members are visiting Covid wards and working on optimum utilisation and preventing wastage of the life-saving gas. “By adopting these measures, the hospital has been able to reduce oxygen wastage and decrease overall consumption,” said Dr Ruhi Dugg, registrar, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. Medical college is a constitute institution of the BFUHS. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/audit-panel-to-cut-oxygen-wastage-in-faridkot-hospital-255920
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder for floating global vax tender||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the Health Department to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of vaccines from all possible sources to ensure early inoculation in the state.The state government will also reach out directly to all vaccine manufacturers for direct purchase of various Covid vaccines, including Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, he announced.Only 1.3 Lakh doses left for 18+ GroupAs per GoI allocation for Phase 3 (18-44 age group), the state government has been able to buy only 3.6 lakh vaccine doses. CM Capt Amarinder Singh said a total of 2.3 lakh doses have already been administered, leaving only 1.3 lakh for use as of nowPunjab has storage space for 35 lakh Sputnik V vaccines, which require storage temperature of minus 18 degrees Celsius. The Chief Minister said all efforts would be made for procurement of vaccines to meet the acute shortage in the state, which had received fewer than 44 lakh vaccine doses so far from the Government of India, of which only one lakh is currently available for use and which will also be exhausted within a day.The state government was forced to stop vaccination for Phase 1 & 2 categories in the last three days because of the non-availability, pointed out the Chief Minister, directing all departments concerned to continue pursuing the matter of supply aggressively with the Centre.Pointing out that almost one lakh unregistered construction workers and their family members had so far come forward for getting vaccinated in line with the state government’s prioritisation of vaccination for 18-44 category, the Chief Minister asked the Labour Department to ensure the registration of these workers on priority.During the Covid review meeting, Covid expert group head Dr KK Talwar noted that the existing vaccines had been found to be effective against the new variants/mutants so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-for-floating-global-vax-tender-255928
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Learn from Delhi Govt: Bhagwant Mann to Punjab CM||State AAP president and MP Bhagwant Mann said Capt Amarinder Singh and other Congress leaders were busy twisting each other’s arms instead of supporting the people during the Covid crisis.He said in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had made efforts to save lives and announced cash and pension for the wellbeing of Covid victims’ families. Addressing mediapersons, Mann said the Delhi Government had decided to give Rs 2,500 to children up to the age of 25 who were helpless due to the Covid pandemic, and the same amount as pension on the death of a family member with Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/learn-from-delhi-govt-bhagwant-mann-to-punjab-cm-255935
21-05-2021||Ropar||Farmers’ clash with RSS workers averted at Ropar||A clash between RSS volunteers and farmers was averted when the former tried to organise a blood donation camp at Nurpur Bedi, near here today.The cops had a tough time to control the situation as the protesting farmers barged into the venue and threw the furniture and other articles into adjoining fields.The local farmers belonging to Kirti Kisan Morcha and Samyukt Kisan Morcha had issued warnings to the organisers yesterday against organising the camp. They said such camps would not be allowed by the BJP or RSS till the three controversial central agricultural laws were not repealed.Around 10 am today, even before the camp was started, nearly 300 protesters reached the venue where heavy police force was deployed and barricades were set up. For some time they raised slogans against the RSS and the BJP. Outnumbering cops, the protesting farmers jumped the barricades and barged into the venue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-clash-with-rss-workers-averted-at-ropar-255940
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM launches chatbot to help home-isolated||As part of Mission Fateh, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday launched a Punjab Covid Care WhatsApp chatbot for self-care during home isolation, information on bed availability and vaccine centres, etc.Patients in home isolation will be required to input their vitals and their condition would be monitored by experts who will advise them on the course of treatment. The service will be available in three languages – English, Punjabi and Hindi. The announcement was made after a high-level virtual Covid review meeting chaired by Chief Minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-launches-chatbot-to-help-home-isolated-255945
21-05-2021||Sangrur||Out of job, disabled feel pandemic pinch||Having lost temporary jobs during the pandemic, many physically challenged residents are living in penury in the absence of financial aid from the government.The meagre government monthly pension of Rs 750 is of little help to them in these trying times when the inflation has risen sharply.“Before Covid, I used to make Rs 350-400 daily and it was enough to make ends meet. After the pandemic, my earnings have dropped to Rs 100-150. At the same time, the prices of essential commodities have skyrocketed. The state government should come to our rescue,” says Mohd Anwar, a tailor from Malerkotla.Harvinder Singh, who along with wife Karmjit Kaur is 80 per cent disabled, says he has been without work for the past one-and-a-half months as his employer has shut the small factory where he worked.“Though we get Rs 750 each as monthly pension, it isn’t enough even to purchase grocery items. I have two children and we need money to continue their studies. The state government is making big announcements for all sections, but they have completely forgotten us,” he says.While some had received help, including ration and vegetables, during the first wave, they had been left out in the open during the second wave.“The help we received last year is missing. The administration, NGOs and social workers had provided essential commodities to all, but this year no one has approached us,” laments Kuljeet Singh, another resident with special needs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/out-of-job-disabled-feel-pandemic-pinch-255949
21-05-2021||Our CorrespondentFerozepur||College staff unpaid, kids write ‘blood’ letter to Punjab CM||Over a dozen children whose parents are working in state-run Shaheed Bhagat Singh State Technical Campus (SBSSTC) have written an open “letter in blood” to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh demanding immediate release of salaries to their parents, who have been unpaid for the past six months. The college was recently upgraded to a university.The children, in the letter, said their parents had been under stress for the past several months. “We don’t ask for anything from our parents these days. I know my father has no money. They have been protesting for the past several months but their voices have fallen on deaf ears,” says Rohan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/college-staff-unpaid-kids-write-blood-letter-to-punjab-cm-255953
21-05-2021||Faridkot||Fruits of labour wilt as Punjab government schools shut||The pandemic has disrupted a novel experiment started by the Education Department in government primary and upper primary schools across the state in March at a cost of Rs 5.40 crore.No care amid covidIn a bid to imbibe practical knowledge and encourage children to lead a healthier life, the department had started kitchen gardens in schools wherein vegetables and herbal plants were grown. The produce from kitchen gardens was to be used in mid-day meals.But before the plants could start bearing fruit, the schools were closed down in the wake of the pandemic. Now, teachers are faced with the problem of how to use the veggies when there is no cooking of mid-day meal (MDM).The department had allocated Rs 3,000 to each primary and upper-primary government school to grow veggies. In a letter to General Manager, MDM Cell. Punjab, Deputy District Education Officer (Primary) Maninder Kaur has sought an opinion of the higher authorities on how to utilise these vegetables in the absence of MDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fruits-of-labour-wilt-as-punjab-government-schools-shut-255957
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure antifungal drugs at all govt facilities: Punjab CM||A day after the state government notified mucormycosis (black fungus) under the Epidemic Diseases Act, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today directed the Health Department to ensure that necessary medicines to treat the infection are made available at all government hospitals, including those in rural areas.He also asked the department to depute doctors at the Primary Health Centres in villages to ensure early detection and treatment of black fungus in the rural areas.Doctors told to Check use of steroidsStressing that early detection of the disease could prevent it from being fatal, the CM asked the Covid expert team headed by Dr KK Talwar to ensure that doctors in the L3 facilities of all government hospitals were directed on proper treatment of Covid patients to check irrational use of steroids, which had been identified as the main cause of this disease.Excessive use of steroids in Covid treatment was causing problems, Dr Talwar told the Covid review meeting chaired by the CM. He said the doctors were being guided to use substitutes and the expert group was trying to finalise a line of treatment with substitutes and alternatives.The CM also asked Dr Talwar and his team to analyse why patients were returning to hospitals even after recovering from Covid. In the first phase, the state did not report any black fungus case, even though many were reported from several other states. The Chief Minister, however, made it clear that this should not be taken as a precedence and the situation could change any moment, which necessitated strict preventive measures.He said this was the reason his government had yesterday notified the disease under the Epidemic Act, even though no such guidelines had been issued by the Centre then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-antifungal-drugs-at-all-govt-facilities-punjab-cm-255968
21-05-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar sees 17 cases of black fungus, all in pvt hospitals||As many as 17 cases of black fungus were reported from the district on Thursday. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said all patients infected with black fungus had been reported from private hospitals. “None of the government hospitals have reported any such case,” he said.The health official when asked about the severity of the cases said the department was still collecting data about such patients. “The first case of black fungus was reported two days ago. We are still verifying the facts and collecting data,” he said. Dr Singh said all patients were under treatment and the department was in regular touch with the hospitals from where these cases had been reported. “This disease existed prior to Covid pandemic but the chances of positive patients catching it due to weak immunity are high,” he said, adding that the health department had been informed about the development and they were constantly monitoring the situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-sees-17-cases-of-black-fungus-all-in-pvt-hospitals-255975
21-05-2021||Bathinda||Staff back from Patiala, AIIMS forms probe panel||The management of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here today constituted a three-member committee to probe the incident of nursing staff being sent back to the parent institution by Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, after they alleged poor accommodation and food.Wrong to strike work: directorAIIMS Director Dr DK Singh said: “The nursing staff raised the issue of poor food and accommodation provided to them, which can be sorted out within a day or two. But we have learnt they refused to go to work, which is wrong. We have constituted a committee of three doctors to look into this and submit a report.”He said the recruitment of nursing staff had been pending as the building was under construction. “So we don’t require more staff, but owing to the pandemic, we had hired 500 nursing staff and sent them to the government hospitals to provide them manpower during the crisis,” he said.The newly hired nursing staff were given recruitment letters a day before they were sent to Patiala and Mohali for duty.Around 50 male nurses from AIIMS, Bathinda, deployed at the isolation wing of Rajindra hospital, were relieved by the Medical Superintendent of the hospital on Wednesday after they staged a protest over poor boarding and lodging facilities. They stayed at the Covid ward for only two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staff-back-from-patiala-aiims-forms-probe-panel-255995
21-05-2021||Ferozepur||Waive power bills: SAD||4 more die in AboharAbohar: With four more deaths due to Covid, the toll this month has reached 60. The victims who were cremated by health workers and Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti volunteers were Rotary Club ex-chief Roshan Lal Narang (82), Lajwanti (91), Sukhdev Singh (84) and Rajinder Arora (45). OCActor helps womanAbohar/Sriganganagar: For a woman infected with black fungus in Sriganganagar, actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood emerged as a saviour. The family of Manjit Kaur, who is battling for life in a hospital, contacted many people on social media who further informed Sood about her condition. Sood delivered the injections at Sriganganagar in no time due to which Manjit is now out of danger. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/waive-power-bills-sad-255996
21-05-2021||Bathinda||Granthi seeks release of dera chief, arrested||A priest at a gurdwara in Bir Talab village in Bathinda district “offered prayers” for the release of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim. In a video gone viral on social media platforms, the granthi can be seen doing an ‘ardas’ for a Dalit chief minister in the state and release of the jailed dera chief.After a complaint was given by advocate Harpal Singh Khara and other lawyers to the Bathinda SSP against the priest for making a “politically-motivated ardas” which could vitiate the atmosphere in the state, the police arrested the priest.SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “After getting a complaint, we have arrested the priest and booked him under Section 295A of the IPC. We are investigating the matter and further action will be taken based on our findings. There are certain unscrupulous elements who are trying to disturb peace. Their role is being probed thoroughly.” Meanwhile, a letter issued by Kaushal Kumar, Director, National Commission for Scheduled Castes, has sought an action taken report in the matter. The commission has decided to investigate the matter under powers conferred upon it under Article 338 of the Constitution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/granthi-seeks-release-of-dera-chief-arrested-255998
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Denial of protection to live-in couple travesty of justice: High Court||Clearing the air on the contentious issue of providing protection to a couple living together without tying the knot, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that live-in relationships may not be acceptable to all, but could not be termed illegal. The Bench also made it clear that denial of protection to a live-in couple would be a mockery of justice and it was not for the courts to judge them on their decision.‘Entitled to equal protection’The High Court has ruled that live-in couples are entitled to equal protection of laws as any other citizen of the country. Justice Sudhir Mittal also ruled that an individual had the right to formalise a relationship through marriage or adopt a non-formal approach of a live-in relationship. Justice Mittal said social acceptance for live-in-relationships was on the rise. In law, such a relationship was not prohibited and did not amount to commission of any offence.Justice Jaishree Thakur also ruled that even the family could not raise an objection and cause a hindrance in peaceful existence, if a major chose a partner. It was for the state to ensure their protection and personal liberty.The judgment comes less than a week after another Bench rejected a live-in couple’s protection plea as such a step could potentially “disturb the social fabric”. Justice Thakur added living together without marriage could not be said to constitute an offence. “If the petitioners have not committed any offence, this court sees no reason why their prayer for protection cannot be acceded to. With due respect to judgments rendered by the coordinate Benches, who have denied protection to couples in live in relationship, this court is unable to adopt the same view.”Quoting a plethora of judgments, Justice Thakur asserted the court in the past and also recently allowed protection to runaway couples in a live-in relationship. Protection was also provided where marriage was invalid. Different High Courts, too, had allowed protection to unmarried runaway couples.Justice Thakur added even under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, a woman in a ‘domestic relationship’ was provided protection and maintenance. The word ‘wife’ had not been used under the Act. As such, Parliament accorded adequate protection to women live-in-partners and the children of live-in-couples.Justice Thakur further added one could not lose sight of honour killings prevalent in northern India, particularly in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. It was a result of people marrying without family acceptance, at times outside their caste or religion.Justice Thakur observed: “It would be a travesty of justice in case protection is denied to persons opting to reside together without the sanctity of marriage, and such persons have to face dire consequences at the hands of persons from whom protection is sought. In case such a course is adopted and protection denied, the courts would also be failing in their duty to provide citizens a right to their life and liberty as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of and to uphold to the rule of law.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/denial-of-protection-to-live-in-couple-travesty-of-justice-high-court-256006
21-05-2021||Patiala||Four cops hurt in clash during raid on smugglers||On a visit to check liquor smuggling, four police personnel were injured after being allegedly attacked by a few locals using firearms at Jagatpura village of the district today.Three villagers, too, were injured in the attack. While a head constable and a villager sustained a bullet injury, the police have registered two FIRs in the case.The police said the raid was initially carried out on Wednesday night, but a family of smugglers, against whom over a dozen FIRs were pending, overpowered them. Patiala SP (Investigation) Harmeet Singh Hundal said the police team fired into the air in self-defence as some villagers had attacked them with rods and even opened fire on them. “Head Constable Raja Singh sustained a bullet injury in his thigh, while three other cops were injured after they were attacked with rods,” Hundal said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-cops-hurt-in-clash-during-raid-on-smugglers-256007
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Top brass watching troublemakers: Sunil Jakhar||PPCC president Sunil Jakhar today cautioned “a few self-styled” party leaders who were trying to inflame dissidence by questioning Capt Amarinder Singh over delay in justice to the families of police firing victims, saying the party high command was keeping a close watch on them.The state government and the Congress high command were serious about it and justice would be assured in the case, he said. “In these challenging times due to Covid-19 and the adverse High Court judgment over the Kotkapura police firing case, a few leaders are trying to hijack the core issue and fulfil their hidden political ambitions,” he observed. Referring to the May 18 meeting at Charanjit Channi’s residence, Jakhar said: “By giving false figures of the people reportedly attending their meetings, some leaders are creating the illusion of leading a campaign that is a figment of their own imagination.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-brass-watching-troublemakers-sunil-jakhar-256009
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi to hear out Punjab MLAs amid crisis||The intervention of the Congress high command to end the crisis in the Punjab Congress will begin with party’s former president Rahul Gandhi holding one-on-ones with state ministers, MLAs and MPs over the next few days.A senior party leader privy to the development said Gandhi is expected to meet 10 to 15 state Congress leaders a day.Navjot Singh Sidhu, Cong leaderMust speak upIn 2019, I began & ended my poll campaign seeking justice for sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib... Now, our MLAs and party workers must go to Delhi and speak the truth to our high command, as I regularly do!The initial plan of the high command to send an emissary to Punjab to interact with party leaders has not materialised. Before the meeting with Gandhi, state affairs in charge and AICC general secretary Harish Rawat will visiting the state to meet the dissident leaders.Apart from interacting with the Chief Minister, party president Sonia Gandhi is in touch with a few state leaders. “The party high command is listening to leaders of the Chief Minister’s camp and those who were questioning the CM over the delay in giving justice to the families of the police firing incidents. The adverse high court judgment on the Kotkapura police firing cases had created a crisis in the party. The party high command is working out a formula to make the CM take on the perpetrators of sacrilege and police firing cases,” said a senior leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-gandhi-to-hear-out-punjab-mlas-amid-crisis-256012
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Agri officers strike work||Hundreds of senior officers of the Agriculture Department, including agriculture development officers, deputy directors and joint directors, started a two-day strike today to protest the failure of the state government in filling vacancies of technocrats at the top level by promoting junior eligible officers.The officers shunned official work, though they continued to provide farmers with extension services. They raised slogans outside district offices and blamed the government for not being sympathetic to their demands.An official press release by the Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee said though technocrats were the main force behind Green Revolution and increasing crop production in the state, the government had failed to acknowledge their contribution in making the state among the top foodgrain producers in the country.“While eligible candidates are awaiting promotion, the services provided by the department to farmers are adversely hit as each officer was forced to look after two to three districts as vacancies remained unfilled,” said the release. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agri-officers-strike-work-256017
21-05-2021||Jalandhar||Khaira dares Sukhbir to debate||Bholath MLA and former Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira today challenged former Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal for an open debate on the sacrilege issue at a time and place of his choice.Khaira alleged incidents of sacrilege and subsequent killing of two persons at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, would not have occurred had there been no theatrics to please the Dera Sacha Sauda head for cheap electoral gains at the cost of antagonising of the Sikh sentiments. Khaira listed out 10 posers for Sukhbir on the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khaira-dares-sukhbir-to-debate-256018
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Norms changed, rice millers cry foul||Rice millers in Punjab have criticised the state government for changing the Custom Milling Rice (CMR) Policy, whereby a part of the security deposited for milling of rice has been made non-refundable.The policy for 2020-21 has made it mandatory for all mills in the state to give a security of Rs 10 lakh, before they get the paddy for milling. Of this, Rs 5 lakh is non-refundable security.Claiming that the decision was taken arbitrarily by the Food and Supply Department last year, millers said it had led to their working capital fund getting blocked. Denying the charge, the department said the decision was taken after due consultations with the millers.Taking to The Tribune, Prem Goel, a Sunam-based rice miller, said the government had been increasing the security each year since 2018-19. “In the CMR policy 2018-19, the security was Rs 5 lakh, which was increased to Rs 7.25 lakh next year and to Rs 10 lakh in 2020-21. The Food and Supply Department made Rs 5 lakh non-refundable security, which is against the principles of business. This decision should be withdrawn,” he said.Food and Supply minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the millers had themselves agreed to the policy. “However, if millers have a problem, it can be discussed in the next few months, when the new policy is to be formulated,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-changed-rice-millers-cry-foul-256026
21-05-2021||Nonika Singh||Gurcharan Singh Chani: Artiste who spent his last years bringing cheer to ailing kids||Zindagi Retire Nahi Hoti”… That was one of the many delightful and meaningful plays of eminent thespian and filmmaker Gurcharan Singh Chani. Alas, the deadly Covid can force many to retire from life prematurely and Chani too succumbed to its fatal reach.National School of Drama (NSD) alumnus, though he studied theatre as deeply as his fellow students, the path he created for himself was markedly different. If as a student he was piqued by the question “theatre for whom”, as a practitioner he found an answer and decided to dedicate it to the community and stage it right in the centre of the people.Read also: As renowned theatre-person from the city Gurcharan Singh Chani loses his battle with Covid-19, his friends remember the man who spread smilesFree of all isms, his plays were for, of and certainly by the people. Non-actors, ordinary men and women became stars of his plays, where he would take a song, a line, piece of poetry, toss it around and turn it into a play.While the rich proscenium theatre that NSDians so excel in never fascinated him, rich literature certainly did. In his theatre of protest and provocation one could often hear the poetry of radical poets like Avtar Pash. Returning to Punjab during times of militancy not only required courage, but also conviction in his beliefs.As a professor of the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, he could easily have chosen an easy way out and opted for cinema as many of his contemporaries did. But not only did his home-state beckon, so did his beliefs which later became his cause celebre.Chandigarh may have been his home for the past several decades, but as the Sangeet Natak Akademi recipient became one of the city’s most notable persons, world was his oyster. His documentaries on Indian arts and heritage, encapsulating the true spirit of India’s majestic forts and more have that rare archival value. More recently, his documentary series on North-East celebrated the region’s ethnic diversity and the vigour of the land.Donning colourful turbans like an emblem, his zeal never waned. Forever a communicator, his past few years were also dedicated to bringing cheer to the ailing children. Through his numerous clowning acts, he and his “CEVA Drama Repertory Company” spread joy and laughter in children’s wards in city hospitals.Till last lockdown he believed in living in the moment and now the moment has frozen. But not that endearing smile which never left his lips, not even when nearly two decades ago he lost his mentor and teacher Balwant Gargi whose death he did not mourn but celebrated by throwing a party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurcharan-singh-chani-artiste-who-spent-his-last-years-bringing-cheer-to-ailing-kids-256093
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||Social acceptance of live-in relationship on rise: Punjab & Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High court has granted protection to a couple who are in a live-in relationship, observing that social acceptance of such relationships is increasing.The order by Justice Sudhir Mittal, passed on Tuesday, comes days after another Bench of the high court observed in a separate case that a live-in relationship is morally and socially unacceptable.Justice Mittal’s order came in response to a petition filed by Jind-based couple Pardeep (26) and Pooja (23), their counsel, Devender Arya, said.The couple submitted that they were adults and had decided to enter into a live-in relationship after careful consideration.They alleged that Pooja’s family was against the relationship and had threatened to cause physical harm.Opposing the protection to the petitioners, the counsel representing the state of Haryana said live-in relationships are not legal and are frowned upon by the society.To this, Justice Mittal observed that the Constitution of India is the supreme law of the land, and right to life and liberty is enshrined therein and is treated as a basic feature.“The said right includes the right of an individual to full development of his/her potential in accordance with his/her choice and wish and for such purpose, he/she is entitled to choose a partner of his/her choice,” the judge observed.“The individual also has the right to formalise the relationship with the partner through marriage or to adopt the non-formal approach of a live-in relationship,” he added.The concept of live-in relationships has crept into our society from western nations, and initially, found acceptance in the metropolitan cities probably because individuals felt formalisation of a relationship through marriage was not necessary for complete fulfilment, the judge wrote in his order.“Education played a great role in development of this concept. Slowly, the concept has percolated into small towns and villages also as is evident from this petition. This shows that social acceptance for live-in relationships is on the increase,” he observed.“In law, such a relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to commission of any offence and thus, in my considered view, such persons are entitled to equal protection of laws as any other citizen of the country,” Justice Mittal wrote in his order.However, a single Bench of Justice HS Madaan had in a May 11 order said a live-in relationship was morally and socially unacceptable, and dismissed a petition of a runaway couple from Punjab, Gulza Kumari (19) and Gurwinder Singh (22), who sought protection of their life and liberty.“As a matter of fact, the petitioners in the garb of filing the present petition are seeking seal of approval on their live-in relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable and no protection order in the petition can be passed,” Justice Madaan had said in his order.In their petition, the couple had said they were living together and intended to get married shortly. They apprehended danger to their lives from Kumari’s parents.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/social-acceptance-of-live-in-relationship-on-rise-punjab-haryana-hc-255849
