22-05-2021||Mohali||Show cause notice issued to Mayo Hospital in Mohali for misappropriation of state supply of Remdesivir injection||The Mohali district administration has issued a show cause notice to Mayo Hospital in the city for misappropriation of government supply of Remdesivir injections for Covid patients.Confirming the same, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had received a complaint today against misappropriation of state supply of Remdesivir injection for treatment of Covid-19 patients by Mayo Hospital, Mohali.He said a show cause notice had been issued to the hospital authorities to reply within 48 hours.According to information, the Remdesivir injections which are being provided at control rates to private hospitals by the state government for the treatment of Covid-19 patients were being taken wrongfully by the hospital without corresponding record of patients whom the injections are given, allegedly the injections are being misappropriated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/show-cause-notice-issued-to-mayo-hospital-in-mohali-for-misappropriation-of-state-supply-of-remdesivir-injection-256880
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP urges PM Modi to resume talks with farmers||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept with humility farmers’ invitation of talks over the Centre’s agriculture laws and resolve the issue.In a letter to the PM, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann and the party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha also claimed that 470 have died during the course of the agitation, which is unfortunate and painful. “The government has not made any attempt to negotiate with farmers since January 22, which is not in the interest of farmers and the entire nation,” they added.As farmer leaders have once again urged for talks, the prime minister should accept the invitation with humility and resume talks over the issue, resolving it permanently, they said.The leaders said farmers are the backbone of the country and they had to protest for their demands at the cost of their lives during the Covid-19 pandemic.         “Concerned about their future, the country’s farmers, including elderly, children and women, have left their homes and settled at Delhi borders, which is also against human rights,” they added.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 protesting farmer unions spearheading the protests, on Friday had written to the prime minister, urging for the resumption of talks over the Centre’s farm laws, against which they are agitating at the Delhi borders since November last year.Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government failed to break the deadlock over the three legislations.Farmers are demanding the repeal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have described the laws as pro-corporate. However, the government has maintained that the laws are for their benefit. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-urges-pm-modi-to-resume-talks-with-farmers-256879
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||SAD wants Sukhjinder Randhawa sacked after PA booked in cheating case||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday demanded that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh sack Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa immediately following the registration of a cheating case against his official personal assistant.In a statement here, SAD Spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the involvement of Randhawa’s personal assistant in a cheating case involving delivery of sugar worth Rs 74 lakh for which only Rs 57 lakh payment was made has already come to light earlier.“Even the high court while hearing the case yesterday asked the State Bureau of Investigation to constitute an SIT to probe how the accused indulged in this case as well as other cases of cheating repeatedly,” he said. “The high court has also asked the government to explain why the Minister’s PA, who is stated to be the mastermind behind this cheating case, has not been arrested so far”.Stating that the government was keeping the truth of the case from the people, Cheema said: “It is several days since the cheating case came to light as well as disclosures that Mr Sukhjinder Randhawa’s PA used to use the minister’s office to strike such deals”.He said despite this, the government had gone slow in the case and was not arresting the PA. “It is clear that the minister is shielding his PA to ensure the skeletons in the former’s cupboards do not come tumbling down,” he said.He said a free and fair inquiry would not be possible so long as Randhawa stays in office. “Though a SIT will be formed to probe the case the police force is not expected to proceed against the minister once evidence of wrongdoing on the latter’s part is revealed. This is why it is necessary to first dismiss Mr Randhawa from the ministry and then probe the entire case,” Cheema said.Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa meanwhile said the suspect, Bachhitar Singh, was one of the ministerial staff attached with him.“He was not my personal assistant but a government employee attached as part of ministerial staff with me. He was posted out four months ago," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-wants-sukhjinder-randhawa-sacked-after-pa-booked-in-cheating-case-256857
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab announces month-long summer break for schools||Punjab announced on Saturday all schools in the state will close for the summer from May 24 to June 23.This applies to all private, government and semi-government schools, School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said.Also read: Class 12 boards: CBSE may conduct exams only for major subjectsEducational institutions are already closed for students this past month because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The new order applies to teachers and other school staff as well as students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-announces-month-long-summer-break-for-schools-256844
22-05-2021||Patiala||With 37 infections, Patiala’s Dabhlan village declared Covid hotspot; active cases 75||With 37 new cases, Patiala's Dhblan village on Saturday became a major Covid hot-spot in the rural belt. With this, the number of active cases—in the village— stands at 75. In the last 30 days, the village has reported five coronavirus deaths.The village was sealed on Tuesday after it was declared as a macro-containment zone.Confirming this, Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said that new positive cases were being detected through a follow-up—in the sampling phase manner—after the village became a containment zone.“The village is big and has a large population, therefore, more staff will be deployed for isolation and contact tracing of fresh positive cases,” he said.He added that several villages in Peri-Urban areas were also hit. Passiana, Laut, Ajnauda Kalan, Chotti Rauni, Duladi, and Ghaggar Sarai, are among the villages which have been severely hit.The Health Department said that there was a decline in the number of positive cases in the district, however, rural areas remain a cause of concern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-37-infections-patialas-dabhlan-village-declared-covid-hotspot-active-cases-75-256816
22-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra's black and white picture reveals actor's struggling days||Veteran actor Dharmendra has once again taken a trip down memory lane, and shared a black and white picture.The 85-year-old took to the microblogging website and shared a black and white picture of himself.Along with the picture, the veteran actor wrote: "Kisi pe ...jab bass na chale .... tab khud ko bass mein kar lo ........... sard aahein ye.....jamm na jayein .... in aahon mein garmi bhar lo ...."Dharmendra also commented on the picture, saying "With big dreams in his eyes..................A struggler in Bombay faraway .......from his Village."With big dreams in his eyes..................A struggler in Bombay faraway .......from his Village.  Adding to this, "Hiding his shoes...".Hiding his shoes...  Apart from this, one of Dharmendra's fans revealed that he "lost his father"."sir my dad is expired", read the fan's tweet.Condoling the death, Dharmendra wrote: "So sad, Sana. I share your pain and prayyour Dad’s soul be in peace !!!"So sad, Sana . I share your pain and pray🙏your Dad’s soul be in peace !!!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendras-black-and-white-picture-reveals-actors-struggling-days-256790
22-05-2021||Ottawa||Covid-19: Canada extends flight ban from India and Pakistan until June 21||Canada has extended the ban on direct flights from India and Pakistan by one more month until June 21 in a bid to arrest the spread of new variants of the Covid-19, according to an official announcement.The ban on flights from India and Pakistan was extended as the previous 30-day ban, first imposed on April 22, was set to expire on Saturday, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) News reported.Cargo flights, however, will be permitted in order to maintain shipments of essential supplies, such as vaccines and personal protective equipment, it said on Friday."The Minister of Transport is of the opinion that it is necessary for aviation safety and the protection of the public," according to a notice to airmen.As the ban applies to direct flights from both countries, passengers can still fly to Canada from India or Pakistan by arriving via a third country. They will need to produce a negative result on a Covid-19 test taken at their last point of departure before being allowed to enter Canada, according to the report.Transport Minister Omar Alghabra, at a government pandemic briefing, said that the restriction was put in place "based on public health advice to reduce the importation risk of Covid-19 and its variants." "I can say that we've seen a significant reduction in the number of positive cases of Covid-19 arriving from international flights since this restriction was put in place," he said.Alghabra said the government would continue adapting border restrictions as conditions change.Dr Howard Njoo, Canada's deputy chief public health officer, said that travel restrictions are important given that roughly 70 per cent of new coronavirus cases in Canada are variants of concern.Last week, Canada's flag carrier Air Canada proactively extended the flight ban from India in anticipation of the government's announcement. Air Canada does not fly to Pakistan.All travellers arriving in Canada by land or air have to show a negative Covid-19 test and quarantine for two weeks; some exceptions are made for essential workers.Air passengers must quarantine for up to three days at an approved hotel while awaiting Covid-19 test results, and must test again eight days after arrival.The B.1.617 variant, first identified in India, has been found in Canada as 279 air travellers tested positive for that variant between February 22 and May 6, the Public Health Agency of Canada said.India has been severely affected by the unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus and hospitals in several states are reeling under the shortage of health workers, vaccines, oxygen, drugs and beds.The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below 300,000 for the fifth consecutive day with 2,57,299 new cases recorded in a single day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday.With a total of 2,57,299 fresh cases, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,62,89,290. The death toll climbed to 2,95,525 with 4,194 fatalities. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-canada-extends-flight-ban-from-india-and-pakistan-until-june-21-256782
22-05-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farm unions to oppose BJP in UP, Uttarakhand||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, May 21Riding high after the Assembly poll results in West Bengal, the protesting farmer unions have decided to oppose the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where the Assembly elections are scheduled to be held next year.Farm leaders, during a meeting at the Kisan andolan office on Thursday, discussed a strategy for the same. Earlier, the SKM had held scores of rallies against the BJP in the poll-bound states of West Bengal and Assam.Kulwinder Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, said that the Assembly elections were scheduled to be held in UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab in 2022.Thousands of farmers were protesting at the Delhi borders in support of their genuine demands, but the Central Government had refused to budge, he alleged.“Farmers have decided to launch a campaign against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand while the atmosphere in Punjab is already in favour of farmers,” he added.Harender Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of the BKU (Lakhowal), said farmer unions would hold rallies in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarkhand.He said the decision had been taken at a meeting of 32 farmer unions from Punjab, but it would be finalised at the meeting of the SKM.Meanwhile, the SKM’s meeting at Singhu, which was scheduled for today, has been postponed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-to-oppose-bjp-in-up-uttarakhand-256471
22-05-2021||---||Resume dialogue, Samyukt Kisan Morcha writes to PM||Sonepat, May 21The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ movement against the three Central laws, on Friday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for resuming the dialogue with them.Notably, thousands of farmers are protesting at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, seeking the repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee for the MSP since November 26 last year.The SKM had held 11 rounds of talks with the Centre during their protest. The talks were halted since January 24 after the January 26 violence in the national capital during the tractor parade.In a joint statement, farm leaders said the protesters did not wish to expose anyone to the health hazards of the pandemic, but couldn’t also give up on the struggle as it was a matter of life and death and for future generations.“Any democratic government would have repealed the three laws that have been rejected by the farmers in whose name these were enacted and seized the opportunity to provide legal guarantee of the MSP to them. As the head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you,” says the letter.Meanwhile, the SKM also warned to further intensify the movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resume-dialogue-samyukt-kisan-morcha-writes-to-pm-256472
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Meet black fungus, Covid’s partner in crime||Hoshiarpur, May 21“Having second largest diabetic population globally and nearly 70 per cent of these cases being those of uncontrolled diabetes, India has a strong risk factor for mucormycosis or black fungus.”Dr Navdeep Kaur Boparai, ENT expert at Ivy Hospital, addressing an online awareness programme, said that second Covid wave has been worse than the first and has led to the increase in usage of steroid, which not only worsens the sugar control but also increases the risk of developing mucormycosis.She added that most of the hospitalised patients require oxygen and contaminated cylinders, humidifiers, steamers which are becoming a potential source for the infection.Poor oral-nasal hygiene in hospitalised patients and use of the same mask for prolonged periods is also becoming a cause for mucormycosis. The major route of infection is via inhalation of conidia and other routes include ingestion and traumatic, she said.“When spores are deposited in the nasal turbinate the rhino cerebral disease develops. When spores are inhaled into the lungs the pulmonary disease develops, when ingested the GI disease ensues, and when these agents are introduced through interrupted skin, cutaneous disease develops.”Dr Navdeep said infection spreads along vascular and neuronal structures and infiltrates into the walls of blood vessels. It can erode bone through walls of the sinus and can spread into the orbit and the retro-orbital area, thereby extending into the brain. “We are witnessing patients with foul smelling nasal discharge, nasal stuffiness, nasal bleed, nasal hypoesthesia, headache, nausea, fever and lethargy,” she pointed out.All cases of post-Covid infection with such symptoms should be subjected to imaging to confirm sinus involvement and beyond.She said symptoms of pulmonary (lung) mucormycosis include fever, cough, chest pain and shortness of breath. The symptoms of gastrointestinal mucormycosis include abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting and gastrointestinal bleeding.Disseminated mucormycosis typically occurs in people who are already sick from other medical conditions, so it can be difficult to know which symptoms are related to mucormycosis.The disease is clinically fatal as no survivors of mucormycosis were reported before 1955. A review of published mucormycosis cases found an overall mortality rate of 54 per cent. The mortality rate was 46 per cent among people with sinus infections, 76 per cent for pulmonary infections and 96 per cent for disseminated mucormycosis.The prognosis of mucormycosis may improve with rapid diagnosis, early management, including combined antifungal drugs, aggressive surgical interventions and reversal of underlying risk factors. “Let us all fight this pandemic and the menace of mucormycosis collectively,” the doctor remarked.What is black fungus?The black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, is caused by a fungus called mucor. Recently, several states have flagged cases of Covid-triggered mucormycosis, especially among patients who are diabetic. Mighty mucormycosisThe disease is clinically fatal as no survivors of mucormycosis were reported before 1955. A review of published mucormycosis cases found an overall mortality rate of 54 per cent. The mortality rate was 46 per cent among people with sinus infections, 76 per cent for pulmonary infections and 96 per cent for disseminated mucormycosis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meet-black-fungus-covids-partner-in-crime-256738
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: 1 maternal death a day due to infection in May||Taking a heavy toll on expectant mothers, the state is on average losing at least one pregnant woman to Covid-19 every day this month.In 2020-21, 440 maternal deaths were reported in the state due to various reasons. Of these, 21 died due to Covid. The situation started deteriorating during the second wave, with six pregnant women dying of the infection in April. However, the number of deaths among expectant mothers rose sharply in May.Read also: Data available with The Tribune for the first 20 days suggests an average death of one pregnant woman per day due to the infection. So far, 17 expectant mothers have lost their life this month.At present, 126 pregnant women are suffering from Covid in various hospitals across the state. Mohali has the maximum number of such patients at 17, followed by Jalandhar (11), Roopnagar (10), Ferozepur and Sangrur (eight each), Muktsar, Kapurthala and Bathinda (seven each). Dr Areet Kaur, Director National Health Mission, Punjab, says under “Mission Fateh 2”, the state was focusing on rural areas.“We are laying emphasis on maternal health. They are being screened and tested for Covid on the spot and required interventions are being done,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-1-maternal-death-a-day-due-to-infection-in-may-256443
22-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||In quarantine, CRPF man ‘shoots self’ in Fatehgarh Sahib||A head constable of the CRPF posted as a sentry allegedly shot himself in the head at a quarantine centre of the battalion here today.The deceased has been identified as Tejwant Singh, 42, a resident of Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh. Commandant Harminder Singh said Tejwant had gone home on leave and reported back for duty a few days ago.He said as per the Covid protocol, he was sent to a quarantine centre of the battalion for a few days. Around 3.30 am today, he received information Tejwant had allegedly shot himself with his gun. SHO Kewal Singh said the police were investigating the cause as no suicide note was recovered from the spot. The body was handed over to them after a post-mortem examination. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-quarantine-crpf-man-shoots-self-in-fatehgarh-sahib-256462
22-05-2021||Patiala||Doctor lost to Covid, no relief in sight for kin six months later||With his doctor son succumbing to Covid-19 in the line of duty and no financial help from the government, Suresh Pal is torn between grief and rage.“We are facing a tough time. No one has come forward to help. The government hasn’t even recognised the sacrifices my son made to become a surgeon. To say the least, the government should give what they announced for the frontline workers dying on duty,” Pal, who works as a technician with the Indian Railways, said.Dr Ankit Kumar, who had been performing round-the-clock duty at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, before testing positive, died in November last year. His family is said to have been running from pillar to post since then to get the financial help announced by the government for the kin of the frontline workers.His mother Lokesh Devi said: “The entire family had pinned hopes on Ankit that he would pull us out of poverty. Everything is shattered now. We have two daughters to marry. Besides, we have loans to repay.”Meanwhile, Residents Doctors Association (RDA), Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, said the government should immediately hand over a cheque for Rs 50 lakh to the family.Faridkot Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Kapoor said: “We have already sent Dr Ankit’s file, seeking release of financial help to the family, to the higher authorities.”Dr Raj Bhanadur, Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, said: “I will check the status and ask the authorities concerned to expedite the process.”It is learned that a doctor of Government Medical College, Patiala, Dr Harshinder Kaur, has already written to the Chief Minister, seeking financial help of Rs 1 crore to families of doctors dying in the line of duty and declaring them martyrs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctor-lost-to-covid-no-relief-in-sight-for-kin-six-months-later-256560
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Revenue officials can hire vehicles for duty||The revenue officers would be permitted to hire vehicles for official use as per their entitlement, assured Revenue Minister GS Kangar, in a meeting with representatives of the Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association at the Punjab Civil Secretariat, here today.The office-bearers of the association said only 10 per cent of the tehsildars/ naib tehsiladars had official vehicles, while the rest used own vehicles. Field duty is part of their job, so official vehicles were mandatory, they said.“The revenue officers of the state are performing their regular as well as additional Covid-19 duties under challenging circumstances. Their genuine demands must be met,” said the Revenue Minister, directing the FCR to moot the proposal to hire vehicles. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revenue-officials-can-hire-vehicles-for-duty-256565
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||‘Trust deficit’ hampers drive in villages||Though the government has launched Mission Fateh 2.0 focusing on the rural population with an aim to conduct sampling/ testing on large scale, the trust deficit between villagers and health officials is hampering the process.To make things worse, every village is not equipped with adequate facilities and even the department has failed to arrange the required number of camps on their doorstep.24-hr control roomJoginder Singh from Lalton Kalan village said there was no dispensary in their village and they were forced to go to the neighbouring village for any health-related issue. “Around 60-70 people have tested positive in our village and five have even died. There is no testing facility in the village and a camp was held after many people tested positive. People are still reluctant and are not coming forward to get tested,” he said.Riyasat Ali from Ramgarh village in Jagraon defeated Covid in April 2020. On vaccination, he said: “I am not suffering from any disease. Why should I get vaccinated?”Paramjeet Singh from Bundli village near Samrala said trust factor was important and played a major role in rural areas. “It is very difficult to change the mindset of villagers who have lost faith in the government. They are under the impression that whoever goes to the hospital doesn’t come back as many died after being admitted to hospital in our village. They avoid getting tested. There is no dispensary in our village and people have to go to Ghalewal village for any treatment,” he said.He said to get tested, villagers had to go to Samrala. A vaccination camp was held 15 days ago and only 150 doses were administered as the department ran out of stock. “When some people mustered courage to get the jab, the camp was called off,” he said.Takarwal village sarpanch Amarjit Singh said they were not holding any “tikri pehras”. A vaccination camp was held for five days and now the next camp is awaited. “People are terrified of getting tested and the after-situation in case they test positive,” he said.Meanwhile, the district administration today set up a 24-hour Covid control room in the Government Girls’ College, Bharat Nagar Chowk, here and started an exclusive helpline 0161-2403111 for villagers.Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said a team of doctors, counsellors, teachers and trained youths had been deputed to run the war room. “The administration needs the active support of the public to conquer the deadly second wave,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trust-deficit-hampers-drive-in-villages-256548
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Free uniform for govt school kids||School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla has said 13,48,632 government school students will receive free uniform at their home for the academic session 2021-22 as a grant of Rs 80.92 crore had been released by the Education Department.He said after sanctioning the required grant, directions had been issued to district education officers for proper arrangement of uniform and have been asked to follow the safety protocol while distributing these among students. He added funds would be credited to the school management committees for the purchase of uniform.Singla said: “Apart from providing uniform on the doorstep, no student will be called to schools for measurements. The staff will obtain the size from parents and provide the uniform at home.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-uniform-for-govt-school-kids-256551
22-05-2021||Abohar||UK NGO sends oxygen concentrators to India||The BAPS, an NGO, transported 54 oxygen concentrators on a specially chartered British Airways relief flight to India. The NGO has raised over £7,00,000 (about Rs 6 crore) by organising a three-day cycling challenge event to support its relief efforts in India.NGO’s international services director Ishwercharan Swami said 100 oxygen concentrators donated by its UK chapter have reached the BAPS Covid hub in Ahmedabad, which will be distributed in the coming days. The NGO had recently shipped 44 MT of liquid oxygen from its Abu Dhabi Mandir to India as a part of 440-MT donation that is to be delivered in 10 instalments.The machines are being distributed to various hospitals and medical facilities by BAPS volunteers in Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, HP, Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and UP. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uk-ngo-sends-oxygen-concentrators-to-india-256554
22-05-2021||Bathinda||Punjab hotel industry hit, reports Rs 10K cr loss||Amid Covid-induced lockdown, the Punjab hotel industry has taken a hit and suffered a revenue loss of around Rs 10,000 crore in 2020-21 fiscal, the Punjab Hotel Association said on Friday.Association president Satish Arora said they had written to the Chief Minister, seeking immediate support to save the hospitality sector from imminent collapse.Wants CM to step in“We have written to the CM that with the declining revenue, the entire hospitality and tourism industry is in trouble. Staff salaries, power bills, EMI of loans, PF, ESI, GST, excise fee, water sanitation, cable fee, property tax and licence fee, all have to be paid. We request the government to take concrete steps to help the sector,” he said.Arora demanded salary of staff for six months, deferment of electricity charges for six months, deferment of water sanitation, licence fee, property tax and cow cess, waiver of fee to be paid for renewals of excise and all other permits.He said businesses were closing and non-performing assets (NPAs) were rising as the industry had Rs 1,200-crore loan in Punjab. He also demanded that the RBI must extend EMIs for at least a year and waive interest loan as the industry had been struggling since March 2020 and repayment of loans with interest was not just difficult, but also impossible.“A large number of small and medium hotel and restaurant businesses are facing closure. Under such circumstances, it is essential to grant relief and concessions to these sectors,” Arora added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-hotel-industry-hit-reports-rs-10k-cr-loss-256579
22-05-2021||Bathinda||Traders to field candidate in polls||Miffed over being ‘ignored’ by all major political parties during the Covid pandemic, traders under the aegis of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal have decided to field their own candidate in the upcoming Assembly elections so that their problems (mounting losses in particular) can be addressed. The decision was taken during a state-level meeting in Bathinda.The traders are finding it difficult to stay afloat and many of them had to shut their businesses. Traders rued with restrictions being imposed during the second wave, businesses had either shut down or were at the threshold of closure.Talking to The Tribune, Amit Kapoor, state president of the mandal, said, “The government should either allow businesses or shops to remain open throughout the day or impose a complete lockdown. Restrictions being imposed now are barely serving any purpose as people throng markets in hordes during the permitted hours.”Traders said unlike farmers who built upon their movement against the three laws, traders could not put up a united front. They said all politicians gained mileage out of the farm stir but none talked to them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/traders-to-field-candidate-in-polls-256580
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-CJ Justice Arun B Saharya dies at 80||A former Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Arun B Saharya, died in Delhi following Covid-19 complications. Justice Saharya was admitted to a Delhi hospital and had tested positive. Justice Saharya, 80, was elevated as the CJ on November 7, 1997.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cj-justice-arun-b-saharya-dies-at-80-256582
22-05-2021||Faridkot||MiG-21 on training sortie crashes in Moga, pilot dies||An Indian Air Force MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft crashed into the fields near Langeana Kalan village, 24 km from Moga district headquarters, around 11.30 pm on Thursday, killing pilot Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary.The aircraft was on a routine training sortie when the mishap took place. The pilot was returning to Suratgarh in Rajasthan after a training sortie near Jagraon in Ludhiana when it crashed into the fields, said Gurdeep Singh, SP (H), Moga.Cops find Body 2 km from siteIt was raining in the area when the police got information about the incident around 11.30 pm. The police rushed to the scene and started a search for the pilot. The pilot’s body was found around 2 km from the crash scene, said the SP.The parachute was found open and an SOS was apparently sent from his device. The apparent cause of the death was breaking of neck and grievous spinal injury, said the SP.Senior officers of the Air Force from Halwara and Bathinda along with medical teams reached the spot in the morning. There was no other loss of property or human lives in the area due to the crash, said the SP.A court of inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the crash, sources said.Residents of Langeana and other adjoining villages rushed to the scene soon after the crash. “Around 11.30 pm, we heard a loud thud and there were flames in the fields,” said Gurpreet Singh, a resident.“We initially thought an explosion in the power transformer had set wheat stubble on fire. But once the police force arrived, we realised it was a jet crash,” said Sukhchain Singh, a farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mig-21-on-training-sortie-crashes-in-moga-pilot-dies-256584
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Explain why ‘PA to minister’ not held yet in cheating case registered by Sangrur police, HC asks bureau||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the Punjab Additional Director, Bureau of Investigation, to explain why Bachitar Singh — stated to be PA to Punjab Cooperative Minister — had not been arrested so far in a cheating case registered by the Sangrur police.Directions were issued to constitute a special investigation team, to be headed by a senior police officer, to look into the role of a co-accused. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also made it clear the SIT would also look into the modus operandi of all accused.Cheating caseJustice Sangwan was hearing a petition filed by Sanjeev Kumar against the state of Punjab for grant of anticipatory bail in a case registered for cheating and criminal conspiracy on May 2 under Sections 420 and 120-B, IPC, at the Longowal police station in Sangrur.Justice Sangwan’s Bench was told the FIR was registered at the insistence of Ram Dass Bansal, alleging four persons — Bachitar Singh, Abhishek Goyal, Sanjeev Goyal and Pandit Vishnu Prashad — in a conspiracy induced the complainant to deliver sugar worth Rs 74,16,611 to Pandit Vishnu Prashad. Of the total, Rs 57,16,111 was paid. It was stated all accused persons were habitual of committing fraud and some other FIRs were pending against them.Petitioner’s counsel HS Brar further submitted Sanjeev Kumar, on an assurance given by Abhishek Goyal that he was in need of loan, transferred certain amount to the complainant’s account through net banking on two different dates.Brar added Kumar was himself a victim, and had extended loan to the co-accused. He was neither entrusted with sugar, nor was having connection or meeting of mind with the co-accused. It was further submitted three of the accused — Sanjeev, Abhishek and Vishnu Prashad — had been arrested. But co-accused Bachitar Singh had not been arrested so far.Punjab state counsel, assisted by complainant’s counsel Ishan Gupta, submitted the petitioner could not explain why he deposited Rs 9,50,500 into the complainant’s account. Therefore, he was also part of the conspiracy.Gupta added the modus operandi was that the petitioner issued cheque as and when the liability of Sanjeev arose so that later on a defence could be taken they were different persons and the petitioner had no liability to make the payment. Justice Sangwan directed the petitioner to appear before the investigating officer within 10 days to join investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explain-why-pa-to-minister-not-held-yet-in-cheating-case-registered-by-sangrur-police-hc-asks-bureau-256586
22-05-2021||New Delhi||Top brass keeping watch on  Punjab Congress affairs, says Venugopal||AICC general secretary organisation KC Venugopal today said he was not aware of any committee being formed to look into the Punjab Congress affairs but added the party was watching the situation in the state and would take a call on it.“This is strictly an organisational issue. Internally, we are watching the situation in Punjab and definitely the party high command will take a call on that. I am not aware of any committee being formed for the purpose,” he said amid an open war of words between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on the one hand and his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu on the other.Sidhu has been attacking the CM for not doing enough to bring to book the perpetrators of the 2015 firing incidents in Faridkot when people were protesting desecration of a religious text. MLA Pargat Singh has rallied behind Sidhu.Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Bajwa and SS Dullo have also been attacking the CM on a range of issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-brass-keeping-watch-on-punjab-congress-affairs-says-venugopal-256587
22-05-2021||Congress veteran Ashwani Kumar has called for "politics of accommodation" to end the impasse where a section of MLAs led by Navjot Sidhu are pitted against CM Capt Amarinder Singh. In an interview to The Tribune correspondent Aditi Tandon||Solution to Punjab Congress Impasse imminent, says senior Congress leader Ashwani Kumar||The need to address the grievances of party leaders is evident and senior leaders are entitled to their views. In a democratic party, this should, however, be done within the framework of party discipline without vilification of the leaders and public denigration of the CM. This is the time to shed political bickering and stand in empathy with Covid sufferers. Immediate financial relief to the urban poor and urgent satisfactory closure to the sacrilege case should be the government's focus.He is a valued colleague. The party is expected to use his services suitably consistent with his stature. Any formula for compromise and accommodation must respect mutual sensitivities.Sidhu's elevation could be a way forward and a consensus can be built around it. The CM is keen to unite the party and can be expected to take a call in consultation with and advice of the central leadership. Political placements in key positions are not a function of seniority alone. Capacity and utility at a given point of time are important considerations. The central leadership is keen to take all Congress persons together. I feel the impasse will be resolved soon.Normally the incumbent CM is the face of the party during elections, unless for exceptional reasons the central leadership decides otherwise. I believe Capt Amarinder Singh will be the face of the party next year too.The Congress is in an advantageous position considering the Akali Dal and the BJP are in disarray and AAP is yet to establish a pan-Punjab presence.Those who gloat over the party's temporary reversals should know that time doesn't stand still. The nation is ready for a transformation. The challenges for the Congress are to optimally marshal its human resources and remain at the centre of the national movement for change.Punjab is my karma bhoomi. I will continue to assert myself on critical issues concerning the state. Elevating politics will be the driving force of my political exertions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/solution-to-punjab-congress-impasse-imminent-says-senior-congress-leader-ashwani-kumar-256588
22-05-2021||Fazilka||Farmers to leave for Delhi||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has assigned duties to its activists in Fazilka district to moblise farmers in villages to participate in the ‘black day’ event being organised at Tikri and Singhu borders on the completion of six months of the agitation on May 26.A meeting in this regard was held at the market committee office, Jalalabad, by the office-bearers of the union led by district president Joginder Singh Ratta Khera. The farmers said they would wear black badges, display black flags on their houses and vehicles and burn the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protest the three agricultural laws on May 26. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-leave-for-delhi-256589
22-05-2021||Jalandhar||Don’t let Behbal case go Kotkapura way: Kin||Sukhraj Singh, son of Behbal Kalan firing victim Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala in Faridkot, today said he wanted the state government to strongly put forth the details of the findings of the case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.He said the case was in the last stage of investigation and he did not want it to meet the same fate as the Kotkapura firing incident.He urged the government to challenge the High Court decision in the Supreme Court. He said in the Kotkapura incident, the entire SIT, led by Kunwar Vijay Pratap, was responsible for the relief to seven of the 10 police officials who were earlier accused in the case. He questioned the state government as to who was responsible for this laxity.He said he was peeved at the politics being done on the incidents. He questioned former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu for daily putting out tweets on the matter now. “Where was he earlier?” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-let-behbal-case-go-kotkapura-way-kin-256590
22-05-2021||Jalandhar||Kirti Kisan Union announces tractor march on May 26||Members of the Kirti Kisan Union have announced a tractor march on May 26 to mark the completion of six months of the ongoing kisan morcha at New Delhi.The decision was taken during a state-level meeting of the union organised by vice president Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala today. State press secretary Jatinder Singh Chhina said tractor march was aimed at strengthening the morcha, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kirti-kisan-union-announces-tractor-march-on-may-26-256591
22-05-2021||Muktsar||Unite to pressure Centre, Deep Sidhu asks farmers||Three weeks after getting bail in the Republic Day violence case, actor-activist Deep Sidhu today started holding public meetings from his native Udekaran village here.During his public address at a gurdwara, Deep Sidhu appealed to farmer unions at Delhi borders to unite and re-build pressure on the Centre to revoke the three farm laws.Chargesheeted“The Centre has not held even a single meeting with the farmer unions since January 26. Our leaders should give a concrete programme. We should hold discussion on future course of action, rather than accusing each other. Nobody has so far even asked me to come to the protest site. I have now started holding public meetings to make people aware of the actual situation. This is our protest and we should all participate in it,” said Deep Sidhu.He added, “Our own people are not allowing us to raise questions and behaving just like the government. Nobody is criticising the BJP or Centre now, but targeting each other. The leadership should have a big vision. We should analyse the protest again. Let us unite and fight this battle of our survival.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unite-to-pressure-centre-deep-sidhu-asks-farmers-256592
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Congress deflecting failure by blaming farmers: SAD||The SAD today condemned Rural Development Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa for trying to deflect the attention from the Congress government’s failure to combat the Covid-19 by blaming farmers engaged in the ‘kisan andolan’, saying the government should answer for its failures instead of defaming the ‘annadata’.SAD Kisan Wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said it was shocking that at a time when Punjab was in chaos due to the callousness of the Congress government, the latter was trying to paint farmers participating in the ‘dharnas’ against the three agricultural laws at Singhu and Tikri borders near Delhi as “super-spreaders”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-deflecting-failure-by-blaming-farmers-sad-256593
22-05-2021||Bathinda||Wrestler Sagar Rana murder: Delhi Police grill Bathinda resident||A team of the Delhi Police, headed by Model Town ACP Ajay Kumar, today reached the city in connection with the probe into the murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Rana in the national capital. Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, who is at large, is an accused in the case.It is learnt that Sushil’s last location had been traced to Bathinda and the mobile number being used by him was registered on the name of Sukhpreet Singh Brar, resident of the Bir road here.Bathinda SSP Bhupinder Jeet Singh Virk said a team of 20 police personnel, headed by ACP Kumar, arrived in the city today to interrogate Brar in connection with the Delhi murder case.The SSP said Sukhpreet was summoned to the Sadar police station, where a Delhi police team interrogated him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wrestler-sagar-rana-murder-delhi-police-grill-bathinda-resident-256594
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Still short of medical Oxygen, people dying: Punjab Govt to High Court||“Our people are dying,” the state of Punjab today told the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Appearing before a Division Bench, state Advocate-General Atul Nanda said Covid patients were still gasping for oxygen.Nanda told the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh that the state was still suffering from oxygen deficit.“Out of six containers, which I had requested through the court, I received just two. As a result of lack of containers, half the quantity of oxygen I have not been able to pick it up from Bokaro,” Nanda submitted, asking the Centre to step in.Nanda submitted the government’s main emphasis at present was on providing help to villages. “We have 12,700 villages with 2,950 sub-centres. As many as 2,400 of these sub-centres have been converted into health wellness centres, with each catering to 5,000 population.”Nanda also told the Bench 30,000 vials of Amphotericin B drug had been ordered by the state from a drug company to treat black fungus. “We will be placing periodic orders,” he added.Nanda also told the Bench the issue of telemedicine was being examined separately and the court may issue appropriate directions for the purpose.Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain, meanwhile, submitted the central control room was processing forthwith requests for additional ventilators and containers received from every state and immediate steps were being taken.“The Union of India may apprise the court of progress in this regard on or before the next date of hearing,” the Bench added before fixing the case for May 25. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/still-short-of-medical-oxygen-people-dying-punjab-govt-to-high-court-256476
22-05-2021||Muktsar||Black fungus claims life in Bathinda||Two cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) have been reported in the district. However, one of them has lost his life at a private hospital in Bathinda. Besides, a suspected black fungus patient has been shifted to Faridkot for investigation.“One patient died of black fungus, while another has returned from a hospital in Ludhiana. The third is a suspected patient,” said Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Muktsar.Sources said all three, including the suspected black fungus patient, belonged to Gidderbaha subdivision. Meanwhile, 349 persons tested positive for Covid in the district in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-fungus-claims-life-in-bathinda-256483
22-05-2021||Praful Chander NagpalFazilka||Fazilka border villagers travel 15 km for jab||At a time when Covid-19 cases in the rural areas are skyrocketing, resentment is brewing among residents of a cluster of border villages falling across the Sutlej in Fazilka district over poor healthcare facilities.Official sources said around 12,000 residents living in 15 villages across the Sutlej are forced to travel 15 km to Fazilka to get the jab or get tested for the virus in the absence of health facilities in their area.Gurdip Singh, a resident of Retewali Bhain village, said he visited the town twice to get the jab but had to return empty-handed due to non-availability of the vaccine. “Hardly any testing or vaccination camp has been held in the area,” he claims.Malkeet Singh, a resident of Mahatam Nagar village, who is also the former chairman of the Block Samiti, Fazilka, claimed there were several patients with Covid symptoms in the border belt and were getting treatment from quacks in the absence of medical facilities.He alleged the only dispensary set up under the aegis of the zila parishad at Mahatam Nagar had been lying shut for over a decade for want of a doctor.The affected villages include Teja Rohela, Dona Nanka, Ram Singh Bhaini, Jhangar Bhaini, Mahatam Nagar, Walleshah Hithar, Mansa Bhiwani, Mohar Khiva, Mohar Jamsher, Gatti Number 1, Dhani Sadda Singh, Ghurka, Noor Samand, Guddar Bhaini besides several villages in Jalalabad subdivision. Most of the villages are dominated by the Rai Sikh community.Harbans Singh, resident of Walleshah Hithar, said no government department official had ever visited them to enquire about their well-being during the pandemic. He demanded a health centre to meet the needs of the villages.Dr Parminder Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Fazilka, could not be reached for comment. Fazilka SDM Keshav Goyal said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-border-villagers-travel-15-km-for-jab-256490
22-05-2021||Sangrur||Rainwater woes for Sangrur dispensary||The last night rain flooded the local Government Ayurvedic Dispensary that is the only one in the city and caters to lakhs of people.Government employees posted there remained busy on Friday to drain out water with utensils. The dispensary needs urgent repair, but neither the authorities have sanctioned required funds for the last many years nor they have been providing any required infrastructure.“When we came here it was a flood-like situation in the dispensary. Rainwater entered here last night. We have been trying to remove the water with utensils,” said an employee of the dispensary.An local said the Ayurved Department could contribute in a big way to treat Covid patients if the government provided required infrastructure. “To control the further spread of the virus, the state government must help the Ayurvedic Department in treating patients,” he said.District ayurvedic officer Dr Ravi Doomra said they had been trying for the repair of the dispensary. “We have been taking up the matter with the higher authorities. Hopefully, we will get positive reply soon,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rainwater-woes-for-sangrur-dispensary-256496
22-05-2021||Raj SadoshAbohar||Abohar sees 56 virus deaths in past 20 days||As many as 56 people have died of Covid here in the past 20 days against 20 last month and 24 in nine months last year. With positivity rate climbing to 20 per cent, Abohar sub-division is now perhaps on the top of the Covid surge table in small towns across the state.Social activists have now suggested a 15-day lockdown to prevent the situation from deteriorating further.Shops closed, village sealedNitin Garg (28), who was working at a bank in Gujarat, reached his hometown with Covid symptoms and succumbed in the emergency ward of the Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital.Vikram (41), Asha Rani (65), Khazan Chand (73), Madhu Bala (59), Vijay Luxmi (70), Krishna Devi (62), Mani Ram (63) and Sham Lal (78) are among those who lost the Covid battle recently.Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti president Raju Charaya said the data spoke volumes of an alarming level but there had been no let-up in crowding at roadside vends, vegetable markets and other public places even when this could make the situation worse in coming days.“Vaccination in urban areas has been limited to a single centre, while three such facilities were opened in rural areas. Also, another locker has been installed at the cremation ground here as the old ones are filled with ashes to the capacity,” he said.Bala Ji Sewa Samiti, which has been organising free vaccination and blood camps for past few weeks, has also suggested a 15-day lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-sees-56-virus-deaths-in-past-20-days-256504
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||No facilities for nursing staff in AIIMS Bathinda: AAP leader Harpal Cheema||AAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema has condemned the ill-treatment of the male nursing staff of AIIMS Bathinda by the Punjab Government and the alleged derogatory remarks made by Cabinet Minister OP Soni.Cheema demanded that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to immediately dismiss Medical Education Minister OP Soni. He said the Captain government had failed to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic, as no provision had been made in the government hospitals of the state for doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and technical system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-facilities-for-nursing-staff-in-aiims-bathinda-aap-leader-harpal-cheema-256509
22-05-2021||Sangrur/Ropar||SGPC opens two Covid care centres in Sangrur and Ropar||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) today opened two 25-bed Covid care centres in Sangrur and Ropar. Inaugurating the facility equipped with oxygen concentrators in Sangrur, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to assign districts to ministers for better management of Covid and ensuring all patients had access to quality healthcare.Sikh bodies oppose Sukhbir’s presenceSome Sikh organisations on Friday opposed the inauguration of one of the Covid care centres by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. In Sangrur, Sikh Sadhbhawna Dal district president Bachitar Singh said Sukhbir hadn’t contributed anything for the centre and did not have any right to inaugurate it and hog the limelight for political gains.“The Congress government had only woken up to the magnitude of the problem recently. The Punjab Government has accepted our suggestion and finally going for global tenders to procure vaccines. Seventeen districts still do not have ICU facilities,” Sukhbir said, urging the CM to open Covid care centres in all 220 blocks in the state.The SAD president alleged that the government had failed to take required step to provide adequate relief to residents, who were under acute financial stress due to the lockdown. He also reiterated the demand for an immediate waiver of electricity bills for both domestic and industrial consumers for next six months.SGPC president Jagir Kaur said the Covid care centre in Sangrur was the fifth such facility established by the SGPC in the state and more were in the offing. In Ropar, the SGPC in association with the Indian Medical Association set up another 25-bed Covid care centre, which is equipped with 10 oxygen concentrators, two doctors, seven nurses, a pharmacist and a technician. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-opens-two-covid-care-centres-in-sangrur-and-ropar-256516
22-05-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Army sets up 50-bed Covid facility in Sriganganagar||The Army’s Sudarshan Chakra Division dedicated a 50-bed hospital to citizens in Sriganganagar, to combat the Covid surge. The facility was inaugurated on Friday by Zakir Hussain, District Magistrate. The Army has assured all possible assistance to the state to fight the pandemic.The level-2 Covid facility will provide care, including oxygen, to the patients of Sriganganagar and adjoining areas. Army doctors and paramedical staff have set up the facility with the assistance of district officials and the Jan Sewa Hospital. The Army will provide dedicated medical staff and equipment to fight the pandemic. Ambulance services will also be provided to the patients. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-sets-up-50-bed-covid-facility-in-sriganganagar-256518
22-05-2021||Ropar||Farm unions to oppose blood camps by RSS in Ropar||A day after a blood donation camp organised by the RSS was opposed by them at Nurpur Bedi, farmer unions today presented a memorandum to the district administration and demanded a ban on such “politically motivated” activities.Leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha and Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Union met Ropar Additional Deputy Commissioner Deepshikha Sharma and Anandpur Sahib SDM Kanu Garg. They said the RSS was planning to hold blood donation camps at Ropar and Anandpur Sahib to serve the political agenda of the BJP. They said farmers would not allow RSS workers to hold any camps at any public place. Ropar DC Sonali Giri said all steps would be taken to maintain law and order. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-to-oppose-blood-camps-by-rss-in-ropar-256521
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||At Gurdwara Pataalpuri in Kiratpur Sahib, long queues for immersion of ashes||It is at the historic Gurdwara Pataalpuri in Kiratpur Sahib, 60 km from here, that the entire severity of the Covid tragedy in Punjab becomes distinctly visible. As the Covid death toll continues to mount, the number of persons coming to immerse the ashes of their loved ones at Kiratpur Sahib has trebled in the past fortnight.From an average of ashes of 200 persons being immersed in the Sutlej a month ago, the number has gone up to 600 now. In this week alone, ashes of 3,600 persons have been immersed, that of 685 on Friday itself.Gurdwara manager Avtar Singh says by 9.30 am each day, ashes of almost 100 persons are already immersed and the rites performed. “People come from all over the region — Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan, besides Punjab. But these days, the majority of those coming here for the rites are from Punjab villages,” he says.Gurudwara officials say right from 4 am, people begin to queue up outside the registration office, near the Asth Ghat. Two queues extend right up to the entrance of the ghats. “Though we do not ask shardhalus the reason for death, we presume the Covid surge behind it,” says Surinder Singh, who issues the certificate at the gurudwara after the immersion.At the Asth Ghat, people can be seen on either side of the bridge over the Sutlej, as well as standing on top of it, to immerse ashes. Sukhwinder Singh, a 63-year-old man from Mullanpur near Ludhiana, breaks down several times as he immerses the ashes of his wife of 40 years, Manjit Kaur. “She kept insisting it was a seasonal flu. By the time, we decided to take her to the hospital, it was a scramble to get a bed. When she did get admitted, it was too late,” he says, as he blames himself for not taking her to the hospital immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-gurdwara-pataalpuri-in-kiratpur-sahib-long-queues-for-immersion-of-ashes-256526
22-05-2021||Bathinda||Central University of Punjab staff come to aid of health centre||Staff members of the Central University of Punjab (CUPB) on Tuesday donated essential medicines, refrigerators, a computer set and a printer to the Community Health Centre (CHC), Sangat, and Subdivisional Hospital, Ghudda. The staff contributed an amount of Rs 2.75 lakh to procure the items.The CHC, Sangat, was given essential medicines for Covid management, a refrigerator, one computer set and one printer. Besides, one refrigerator was provided to Subdivisional Hospital, Ghudda, for storing medicines and other items. The Vice Chancellor, Prof Raghavendra P Tiwari, handed over the items to Dr Anju Kansal, SMO, CHC, Sangat, and Dr Navdeep Kaur Sran, SMO, Subdivisional Hospital, Ghudda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/central-university-of-punjab-staff-come-to-aid-of-health-centre-256530
22-05-2021||Faridkot||Baba Farid University launches helpline to reduce doctors’ stress||The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, has started an online helpline to lessen the stress of over 500 doctors and paramedical staff at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, serving over 450 Covid patients.Dr Ruhee Dugg, registrar of the university, said the services rendered by doctors and paramedical staff during the pandemic were stressful, as well as emotionally and mentally exhausting. To relieve the staff of this stress, the university started a helpline, in association with a Bengaluru-based NGO, she said.The helpline will provide special assistance to doctors to share their concerns. The experts will listen to medicos and help them manage fear and anxiety caused during the crisis. The registrar said Dr Ashwani, founder of Mukta Foundation in Bengaluru, and his fellow psychologists, would provide online services to doctors daily from 3 pm to 7 pm.“This helpline will help in strengthening the minds of doctors and paramedical staff, and alleviate the problems faced by them during their duty,” the registrar said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baba-farid-university-launches-helpline-to-reduce-doctors-stress-256534
22-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Black fungus cases on the rise, PGI getting 10 to 15 cases daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21The cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, are on a rise in the city. In the past one week, the Microbiology Department at the PGI has been diagnosing 10-15 patients with the infection on a daily basis.In the pre-Covid times, the institute used to witness 50 cases annually.Though not every patient needs to be admitted to the hospital, there are currently 21 mucormycosis cases admitted to the NHE Covid block of the PGIMER, of which nine are from Punjab and seven from Haryana.Prof Arunaloke Chakrabarti, Head, Department of Medical Microbiology, said, “Patients with mucormycosis symptoms are showing up in the emergency block of the hospital and a lot of them are from other states.”“The samples of patients are sent to the Microbiology Department laboratory for assessment. A majority of patients who are diagnosed with the disease in our institute have recovered from Covid-19,” said Prof Chakrabarti.“Almost 80 per cent of the suspected cases are diagnosed with mucormycosis. The symptoms are facial pain, nasal blockage, etc.As per the previous studies, the mortality rate of mucormycosis was found to be 50 per cent,” Prof Chakrabarti added.Emphasising the role of an ENT specialist in post-Covid care, Prof Chakrabarti said, “It is highly unlikely that patients come to the hospital in the early stage of mucormycosis as OPDs are shut and they can only visit emergencies. There should be involvement of ENT specialists in the post-Covid clinics so that such patients can be treated in time.” ‘Set up task force’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-fungus-cases-on-the-rise-pgi-getting-10-to-15-cases-daily-256545
22-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Black fungus: Come up with preventive measures, directs Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Taking cognisance of the increasing number of black fungal infections, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to come up with possible preventive measures. “In case any such steps are possible, the same be taken immediately,” the Bench directed. As the matter came up for resumed hearing, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh made it clear that its worry travelled beyond ordering medicines for treating black fungus.“The concern of this court is as regards preventive steps, if any, possible. Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and the Union of India would assist this court on the issue,” the Bench asserted.Justice Gupta said the Bench was “not happy” with the tele-consultation services provided to Covid-19 patients. “The telecom companies are busy sending meaningless messages to consumers...,” he asserted.Justice Gupta made clear that the Bench was not talking about mobile applications and websites, but the simple act of providing local numbers to patients for consulting health professionals. Expressing concern over the rural spread of the virus, Justice Gupta asserted it was a recent phenomenon and “the reasons you know why”. People living in urban areas wanted to go to the countryside as the chances of contracting the disease were less there because of the open space. “The court, under the circumstances, is trying to help the states.”Justice Gupta also said the issue of overcharging by certain laboratories, except the charitable ones, was required to be addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-fungus-come-up-with-preventive-measures-directs-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-256559
22-05-2021||Balwant Garg||Gang selling fake test reports busted, 2 held in Faridkot||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 21The police have arrested two persons, the owners of a private lab and a chemist shop situated near Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here, on the charge of selling fake RT-PCR test reports.Acting on a tip-off, the cops sent a decoy customer to Avinash Kumar (chemist) and Sukhjinder Singh (lab owner) for a Covid-positive report.CIA staff in-charge Amritpal Singh said the accused demanded Rs 8,000, but the deal was struck for Rs 5,000. The accused didn’t collect any sample and promised to deliver the report, the police claimed.After the fake positive report was provided to the decoy, the police booked the accused under IPC sections 419 and 420 (cheating), said Amritpal.Sukhwant Singh, CID Inspector, said they had information that the accused were catering to people who wanted a negative report to fly abroad or for travel to other states. Prisoners wanting to delay their return to jail by showing themselves positive too approached the duo, he said. Even some businessmen who didn’t want to take a test or wait for report were their customers.Following widespread use of fake Covid-negative reports by many travelling abroad, the health authorities of other countries had forced Indian airlines to accept only those test reports that had a QR code embedded on them.Prisoners, travellers among customers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gang-selling-fake-test-reports-busted-2-held-in-faridkot-256576
