23-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Post-rabi season, Malwa farmers donate generously for stir against farm laws||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 23After harvesting and selling their rabi crop, the farmers in Malwa region are donating generously to the farmer unions to support the ongoing stir against the three contentious farm laws.In Mansa district alone, farmers have donated more than Rs 50 lakhs to BKU Ekta Ugrhan organization. District president of the union, Ram Singh Bhainibagha said, since the protest began BKU Ugrahan has spent around Rs 25 crores for the agitation.He said that in village Bhainibagha Rs 11 lakh has been collected while the farmers of village Joga have collected Rs 6.5 lakh. Similarly, village Akalia collected Rs 6 lakh, Farwahi Rs 3 lakh, Jawaharke Rs 4 lakh, Rar Rs 4.5 lakh, Bachhuana Rs 12 lakh, Kishangarh Rs 7 lakh, Verahe Rs 5.5 lakh per and Bahadurpur Rs 6 lakh so far.Apart from this, farmers from other villages have also given funds to the union. He also said that the organization collects funds from the farmers every six months and this time they have donated money generously.The donation has been generous despite low wheat yield during this season. Even families who did not have money, donated their wheat produce to the agitating farmers, the unions claimed.The BKU (Ugrahan) leaders have been routinely collecting wheat, paddy and money after every six months to generate funds for the organisation. Apart from collecting cash, they sell collected wheat under the supervision of the village committee and deposit the funds in a bank.Farmers, according to unions,  have also donated funds in large amount to other farm unions Bharti Kisan Union Ekta (Dakonda), Punjab Kisan Union, Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal), Bharti Kisan Union (Qadian), Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur), Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewala), Bharti Kisan Union (Mansa) and others as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-rabi-season-malwa-farmers-donate-generously-for-stir-against-farm-laws-257296
23-05-2021||---||Moderna rejects Punjab plea for vaccines, says it deals only with Centre||Chandigarh, May 23US-based manufacturer, Moderna has refused to deliver vaccines directly to Punjab citing policy that allows it to deal only with central government for such purpose.State nodal officer for vaccination, Vikas Garg said that all vaccine manufacturers were approached for direct purchase of various Covid vaccines, including Sputnik V, Pfizer, Modern, and Johnson & Johnson, as per the directions of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to ensure early inoculation in the state.Garg said that Moderna had refused to deal with the state government citing policy decisions.Punjab was forced to stop vaccination for Phase I & Phase 2 categories in the last three days because of non-availability. All efforts would be made for procurement of vaccines to meet the acute shortage in the state, which had received fewer than 44 lakh vaccine doses so far from centre.As per GoI allocation for Phase III (18-44 age group), the state government has been been able to buy only 4.2lakh vaccine doses, including 66,000 received yesterday. A total of 3.65 Lakh have already been used, leaving only 64000 for use as of now, said Vikas Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moderna-rejects-punjab-plea-for-vaccines-says-it-deals-only-with-centre-257277
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM urges BKU not to go forward with dharna; terms it as potential Covid super-spreader||Categorically rejecting the allegation of the state government’s failure to effectively tackle the Covid pandemic, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday urged the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) not to go ahead with their proposed dharna, which he said could turn into a super-spreader of the contagion.The Chief Minister said his government had fought hard to prevent Punjab from going the way of some other states, such as Delhi, Maharashtra and even Uttar Pradesh (where bodies floating in the Ganga river had exposed the total pandemic mismanagement by the BJP-ruled state).Any event, such as the proposed 3-day dharna of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) in Patiala, had the potential to negate the gains made by his government in tackling Covid in the state, the Chief Minister said.Captain Amarinder urged the farmers’ group not to act irresponsibly and jeopardise the lives of their people with such reckless behaviour amid the pandemic, especially when there is a complete ban in the state on all gatherings and any violation of the ban would be highly detrimental to the interests of Punjab and its people.Such a dharna would draw people mainly from the villages, which were in any case going through a crisis during the second wave of the pandemic, he pointed out.The group’s action was also completely unwarranted considering the total support the state government had extended all these months to the agitating farmers on the issue of the Centre’s black Farm Laws, said Captain Amarinder.His government was the first to pass amendment laws in the state Assembly to contravene the Farm Laws, he pointed out.“It is time for the farmers now to reciprocate by supporting the state government in the fight against the pandemic,” he said, adding that just as the farmers’ interests were inexorably linked with that of Punjab, so was Punjab’s interest dependent on the farmers’ support to his government in the battle against Covid.Pointing out that even during the peak of the second Covid surge in Punjab, things had not gone out of control here as they had in several other states, the Chief Minister said the state had been one of the best performing, so far, as the management of the pandemic was concerned. There were no widespread shortages of Oxygen in hospitals despite the shortfall in supply, as the state government had ensured judicious management of the critical commodity, he noted, adding that even availability medications, beds etc had been continuously ramped up to keep pace with the spiralling cases. This, he pointed out, was in sharp contrast to states like Delhi, Maharashtra and UP, among others.The only serious problem being faced by Punjab was the shortage of vaccines, which was not due to any mismanagement of the state government but that of the Centre, said Captain Amarinder, rejecting all charges of his government failing to tackle the pandemic effectively.He pointed out that as a result of the concerted efforts of the government, the medical fraternity, the police, the civil administration and the village panchayats (who had been conducting Thikri Pehras), Punjab had successfully brought the number of cases to 5421, with 201 deaths, on May 22, from a high of nearly 10,000 just about two weeks ago. But given the gravity of the situation, there was no scope for any laxity in Covid appropriate behaviour, and rallies or dharnas of any kind were unacceptable when the lives of the people were at stake, the Chief Minister asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-urges-bku-not-to-go-forward-with-dharna-terms-it-as-potential-covid-super-spreader-257274
23-05-2021||Bathinda||Villagers beat up granthi for allegedly molesting girl in Bathinda; video viral||A granthi of a gurdwara in Akalgarh Kotra in Bathinda district has been booked for allegedly molesting a 9-year-old girl.The girl had gone to the gurdwara on Saturday evening with her paternal uncle, where she was playing outside the room of the accused granthi, Gurnam Singh, who then allegedly molested her.The girl narrated the entire incident to her uncle, after which a large number of villagers gathered at the gurdwara, tied up the granthi and beat him up. Even his turban was also tossed.The villagers recorded the incident, videos of which have been viral on social media.SHO Ballainwali police station Kamaljit Singh said the incident took place on Saturday evening and an FIR has been registered against granthi for molesting a 9-year-old girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/villagers-beat-up-granthi-for-allegedly-molesting-girl-in-bathinda-video-viral-257213
23-05-2021||Muktsar||Illegal liquor bottling plant busted in Badal village, was located in an orchard; 3 held||A joint team of the Excise Department and the Punjab Police today claimed to have busted an illegal liquor bottling plant being run from an orchard at Badal village. Three persons have been arrested.The orchard is owned by Paramjit Singh Lali Badal who is related to former CM Parkash Singh Badal. Paramjit Singh Lali said he had given the plant on lease to a private company in 2018. “I have nothing to do with this plant. I have given the documents to the officers,” he said.ENA seizedNaresh Dubey, Joint Commissioner, Excise, said the illegal bottling plant, being operated from seven rooms of a building located on the orchard premises, was being run under the guise of an authorised bottling plant situated nearby.The raiding team said about 2,200 litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), thousands of filled and empty bottles, fake holograms, labels, caps and cartons of some major brands of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Daman and Diu were recovered. “We had a tip-off that the ENA will be supplied today. We raided and found a huge stock of ENA and fake labels, holograms, cartons, etc, stored in the building,” said Dubey.He said bottles of some brands like Royal Shot, Imperial Gold, Blue Legacy, Blue Cat and Big Barrel were recovered. “The illicit liquor was being filled in empty bottles of some expensive brands. Excise Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal is supervising the operation,” said Dubey.Among those arrested are bottling plant’s accounts manager Anand Sharma, a resident of Bathinda; Pargat Singh of Lalbai village and Jashan Singh of Kheowali village here. A case has been registered at the Lambi police station.Excise sources said they had been receiving complaints about the plant for the past about six months. A number of such illegal plants have earlier been busted in other parts of Punjab, including Patiala and Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-liquor-bottling-plant-busted-in-badal-village-was-located-in-an-orchard-3-held-256971
23-05-2021||New Delhi||Over 10 % positivity rate in 382 districts||Small gains notwithstanding, Covid-19 continues to pose a massive public health challenge with half of India’s districts reporting a positivity rate of over 10 per cent. The World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends continuous containment and ramping up tests till the rate falls below 5 per cent.Oxygen trains leave for PunjabTwo 'Oxygen Express' trains carrying 52 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen left from Hazira near Surat in Gujarat for Punjab and Delhi, a Western Railway official said.Government data shows that 382 of India’s 756 districts have a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent requiring local lockdowns and restrictions to break the chain of transmission. Among these districts are Punjab’s 14, Haryana’s 18, Himachal and JK’s 12 each and Chandigarh and Ladakh. Punjab is also among states reporting a high fatality rate.Family members can get jabs at workplaces: CentreThe Centre has clarified to states that family members and dependents of workers can also be covered in vax drives at workplaces.Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, UP and Tamil Nadu are reporting the bulk of the daily deaths in the country.“The pandemic is stabilising. Active cases have declined for 20 days and now constitute 11.12% of the total cases as against 17.13% on May 3. Recoveries are up (87.76%). We have seen nine straight days of recoveries exceeding new cases with 22 states now reporting more daily recoveries than cases. These are good signs but 382 districts still have above 10 per cent positivity rate. We have a long way to go to contain the pandemic,” said VK Paul, Member, Health, NITI Aayog.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-10-positivity-rate-in-382-districts-256940
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Prove I tried to switch sides: Sidhu to Capt||Former Congress minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been critical of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the sacrilege and police firing cases, today challenged the CM and his loyalists to prove that he had met any leader of other party for switching sides.The Capt Amarinder camp has been targeting Sidhu for allegedly being in talks with the Aam Aadmi Party and is seeking action against him over his “outbursts” against the CM.“Prove one meeting that I have had with another party’s leader. I have never asked anyone for any post till date. All I seek is Punjab’s prosperity. Was invited and offered Cabinet berth many times, but didn’t accept. Now, our esteemed high command has intervened. Will wait,” the Amritsar MLA tweeted.Capt had recently claimed Sidhu was in talks with AAP and would quit the Congress.Sidhu, however, is learnt to have told his colleagues, including MP Partap Singh Bajwa, that he won’t leave the Congress and would remain loyal to the Gandhi family. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prove-i-tried-to-switch-sides-sidhu-to-capt-256965
23-05-2021||---||Summer vacation in schools till June 23 in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 22The Punjab Government today announced closure of all schools, including government, semi-government and private, across the state for summer vacations from May 24 to June 23.School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said due to the Covid pandemic, the educational institutions were already shut for students. The schools would further remain closed for teachers and other staff for a period of one month.The minister said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government had been taking precautionary measures for the safety of people in the wake of the pandemic.Apart from taking necessary steps to ensure their safety, the government had worked hard to uplift the standard of education in schools, which was evident from increase in admissions and improvement in results.The minister said since the closure of schools last year due to Covid, teachers under the Education Department had been teaching students using various online modes, including mobile applications and TV channels. This year, the teachers had been helping students out in every possible way to ensure the entire syllabus was covered.The minister urged teachers to stay connected with students during the vacations, and raise awareness among them and their parents regarding the safety protocol to be followed to avert the spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/summer-vacation-in-schools-till-june-23-in-punjab-256967
23-05-2021||Muktsar||One more dies of black fungus in Muktsar||With one more death due to mucormycosis today, the toll in the district has reached two. The deceased has been identified as a 57-year-old man from Bhallaiana village. He was admitted to a private hospital in Ludhiana, but was brought home by his family members yesterday.On Friday, a 63-year-old resident of Gidderbaha town had died of black fungus at a private hospital in Bathinda. One more suspected patient is admitted to a Faridkot hospital. A senior government doctor said the man who died today was not Covid positive, but was suffering from black fungus infection. “We are not aware of the protocol to be followed in such cases. We are waiting for detailed guidelines,” he said.Another Covid death at BhundarOne more person died of Covid at Bhundar village in Muktsar, which has been converted into a macro-containment zone. Earlier, two patients had died here. As of now, over 200 persons have tested positive in the village.Meanwhile, Dr Ranju Singla, chief medical officer, Muktsar, said black fungus was not a contagious disease. “Black fungus may cause blackening or discolouration over nose, facial swelling, blurred or double vision, severe headache, high fever, chest pain, breathing difficulties, coughing blood, etc. It is curable if detected timely,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-more-dies-of-black-fungus-in-muktsar-256968
23-05-2021||---||Two cases of black fungus at Faridkot hospital||Faridkot, May 22 Of the six suspected cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) among 374 Covid-19 patients at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here, two patients were confirmed for the disease today. While one of these patients belongs to Fazilka district, the other belongs to Ferozepur. Dr Sanjay Kapoor, Civil Surgeon, Faridkot, said no black fungus patient had been reported in Faridkot district so far.  Fearing hot and humid climate is one of the reasons aiding the infection, some doctors in the medical college feel with the start of paddy plantation in the first week of June, there will be tremendous increase in the humidity and moisture in the air, thus providing more congenial surroundings for every kind of fungal infection to grow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-cases-of-black-fungus-at-faridkot-hospital-256969
23-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Despite raids, private hospitals in Bathinda continue to fleece patients||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 22Private hospitals continue to fleece Covid patients in the region despite the district Health Department having raided three such facilities and seized records a few days ago. Action is yet to be initiated against any of these hospitals.A health team had raided Global Hospital after family members of a Covid patient alleged overcharging. The complaint was also sent to the Health Minister.B Srinivasan, Deputy CommissionerWon't spare guilty The administration will take strict action against any hospital found exploiting Covid patients. The government can shut or take control of the erring facility.Similarly, Ivy Hospital on the Mansa road allegedly demanded money from the family of a patient to release the body. The hospital withheld the body after the family expressed inability to pay the money. Later, farm union members reached the hospital and threatened to stage a protest, following which the hospital gave the body to the family.A health team also conducted a raid on Max Hospital following a complaint of overcharging.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal urged the state government to take strict action against private hospitals found fleecing Covid patients. He said in one such case, a private hospital claiming Rs 4 lakh dues had not released three bodies even though Rs 6 lakh had been paid for their treatment.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said the district administration would take strict action under the Epidemic Diseases Act against any hospital/ doctor found exploiting Covid patients. The government was empowered to shut the erring hospital or take control of the facility, he said.The DC said some black sheep in the system were cheating people by taking advantage of the pandemic. He warned of strict action if they failed to stop fleecing patients.He said state and district-level committees would soon conduct an audit of the treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals. Complaints could also be filed on helpline number ‘104’ of the Health Department and DC’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-raids-private-hospitals-in-bathinda-continue-to-fleece-patients-256970
23-05-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Despite Covid surge, crowds swell at farm protest venues||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 22Despite surging Covid deaths, the number of farmers staging protests against the Central farm laws across the district is witnessing an increase, thus causing panic among area residents. The Health Department authorities have intensified testing.Various farmer leaders have been claiming that they had directed all farmers to come prepared with masks and sanitisers to prevent the spread of the virus.“We are aware of the gravity of the situation and have made it mandatory for all to wear masks and follow social distancing norms during protests. Our protest will continue till the farm laws are repealed,” said Gobinder Singh, BKU (Ugrahan) leader from Sangrur.To further intensify their agitation, more farmers will leave for New Delhi on May 23 while farmer leaders on Saturday conducted meetings in various villages. There are many families whose all members are taking part in the protests after locking their houses.“My husband has been at the New Delhi border while me and my son come here to take part in the protest. We are participating on our own as it’s our fight for survival,” said Balwinder Kaur, an elderly protester.Harjinder Singh, another protester, claimed that a few government employees had been trying to defame farmers for the spread of the virus.“Only farmers are not responsible for the spread of the virus,” said Kuljeet Singh, a protesting farmer.Civil Surgeon Dr Anjna Gupta said their teams had been conducting required testing. “Our teams have been visiting villagers who have started responding positively to our requests for testing,” she said.AAP writes to ModiChandigarh: AAP MP Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs co-in charge Raghav Chadha on Saturday wrote to PM Narendra Modi urging him to resume talks with farm leaders opposing the agricultural laws. “The government has not made any attempt to negotiate with farmers since January 22, which is not in the interest of farmers and nation,” they added. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-covid-surge-crowds-swell-at-farm-protest-venues-256972
23-05-2021||Fazilka||Testing begins in border area||Vaccination and testing have begun in a cluster of border villages falling across the Sutlej in Fazilka district.Official sources said teams of the Health Department were today rushed to the villages to conduct testing and vaccination after The Tribune highlighted lack of adequate health facilities in these columns.Fazilka SDM Keshav Goyal said 75 samples were taken from border villages of Mahatam Nagar, Nawan Hasta and Teja Rohela, while 56 samples were collected from Mohar Khiva, Mohar Sona and Mauzam villages. Two persons tested positive for Covid. The SDM claimed two teams were also dispatched to the villages for vaccination, but no one turned up. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/testing-begins-in-border-area-256973
23-05-2021||Mansa||Capt Amarinder Singh must end profiteering: SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today claimed it was unfortunate that despite fervent appeals, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had done nothing to regulate treatment in private hospitals as well as cap the cost of tests in private laboratories.  He demanded that keeping in view the current crisis, the government should immediately announce free treatment for all Covid patients in government hospitals. The SAD president was addressing the media after inaugurating a 25-bed Covid care centre equipped with concentrators at Guru Nanak College, Budhlada, set up by the SGPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-must-end-profiteering-sad-256974
23-05-2021||---||Chief Secretary: Will act against violators||Chandigarh, May 22Taking a serious note of complaints against some private hospitals charging exorbitantly from Covid patients, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan has ordered to take stringent action against such hospitals who were taking undue advantage of patients and overcharging them.The Chief Secretary while chairing a high-level meeting of the administrative secretaries, Deputy Commissioners, Commissioners of Police, SSPs and health officials to review the current Covid situation in the state, asked for adopting zero tolerance towards unethical practices, directed the authorities concerned to debar erring hospitals, if needed, and file FIRs against them as no one should be allowed to exploit Covid patients.She advocated providing oxygen concentrators at select community health centres in rural areas and towns for the success of Mission Fateh 2.0. She asked the health and other departments to ramp up testing, tracing, treatment, vaccination drives and reaching out to each and every household in rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-secretary-will-act-against-violators-256975
23-05-2021||Abohar||Smuggled wheat sold post procurement, two booked||Acting on complaints made to Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, a team of the Vigilance Department has started physical verification of wheat stocks procured by local officials of the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation (PSWC). The complaints suggested that some traders in Rajasthan had purchased wheat at low price and sold the same illegally in Abohar with the connivance of state agencies.  Two FIRs that were registered last night at the Wahabwala police station indicated that wheat was being purchased from a Sadulshehar (Rajasthan) firm at minimum support price at two rural purchase centres even when the state government had finished procurement on May 13 and the central government was also informed about the decision.  Ajay Kumar, Inspector, Pungrain, told the police that 56,552 quintals of wheat was purchased as per the government policy at Dodewala centre till May 13 and lifting cleared by May 17. But on Friday, when he along with Assistant Food Supplies Officer (AFSO) Vikas Batra visited Dodewala, 407 bags (each of 50 kg) were found stacked there. Labourers reportedly said the stock belonged to Roop Chand Wadhwa, owner of Rajasthan firm Mukesh Traders, Sadulshehar. A case was registered. Preliminary investigation reportedly indicated that cheating was done with connivance of Punjab officials. Another FIR was registered by a team of AFSO Vikas Batra, Inspectors Baldev Singh and Jagdeep Singh who conducted a surprise inspection at the purchase centre at Jhurarkhera village. Sadulshehar trader Roop Chand Wadhwa and PSWC Abohar-based inspector Balbir Singh have been named in the FIR.  The inspecting team said 1,120 bags and about 400 unpacked bags of wheat reportedly marketed by Wadhwa’s firm Mukesh Traders were found there despite closure of procurement. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/smuggled-wheat-sold-post-procurement-two-booked-256976
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||Resume dialogue with farmers: Akalis to PM Narendra Modi||Akali Dal leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reject the farm laws and save the farmers, sitting on the Delhi border for the past six months, amid the raging pandemic.Chandumajra said the PM must respond to the initiative from farmers to reopen dialogue. “These laws were thrust on the farmers within weeks of the pandemic having hit India. There was no emergency to bring out these laws yet the ordinance route was resorted to, which was undemocratic.“The result of that action to appease corporates is now before the country. These laws should be scrapped because these have been rejected by the very people for whose welfare they were introduced. It is time the return of farmers to their homes is facilitated by withdrawing these disastrous laws,” he added. — TNSOpen to talks, says RajewalFarmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Saturday said they were ready for talks with the Centre. He said they had been protesting for the past six months and had never shied away from dialogue, but the Centre was behaving “arrogantly”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resume-dialogue-with-farmers-akalis-to-pm-narendra-modi-256977
23-05-2021||Saurabh Malik
||Courts duty-bound to unearth fraud, says High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 22 In a judgment liable to change the way verdicts are considered to have attained finality, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled a court was duty-bound to unearth fraud and declare orders obtained through deceit unenforceable even if upheld by the Supreme Court. Justice Anil Kshetarpal asserted the Supreme Court in the case of the “Union of India and others versus Ramesh Gandhi” held that even a court of subordinate jurisdiction was permitted to enter into the question as to whether a superior court’s judgment was obtained by playing fraud. This was because such a judgment was nullity and required to be treated as non est or that did not exist.  The Bench was hearing a case in which a house building society filed a complaint before a consumer disputes redressal forum complaining that the decision to allot plots was not implemented. The plea was allowed vide the order dated February 15, 1996. An appeal filed by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust before the Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission was dismissed on October 17, 1996. A revision petition filed by the Trust before the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission was also dismissed. Thereafter, the respondent society filed an execution petition to get the possession of the plots as ordered by the consumer forum, which kept moving back and forth.  Justice Kshetarpal asserted the Trust filed a writ petition bringing to the court’s notice that a fraud had been played by government officials. It was in collusion with the Trust officer/officials, as well as the officials of certain societies. “This Bench is of the considered view that if a Constitutional Court also closes its door, it would be an inappropriate approach in such circumstances and the court would be abdicating from the responsibility bestowed upon the HC,” he said. “It is declared that once the court comes to a conclusion that the order/orders of a tribunal were obtained by playing fraud, it is the bounden duty of every court to declare the same to be nullity and non est in the eyes of law,” Justice Kshetarpal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/courts-duty-bound-to-unearth-fraud-says-high-court-256978
23-05-2021||Chandigarh||High Court rap: SAD asks Capt to remove Randhawa||The SAD today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to sack Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa over registration of a cheating case against his “personal assistant”, saying the minister should not be absolved of corrupt activities of his office.In a statement, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the involvement of Randhawa’s ‘PA’ in a cheating case, involving delivery of sugar worth Rs 74 lakh for which only Rs 57 lakh payment was made, had already come to light earlier.“Even the High Court, while hearing the case yesterday, asked the State Bureau of Investigation to constitute an SIT to probe how the accused indulged in this case as well as other cases of cheating repeatedly. The court has also asked the government to explain why the minister’s PA, who is stated to be the mastermind behind the cheating case, has not been arrested so far,” he said. Randhawa said the accused was not his PA but a member of his ministerial staff attached by the government. — TNSReady for probe, says ministerRandhawa on Saturday said while he was ready to face any probe related to his former private secretary (Secretariat staff), the Akalis should volunteer for a probe into misdeeds during their decade-long rule. In a statement, he said due to dearth of issues, the SAD was levelling allegations in a bid to mislead people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-rap-sad-asks-capt-to-remove-randhawa-256979
23-05-2021||---||Illegal arms smuggling racket busted||Illegal arms smuggling racket busted  Faridkot, May 22 With the arrest of a man, the police today claimed to have unearthed an illegal arms smuggling racket in the area. The accused was allegedly involved in the smuggling of foreign-made weapons. “The kingpin, Harvilash Singh, was operating from the Faridkot Central Jail. We have planned to bring him on production warrant. He is in jail in a murder case,” said Bhupinder Singh, SP (H), Faridkot. After arresting Karamjit Singh, the police recovered four weapons, made in Brazil, USA and Austria, from his possession. The sale and purchase of these weapons is prohibited in India and their value in the international market is more than Rs 2 crore, said the SP. The preliminary investigation revealed that Karamjit was being supplied illegal weapons so that he could sell these to criminals in the area. The police believe Harvilash was running the weapon smuggling module from inside the jail using mobile phones. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-arms-smuggling-racket-busted-256980
23-05-2021||---||Congress MLA takes swipe at govt over drugs||Congress MLA takes swipe at govt over drugs Jalandhar, May 22 Former Congress minister and MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh has accused the Kapurthala SSP of not paying heed to complaints against drug peddlers, suggesting he too was disillusioned with the working of the state government. In a statement yesterday, Rana said: “I am ashamed of the fact that drugs are being sold in my district. There clearly is laxity on part of the police. There is complete inaction despite the fact that I have been making complaints to the area SSP. The police are not supporting the government.” The MLA accused two ASIs of colluding with drug peddlers, while alleging an SI posted as Subhanpur Chowki in-charge had been reinstated. “I had got him removed from the post as he had hired a private driver who used to collect money. Maybe the SSP who deployed him back had her own compulsions,” Rana said in an indirect attack at his own government. SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said: “We have registered 220 cases, arrested 261 drug peddlers and recovered a huge quantity of intoxicants in the past four months. We have sent both ASIs to the Police Lines and will conduct an inquiry. Since there were no specific allegations against the two, I can’t order their direct suspension.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mla-takes-swipe-at-govt-over-drugs-256981
23-05-2021||Sameer Singh||PRTC’s Bathinda depot suffers Rs18 lakh loss daily||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 22With interstate bus services snapped for over 10 days now and buses running with 50 per cent passenger capacity on local and inter-district routes amid restrictions imposed in the wake of Covid, the PRTC has been suffering huge losses on a daily basis.As per data procured from the PRTC Bathinda depot, the corporation has been bearing a loss of around Rs 16 to Rs 18 lakh on a daily basis from just one depot. The data revealed that prior to the launch of free travel scheme for women in the state, the PRTC Bathinda depot was on an average garnering revenue of Rs 21 lakh on a daily basis. Once the scheme was implemented, both passenger base and revenue saw a substantial increase. The daily revenue notched up to Rs 29 lakh to Rs 30 lakh on a daily basis. But after a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, inter-state routes to five states in the region were discontinued for an indefinite period recently. The daily revenue saw a sharp decline since then.A senior official of the PRTC said if one depot was suffering losses of Rs 18 lakh on a daily basis then the overall losses of all depots in the states could be pegged at crores of rupees.Raman Sharma, general manager, PRTC, Bathinda depot, said, “Our daily revenue had increased after the launch of free travel scheme for women, but now with inter-state bus services discontinued completely, except Haryana, and buses plying with less passengers on local as well as inter-district routes, our losses are mounting with each passing day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prtcs-bathinda-depot-suffers-rs18-lakh-loss-daily-256982
23-05-2021||Aman Sood||Officers below SI rank can’t head police stations: DGP||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 22All Punjab district police wings have been ordered to ensure within three days that no police station is headed by an SHO below the rank of a sub-inspector or by any officer from the armed battalions.The decision has been taken in view of reports that ineligible or those given local ranks were posted as SHOs at some police stations.Punjab armed cops holding postA senior officer said in violation of the Punjab Police Act and repeated orders of the DGP, Punjab Armed Police personnel were holding the post of SHO in certain police stations.In a message to all Commissioners, IGs, DIGs and SSPs, the DGP has stated that as per the Punjab Police Act, 2007, “each police station has to be headed by an SHO not below the rank of an inspector and sub-inspector. Officials on attachment from armed battalions are debarred from the post”.A senior official confirmed that all officers who managed to get an inter-cadre transfer from their respective battalions into the state police “will be relieved as SHOs”.The order further states: “In certain districts, SHOs have not been posted in some police stations and additional SHOs, who are below the rank of sub-inspector, are performing duties, which is not permissible.”“You are requested to send a list of all such SHOs posted in your districts within three days,” reads the order dated May 21, 2021.A senior officer said in violation of the Punjab Police Act and repeated orders of the DGP, Punjab Armed Police personnel were holding the post of SHOs in certain police stations. “They have the backing of local politicians,” he said.Sources said even though such officers were sent back to their parent cadre in 2012, a handful of them returned as SHOs following “keen interest from political masters”.A senior IPS officer said inter-cadre postings and lower rung officers performing the duties of the SHO was a system clearly in place to please the local political lobby. In most of the cases, the district SSP consults the local MLA or halqa in charge before these postings. “Such illegal practices cause heartburn among the sidelined officers and sends out a wrong message,” he added.Meanwhile, despite repeated reminders, many SSPs continue to retain their personal staff officers, personal security officer and readers even after transfers or promotions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officers-below-si-rank-cant-head-police-stations-dgp-256984
23-05-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu dares Capt Amarinder to prove he met anyone from rival parties to switch loyalty||Chandigarh, May 22Reiterating that he continues to be a Congressman, party MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu has challenged Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to prove that he had met leader of any other party to switch loyalty.The cricketer-turned-politician was talking in the context of the Chief Minister's recent attack on Sidhu that he was in talks with AAP and would quit the Congress. “Prove one meeting that I have had with another party’s leader? I have never asked anyone for any post till date. All I seek is Punjab’s prosperity. Was invited and offered Cabinet berths many times, but I did not accept. Now, our esteemed high command has intervened. Will wait," Sidhu tweeted.Sidhu has already told his party colleagues, including MP Partap Singh Bajwa, that he would never leave the Congress and would remain loyal to the Gandhi family. Sources said the Chief Minister's loyalists, including some ministers, were of the opinion that Sidhu was allegedly pursuing his own agenda and quit the Congress whenever it suited him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-dares-capt-amarinder-to-prove-he-met-anyone-from-rival-parties-to-switch-loyalty-256807
