24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 178 more Covid deaths||Punjab on Monday reported 178 coronavirus-related fatalities, taking the toll to 13,468, while 4,539 fresh cases raised the infection count to 5,43,475, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped from 57,505 on Sunday to 54,996, the bulletin said.The state’s single-day recoveries of 6,803 were also in excess of the daily infection count on Monday.Seventeen deaths were reported from Patiala, 16 from Sangrur, 15 from Ludhiana and 14 from Bathinda, among fatalities registered in the past 24-hours.Ludhiana registered 507 new cases, followed by 401 in Mansa, 340 in Amritsar and 334 in Jalandhar.The state’s Covid-19 positivity rate stood at 6.51 per cent, according to the bulletin.The recovery count rose to 4,75,011 with new recoveries, it said.There are 387 critical Covid patients who are on ventilator support, 1,011 other critical patients and 6,743 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 87,75,622 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far in the state, it said.The Union Territory of Chandigarh registered 245 fresh Covid cases on Monday. The city has been steadily witnessing a drop in the number of daily infections.The infection tally stood at 58,734, according to a medical bulletin.Seven more people died of the infection, taking the toll to 709.The number of active cases dropped from 4,874 on Sunday to 4,428, the bulletin said.With 684 patients being discharged after recovering from the infection, the recovery count reached 53,597 in Chandigarh, according to the bulletin.A total of 4,88,182 samples have been taken for Covid-19 testing so far and of them, 4,28,251 tested negative while reports of 34 samples were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-178-more-covid-deaths-257787
24-05-2021||Mohali||PSEB Class 5 exam: Tarn Taran tops in Punjab with 99.95 per cent||With 99.95 pass percentage, Tarn Taran district tops in Punjab in the 5th standard exams held in March the results of which were declared by the Punjab School Education Board on Monday.SBS Nagar remained at second spot with 99.94 per cent while Pathankot district bagged the third place with 99.92 per cent. A total of 3,14,472 students had appeared in the exam and out of these 3,13,712 students had cleared the exams showing an overall pass percentage of 99.76 per cent.The results will be uploaded on the PSEB’s official website www.pseb.ac.in and on www.indiaresults.com on Tuesday after 9 am.Out of the total six papers, the exams for four papers were held in March while two exams—maths and welcome life were not held due to a surge in cases.The marks in the two subjects were calculated on the average of four subjects.The girls this year too had outshone the boys as the pass percentage of girls is 99.80 per cent while boys scored 99.73 per cent.PSEB Chairperson Yograj said this year too, the students of rural schools performed those in urban schools. Even girls outshone boys this year too. He said the pass percentage of urban students is 99.74 per cent, while in rural schools the pass percentage is 99.77 per cent. He said if the child is not satisfied with the result, he/she can write to us and we will take their theory exam once the condition becomes normal.The email id is primarymiddle.pseb@punjab.gov.in.The pass percentage of Class 5 in government schools is 99.74 per cent, while for affiliated schools, it is 99.87 per cent and for associated schools, the pass percentage is 99.85 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pseb-class-5-exam-tarn-taran-tops-in-punjab-with-99-95-per-cent-257757
24-05-2021||Mansa||In 25 days, one of Mansa's smallest villages reports 10 Covid deaths||Ten patients succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 25 days alone in Makha village, one of the smallest villages, in Mansa district.The Sarpanch of the village has exhorted residents to get themselves tested and vaccinated on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-25-days-one-of-mansas-smallest-villages-reports-10-covid-deaths-257732
24-05-2021||---||Moderna refuses direct vaccine supply to Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23Punjab’s efforts to float global tenders for direct procurement of vaccines for early inoculation in the state has hit a roadblock as the vaccine suppliers only deal with Government of India and not with the state government or any private party. Sharing the information, senior bureaucrat Vikas Garg, who has been appointed the State Nodal Officer for Vaccination, said one of a Covid vaccine manufacturers ‘Moderna’ has refused to send vaccines directly to the Punjab Government as according to the company policy, it only dealt with the Government of India and not with any state government or private parties.He said all vaccine manufacturers were approached for direct purchase of various Covid vaccines, including Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, as per the directions of the Chief Minister to explore the possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of vaccines from all possible sources to ensure earlyinoculation in the state.The reply was received from Moderna only in which the company refused to deal with the state government.The state government has been forced to stop vaccination in phases 1 & 2 for the past three days because of the non-availability of vaccines. All efforts would be made for procurement of vaccines to meet the acute shortage in the state, which had received fewer than 44 lakh vaccine doses so far from the Government of India (GoI).As per the GoI allocation for phase 3 (18-44 age group), the state government has been able to buy only 4.2 lakh vaccine doses, including 66,000 received yesterday. A total of 3.65 lakh doses had already been used, leaving only 64,000 for use as of now, said Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moderna-refuses-direct-vaccine-supply-to-punjab-257547
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation grave, don’t hold dharna: Capt Amarinder Singh to BKU||Categorically rejecting the allegation that the government failed to effectively tackle the Covid pandemic in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday urged the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) not to go ahead with its proposed dharna, which he said could turn into a superspreader of the contagion.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMCan’t negate gains made so farRallies or dharnas of any kind have the potential to negate the gains made in tackling Covid in the state... The state has been one of the best performing so far as the management of the pandemic is concerned. Given the gravity of the situation, there was no scope for any laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour, and rallies or dharnas of any kind were totally unacceptable when the lives of the people were at stake, the Chief Minister said.Resume talks with farmers: SAD to centreRopar: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said the Centre must restart talks with farmers without any conditions. Putting conditions for talks was not good for a healthy democracy, he said, adding he had appealed to the Prime Minister to resume talks with farmers directly. TNSHe said his government had fought hard to prevent Punjab going the way of some other states, such as Delhi, Maharashtra and even Uttar Pradesh (where bodies floating in the Ganga had exposed the total pandemic mismanagement by the BJP-ruled state.) Any event, such as the proposed three-day dharna of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) in Patiala, had the potential to negate the gains made by his government in tackling Covid in the state, he said.Capt Amarinder urged the farmers’ group not to act irresponsibly and jeopardise the lives of their own people with such reckless behaviour amid the pandemic, especially when there was a complete ban in the state on all gatherings and any violation of the ban would be highly detrimental to the interests of Punjab and its people. Such a dharna would draw people mainly from the villages, which were in any case going through a crisis during the second wave of the pandemic, he pointed out.The group’s action was also completely unwarranted considering the total support the state government had extended all these months to the agitating farmers on the issue. He said as a result of the concerted efforts of the government, the medical fraternity, police, civil administration and village panchayats had successfully brought the number of cases to 5,421 on May 22, from a high of nearly 10,000 just about two weeks ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-situation-grave-dont-hold-dharna-capt-amarinder-singh-to-bku-257549
24-05-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Belgium rail containers to counter oxygen shortage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23The Punjab Government has received four cryogenic oxygen rail containers from Belgium for transporting the life-saving gas from other parts of the country. This will take the total rail containers bringing oxygen for Punjab to 10 and will be important in case the state decided on new destinations for getting their oxygen supplies.200 mt needed dailyThe daily oxygen requirement in the state is around 200 metric tonne (MT) for Covid patients. Another 50 MT is required for non-Covid patientsMarkfed has been entrusted the job of ensuring ferrying of oxygen to the state on the Oxygen Express from its destination. Punjab did not have even a single major liquid medical oxygen (LMO) manufacturing plant and is currently getting its supplies from Bokaro (Jharkhand) and Hazira (Gujarat).Confirming the development, Managing Director of the Markfed, Varun Roojam said: “Our department, even in routine, is dealing with the Railways for different tasks, so tying up now was very convenient. One container stores roughly 20 MT of oxygen.” The daily oxygen requirement in the state is around 200 MT for Covid patients. Another 50 MT was required for non-Covid patients.The first supply of oxygen through the Railways was received at Phillaur on May 17. The second oxygen express was received at Bathinda Cantt on May 19. The third supply of oxygen came on May 20 and the fourth on Saturday.Cooperation and Jails Minister S Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said:“Liasioning and coordination with Railways or CONCOR across different divisions, i.e. Northern, Western and Eastern, was achallenge besides completion of all statuarycompliances and taking services of handlers on board in a short period.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/belgium-rail-containers-to-counter-oxygen-shortage-257551
24-05-2021||Sameer Singh||Resistance to testing wanes in Mansa||Tribune News ServiceMansa, May 23A sudden spike in cases and increased mortality rate during the second wave of the pandemic have made people repose their faith in testing in the rural hinterland of Mansa district.Notably, testing in the rural belt was met with huge resistance by residents during the first wave and even during the initial phases of the second wave owing to ongoing farmers’ agitation as many believed that “Covid is not a disease but merely a ploy by the Centre to sabotage the farm stir”.The residents in villages have not only come to believe that Covid is a serious disease but they are also coming forward in large numbers to get themselves tested unlike last year when many villages opted for a complete boycott of testing.Talking to The Tribune, district epidemiologist Dr Santosh Bharti said, “Except for few places where we have to convince residents, our teams have to barely put any effort in majority of the villages as people can be seen queuing up voluntarily. Last year, residents used to argue with Health Department teams. Irate mobs sometimes even chased away officials to avoid testing.”Baljit Kaur, sarpanch of Sherkhana Wala village, said, “Residents even with mild symptoms from our village have got themselves tested and vaccinated. Health department teams tied up with us to spread awareness to allay any kind of fear among people. The response to both testing and vaccination drives is overwhelming with only a few people staying away from it now.”Dr Sukhwinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, Mansa, said, “From conducting 500 to 1,000 tests in March and April, we are conducting more than 4,000 tests on a daily basis now. It can directly be attributed to increased awareness and growing fear among residents.”Dr Bharti said, “Timely intervention after cases started surfacing in clusters during initial phases and converting these areas into containment and mirco-containment zones assisted us in great deal to contain the spread and keep the mortality rate in check.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resistance-to-testing-wanes-in-mansa-257552
24-05-2021||Balwant Garg||Cases up, varsity holds test to hire nurses||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 23Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases and limited resources and staff at three government medical colleges in the state, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) today conducted a written recruitment test to hire 503 staff nurses. As many as 67 Covid-positive candidates also appeared in this offline recruitment test.Strictly following the protocols to ensure social distancing among 15,708 candidates who appeared in the test, the BFUHS established 103 centres across the state, including 16 centres exclusively meant for the positive candidates.BFUHS Vice-Chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said: “When most of the exams across the country are being deferred amid pandemic, conducting a test to recruit staff nurses was a major challenge.” He said given the extraordinary demand of medical and paramedical talent during the current crisis, they grappled with the challenge of responding quickly to the needs of people while also ensuring that the protocols were followed.As many as 1,495 invigilators were deputed at 103 exam centres, which were established in the district-level civil hospitals and in five medical colleges in the state. As many as 17,327 candidates had applied for these 503 posts and 15,708 appeared to take the test.Keeping in view the rising cases, it was mandatory for all aspirants to bring along RAT (Rapid Antigen Test) report.This month, the BFUHS also conducted a test for the recruitment of 250 medical officers in the health department. Besides, the BFUHS has started the process to recruit staff in other departments, including anesthesia, ECG, dialysis, cardiac, audiometry, radiotherapy, CSSD, MGPS, gas plant, physiotherapy, speech therapy and radiography. This recruitment drive has been started on the directions of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cases-up-varsity-holds-test-to-hire-nurses-257557
24-05-2021||---||Sampling ramped up in Sangrur villages||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 23With various farm organisations intensifying their campaign to mobilise people for the Delhi protest against the central farm laws, senior officials are now going to villages, visiting every house to convince residents for testing, vaccination and following guidelines.Hundreds of farmers on Sunday left for Delhi to join the protest while to date, 648 district residents have lost their lives to Covid.As per information, all subdivisional magistrates (SDMs), senior medical officers (SMOs) along with nurses and pharmacists have been visiting the villages. In Bhawanigarh, the authorities have conducted a survey of 60,347 residents, of which 463 suspected patients were identified with various symptoms while after the rapid antigen test, 22 were found positive.“Since Covid has started spreading in villages, we have been visiting villages daily. We are getting a positive response as now rural population has also understood the gravity of situation,” said Ramvir, Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC).But in some villages, resident flee their homes after getting information about the arrival of Health Department teams for a survey. At many places, doctors have found it hard to convince residents for testing.“Untrained staff have been deputed to take samples. My nose started bleeding as the nurse did not take the sample properly,” said a farmer. To tackle hesitancy, teams of officials have also been taking samples on roadsides and fields after finding some residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sampling-ramped-up-in-sangrur-villages-257559
24-05-2021||Muktsar||20 containment zones in Muktsar, 170 +ve in jail||Due to the Covid pandemic, as many as 20 containment zones have been created in Muktsar district. Of these, four are macro-containment zones, which include Bhundar village with over 200 Covid cases, Muktsar jail with 170 cases, some portion of Kuraiwala village with over 50 cases and Patel Nagar of Malout town with over 75 cases so far.Further, five micro-containment zones have been created in Malout town, three in Muktsar town, two in Gidderbaha town, and one each in Sarawan Bodla, Burj Sidhwan, Hari Ke Kalan, Badal, Bariwala and Ghumiara villages.Dr Seema Goyal, district epidemiologist, Muktsar, said, “The purpose of declaring micro and macro-containment zones is to curtail the surge of cases. An area is declared a micro-containment zone when more than five Covid cases are detected. Similarly, a macro-containment zone is declared where more than 15 cases are detected.”Meanwhile, 284 positive cases were reported in the district on Sunday. Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar, said, “We advise people to maintain social distancing, wear face masks, undergo tests and get vaccinated.”Meanwhile, a public announcement at Bhundar village created a furore today. Some villagers alleged the announcement was made to threaten people that if they did not undergo Covid test or got vaccinated, they would be deprived of government facilities like old-age pension, MGNREGA work, etc.Bhundar sarpanch Sukhdev Singh said, “Some notorious elements are trying to politicise the issue... there should not be any uproar over vaccination as everyone knows its importance now.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20-containment-zones-in-muktsar-170-ve-in-jail-257560
24-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||To stop fleecing, government to conduct audit of private hospitals’ bills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23Vinod Gupta, a Zirakpur resident, received a shock of his life after a private hospital in Mohali handed him a bill of Rs 14,00,807 for treating his Covid positive relative for 25 days. Though the insurance company is to pay Rs 10 lakh, the remaining bill is to be borne by the patient.Plaints receivedWe have received complaints from Mohali, Bathinda, Zirakpur, Jalandhar and Patiala. I have asked the civil surgeons concerned to conduct audit of hospital bills. - Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health MinisterThe hospital bill reveals that Rs 7.12 lakh has been charged for pharmacy, Rs 99,000 for doctors’ visits, Rs 84,000 for oxygen and Rs 77,994 for consumables. “The hospital has been trying to justify the bill, saying they are charging just Rs 7,500 per day as bed charges for the stay in ICU and respiratory intensive care unit (RICU). But there is no explanation for the high charges,” said Gupta.His is not an isolated case. Across Punjab, especially in Mohali, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Bathinda, patients and their relatives are complaining of fleecing by private hospitals. In Ludhiana, a renowned businessman was forced to stay in the hospital even after he recovered. “We were harassed only because the hospital wanted to extract more money,” said his daughter.The Punjab Government has capped the charges for Covid treatment. Patients needing isolation beds with supportive care and oxygen can be charged only Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 per bed, those admitted in ICU Rs 13,000 to Rs 15,000 and those needing ventilator support are to be charged between Rs 15,000 and Rs 18,000.To address the problem, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said he would get the bills audited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-stop-fleecing-government-to-conduct-audit-of-private-hospitals-bills-257563
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||BJP flays government over PM grain scheme||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh today flayed the Capt Amarinder Singh government for not implementing the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in right earnestness under which Punjab is allocated 70,757 metric tonnes of foodgrains every month.Chugh claimed while the Punjab Government had not been lifting its share in full measure, alarmingly it had just distributed 4 per cent of the total collection made by it which reflected its slackness to help the poor.Chugh pointed out in total the state government had lifted 89,961 metric tonnes of foodgrains, but a meagre 2,841 MT had been distributed among the poor. Rest of the stock, he said, had been lying in godowns. He said Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka had distributed up to 75 per cent of their collected stocks while Punjab was still floundering at 4 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-flays-government-over-pm-grain-scheme-257564
24-05-2021||GS Paul||Eco-friendly Covid centre set up in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 23Setting an example at a time when a shortage of beds was experienced in the hospitals and quarantine centre amid surge in patients, the Radha Soami Dera Beas has come up with a Covid-19 cure centre having eco-friendly and low-cost beds made from cardboard.Cardboard beds to cut down infectionCardboard beds have been arranged at a 120-bed isolation centre at Fatahpur, Amritsar. The centre has been set up by the Radha Soami Dera Beas with a view that when a patient is discharged, the bed used would be disposed of to avoid any scope of infectionAfter facilitating vaccination against Covid-19 at its ‘satsang’ centres, this was the sect’s another endeavour to offer a 120-bed isolation centre at Fatahpur, Amritsar.Spread in around 125 sq ft, this spick and span well-ventilated centre has been prepared with all requisite facilities to accommodate Level-1 and Level-2 Covid suspects.Simran, a sewadar, said this centre would cater those patients who had no one to look after or could not be isolated in their homes due to any reason.“Following a call from the Chief Minister, we were on the toes as per the directions of our ‘Baba ji’ to help Covid patients. We would provide them with a three-time meal, milk, tea and fruits. A chair and table has been placed for the convenience of patients’ attendants. The volunteers would be there round the clock on a rotational basis”, he said.The cardboard beds have been arranged with a view that as and when a patient is discharged, the bed used would be disposed of to avoid any scope of infection.Measuring approximately 6.5 X3 feet, these cardboard beds come in a flat-pack box, weighing approximately 8-10 kg. These assemble quickly as no tools, screws and glue are required.Made up of high strength corrugated cardboard that consists of ridges between layers, once assembled, it can easily carry a load up to 200 kg. The beds are also coated with a waterproof film in order to protect from liquid damage and allow the beds to be sprayed and disinfected.The volunteers’ team has been designated, which will press into service as and when they receive a call from the Amritsar administration. “The medical teams would be provided by the administration, the rest would be looked after by us only,” said Danish, another sewadar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eco-friendly-covid-centre-set-up-in-amritsar-257565
24-05-2021||Sangrur||Sukhbir using SGPC for polls,  says Dhindsa||SAD (Sanyukt) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today said SAD chief Sukhbir Badal had not learnt lessons from his past mistakes even with senior leaders quitting his party and accused him of still misusing SGPC funds for political gains.Dhindsa questioned Sukhbir inaugurating Covid care centres set up by the SGPC with its funds. The SGPC authorities did not have any right to allow misuse of their money, contributed by residents, he said. “When residents are dying of Covid, the SAD chief is trying to take credit using SGPC’s money. In what capacity is Sukhbir inaugurating SGPC centres? asked Dhindsa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-using-sgpc-for-polls-says-dhindsa-257566
24-05-2021||---||Conduct exams only for major subjects: Singla||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla today said the central government should ensure safety of students before taking any decision on examinations of Class XII.While presenting his views during a virtual meeting with Union ministers, Singla said during difficult times, safety and security of students and teachers must be the top priority of the government and every possible step should be taken in this regard.The minister suggested that if they wished to conduct examinations of Class XII, the exams of only three elective subjects should be held as the passing-out students had to choose professional courses in medical, non-medical and commerce.To conduct examinations for elective subjects, it would be easy to maintain social distancing and follow other mandatory protocols in view of the pandemic, the minister said.School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and Punjab School Education Board Chairman Yograj also attended the meeting. Singla said taking serious note of the situation, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had already taken the decision to promote the students of Classes V, VIII and X. He added that the results of Classes VIII and X had already been declared and results of Class V would be declared tomorrow on the basis of internal assessment. He said the government would ensure safety of students while conducting exams as and when the Centre decided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conduct-exams-only-for-major-subjects-singla-257567
24-05-2021||Aparna Banerji||Junked by WHO, doctors stick to remdesivir||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 23Months after the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended against using the antiviral remdesivir, saying there wasn’t enough evidence to support its use, the drug continues to remain doctors’ first preference to treat Covid patients in the state.Timing, prescription period the keyIt also continues to remain on the state guidelines and protocols against Covid-19. However, the state authorities say though useful in the initial stages of Covid, the drug had no real mortality benefit.Dr Surinder Pal Singh Sooch, former state president of the IMA and member of the Punjab Medical Council, said: “Remdesivir has proven to be beneficial in the first 10 days of the infection. Beyond that, the next stage of Covid treatment kicks in. Prescribing remdesivir in this stage is not advisable. The key lies in timing and period for which it is prescribed. Problems arise only when doctors disregard patient’s baseline kidney functions or prescribe it for periods longer than necessary.”Dr Navjot Dahiya, national vice-president of Indian Medical Association and president of its Punjab chapter, said: “Doctors will abide by the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the government. There is a combination of drugs being used to treat Covid. Remdesivir is among the primary antiviral drugs being used to treat the disease. Unless there are clear guidelines from the state or the Centre asking doctors to discontinue the medicine, doctors will continue using it. Also, there is no other prominent antiviral drug that can be used a substitute.”Dr BS Johal, Johal Hospital, Jalandhar, said: “We are still prescribing remdesivir to our patients as it has so far proven to be a life-saving drug. My hospital will continue to use it for Covid treatment until it is banned by the government or the Indian Council of Medical Research.”Dr KK Talwar, head, Covid expert committee, and former director, PGI, said: “Remdesivir hasn’t been removed from the Covid guidelines or protocols in the state. Some early benefits, including the medicine’s role in reducing viral load, have been noticed. But at the same time, remdesivir does not provide any mortality benefit. We have been taking the same line continuously.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/junked-by-who-doctors-stick-to-remdesivir-257568
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala to get 2 virtual clinics by mid-June||The Centre for Innovation and Bio-Design (CIBioD) at PGI here is all set to open two state-of-art virtual clinics in Patiala district. The two virtual clinics, one in the city and the other in the rural area, will be operational by mid-June.These clinics will go a long way in making quality healthcare accessible to people, especially in the midst of the Covid 19 pandemic, as mobility restrictions have made tele-health the safest option. The two clinics will provide services in six areas of cardiology, gynaecology, neurology, ENT, medicine and paediatrics.“These tele-health initiatives are being started quickly now to ensure patients who need tertiary care are not denied access because of the the pandemic, which has made human contact difficult,” said Dr Varinder Garg, head of CIBioD. He said they had already started these virtual health centres at Sangrur in Punjab and Una, Mandi and Hamirpur in HP. The move is supported by Tata Communications, Sri Venkateswara Indoglobal Medicare and Records and Medical Systems. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-to-get-2-virtual-clinics-by-mid-june-257569
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Union flays common admission portal||The Non-Government Colleges’ Managements Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh has urged Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa to defer the decision taken by the department to make a common portal of the three universities of Punjab for centralised admission in all degree colleges affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.A delegation led by senior vice-president Rajindermohan Singh Chhina and secretary Gurvinder Singh Sarna submitted a memorandum to Bajwa. It was pointed out that due to Covid crisis and the temptation of greener pastures abroad, the strength of the colleges was decreasing. “The fee-paying capacity of parents has reduced and with this decision, the number of students seeking admission in colleges will drop even further,” Chhina said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/union-flays-common-admission-portal-257572
24-05-2021||Ludhiana||1 more dies of black fungus||The Ludhiana health department today confirmed the death of five patients due to mucormycosis (black fungus) so far in the district. One patient succumbed to the fungus today while a total of four deaths were recorded from the data submitted by various hospitals after the state government declared it as a notified disease on May 19.All hospitals in the district have been asked to submit the data regarding number of patients admitted or died due to black fungus. At present a total of 52 patients suffering from black fungus are admitted in various hospitals, of which 33 are confirmed and 19 suspected. The cases of black fungus are being reported after extensive use of steroids or due to poor oro-nasal hygiene in hospitalised patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-more-dies-of-black-fungus-257574
24-05-2021||Ferozepur||3rd Oxygen Express to arrive today||The third “Oxygen Express” carrying 42.10 MT liquid medical oxygen will reach Phillaur tomorrow. Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, said the Northern Railway had been operating these trains to ensure oxygen for Covid patients.He said the special train having two cryogenic tanks full of liquid medical oxygen started its journey from Bokaro in Jharkhand yesterday at 11 pm and was expected to reach Phillaur by tomorrow. He said this train would cover 1,400 km. “As this liquid oxygen has to be transported in a limited time period, the authorities have made all arrangements accordingly,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3rd-oxygen-express-to-arrive-today-257579
24-05-2021||---||Two KTF members nabbed by Punjab Police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23The Punjab Police today claimed to have arrested two Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) members allegedly involved in several heinous crimes over the past one year, including the murder of a dera follower and firing on a priest.State to seek deportation from canadaTwo Pak nationals repatriatedTwo Pakistan nationals who had ‘erroneously’ entered the Indian territory in Ferozepur have been handed over to Pakistan Rangers on humanitarian grounds. OCThe two were acting on the directions of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar, whose name had figured on the list of Khalistan operatives handed over by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau during his visit to India in 2018.The suspects, Lovepreet Singh, alias Ravi, and Ram Singh, alias Sonu, who were arrested late last night near the Mehna railway crossing at Moga were allegedly planning to kill another dera follower to exact revenge for the sacrilege cases.Three .32 bore pistols with 38 cartridges and a .315 bore pistol with 10 cartridges, along with two magazines, were seized from them. Besides Nijjar, three other KTF co-conspirators — Arshdeep, a resident of Moga, Ramandip, a resident of Ferozepur, and Charanjit, alias Rinku Bihla — had gone to Canada. Another aide Kamaljeet Sharma, alias Kamal, was at large. The DGP said Ravi and Kamal were known to Arshdeep, as they hailed from the same village. Ram, a student at ITI, Moga, was known to Kamal since college days. All were allegedly sent money by Arshdeep through Western Union.Sonu and Kamal were involved in four cases. On November 20 last year, they had killed Manohar Lal, a dera follower, at Bhagta Bhaika in Bathinda. On January 31 this year, they were involved in an attack on a priest, Kamaldeep Sharma, at Bhar Singh Pura village in Phillaur. The priest, who was shot at thrice, was seriously injured along with a girl. The two were also involved in the murder of their associate, Sukha Lamme, on June 27 last year. They had later thrown his body into the Daudhar canal at Pul Madhoke.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-ktf-members-nabbed-by-punjab-police-257597
24-05-2021||---||13 kg heroin seized, smuggler held||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, May 23Sleuths of Punjab Police’s Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) today recovered 13.30 kg heroin, worth Rs 66 crore in the international market, during a joint operation with the BSF along the Pakistan border in the district.The Ferozepur police had a few days ago nabbed a 23-year-old youth, allegedly involved in cross-border smuggling of drugs, following which a consignment concealed in the fields along the zero line was seized.The suspect has been identified as Harpal Singh, a resident of Gandhu Kilcha village in Mamdot block.SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena said following intelligence inputs, Harpal was nabbed by ANC sleuths from Karma village bus stand a few days ago. He was booked under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Mamdot Police Station on May 19.“During investigation, it came to light that the suspect was involved in the illegal drugs trade and had developed links with Pakistan smugglers over the years,” said the SSP.On the basis of information provided by the suspect, the police carried out a joint operation with the BSF this morning during which heroin was recovered from an area near the Ram Lal border outpost. The consignment had been buried near border pillar No. 179 in the fields along the fencing,” he said. It was packed in a plastic sack bearing a Pakistan stamp and covered with grass.Sources in the BSF said the consignment was smuggled into India during midnight. The accused was produced in a court, which remanded him in five-day police custody. Sources said the suspect’s brother had been booked in an NDPS case in 2017 and was presently lodged at the Ferozepur jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13-kg-heroin-seized-smuggler-held-257598
24-05-2021||Aman Sood||Obsolete meters not changed, discom fails to curb losses||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 23Following Covid spread and financial hardships, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has failed to curb its transmission and distribution losses by changing faulty and old power meters.Maximum thefts in border zoneThe work of checking power theft, shifting of meters outside the consumer’s premises and replacement of single-phase electromechanical meters are still pending, causing losses worth crores of rupees.Due to financial crunch, the PSPCL has no spare money to buy meters, despite the power regulator telling the corporation to replace these meters.To reduce the distribution losses, checking power theft, shifting meters outside the consumer’s premises and replacement of single-phase electromechanical meters are the basic requirements. The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has been issuing directions to PSPCL every year to work out the schedules and submit regular reports.Officials in the PSPCL claim that total transmission and distribution (T&D) losses are 11.54 per cent at the end of the last financial year with the border zone leading with 22 per cent.“There is no major financial problem in installing electronic meters and shifting those from the consumers’ premises, but the problem comes from the consumer itself in certain pockets of Punjab. Mechanical meters go slow after a few years, which is advantageous for consumers as they are easy to tamper with,” said VK Gupta, spokesman, All India Engineers Power Engineers Federation. “The PSPCL was expected to complete the work by the end of the last financial year,” he added.According to PSPCL officials, there are about 3 lakh electro-mechanical meters that need replacement with electronic meters or smart meters. “The major chunk of replacement of meters of about 1.2 lakh is needed in the north zone comprising Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar circles,” they said.A senior PSPCL official said there were more than 4.6 lakh domestic meters, which were to be shifted out of consumer premises. The south zone had 2.15 lakh, followed by west zone with about one lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/obsolete-meters-not-changed-discom-fails-to-curb-losses-257599
24-05-2021||---||Divers scour canal after ‘car crash’||Tribune News ServiceAnandpur Sahib, May 23Divers were pressed into service after an unidentified vehicle reportedly fell into the Bhakra canal near Kotal Power House late last night. They, however, failed to locate any wreckage till the filing of the report.SHO Harkirat Singh said the police got information this morning that skid marks of a vehicle were noticed on the bank of the canal.On examination, it was apprehended the driver of a light motor vehicle braked before the vehicle fell into the canal, he said.Divers searched the area throughout the day but couldn’t find any vehicle in the canal. No missing person’s complaint had been received by the police so far, said the police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/divers-scour-canal-after-car-crash-257600
24-05-2021||---||In Patiala, radiation fear sends villagers into tizzy||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 23Spooked by fears of radiation causing deaths at a Patiala village, residents have got newly installed equipment on a mobile tower removed withthe intervention of administration officials.Residents of Daun Kurd village on the Patiala-Rajpura road had been in a tizzy for over a week after five residents above the age of 50 died in a short span. Some claimed to have felt tremors from radiation, while others said domestic animals too had lost their offspring due to radiation.The villagers launched a protest saying they would not let the tower work until the equipment was removed.“A number of villagers were affected by radiation. Some of our animals also lost their offspring,” said a resident.Nasib Singh, a resident, was told by doctors at the PGI to stay away from mobile towers, triggering fears that the tower was causing harm, he said. What started off as an assumption that 5G network trials were going on covertly in the area quickly shifted to accusations of excessive radiation.Meanwhile, those who lost their family members are also not clear about the cause. Sukhdeep Singh, whose father Nirbai Singh died on May 18, said he felt difficulty in breathing. “The doctor claimed he had typhoid. He later died on May 18.”Another woman resident died on May 19. But her son said she had beenunwell and had been hospitalised since early May.Sarpanch Surmukh Singh said: “Villagers felt the mobile tower equipment was to blame for this. So, a protest was held. The matter has been resolved after company representatives changed the equipment.” Tehsildar Sarbjit Singh said the matter had been resolved amicably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-patiala-radiation-fear-sends-villagers-into-tizzy-257601
24-05-2021||Bathinda||Granthi held for ‘molesting’ minor in Bathinda||A granthi of a gurdwara at Nandgarh Kotra in the district has been arrested for allegedly molesting a 9-year-old girl.As per information, the minor along with her paternal uncle had gone to the gurdwara last evening, where granthi Gurnam Singh allegedly called her on the pretext of giving her ‘prasad’ and molested her.The girl narrated the incident to her uncle, following which a large number of villagers gathered at the gurdwara. The villagers tied up the granthi to a pole and beat him up before handing him over to the police. The video of the incident went viral on social media. The police later arrested the suspect after registering a case on the statement of a victim’s family member. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/granthi-held-for-molesting-minor-in-bathinda-257602
24-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Yeoman service for poor||Sood and Brahmin Sabha.Job app gets 163 placedHoshiarpur: A mobile app for providing employment developed by the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) has got 163 youths placed in a month. By using the app, 1,824 youths applied for private jobs and 355 have moved their application for starting their own ventures under various self-employment loan schemes. The DBEE processed the applications and organised interviews, getting 163 candidates placed at annual packages of Rs 1.10 lakh to Rs 2.50 lakh in private institutions.A new life for Covid warriorAbohar: Days after joining in April last year as Assistant Director, Public Relations, at Sriganganagar, near Abohar, Ritu Sodhi had a mild fever and was advised quarantine for two weeks to beat happy hypoxia. She tested negative later. That time she did not suspect that while leading a frontline Covid awareness campaign, she would have to battle the pandemic after a year. Last month she had fever and body aches after which she got her test done and the report came positive. Later, she was shifted to Jansewa Hospital. After a CT scan, she was admitted to the ICU. “I felt like getting a new life after I stepped out of the ICU after 14 days. Doctors appreciated my positive thinking which I think helped me in fighting the virus,” Ritu says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yeoman-service-for-poor-257603
24-05-2021||Ferozepur||Youth dies in police custody||Badal visits AIIMS for check-upBathinda: Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal visited the AIIMS here for a medical check-up on Sunday. Badal reached the facility around 10.30 am and remained there for around half an hour. Badal was taken on a wheelchair to the department, where he was examined by doctors. AIIMS Director Dr DK Singh said it was a regular check-up, wherein they conducted his X-ray. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-dies-in-police-custody-257604
24-05-2021||---||2 more succumb to black fungus in Patiala||Patiala, May 23Two more Covid patients, who had been found infected with mucormycosis (black fungus), died at the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital here today.The number of black fungus-related deaths have now increased to four at the hospital. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder, said two patients of black fungus had died while two others had been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. Around 14 patients had been found infected with black fungus at the hospital so far, he added.Besides, five patients, who were undergoing treatment for Covid at private hospitals in the city, have been found to be infected with the fungus. “Around 19 cases of black fungus have been confirmed in the district so far. Of them, four have died,” said Dr Satinder.Health experts explained that adverse effects of the treatment of coronavirus on the body caused black fungus. High doses of steroids given to patient to control lungs’ inflammation badly affect the body’s immunity, say the experts. Dr JagpalInder, MS, Ophthalmology, said prolonged oxygen therapy given to Covid patients reduced immunity, thereby, increasing the risk of black fungus infection.He said: “In the first stage of black fungus, there is involvement of nose and sinuses, thereafter, the infection spreads to the eye/orbit. In an advanced stage, infection invades the brain tissue. However, early diagnosis and management ensures minimal damage.”Symptoms||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-more-succumb-to-black-fungus-in-patiala-257554
24-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||In Punjab, handsome donations to sustain stir||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 23After harvesting and selling their rabi crop, farmers are donating generously to their unions in the Malwa region. They have donated over Rs 50 lakh to the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) in Mansa district alone.BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) district president Ram Singh Bhainibagha claimed their union spent over Rs 25 crore in the past 11 months since the farmers’ protest began. He said the union collected funds from farmers every six months and the collection this time had been several times more than earlier collections. “My fellow villagers from Bhainibagha have collected Rs 11 lakh this time, while Bachhuana villagers have collected Rs 12 lakh. The collection from Kishangarh village is Rs 7 lakh, Joga village Rs 6.5 lakh, Bahadurpur village Rs 6 lakh, Akalia village Rs 6 lakh, Verahe village Rs 5.5 lakh, Rar village Rs 4.5 lakh, Jawaharke village Rs 4 lakh and Farwahi village Rs 3 lakh,” he said. “Farmers from other villages have also given funds to the union. They are ready to contribute as much money as required, but want us to return only after winning the Delhi morcha,” he said. The families that could not contribute money had given wheat to support the agitation, he added.Union leaders collect wheat, paddy and money after every six months to generate funds. They then sell the collected crops and deposit the money in the union’s bank account.Farmers have also donated generously to the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Dakonda), Punjab Kisan Union, Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal), Bharti Kisan Union (Qadian), Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur), Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewala), Bharti Kisan Union (Mansa) and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-punjab-handsome-donations-to-sustain-stir-257546
24-05-2021||---||Another face-off: Punjab, Haryana farmers head to Delhi border to mark ‘black day’||New Delhi, May 23With the Union Agriculture Ministry showing reluctance in resuming talks with protesting farmers unless they propose a solution other than the repeal of the three farm laws, the stage is set for another face-off between the government and farmers.Even as farmers’ union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said there was no question of going back on demands, the government appears to be in no mood to concede to unions’ demand for resumption of talks.Their demandsWhile Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has reiterated his earlier stance on the issue, official sources said at a time the country is passing through such a bad phase, the demand of unions is unjustified. Besides, the success of the rabi marketing season in Punjab and Haryana is a proof of the Centre’s intention and commitment towards farmers, they said. Tomar said the unions neither accepted the offer to put off the laws for 18 months nor proposed anything apart from the demand for repeal of the laws. “If the unions offer an alternative, we will talk,” Tomar said. Charuni said the unions would observe May 26 as “black day” to mark the completion of six months of their agitation. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are headed for Delhi for the protest.At least 12 Opposition parties, led by the Congress, have extended support to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. “We support the SKM’s call to hold nationwide protests on May 26,” said a statement signed by the Opposition leaders, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, JDS’ HD Deve Gowda, NCP’s Sharad Pawar, TMC’s Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena’s Uddhav Thackeray, DMK’s MK Stalin, JMM’s Hemant Soren, NC’s Farooq Abdullah, SP’s Akhilesh Yadav, RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, CPI’s D Raja and CPM’s Sitaram Yechury.The statement noted that on May 12, the Opposition leaders had written to PM Narendra Modi demanding repeal of the farm laws. The leaders also demanded legal entitlement to MSP as recommended by the MS Swaminathan Commission.“The Centre must stop being obdurate and immediately resume talks with the SKM on these lines,” the statement read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-face-off-punjab-haryana-farmers-head-to-delhi-border-to-mark-black-day-257541
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 172 Covid deaths, 5,094 fresh cases||With 172 more Covid-related fatalities, the toll in Punjab reached 13,281, while 5,094 fresh cases took the tally to 5,38,994 in the state on Sunday, according to a medical bulletin.The active cases have declined to 57,505 from 61,203 on Saturday, it said. The number of recoveries -- 8,527 -- in a single day were more than the 5,094 daily cases, according to the bulletin. The fresh fatalities reported in the last 24 hours included 20 from Ludhiana, 19 from Patiala, 18 from Bathinda, 16 each from Sangrur and Mohali and 15 from Amritsar, it said.Continuing to register the highest daily cases in the state, the number for Ludhiana on Sunday stood at 597. It was 459 in Jalandhar, 454 in Mohali and 436 in Fazilka. The state's positivity rate marginally dropped from 6.60 per cent on Saturday to 6.18, the bulletin stated. With 8,527 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 4,68,208, it said.There are 386 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 1,024 other critical patients and 7,154 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. It said 87,19,503 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-172-covid-deaths-5-094-fresh-cases-257315
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police nab 2 activists of Khalistan Tiger Force involved in murder of sect follower||Punjab Police have arrested two activists of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF), allegedly involved in several heinous crimes in the last one year, including the murder of a sect follower and firing on a priest.The two were acting on the directions of KTF’s Canada-based chief, Hardeep Singh Nijjar, whose name incidentally figured in the list of Khalistani operatives that was handed over by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau during the latter’s visit to India in 2018.With the arrest of Lovepreet Singh alias Ravi and Ram Singh alias Sonu, late on Saturday night from the rear side of Senior Secondary School near railway crossing Mehna, district Moga, the police also foiled a plan to kill another sect follower, who they were targeting to take revenge in the Sri Guru Granth Sahib sacrilege cases.Three 0.32 bore pistols with 38 live cartridges and one 0.315 bore pistol with 10 live cartridges, along with two magazines, were seized from the suspects.Besides, Nijjar, three of their other KTF’s co-conspirators, identified as Arshdip, Ramandip and Charanjit alias Rinku Bihla, are hiding out in Surrey (BC) Canada, while one, Kamaljeet Sharma alias Kamal, is still absconding, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed on Sunday.He said while Arshdeep Singh alias Arsh and Ramandeep Singh alias Raman Judge went to Canada legally in 2019 and 2017 respectively, Charanjit Singh alias Rinku Bihla had gone there illegally in around 2013-14.According to initial investigations, which were led by SSP Moga Harmanbir Singh Gill, Gupta said Lovepreet alias Ravi and Kamaljeet Sharma alias Kamal were known to Arshdeep, as they all belonged to the same village, since childhood.Ram Singh alias Sonu, who was a student at ITI Moga, were known to Kamal since college days. All were given money by Arshdeep, who sent it through Western Union money transfers. On November 20 last year, Sonu and Kamal had killed Manohar Lal, a Dera premi, at Bhagta Bhaika in Bathinda district. Sonu fired three-four shots with pistols in both hands and Kamal also fired, said the DGP.Sonu and Kamal were also involved in firing at a priest, Kamaldeep Sharma, in village Bhar Singh Pura in Phillaur (Jalandhar Rural) on January 31 this year.The priest, who was shot at thrice, was seriously injured along with a girl in the attack, allegedly carried out by the suspects on the directions of Nijjar.In September 2020, Nijjar was designated a terrorist by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, and the NIA had also attached his properties in Bhar Singh Pura village under Section 51A of UAPA.Kamal and Ravi were involved, along with Arshdeep (who had come to India at that time), in the murder of their associate, Sukha Lamme, on June 27, 2020.They injected poison into Sukha at an abandoned house at village Dala and then, after burning his face, threw the body in Daudhar canal at Pul Madhoke.Earlier, on June 25, Ravi, Kamal and Sukha had fired at Maan’s residence at village Lamma Jatt Pura in Ludhiana district.A few days later, on July 14, 2020, Ravi and Kamal killed Tejinder alias Pinka, owner of Super Shine Clothes, to terrorise the people of Moga city and exploit them subsequently for ransom.Ravi fired at Pinka and Kamal stood outside the shop, investigations have revealed. In the latest incident, on February 9 this year, Ravi and Sonu also attempted to kill owner of Sharma Sweets, Moga.The DGP said investigations were in progress to unravel further links of the accused and trace other previous crimes in which they might have been involved.A hunt has been launched to arrest the absconding accused, Kamal.He said while a Red Corner notice was issued against Nijjer, who has also been put on the “No Fly List” by the Canadian authorities, sometime back, international warrants will be obtained, and Red Corner notices will be issued against the other radicals based in Canada.Gupta said the government would also seek their deportation to India to face prosecution and criminal trial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-nab-2-activists-of-khalistan-tiger-force-involved-in-murder-of-sect-follower-257269
