26-05-2021||New Delhi||BJP reiterates government ‘always ready’ for talks with farmers on three laws||The BJP on Wednesday reiterated that the Narendra Modi government is “always ready” for talks with farmers on the three farm laws.Party leaders also said that farmers should “not be misled by political parties or union leaders having political aspirations and that the “agitation will be over after assembly elections in Punjab”.Claiming that several of the “so-called farmer union leaders are big ‘arthiyas’ themselves”, BJP leader RP Singh said, “Farmers should not be misled by politicians or those with personal interests or gains and think about their own interests.”Singh said the success of the Direct Benefit Transfer of the MSP in the ongoing Rabi marketing season in Punjab and Haryana is “proof of the Centre’s intent and commitment towards farmers. Most of the so-called union leaders are big ‘arthiyas’ themselves, who are not liking the concept of direct transfer of MSP into farmers’ accounts”.“The government is always open for a dialogue with farmers, let the corona pandemic settle. Unions too should give in writing the amendments they want in the laws. The three farm laws will remain, let there be no ambiguity on that, they can suggest amendments, which they should give in written first,” he also said.Meanwhile, claiming that SKM’s “Black Day” has “failed to create impact beyond Punjab, Haryana and some parts of western Uttar Pradesh”, government and party sources say the agitation is continuing because the “Centre does not want to turn it into a ‘Sikhs versus the government issue”.“The government is treading carefully. It will not do anything that will disturb the balance. These are such difficult times, a pandemic is on in the country, around 21,000 deaths have taken place in Punjab and Haryana. Union leaders may claim that the agitation is not a reason for the spread of Covid-19 but reports, including of Punjab government, says it is,” said a BJP leader who did not wish to be named.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-reiterates-government-always-ready-for-talks-with-farmers-on-three-laws-258793
26-05-2021||Jalandhar||Massive fire at RCF Kapurthala slum takes down 200 shanties||A massive fire broke out in the slums of RCF Kapurthala on Tuesday, officials said.The area has over 1,000 residents.  The fire broke out in a jhuggi at 1 pm, and took down 200-250 shanties before it could be controlled, a police officer said. No loss of life has yet been reported.Sultanpur Lodhi Deputy Superintendent of Police Sarwan Singh Bal said, “Strong winds have been blowing in these parts for the last two days, and that seems to have helped the fire spread. It took two hours for the fire to be controlled. The cause is however yet unknown”.The occupants of the slum have been moved to makeshift tents supplied by the district administration. A local gurdwara has stepped in to give them food.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/massive-fire-at-rcf-kapurthala-slum-takes-down-200-shanties-258792
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Time we educate ourselves: Varun Dhawan & others slam Punjab PUBG gamer for racial remarks on Arunachal MLA||Bollywood stars Varun Dhawan, Rajkummar Rao and Kriti Sanon have criticised a YouTuber for his racially abusive remarks towards Arunachal Pradesh MLA Ninong Ering.Paras Singh, who goes by the name 'Paras Official' on his YouTube channel, had in a video posted on Sunday termed Congress MLA Ninong Ering a non-Indian and claimed the "state was a part of China", sparking furore among Arunchalees as well as people from other parts of the country.Singh, who was arrested in Ludhiana on Tuesday, was apparently incensed with Ering after the Congress MLA wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking for a ban on the re-launch of PUBG Mobile India's new avatar Battlegrounds Mobile India. Filmmaker Amar Kaushik, known for movies "Stree" and "Bala", was the first from film industry to criticise Singh for his remarks."Being ignorant about your country and its region is stupidity in itself, but when that ignorance is expressed in an offensive manner, it becomes toxic. "We all need to call out and condemn such ignorance in one voice and make all idiots understand that IT IS NOT ACCEPTABLE ANYMORE," he wrote on his Instagram Stories.Dhawan and Sanon, who stars in Kaushik's upcoming movie "Bhediya", which was shot in Arunachal Pradesh, shared the filmmaker's post on their respective Instagram Stories. "Having spent so much time in Arunachal Pradesh, it's time we educate ourselves and others about how wrong this is," Dhawan wrote.Sanon said it is high time people start respecting every individual of the country with "equal respect". "What's wrong with people!! It's high time we treat every individual and every region of our country with equal respect. A Thank you for talking about this @amarkaushik," she wrote in her post.Rao, who worked with Kaushik for 2018 horror comedy "Stree", simply shared the filmmaker's post. "Totally Unacceptable," wrote "Pataal Lok" star Abhishek Banerjee on his Instagram account alongside Kaushik's post. Singh had apologised for his remarks in yet another YouTube video on Monday.Ludhiana Police, under close monitoring of Arunachal Police, arrested him after tracing his whereabouts. He was also charged with inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of the northeastern state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/time-we-educate-ourselves-varun-dhawan-others-slam-punjab-pubg-gamer-for-racial-remarks-on-arunachal-mla-258746
26-05-2021||Muktsar||Badal hoists black, saffron flags atop residence in support of farmers||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday hoisted a black flag and a saffron flag atop his residence at Badal village here in support of the farmers who are protesting against the three farm laws.Badal also appealed to all the SAD members to hoist black flags atop their houses on Wednesday to express solidarity with the ongoing agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-hoists-black-saffron-flags-atop-residence-in-support-of-farmers-258732
26-05-2021||---||Free Covid cure in private hospitals for the poor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25In a major reprieve for the underprivileged sections of society, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Sidhu today announced the government’s decision to provide free treatment to Covid patients falling under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (SSBY) at the empanelled private hospitals.Govt to bear differential cost He said the facility would be available in the hospitals offering Covid treatment at the rates ranging from Rs 8,000 to Rs 18,000 per day, the rates fixed for private hospitals in the state. The government will bear the differential treatment cost derived after deducting the cost payable by the insurance company from the cap rates. Sidhu said the cap rates include bed, PPE kits, medicines, consumables, monitoring/nursing care, doctor’s fee, investigations, oxygen, etc.SSBY beneficiaries could directly visit empanelled hospitals without any need for referral from the public hospitals, he said, adding that the initiative would bring relief to the vulnerable and deprived section, who would now be able to avail level-2 and level-3 treatment in private hospitals.He said earlier the treatment available in these empanelled hospitals was payable as per the SSBY scheme rates fixed by the Centre that range from Rs 1,800 to Rs 4,500, which were too less to be viable for the hospital to meet expenses of treatment of a Covid patient that entails an additional cost on account of PPE kits, masks, consumables, isolation, etc.Sidhu said though the treatment of beneficiaries was free in public hospitals, to provide relief to a large section of society, the government decided to bear the additional expenses and allow free treatment in the empanelled private hospitals.He said since its launch, the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana had shown a consistent growth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-covid-cure-in-private-hospitals-for-the-poor-258650
26-05-2021||---||Youth killed, 2 hurt in oxygen cylinder blast in Moga village||Tribune News ServiceMoga, May 25A youth was killed and two others were injured when an oxygen cylinder exploded in the house of a Covid patient at Kokri Vehnival village of the district.The deceased, identified as Satnam Singh, brought the patient home from a hospital in an ambulance without any valid permission from the health authorities. “He was not the driver of the ambulance,” said Dr Sukhpreet Singh Brar, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), district hospital.Without any technical knowhow, he was checking the oxygen cylinder when it exploded, he said. Since the patient was still in the ambulance, he escaped unhurt, the health authorities said, adding that Satnam died on the spot, while two others were injured.The SMO said the oxygen cylinder was procured by the patient’s family illegally through Satnam. The police were also inquiring as to how Satnam drove the ambulance to ferry the patient because he was not the driver. No technical/health staff was accompanying the patient in the ambulance.District Magistrate Sandeep Hans has sought a detailed report. He has asked how the oxygen cylinder went to the Covid-19 patient’s house without the approval of a magistrate, which was mandatory as per the prohibitory orders issued by the administration. He warned distributors and private hospitals to abide by the guidelines or face strict action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-killed-2-hurt-in-oxygen-cylinder-blast-in-moga-village-258655
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||17K in 18-44 age group get jab||The government today vaccinated 16,932 persons in the age group of 18-44 years, taking the total number of vaccinated people in this group to 4,27,329.All of them have been administered Covishield. The entire target was met by the government for this group without wasting any dose. Disclosing this here today, Vikas Garg, state nodal officer for vaccination, said priority groups were formed and vaccinated vigorously. He said the government had received 4.29 lakh doses for this age group. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17k-in-18-44-age-group-get-jab-258657
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP launches helpline for Covid patients in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today launched a ‘Doctor Helpline’ campaign to provide medical aid to people of the state. A helpline number 782-727-5743 has been launched through which one can get information about the prevention and treatment of Covid. The campaign was launched by MLA and Youth Wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, state president of AAP’s medical wing Dr Ravjot, vice-president Dr Charanjit Channi and Dr Sanjeev Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-launches-helpline-for-covid-patients-in-punjab-258658
26-05-2021||---||Farmers to observe black day today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25As people of Punjab prepare to observe a “black day” on Wednesday on the completion of six months of farmer protests on the borders of Delhi, Kisan Morcha members have renewed their resolve to continue the struggle, saying it will be a long haul.Ready for long haulThe struggle will continue until the farm laws are repealed. We owe it to those who sacrificed their lives in the struggle and to our future generations. - Sukhdev S Kokrikalan, BKU Gen SecyAcross Punjab, farmers have formed jathas and continued to proceed in large numbers towards the Delhi borders. Families of farmers, mainly women, distributed self-stitched black flags today, urging people to hoist these tomorrow, as a mark of solidarity with farmers.The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has appealed to all sections of society to support them, says Jagmohan Singh Patiala, leader of the morcha. Political leaders, cutting across political spectrum, have also lent their support to farmer protests.With almost 500 farmers having died during the course of the struggle - as claimed by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) and All-India Kisan Federation — farmers say that their sacrifices will not go in vain.“The struggle will continue until the laws are repealed. We owe it to those who sacrificed their lives in the struggle and to our future generations,” says Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan).It’s been six months and Ajaib Singh of Mallan village in Muktsar has been on the Tikri border, protesting against the farm laws. “I do miss my family, especially my grandchildren, back home. I have not met them even once, only talk to them on the phone. But I will go back only after the three laws are repealed,” he says.He is one of the farmers who have been sitting on a dharna on the borders of Delhi for six months now. Neela Singh (67) of Peori village in Gidderbaha, who has been part of the morcha since November 26, says that he and others like him cannot go back till the laws are repealed and the Electricity Amendment Act and the commission on the Air Quality Management is withdrawn. “If I go back, my grandchildren, when they grow up, will ask me why I did not fight for their right to livelihood?”he asks.Amarjit Kaur, a fiery woman farmer leader from Barnala, who has been staging a dharna near the Barnala Railway Station everyday since October 1, says that the long course of the struggle has not exhausted them. “Rather, our zeal to fight against the laws remains as fervent. People like me go to the dharna site everyday fighting for our right, because we understand that struggles yield results,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-observe-black-day-today-258659
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Campaign against Modi govt, PPCC urges Sonia||PPCC president Sunil Jakhar today urged AICC chief Sonia Gandhi and former party president Rahul Gandhi to launch a nationwide campaign to democratically oust the insensitive Modi government.Terming the PM Modi-led BJP govt as a death knell for the democratic system, poor people and farmers, he said Punjab and the Congress stood by farmers who were observing “black day” tomorrow. “We salute their spirit for not only fighting to save the farming, but also democracy by vehemently opposing the unholy BJP-corporates nexus. The Congress has always believed that this battle based on principles will last long, so we must plan accordingly to win it,” he said.The state Congress president said besides farmers’ issue, the Modi government had also failed miserably on all fronts. In the unprecedented Covid crisis, the BJP govt had led the nation to such a pathetic position where managing to stay alive seems to be the main aim of a common citizen. As Modi government failed to deal with Covid, the country’s reputation at the international level stood tarnished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/campaign-against-modi-govt-ppcc-urges-sonia-258660
26-05-2021||---||All must support farmers: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Tribune News ServicePatiala/Amritsar, May 25Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday hoisted the black flag in support of the farmers’ protest at his Patiala residence. He was accompanied by his wife and former MLA Navjot Kaur. “For the past three decades, farmers have been worried due to rising debts and dropping income. Farmers have been lied to, and now these new black laws have proved to be the last nail in the coffin,” said Sidhu.Stand by themI will continue to protest the central agricultural laws and stand in solidarity with my farmer brothers. - Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress Leader“I will continue to protest these laws, and stand in solidarity with my farmer brothers,” said Sidhu, who is camping at his ancestral home in Patiala. “Hoisting the black flag in protest... every Punjabi must support the farmers,” read Sidhu’s Twitter post.Sidhu has shifted his focus from Amritsar to his birthplace Patiala in the past six months. He has been maintaining distance from the media, except for holding a couple of press conferences at his ancestral house in Patiala. Otherwise, he remains quite active on social media, and keeps launching scathing attacks on the central and his government, be it its failure to curb land, sand and liquor mafia.Meanwhile, Sidhu’s daughter Rabia Sidhu also hoisted a black flag at their residence in Amritsar. She raised the flag as an endorsement of her father’s protest against the three farm laws. However, she refrained from speaking to the media, which was denied entry, on the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-must-support-farmers-navjot-singh-sidhu-258661
26-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers' protest: In solidarity, Malwa women stitch flags||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 25Black flags stitched by women activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Ekta Ugrahan) will dot the Delhi borders tomorrow.Must intensify stirI have stitched 120 black flags in the past two days that are to be distributed for the May 26 rally on Delhi borders. We need to intensify our protest to make the Centre relent. - Nirmal Kaur, Bathinda ProtesterThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, has announced it will observe May 26 as ‘black day’ to mark six months of their protest at Delhi’s borders against the central farm laws.The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) tweeted from its twitter handle: “Women activists of its farm organisation are making black flags to put on top of houses on May 26. A total of 1,000 flags have been sent to the Tikri border and preparing 800 for own villages.”Harinder Kaur Bindu, women wing president of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, said: “As there is partial lockdown, so it was decided in our state committee meeting that women activists will be stitching black flags in all districts and sending these to Tikri border and various villages”.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) activist Charanjeet Kaur of Bucho Khurd said: “She along with her three friends stitched black flags, which have been sent to Tikri.”Even in the last few days, a large number of farmers in tractors, vehicles and motorcycles have gone to Delhi to participate in the protest from the region.Farmers in the region are fully geared up for the protest as they have prepared black flags on their own in large numbers. Even all other farmers unions have also prepared and distributed these flags in villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-in-solidarity-malwa-women-stitch-flags-258662
26-05-2021||---||Reduce GST on Covid equipment: Manpreet Badal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has taken a strong exception to the agenda issued for the GST Council meeting scheduled for later this week, which has failed to take into account the ravaging pandemic. Calling the agenda for the meeting “mundane and not dealing with any of the substantive issues that confront us”, he has demanded that all aberrations and distortions that have crept into the GST must be overcome.In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Badal has also sought the removal of all anomalies in the remaining compensation period of one year, besides demanding GST tax cuts on essential Covid supplies. The meeting is scheduled for May 28, and is being held after seven months.Highlighting the high taxation on the goods and equipment required to fight Covid, Badal has demanded that Basic Customs Duty (BCD) and GST be slashed. “Many goods face BCD ranging up to 20 per cent and GST up to 18 per cent, besides a social welfare surcharge of 10 per cent and IGST of 2-3 per cent on taxable value…. It is baffling that despite the crisis that our country finds itself in, with millions of people suffering the consequences of Covid and inadequate health infrastructure, high taxes continue to be applied on basic essentials needed to overcome this life-threatening disease,” he has written in the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reduce-gst-on-covid-equipment-manpreet-badal-258663
26-05-2021||Karam Prakash||PM Modi’s photo off vax certificates in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 25Amid a vaccine crunch, the Punjab Government has reportedly removed the photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from vaccination certificates issued to beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group.Keep Rs 1,000 cr for vaccination: sadSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday requested Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to make a special allocation of Rs 1,000 crore to purchase vaccines for the state in the next six months. He also called for giving a monthly pension of Rs6,000 to all families, who had lost their bread winners to Covid.The Tribune found that the vaccine certificate for the beneficiaries was without the photo of the Prime Minister. The Punjab Government clarified that it had purchased the vaccine directly from the supplier for people aged between 18 and 45 years.Notably, the Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh governments have already replaced the Prime Minister’s photo with their own respective Chief Ministers.Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said, “We (Punjab Government) have purchased the vaccine for the 18-45 age group directly from the vaccine supplier. Earlier, vaccines for beneficiaries above 45 years were provided by the central government.”He said as the state government was buying vaccines on its own, that could be the reason for the removal of the photo of the Prime Minister from the vaccination certificates.Sources said the Health Department had clearly communicated to the people about the short supply of vaccines.Dr GB Singh, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said, “The photo of the Prime Minister is not there on the certificates because the vaccine is being purchased by the state government on its own. Besides, the portal to download the certificate — Corona Virus Alert (COVA) — is also of the Punjab Government.”State Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu could not be contacted for a comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-modis-photo-off-vax-certificates-in-punjab-258664
26-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||Health infra in place, but short of doses: Punjab Govt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25Amid shortage of supply from the Centre, the state government claims that it is not being able to use the infrastructure it has established to administer Covid vaccine to people in the state.The health department is equipped to give three lakh doses per day, but is able to administer just 65,000 doses currently. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state was equipped with infrastructure to vaccinate three lakh persons every day, but the Centre had failed to supply the required doses due to which the state’s vaccination drive was moving at a slow pace.Though in last week (May 16 to May 22), the state vaccinated 4.29 lakh people and drive picked up a little pace as compare to the past, overall it is still not able to use even 20 per cent of the infrastructure. At one point of time last month, the state was giving over 1.5 lakh doses everyday but due to shortage of vaccine, the graph kept on declining. Till mid-April, the state was administering between 6 and 7 lakh doses on an average. So far, the state has given 48.12 lakh doses to various groups, including healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 18 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-infra-in-place-but-short-of-doses-punjab-govt-258665
26-05-2021||Balwant Garg||Drop mid-day meal ration at pupils’ houses, teachers told||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 25A direction of the Education Department on Tuesday, asking all District Education Officers (DEOs) to ensure delivery of the mid-day meal ration to children at their homes has left the teachers fuming.Exercise will expose us to infectionMigrant workers and daily wagers are always on the move. To locate them and their wards for the delivery of ration in the Covid times will be a difficult task, and only expose us to infection. - Prem Chawla, Senior Vice-president, Government School Teachers’ UnionWith the lockdown in place, the mid-day meal hasn’t been cooked on school premises since April 1. The government and aided schools have been asked to ensure the supply of two-month ration (April and May) to all children of classes 1 to 8 at their homes. Besides, the schools have been asked to deposit the money to cover cooking costs in the bank accounts of students or their parents.Teachers say locating children of migrant families and daily wagers in the crisis times is difficult. Last year also, they found many families had moved from the given address when they went there to deliver the ration, said Prem Chawla, senior vice-president, Government School Teachers’ Union.The direction will only expose the teachers to the threat of Covid-19 infection, said a teacher. Another teacher in Faridkot termed the decision impractical. A senior functionary in the District Education Office said the department was only following the directions of high-ups. Teachers said they would oppose the delivery of the mid-day meal ration on the doorsteps.In the second week of March, the state government released around Rs 114 crore to the Education Department after many schools stopped cooking mid-day meals due to outstanding dues. The state government had not released any funds for the scheme from October 2020 to February 2021.The scheme guarantees a meal for at least 200 days in a year to all 16,88,769 students in government and aided schools under Samagra Shiksha, a programme of the Ministry of Human Resource Development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drop-mid-day-meal-ration-at-pupils-houses-teachers-told-258667
26-05-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Three Guinness World Records holder Moga lad to feature in US school books||Tribune News ServiceMoga, May 25Sandeep Singh Kaila (29) of Badduwal village in Moga, who has three Guinness World Records to his credit for “spinning a basketball on a toothbrush for longest duration”, has been selected for the American Online Literacy Education Programme. This means a chapter on his achievements will be added to the school curriculum in the US.Record holderSandeep Singh Kaila (29) has three Guinness World Records to his credit for spinning a basketball on a toothbrush for the longest durationHe is the first person to break the minute mark on basketball spin challenge, who managed a time of 60.50 seconds. He can also spin three basketballs simultaneously, one on a toothbrush and the other two on his fingers. Sandeep has played volleyball at the national level. He used to spin a volleyball on his fingers and a toothbrush, but switched over to the basketball as there was a category for it in the record books.Sandeep, currently settled in British Columbia, Canada, broke his own record three times. His name figured thrice in the Guinness World Records and once in the Limca Book of Records, besides many more records to his credit.His name first entered the Guinness World Records in 2017 with 53 seconds, but was quickly bested by other competitors in India and Germany. Unsatisfied, he continued to practise and has held onto the title since his third victory recently. “My goal is to break at least 10 world records, a record which has not been achieved by anyone so far,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-guinness-world-records-holder-moga-lad-to-feature-in-us-school-books-258668
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hold direct talks with farmers: Sukhbir to Modi||Sukhbir Badal has urged the party rank and file to hoist black flags to demand the repeal of three agricultural laws as well as show solidarity with protesting farmers.He called upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold direct unconditional talks with the farmers. He also requested the Punjab Government to ensure all 400 martyrs of the kisan andolan were given adequate compensation and jobs. He said only 189 farmers had been given a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each and none of the affected families had been offered jobs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-direct-talks-with-farmers-sukhbir-to-modi-258669
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccinate pupils before Class XII exams: Government||School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Tuesday said the union government should provide Covid vaccines to all states before taking decision on Class XII examinationsGiving the feedback to the Union HRD Minister, Singla said there is a dire need for vaccinating the students appearing in the board examinations and teachers as well as the health, safety and security of both students and teachers is of utmost importance. The minister said the examinations of only selected and essential subjects may be held in each discipline and question papers may be of lesser duration. He said consideration may also be given to pre-board exams and internal assessment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccinate-pupils-before-class-xii-exams-government-258670
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Congress launches drive on vax awareness||After helping over 1,000 Covid victims with medical aid, the Punjab Youth Congress has undertaken the task of guiding residents on vaccination drives.Almost a month after launching a dedicated helpline ‘Farz Manukhta Lai’ from the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) headquarters here, the volunteers are now guiding people about vaccination centres and the real-time availability of the vaccine, especially in rural areas. General secretary of All India Youth Congress Amarpreet Singh Lalli said the helpline was a unique initiative.“With the help of MLAs and Youth Congress leaders, mobilisation of medical aid became easy and swift. If the patients were unable to travel long distance for medical help like oxygen cylinders or concentrators, our workers reached the patients’ location with the aid,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-congress-launches-drive-on-vax-awareness-258671
26-05-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court for larger Bench on protection to live-in couples||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25Following divergent opinions on the issue of providing protection to couples in a live-in relationship, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has referred the matter to the Chief Justice for the constitution of a larger Bench.Several writ petitions filedKeeping in view the fact that a large number of writ petitions are being filed before this court involving the questions framed, the counsels would be at liberty to request the larger Bench for interim relief and expeditious disposal. High CourtJustice Anil Kshetarpal, in his order, observed it was considered appropriate to request the Chief Justice to constitute the larger Bench to decide whether the court was required to grant the protection without examining the marital status and other circumstances of the case when two persons living together sought protection of life and liberty by filing a petition. If the answer to the question was in the negative, what were the circumstances in which the court could deny them protection?Justice Kshetarpal added he had used the expression “person” in the question, instead of “adult”, as the court had apparently granted protection in certain cases where both petitioners were not adults.Justice Kshetarpal further added: “It appears that various Benches of this court, of coordinate strength, have formed different opinions on the matter concerned, which cannot be easily reconciled.”The direction came in a case where the petitioners were seeking directions from the court to provide them protection. The Bench was told that the man was married, but the relationship between him and his wife was strained. However, divorce hadnot been obtained.The Bench was further told that the man had now run away with the petitioner-woman and they wished to reside together. But their relationship was not acceptable to the private respondents-relatives.“Keeping in view the fact that a large number of writ petitions are being filed before this court involving the questions framed, the counsels would be at liberty to request the larger Bench for interim relief and expeditious disposal,” Justice Kshetarpal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-for-larger-bench-on-protection-to-live-in-couples-258673
26-05-2021||---||Justice Vikas Bahl administered oath||Chandigarh, May 25A day after the President appointed senior advocate Vikas Bahl as an additional judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, he was administered oath by Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha this afternoon at a simple but impressive ceremony.Known for his legal acumen, Justice Bahl was handling a wide variety of cases involving civil rights and constitutional issues prior to his elevation. Justice Bahl’s name was cleared by the Supreme Court in March, paving way for his appointment.Justice Bahl was enrolled as an advocate in March 1999 and designated senior advocate in January 2014. With his elevation, the number of HC judges has gone up to 47 against the sanctioned strength of 85. The elevation comes at a time when the High Court is facing a pendency of 6,80,132 cases. The situation is expected to worsen in the near future with three more judges retiring this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-vikas-bahl-administered-oath-258674
26-05-2021||---||Muktsar youth thrashed, head tonsured over ‘affair’||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 25A Dalit youth was “tied, thrashed, forced to drink urine and his head tonsured” after he was allegedly caught with a girl at his house on Monday in Malout town.Sources said the girl, too, belonged to the same community and was a resident of the same area.A video of the boy’s head being shaved publicly has gone viral on the social media. Meanwhile, the police have started an investigation. The boy is currently admitted to the Civil Hospital.A cousin of the victim said: “A large number of people from the girl’s family tied up my brother, thrashed him, forced him to drink urine and shaved his head publicly. The girl had actually come to his house and even brought some gifts like chocolates and a mobile phone. Her family did not like it. They did not question her, but mercilessly thrashed my brother. Later, the police rescued him. We demand strict action against the girl’s family.”Malout (City) SHO Mohan Lal said: “We had visited the spot and rescued the boy yesterday. He is admitted to the local Civil Hospital. It seems the couple was in a relationship, but there was nothing like this when our team reached the spot. We will take action after getting the report from the hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-youth-thrashed-head-tonsured-over-affair-258675
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Illegal’ mining: Court puts Punjab on notice||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put Punjab on notice on a 344-page petition for stopping of “illegal” mining going on in the periphery areas and certain villages of Ropar districtTaking up the petition filed by Sudhesh Kumari and other petitioners through senior advocate VK Jindal with Akshay Jindal, the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj also issued a notice regarding stay to the state and other respondents. The notices came after the petitioners claimed that the process was illegal, unjust, arbitrary and was endangering the lives of the villagers. It was also endangering agriculture process and the environment.Directions were also sought to the respondents to stop the process of de-silting the Sutlej, the Beas and the Ravi, along with seasonal rivulet of the Ghaggar and the Chakki, without holding due auction process. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mining-court-puts-punjab-on-notice-258676
26-05-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Mohali developer fined for delayed possession||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25The Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ordered Parkwood Glade developer, Mohali, to refund Rs 33.86 lakh to Hardesh Mehta, a resident of Faridabad, for failing to deliver the possession of a flat in time.The flat was supposed to be delivered by November 30, 2014. More than six years after the scheduled date, the project was not complete till January this year when the complaint was filed.President of the commission Justice Paramjit Singh Dhaliwal and members Rajinder Kumar Goyal and Kiran Sibal ordered the developer to refund the amount with a 12 per cent interest from the date of booking (March 22, 2012). The commission has also levied a fine of Rs 33,000 for mental agony and it is required to be paid within 30 days of the receipt of the order.Mehta had booked a two-bedroom flat in the residential project Parkwood Glade, located in Sante Majra village in Mohali. The consumer, in the complaint, also highlighted terms of the contract which were “one-sided, biased and totally in favour of the developers”. The Parkwood Glade developer did not present himself before the commission and was proceeded ex parte. There was also no response from the developer for a mail from The Tribune correspondent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-developer-fined-for-delayed-possession-258677
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Speculation over Sukhpal Khaira rejoining Congress||There is speculation in the Congress that Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira can rejoin the party.Khaira categorically denied the reports, adding that “there is nothing like this. I will let you know if there is anything like this”. Sources said the move would help the Chief Minister reestablish the narrative that the party under his leadership at this juncture was in a comfortable position as rebels were joining the party.A senior PPCC leader said the issue had been discussed at the party level but there was no confirmation on Khaira joining it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/speculation-over-sukhpal-khaira-rejoining-congress-258678
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC panel clears 27 advocates for senior tag||A committee set up by the Punjab and Haryana High Court has cleared the names of 27 advocates, including three women, for designating them as seniors. In all, 113 advocates had applied and were scanned by the “permanent committee for designation as senior advocates”. The list is expected to be placed for discussion before the full court, comprising the Chief Justice and all the judges of the High Court.Information suggests only the names cleared by the full court will be designated as senior advocates. The last list was cleared seven years back, when about 13 advocates were designated as seniors. So far, the High Court has designated just over 200 advocates as seniors.A lawyer, with his consent, may be designated as senior advocate if the Supreme Court or a High Court is of that opinion that he is deserving of such distinction by virtue of his ability, standing at the Bar or special knowledge or experience in law. A senior advocate has to follow a separate code of conduct. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-panel-clears-27-advocates-for-senior-tag-258679
26-05-2021||Faridkot||No clue, CBI seeks closure in missing Faridkot youth’s case||Five years after the Punjab and Haryana High Court had ordered a probe by the CBI into the disappearance of Faridkot youth Manoj Kumar, who was working as an ATM money loader, the CBI has sought to close the case, saying no clue could be found about the missing youth and the suspects.Manoj had been missing since May 2014 from Faridkot. A special investigation team of the Punjab Police failed to trace him. Almost Rs 19 lakh had been fraudulently withdrawn from ATMs by those who allegedly abducted Manoj, it is claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-clue-cbi-seeks-closure-in-missing-faridkot-youths-case-258680
26-05-2021||Amritsar||Films on Gurus to comply with norms: SGPC||The SGPC has decided to move ahead with its plans to make religious films but under the ambit of Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ as directed by Akal Takht.A day after objections were raised over the move, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said digital and electronic media were the modern source of learning for the youth and had a wider reach.As per Akal Takht directions, no actor could portray any of the 10 Sikh gurus, their parents, their wives and children on screen in living form. “In our films, the Guru will be symbolically depicted with a voiceover of Gurbani verses. Absolutely no one will be playing the Guru’s character,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/films-on-gurus-to-comply-with-norms-sgpc-258681
26-05-2021||andigarh||Milkha Singh clinically stable, say docs||Legendary athlete Milkha Singh, who is being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital here, is clinically stable with decreasing oxygen requirement, informed the team of doctors treating the 91-year-old.Desperate to return to his normal routine, the former Indian sprinter wished to take a stroll today. However, doctors advised him rest.“He is doing fine, but still under observation at the ICU. He is not eating anything, but doctors termed it fine. Our daughter Mona Milkha Singh, a doctor in the USA, will reach here tomorrow. Thereafter, she will be interacting with doctors and Milkha,” said Milkha’s wife Nirmal Milkha Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/milkha-singh-clinically-stable-say-docs-258527
26-05-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Congress failed to provide Covid care, says Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal today lauded services rendered by senior party leader and MLA NK Sharma for Covid patients in the Dera Bassi Assembly segment.Talking to the media during a visit to the Covid care centre set up by NK Sharma at his farm house, Badal said the Congress government led by Captain Amarinder Singh had “miserably failed” to provide Covid care facilities to people in the state and same was the condition in the Dera Bassi Assembly segment.He said when the Akali leadership witnessed the “failure of the Amarinder Singh government” it came forward to help people. What Sharma has done for people is unparalleled in the history of the Dera Bassi Assembly segment, said Badal.He has spent a huge amount of money to serve humanity. If Sharma had not taken this initiative, people of the area would have suffered a lot, Badal added.Badal also said the Punjab Government should step up testing and vaccination process in the state.Sharma said they had launched the 100-bed Covid care centre on May 1 and till date they had been successful in taking care of hundreds of patients. “Apart from other facilities, the centre has 13 oxygen concentrators and 20 oxygen beds,” said Sharma. He said his team was delivering food packets and medicines to Covid patients on their doorstep. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/zirakpur-congress-failed-to-provide-covid-care-says-sukhbir-badal-258576
26-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana YouTuber calls Arunachal part of China, arrested||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 25A 21-year-old YouTuber based at Janakpuri here was arrested after he allegedly called Arunachal Pradesh a part of China and said state’s MLA Ninong Ering “looks like a non-Indian”.The accused, Paras Singh, was booked by the Arunachal Police after the video on his YouTube channel “Paras Official” went viral.In a tweet, MP Kiren Rijiju said, “The accused will be punished as per law. Such a mindset harms the unity of our country. The Union Home Ministry has already issued advisories to all states and UTs to ensure protection and dignity of the North-East people.”He said a team of the Arunachal Police had left for Punjab. “I have spoken to the Ludhiana police commissioner and asked him to expedite the accused’s transit remand,” he said. Pragya Jain, ADCP, said proceedings were initiated to hand him over to the Arunachal Police.Paras had uploaded the controversial video on Sunday and a day later, he posted another video, seeking apology on the matter.On May 22, Pasighat West MLA Ninong Ering wrote to the PM that efforts were being made to re-launch PUBG in India with a new name.Paras said the ‘MLA looks like a non-Indian and all AP people have same appearance’. He also said ‘Arunachal can’t be found on Indian map because it is part of China’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-youtuber-calls-arunachal-part-of-china-arrested-258571
26-05-2021||Ravi S Singh||On eve of 'black day' protest by farmers, NHRC notices to 3 states over Covid measures at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 25 The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday issued notices to the governments of Haryana, NCT of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh seeking reports on action taken to control spread of Covid infections at the sites where farmers are staging protests.The farmers have been staging sit-in protests at various places against the three Central farms laws. The reports have to be submitted by the three governments to the Commission within four weeks.The notices have been issued in response to a complaint to the Commission regarding mass gathering by farmers and flouting of Covid appropriate behaviour.The complaint has flagged the deaths of farmers, including from Covid infection, and also rise in cases of black fungus. The complainant sought intervention of the Commission apprehending that the situation may become more worrisome as the farmers, in large numbers, are planning for observing May 26 as the "Black Day".The Commission said that the complainant has also pointed that the rules and norms flouted by the farmers are laid down by the Central government, and it's (Commission) very own advisory as safeguards against the pandemic. "Allegedly, the situation is likely to worsen day by day due to the increased inflow of the farmers at the sites of protests. they are not only putting their lives at risk but also posing a risk, as the potential carriers of the virus, to the others in the rural areas." Accordingly, the Commission has issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of NCT of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to submit action taken reports regarding the steps taken to control the spread of Covid infection at the protest sites of the farmers.While issuing the notices, the Commission observed that the country is passing through an unprecedented and scary second wave of Covid, which has already claimed more than three lakh human lives and is still raging virulently in different parts of the country.  "Central and State Governments are struggling against all odds to save lives in the face of inadequate health facilities," the Commission said.The Commission further said that measures like lockdowns, containment zones and Covid protocols are employed to somehow overpower the deadly Covid, which is now leading to other serious diseases like black fungus, white fungus, etc."In these extraordinary circumstances, our sole aim has to be saving human lives."The complainant has also stated that more than 300 farmers have died during this ongoing protest due to several reasons, including Covid infections.Delhi Police warn against gatherings during lockdownWith farmer unions observing 'black day' on Wednesday on completion of six months of their stir against the Centre's agri laws, the Delhi Police have urged people not to hold gatherings due to the COVID situation and the ongoing lockdown and said it is keeping a tight vigil to deal with any situation at the protest sites on the city's borders.Action will be taken against those who try to take the law into their hands, Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said, adding that the force is already present at all borders points, including the protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, and will not allow any illegal activity or entry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-eve-of-black-day-protest-by-farmers-nhrc-notices-to-3-states-over-covid-measures-at-singhu-tikri-ghazipur-258275
26-05-2021||New Delhi||Punjab seeks slashing duty on Covid related items||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal on Tuesday called upon the Centre to have “GST with a heart” as he sought a much lower tax regime on goods required to battle Covid ahead of the meeting of the GST Council on Friday.The stage is set for a vigorous discussion on the issue as the call to provide relief on Covid related items has also been endorsed by the finance ministers of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.The Fitment Committee of the GST Council has recommended against granting full exemption as that would result in increased cost of production of these goods. In this scenario, the opposition finance ministers may press for a token GST of 0.1 % on such items.In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Badal also complained about leaving the decision making to bureaucrats during the period when the GST Council did not meet.Pointing out that 50 pages of the meeting’s agenda contains decisions taken by officials – the GST Implementation Committee (GIC) – Badal complained that these have only been placed for information of state finance ministers and not for review.Badal warned that if these decisions were not placed before the GST Council for its approval, Punjab would not be a party to the “dangerous precedent of subverting the process of law making to officers”.The Punjab finance minister also pointed out that though the GST Council is being convened after eight months, the agenda is mundane and does not touch on issues of a structural nature such as appointing a vice-chair of the GST Council from the states and operationalising the Dispute Redressal Mechanism.There is also no mechanism to place the suggestions of states as a part of the agenda of the GST Council meetings or even to formally acknowledge them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-seeks-slashing-duty-on-covid-related-items-258244
26-05-2021||Muktsar||Youth tied, beaten, head tonsured over love affair in Malout||A Dalit youth was allegedly beaten, made to drink urine and his head allegedly tonsured by people from his village after he was caught having a relationship with a Dalit girl from the same vicinity in Malout town, sources in the police said on Tuesday.The incident occurred on Monday, police sources said.A video of his head being forcibly shaved after the two were found in what police sources said was a “compromising position” went viral on social media.Police said they were still investigating the case. The victim is currently at the civil hospital in Malout town, police sources said.The victim’s cousin said the girl’s family members were among his attackers.The cousin, who doesn’t want to be identified, said police had intervened to rescue the victim.“We demand strict action against them (the attackers)," the cousin said.Inspector Mohan Lal, the station head officer of Malout (City) police station, confirmed the attack. “We had visited the spot and rescued the boy yesterday. He is admitted to the local Civil Hospital. It appears to be a case of some love affair, but when our team had visited there, some people were thrashing him,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-tied-beaten-head-tonsured-over-love-affair-in-malout-258243
