27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 178 more Covid-19 deaths||Punjab on Thursday reported 178 more fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 14,004, while 3,914 fresh infections took the total number of cases to 5,56,089, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped from 50,549 on Wednesday to 48,231, as per the bulletin.The state’s daily recoveries of 5,995 were in excess of the daily infections of 3,914.Seventeen deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 15 from Faridkot and 13 each from Bathinda, Amritsar and Sangrur, of the latest fatalities.Ludhiana reported 411 cases, followed by 401 in Jalandhar, 344 in Bathinda and 313 in Muktsar, among fresh cases.The state’s positivity rate stood at 5.43 per cent, as per the bulletin.With 5,995 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,93,854, as per the bulletin.There are 358 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 943 other critical patients and 5,809 on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 90,01,438 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-178-more-covid-19-deaths-259364
27-05-2021||New Delhi||Sebi orders attachment of PACL properties in Punjab to recover investors money||Markets watchdog Sebi on Thursday ordered attachment of properties related to PACL in an illegal fundraising case as part of efforts to recover thousands of crores of investors money.The properties being attached are land parcels situated at Banur in Punjab, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said in a notice.The regulator had found that PACL Ltd, which had raised money from the public in the name of agriculture and real estate businesses, collected more than Rs 60,000 crore through illegal collective investment schemes (CISs) over 18 years.A committee headed by retired Justice RM Lodha initiated the process of refunds in phases for investors, who had invested in PACL.The committee has successfully effected refunds to more than 12.7 lakh investors, with claims up to Rs 10,000, aggregating to Rs 438.34 crore as of March 2021.The attachment order comes after the Department of Industries & Commerce, Government of Punjab, informed the committee about the properties belonging to PACL. Therefore, the committee directed Sebi's recovery officer to attach these properties.Consequently, the regulator, in an attachment notice on Thursday, attached these properties and prohibited all the persons from disposing of, transferring, or alienating these assets, as per the notice.The regulator has prohibited entities concerned "from taking any benefit under such disposal, transfer, alienation or charge in respect of the properties... which stands attached in execution of recovery certificate" Further, they have been directed to furnish complete details of all the moveable and immoveable properties held by them, and charges if any, in a prescribed format, along with original title deeds pertaining to the four properties within two weeks.Earlier in  December 2015, Sebi had attached various bank, Demat accounts, and mutual fund holdings of PACL and its promoters as well as directors after they failed to pay dues.PACL and its promoters, as well as directors, were asked by Sebi to refund the investors' money in an order passed in August 2014. The defaulters were directed to wind up the schemes and refund money to the investors within three months from the date of the order. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sebi-orders-attachment-of-pacl-properties-in-punjab-to-recover-investors-money-259357
27-05-2021||Washington||US lawmaker honours Punjab-born engineer Ravinder Singh Shergill who helped create USB specifications||A US lawmaker has honoured Indian-American electrical engineer Ravinder Singh Shergill who held several patents related to disk storage and helped create the USB specifications.Shergill died on April 22 aged 64.“Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the United States House of Representatives to join me in honouring the life of Mr Ravinder Singh Shergill. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends during this difficult time,” Congressman David Valadao said in his remarks at the House of Representatives earlier this week.Born on September 12, 1956 in Punjab, Shergill migrated to the US for higher studies at the age of 17.“At the age of 17, he immigrated to the United States and later graduated from UC Berkeley with a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering. He went on to work for National Semiconductor for more than three decades,” Valadao said.“As an engineer, Mr Shergill held patents involving disk storage and helped create the USB specifications. As a manager, he was admired and respected as a mentor to his colleagues. His story is truly an embodiment of the American dream,” he said.Universal Serial Bus (USB) is an industry standard that establishes specifications for cables and connectors and protocols for connection, communication and power supply between computers, peripherals and other computers.Valadao said Shergill had a great appreciation for America, but he never forgot his roots.“He was committed to bridging the Sikh and American communities together and was a founding member of the Sikh Youth of California and America. Shergill is remembered as a caring husband, father, and grandfather with a love for books, history, music, and film,” he said.Shergill is survived by his wife of 39 years, Grace Rosa; two daughters, one son and four grandchildren. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-lawmaker-honours-punjab-born-engineer-ravinder-singh-shergill-who-helped-create-usb-specifications-259351
27-05-2021||New Delhi||Punjab government escalates concern against Centre over GST||The Punjab government on Thursday used the Congress forum and credit line to escalate and give pan-India contours to its angst through its Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal against alleged wobbly implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, including on vacancy of the post of vice chairman, and demanded clarity on rules governing the tax collecting body.Badal held the forte during Congress’ regular media briefing, expressing concern that the rules relating to the GST Council were nebulous, and not adhered to by the Union government, including holding quarterly meeting, which is the legal iron ball of the dispensation.In essence, Badal reiterated the issues which he had raised in his recent letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.He expressed concern at the vacancy of the post of vice chairman, who would be elected from among the finance ministers of the states, and at not activating the laid down grievance redressal mechanism, since get-go.The other opposition-ruled states, including West Bengal and Kerala, have also expressed concerns with the Centre in the matter.He said had the post of vice chairman been activated, there would have been a Secretariat and forum to allow the states’ finance ministers to meet and exchange views.Also, the states would be in a position to push forth their issues as agenda points of GST meetings.“We would like to have a review of the rules. They must be transparent and there should be unambiguity about them,” Badal said.He said that due to faulty implementation of rules and ambiguity, bona fide and established businessmen were hounded, their bank accounts and assets frozen.He said he has raised these issues in his letter to Sitharaman.  “We are feeling cheated and frustrated. We want to see India prosper and eradicate its myriad problems.”He flayed the Union Finance Ministry for allowing the Committee of Officers to adjudicate and change substantive rules which were beyond their remit, and hence their action ultra vires.He said that even in the face of Covid pandemic, the GST Council meetings had not been convened for over six months.He said the government should allow exemption including of medicines, medical devices and PPE kits from GGS to enable the states to deal with the pandemic.He said Punjab is facing shortage of oxygen, ventilators, medicines and vaccinations, among others. However, he underlined that the situation is not as bad as in some other states.Responding to a specific query, he said the payment of the GST arrears by the Centre to states is on track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-escalates-concern-against-centre-over-gst-259303
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Kapil Sharma, Bhumi Pednekar team up to aid Karnataka with oxygen supply||Star comedian Kapil Sharma and actress Bhumi Pednekar have teamed up to provide oxygen supply for people in Karnataka, through Sri Sri Ravi Shankar's Mission Zindagi initiative.The initiative will work at stationing oxygen buses outside Covid hospitals in Hoskote, Devanahalli, Doddaballapur, Nelamangala 1 and Nelamangala 2 to help those in need."Our country is currently witnessing the second wave of this deadly virus, which has now penetrated rural India. With so many cases coming from smaller towns and villages where medical assistance and aid might be limited, the need of the hour is to provide oxygen to the patients," Bhumi said.Kapil added: "As Humans, we have to support each other right now. I'm also doing my bit. It is my honour to associate with the extraordinary work that Gurudev and Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana are doing. With Bhumi, who is doing exemplary work towards Covid relief, this initiative with Mobile oxygen Buses, we have now started supporting people in Karnataka & planning to take this to more states as well."Bhumi shared the buses installed with oxygen concentrators would provide tertiary care to patients outside district hospital emergencies as they waited for a bed."Our buses will help share the load of hospitals in smaller towns where the cases are now rising. I'm glad we collaborated with Kapil on this leg of the mission as he is well-loved by many," she said. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapil-sharma-bhumi-pednekar-team-up-to-aid-karnataka-with-oxygen-supply-259294
27-05-2021||---||188 cases of ‘black fungus’ in Punjab; ramp up alternate drugs for treatment: CM||Chandigarh, May 27With as many as 188 cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) reported so far in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered ramp-up of stocks of alternate drugs to treat the disease, in view of the shortage of Amphotericin, making Punjab the first state in the country to make effective use of alternative medicines to treat the disease.With only Liposomal Amphotericin B injections in the stock, and just 880 more Liposomal expected to be received today, the Chief Minister stressed the need to strengthen alternate drug stocks, as recommended by the Expert Group constituted by his government to deal with the crisis.Stressing the need to ensure that every patient has a chance to recover from black fungus, a disease reportedly caused by overuse of steroids in Covid patients, especially those suffering from diabetes, the Chief Minister said that along with efforts to get more of the Amphotericin drug, the state government has already made available the alternate drugs - Itraconazole (4,000 tablets) and Posaconazole (500 tablets), as suggested by the Expert Group.He also noted with satisfaction that the 6-member Expert Group constituted has begun its task of advising hospitals on the treatment protocols and the use of various drugs being supplied to them.Health Secretary Hussan Lal said of the 188 cases, 40 were not related to Covid, while 148 were of Covid-infected persons, with 133 having been on steroid therapy and 122 on Oxygen support prior to onset of mucormycosis. As many as 154 had diabetes, 56 were immune-compromised, and 47 comorbid. A total of 156 are currently under treatment, 9 have been cured while 23 have died.The state government’s Covid Expert Group head, Dr KK Talwar, said help was being taken from foreign specialists to deal with the problem. Two sessions with national and international experts had been held to set protocols, and patients were being closely monitored and organised help being provided to them, he added.Giving details of the confirmed cases of black fungus reported till date in the government hospitals, Medical Education Secretary DK Tiwari disclosed that the maximum of 16 cases had come to light at GMC Patiala, followed by GMC Amritsar (10), GMC Faridkot (8) and GMC Mohali (2).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/188-cases-of-black-fungus-in-punjab-ramp-up-alternate-drugs-for-treatment-cm-259291
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccination drive for 18-45 age group in Punjab to be expanded||Punjab administration on Thursday announced that on June 1, the vaccination priority list for the 18 to 45 age group in the state, will be expanded. This will include the shopkeepers and their staff, hospitality sector, industrial workers, rehriwalas/street vendors, delivery boys, bus/cab drivers/conductors and members of local bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-vaccination-drive-for-18-45-age-group-in-punjab-to-be-expanded-259288
27-05-2021||New Delhi||NGT directs Punjab chief secy to take steps for protection of river Sutlej floodplains||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Punjab chief secretary in coordination with the River Rejuvenation Committee to take remedial action for the protection of the floodplains of Sutlej River in Ludhiana.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said there is a need for protecting the floodplains of Sutlej River in Ludhiana as well as the forest areas, following provisions of the Environment Protection Act and the Forest Conservation Act."Protection of forests is covered by the statutory mandate of the FC Act and no non-forest activity is allowed in forest areas without statutory clearances, there is no reason to presume that the said mandate will be ignored. Let the concerned authorities look into this aspect and take further action as per law," the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Punjab resident Kapil Dev against a proposed amendment to the Master Plan of Ludhiana for developing a Modern Industrial Park in the forest area and on the flood plains of river Sutlej, in violation of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 (FC Act) and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (EP Act).According to the application, Modern Industrial Park (955.67 Acres) is going to be developed on land coming under floodplains and surrounded by deemed Forest and Sutlej River which are eco-sensitive zones. "The area is 'no manufacturing zone' as per the existing Master Plan. Mattewara Reserve Forest area has been developed as Botanical & Butterfly Garden (BBG Mattewara) in 2014-15. Thus, there is serious threat to rare species of flora by any development in the said area," the plea said.The NGT had earlier formed a Central Monitoring Committee to prepare and enforce a national plan to makeover 350 river stretches across the country pollution free as it has caused a serious threat to the safety of water and the environment. The Central Monitoring Committee will also co-ordinate with the River Rejuvenation Committees of the states and oversee the execution of the action plans, taking into account the timelines, budgetary mechanism and other factors.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngt-directs-punjab-chief-secy-to-take-steps-for-protection-of-river-sutlej-floodplains-259272
27-05-2021||Faridkot||Common Entrance Examination for Army recruitment postponed due to Covid||The Common Entrance Examination (CEE) for Army recruitment, which was scheduled to be held on May 30 at Army Public School, Ferozepur Cantt, has been postponed due to Covid-19.Candidates from Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Fazilka were to appear in the CEE. All the candidates eligible for the CEE had already been declared medically fit during Army Recruitment Rally held from April 1 to April 9 at Ferozepur."The fresh date of the test will be intimated later and the candidates will be informed accordingly to collect the fresh admit cards for CEE from Army Recruiting," said Gagandeep Kaur, Public Relation Officer (defence.)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/common-entrance-examination-for-army-recruitment-postponed-due-to-covid-259270
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to engage 'youth' to fight Covid under Mission Fateh 2.0||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday rolled out a new initiative, involving youth, to take forward the state’s Mission Fateh 2.0 as part of the 'Corona Mukt Punjab Abhiyan' (Covid-free Punjab Campaign), with directions to form groups of seven Rural Corona Volunteers (RCVs) per village or municipal ward as a cadre to fight the pandemic.With the villages more badly affected in the second wave of Covid, it was important to drive a strong campaign for "Corona Mukt Pind", he said, directing the Department of Sports & Youth Affairs and DCs to immediately form such RCVs to be the torchbearers in the war against the contagion. Existing clubs can also become RCVs, he said, adding that these could work as a powerful support system for the Panchayats and Municipalities in the war against COVID.Interacting with youth from rural and urban areas through video conferencing, the Chief Minister said as a result of the support of the people, the number of cases in the state had come down from around 9,000 to over 4,000 in a matter of about three weeks. But given the impact on rural areas this time, the situation continues to be grave, he said.The Chief Minister tasked the RCVs with carrying forward the 3Ts drive (Test, Trace and Treat), taking care of poor and elderly and connecting them to the Covid Control Rooms and helplines, conductingTheekri Pehras in all villages, promoting Covid appropriate behaviour, assisting villagers in accessing adequate healthcare, discouraging Quacks, encouraging download of COVA App, besides preparing and displaying banners and pamphlets.The youth could play a big role also in countering rumours and false propaganda on social media, he said, adding that the state government will extend full support to them to fight the pandemic “and save Punjab together.” He also urged the RCVs to spread awareness among the people in rural areas on the proper protocols to be followed for Covid treatment, given the spread of black/white fungus due to the high usage of steroids.The Chief Minister announced that beginning today, the Department of Youth Affairs has started distributing 1 Lakh Badges and 4 Lakh Car Stickers carrying the message “I AM VACCINATED”, and urged the RCVs to encourage people to flaunt their Vaccination Status. It will display the spread of our vaccination coverage and motivate others too, he added.As a reward for their participation in the war against Corona, every RCV will be given a Sports Kit, to be distributed on August 12 (International Youth Day), said the Chief Minister, directing the Department of Sports & Youth Affairs to immediately commence the procurement of 15,000 kits.While expressing the hope that Mission 2.0 would be the last battle in the war against Covid, the Chief Minister, however, underlined the need to be prepared for a third wave. Drawing an analogy with the Army, he said “the enemy should never be considered weak, and we should be prepared to fight.”Expressing concern over vaccine shortage, the Chief Minister said the state government was trying to procure vaccines from all possible sources to meet the sudden demand as more and more people were realising that this was the only protection against the pandemic, especially given the fast-spreading strain that originated in the UK.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-engage-youth-to-fight-covid-under-mission-fateh-2-0-259266
27-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Armed men 'shoot dead' 2 gangsters in Punjab’s Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, May 27Two gangsters were gunned down allegedly by armed men at Patti, 25 km from here, on Thursday morning.Another man accompanying them was injured.The deceased have been identified as Amandeep Singh Fauji and Prabhdeep Singh Pooran. The injured has been identified as Shamsher Singh Shera.Shera was rushed to Civil Hospital, Patti, before being shifted to a private hospital in Amritsar.According to information, Fauji, Pooran and Shera were returning after paying obeisance at a mausoleum on the outskirts of Patti. Meanwhile, unidentified men came in a car and opened fire on the three. Fauji and Pooran died on the spot and Shera was injured.The police suspect it to be an incident of gangwar.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the police were working on several theories, including that of the involvement of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who is behind bars.Fauji was said to be active in drug trade. He had several cases pending against him, including those of drugs and attempt to murder.The SSP said a police team is collecting CCTV footage from the spot.Meanwhile, SAD activists led by Gurmukh Singh Guhla Blair staged a protest and condemned the killings. They alleged police negligence in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/armed-men-shoot-dead-2-gangsters-in-punjabs-tarn-taran-259258
27-05-2021||Moga||Woman 'raped' at brick kiln in Punjab's Moga||An 18-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and beaten up by two men at Fatehgarh Korotana village in Dharamkot sub-division of Moga district, police said on Thursday.The woman hails from a village in Hardwar district of Uttarakhand and has been working at a brick kiln here for the past couple of years.She told the police that she lived at the brick kiln in an accommodation provided by the owners. At night, two youths, Shubam and Chhotu, entered her room forcibly; when she resisted, they started beating her up and later raped her, she told the police.The local police took the victim to the district hospital. The medical examination confirmed that she was raped, investigating officer Paramjit Kaur said.A criminal case under Sections 376-D and 323 of the IPC had been registered against the two youths at the Dharamkot police station and a manhunt launched to nab them, the investigating officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-raped-at-brick-kiln-in-punjabs-moga-259230
27-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Two ASIs booked for seeking bribe, suspended in Fatehgarh Sahib||Amneet Kondal, SSP, Fatehgarh Sahib, has suspended and booked ASIs Jagdeep Singh and Sajjan Singh posted at the CIA staff, Sirhind, under Sections 7 and 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act on the complaint of Chanderpal of Mandi Gobindgarh.The SSP said few days ago Chanderpal had complained to her that ASIs Jagdeep Singh and Sajjan Singh raided the house of his brother Parma Shankar and recovered 37 boxes of liquor and threatened to implicate his brother and nephew in the case. He alleged that they demanded Rs 50,000 to spare them. She said after getting a report from the SP (Investigation), it was decided to mark them absent from duty and they were suspended. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-asis-booked-for-seeking-bribe-suspended-in-fatehgarh-sahib-259139
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bureaucracy told to take up MLAs’ pending issues||As the group of dissident ministers and MLAs are waiting for response regarding one-on-one meetings with the party high command, the CM camp has stepped up its efforts to realign with the party MLAs by taking up their pending works on priority.To counter the offensive of the party leaders who have been questioning the CM on the unfulfilled poll promises, instructions have been issued to the bureaucracy to speed up the pending issues of the MLAs, including their requests of transfers and postings of officials of their choice. On Wednesday, a number of MLAs were present at the secretariat regarding their pending work.The CM would also be holding virtual meetings with MLAs tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bureaucracy-told-to-take-up-mlas-pending-issues-259137
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhpal Khaira, other AAP MLAs likely to join Congress||The Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab is struggling to keep its flock together. At least three of its MLAs — from the breakaway group — are expected to join the ruling Congress soon.Other than Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, speculation is rife that Bhadaur MLA Pirmal Singh and Maur MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu, too, could join the Congress soon. However, Khaira has so far denied any plan to switch sides. Harpal Cheema, AAP leader, said, “We had demanded from the Speaker that since these MLAs had left the party, their membership be cancelled. Perhaps, the ruling party had been waiting to induct them when the election are close.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhpal-khaira-other-aap-mlas-likely-to-join-congress-259136
27-05-2021||Archit Watts||Poor quality sugar replaced in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 26After a report titled ‘Anganwaris get poor quality sugar’ appeared in these columns of The Tribune, the local office of the Department of Social Security and Women and Child Welfare Department today got the fresh stock of 80 bags of sugar as replacement to supply among children of needy families and pregnant women.Pankaj Kumar, Child Development and Project Officer (CDPO), Muktsar, said, “In Muktsar, we have 200 bags of wet sugar and Morinda Co-operative Sugar Mills Ltd has replaced our 80 bags today. We will soon distribute it to the anganwari centres as a replacement.”He added, “Earlier, in the previous report, I had erroneously said the sugar was supplied by Markfed. However, Markfed has no role in supplying the sugar to us. It was actually supplied by Sugarfed.” It was highlighted in the report that the sugar supplied to some anganwari centres was moist and had lumps. Some anganwari workers had said the sugar was unfit for human consumption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-quality-sugar-replaced-in-muktsar-259135
27-05-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Govt allows conversion of SCF/SCO into commercial units||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26In a decision affecting hundreds of properties in civic bodies across the state, the Local Bodies Department has allowed conversion of shop-cum-dwelling units and shop-cum-office sites into commercial sites, subject to payment of fixed charges.In orders issued on Wednesday, the department has come up with a window period of four months, till September 30, 2021. The relaxation will enable the department to legalise hundreds of such properties that were illegally used for commercial purposes, mainly in cities like Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala, apart from the respective civic bodies earning crores of rupees as conversion charges.The civic bodies had been classified in high and low potential zones for the purpose of charging the conversion fee. The municipal corporation and improvement trust areas of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali and Amritsar have been put in the high potential zone, attracting conversion charges of Rs 5,500 per sq yard and the remaining civic bodies have been put in the low potential zone, attracting conversion charges of Rs 4,000 per sq yard. For a 100 sq yard SCF/SCO, the conversion charges would be between Rs 8 and Rs 10 lakh.The relaxation has been given in all scheme areas of municipal corporations, improvement trusts, municipal councils and approved town planning schemes of private builders. Principal Secretary, Local Government, Ajoy Kumar Sinha said the relaxation had been allowed subject to availability of adequate parking space. It would discourage illegal use of SCFs and SCOs for commercial activity. Chairman of Ludhiana Improvement Trust Raman Balasubramanium said it was a long-pending demand. The relaxation would end unnecessary harassment of property owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-allows-conversion-of-scf-sco-into-commercial-units-259133
27-05-2021||Amritsar||Strongman Anthony Pehalwan arrested in drug seizure case in Tarn Taran||Days after the seizure of 3-kg heroin from Patti, the Tarn Taran police today arrested Manohar Lal Anthony, alias Anthony Pehalwan, in connection with the case. A former Congress leader, he had joined the BJP in 2017, but at present he is politically inactive.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the Anti-Narcotics Cell of the police nabbed Nishan Singh, a resident of Bandala (Ferozepur), on April 5 for allegedly possessing 3-kg heroin, worth Rs 15 crore. He was travelling in a car when he was intercepted by the police following a tip-off. A search led to the recovery of the contraband.He said during his interrogation, it was found that the payment of the drugs was made by Anthony Pehalwan.“Initially, Nishan Singh described the appearance of the person. Then through technical input and analysis, the police zeroed in on Anthony Pehalwan who lives in the Yaseen Road area in Amritsar,” he said, adding that a team nabbed Pehalwan from his house yesterday. He was remanded to two-day police custody and interrogationis under progress.The police officer said Pehalwan had been booked under Sections 27 (A) and 29 of the NDPS Act. It is learnt that he had amassed huge immovable and movable properties. He said the police was identifying his properties which would be frozen during further course of investigations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/strongman-anthony-pehalwan-arrested-in-drug-seizure-case-in-tarn-taran-259132
27-05-2021||---||2,500-litre hooch destroyed in Lambi||Muktsar, May 26Three days after an illegal liquor bottling plant was busted at Badal village, excise department sleuths today conducted a raid at Kattianwali village here and destroyed nearly 2,500-litre hooch found along a canal. Notably, both Badal and Kattianwali villages fall in the Lambi Assembly segment.Vikram Thakur, excise and taxation officerSeries of raidsThe place is a safe haven for notorious elements. A number of raids have been conducted in the past as well and almost every time huge quantity of hooch was destroyed.Vikram Thakur, Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO), Muktsar, said, “The raid was conducted at Kattianwali village on the complaint of some liquor contractors that notorious elements were preparing hooch in the wild growth along a canal. No one could be arrested, but 2,500-litre hooch has been destroyed. Further, no ‘bhatthi’ (distillery) was found but the hooch was recovered from tarpaulin sheets buried in the soil.”He said, “The place is a safe haven for such notorious elements. A number of raids have been conducted in the past as well and almost every time huge quantity of hooch was destroyed.”Some locals said the place was famous as an “illicit liquor den”. “During the previous SAD-BJP government, the Congress leaders always accused the Akalis of patronising these notorious elements. However, even during the Congress rule, nothing has changed,” they said.Notably, the excise officials, with the help of the police, on Saturday conducted a raid at an orchard at Badal village and recovered 2,200-litre extra neutral alcohol (ENA), thousands of filled and empty bottles, fake holograms, labels, caps, cartons, caramel, essence, etc, of some major brands. Four persons were booked and three of them were arrested from the spot, while the fourth is yet to be arrested. Meanwhile, the police said those arrested from Badal village were sent to judicial custody today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-500-litre-hooch-destroyed-in-lambi-259131
27-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||List for senior tag to advocates fails to find ready approval||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26A day after a committee set up by the Punjab and Haryana High Court cleared the names of 27 advocates for designating them as seniors, the list apparently failed to find ready approval by the full court comprising the judges. It is believed that the judges attending the full court not only voted for the names of the 27 shortlisted candidates, but also “ticked” against the names of left out applicants they considered deserving.In all, 113 advocates had initially applied for the senior tag, but one of the candidates died due to Covid during the pendency of the process. The remaining 112 applications were scanned by the “permanent committee for designation as senior advocates” before the applicants were interviewed. The list of the shortlisted candidates was then placed for discussion before the full court, comprising the Chief Justice and the judges of the High Court.Available information suggests some of the judges during the meeting expressed their unhappiness with the list. A substantial number of judges was, rather, of the opinion that certain other names were also required to be included.The judges then resorted to voting upon the names of the shortlisted candidates and also tick-marked the names from the original list of all applicants. It is not clear whether the process of tick-marking is being considered as voting or approval of names by the judges attending the full court meeting for subsequent approval by the committee constituted for the purpose.Only the names cleared by the full court are designated as senior advocates. The last list was cleared seven years back, when about 13 advocates were designated as seniors. So far the High Court has designated just over 200 advocates as seniors.A lawyer, with his consent, may be designated as senior advocate if the Supreme Court or a High Court is of that opinion that he is deserving of such distinction by virtue of his ability, standing at the Bar or special knowledge or experience in law. A senior advocate has to follow a separate code of conduct and is not permitted to appear without an advocate-on-record or a junior.Unhappy with names||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/list-for-senior-tag-to-advocates-fails-to-find-ready-approval-259130
27-05-2021||---||Bathinda rape case: Punjab and Haryana High Court raps cops, says protectors of law turned into predators||Chandigarh, May 26The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the Punjab Police for turning into “predators” in a case where a widow’s Covid-infected son was allegedly implicated in a drugs case after she refused sexual favour to police officials.Also admonishing the police for insensitivity in constituting an all-male special investigation team to probe a rape case registered on her complaint, Justice Arun Monga further directed the state through its Director-General of Police to constitute a new SIT.Justice Monga made it clear that the new team would be headed by Additional Director-General of Police Gurpreet Deo. She would be assisted by Muktsar Senior Superintendent of Police D Sudarvizhi and Budhlada Deputy Superintendent of Police Prabhjot Kaur.The matter was placed before Justice Monga after the woman filed a petition apprehending “bodily harm” and tampering with the evidence. Justice Monga observed the allegations and factual averments in the petition were so grisly and frightful that one could only hope those were fictitious. Justice Monga also took note of the state counsel’s submissions that it was a case of honey trap laid by the petitioner that later boomeranged, before adding if that was not the case it reflected the sordid state of affairs in the Punjab Police, particularly in the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) at Bathinda. Justice Monga further added: “The very protectors/enforcers of law and order have turned into predators, making a 38-year-old widow-mother victim of their lust… An FIR, allegedly a false one, was registered against her son under the NDPS Act by planting contraband on him so as to arm-twist the petitioner. Eventually, under duress to get her son released, she yielded to the sexual demands of the CIA staff.”Referring to the constitution of the all-male SIT to look into the rape case registered under Section 376 of the IPC on May 12 at the Cantonment police station in Bathinda on her complaint, Justice Monga added it was rather intriguing, given the nature of sensitive investigation, that woman police official was not involved, which otherwise also was the requirement of law. “To say the least, it is highly deplorable to see the insensitivity with which the district police officials have acted, in constituting the SIT having all male members,” Justice Monga asserted, before making it clear that the new team would probe both the rape and the drugs case.Justice Monga also asked the state counsel to seek instructions on steps so far taken under the ‘Witness Protection Scheme, 2018’ following the petitioner’s apprehensions of bodily harm. The state counsel was also asked to seek instructions on departmental action, if any, and steps taken for proceeding against the accused in criminal proceedings arising out of both the FIRs.Advocate seeks protection from husbandThe Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association has forwarded a representation to the Punjab DGP by a woman advocate, seeking protection of life from her husband, an IPS officer. It was alleged that the IPS officer had openly threatened to harm the advocate/applicant||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-rape-case-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-cops-says-protectors-of-law-turned-into-predators-259129
27-05-2021||Ravinder Saini & Mukesh Tandon||Massive show of strength at Tikri, Singhu borders||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar/Panipat, May 26On the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), protesting farmers on Wednesday observed a ‘black day’ at the Tikri and Singhu borders on the completion of six months of the ongoing agitation against three farm laws.The day also marked the completion of seven years of the Centre’s formation.At Tikri, where farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping for the past six months, a festive mood prevailed on Wednesday with black flags hoisted on every hut and vehicle. Women donned black salwar-suit and dupatta while men wore black badges on their arms to mark the day. The Sikh protesters tied black cloth on their turbans.Young protesters put up a show of unity by taking out a bike rally from Tikri to Dhansa border while passing through various villages. A play describing the Centre’s intentions for the farm laws and movement was also staged by artistes from Punjab at the main protest site.Residents from nearby villages holding black flags in their hands reached the border and expressed their solidarity. “Today’s protest was not only an epitome of farmers’ strength but also a slap on the face of the Centre, which is using all unfair means to sabotage the historical stir. We have been here for the past six months despite all odds and are prepared to spend as much time as needed to win this battle. So, the Centre should repeal the three laws without testing us more,” said Parminder Singh, a protester.Purushottam Singh Gill, a senior BKU (Lakhowal) leader, claimed the protest evoked an overwhelming response as people from every section of society contributed by hoisting black flags on their rooftops or vehicles. “The success of today’s protest is a clear indication that we are heading in the right direction,” he added.At Singhu, the protesters hoisted black flags at the main stage, on their tents, bamboo huts, tractor-trailers and two-wheelers. They also celebrated Buddha Purnima.Various SKM leaders said May 26 was marked as a “black day” for farmers, with lakhs of citizens expressing their resistance against the Centre in numerous ways. Multiple hashtags in support of the movement trended on social media since the morning, they claimed.Govt was mistakenMeanwhile, effigies of the Prime Minister were also burnt at Tikri, Pakoda Chowk in Bahadurgarh, the main gate of the kisan office at Singhu and across the state.Ambala: BKU activists burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Ambala and Kurukshetra. Leaders of the Congress, AAP and Haryana Democratic Front hoisted back flags on the rooftops of their homes.BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni appealed to Uttar Pradesh farmers to start opposing BJP leaders as the elections were scheduled in the state next year.Karnal/Kaithal: Farmers burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44 in Karnal district, and at Titram Mor in Kaithal district. They also protested at Pehowa chowk, Pundri, Pai, Kalayat in Kaithal district.Tajinder Singh, a protester, said: “Farmers faced extreme cold and now they are protesting in scorching heat. We will not go back until the three laws are revoked.”Another protester Manju “We are not excited to observe ‘black day’. The Modi government has left us with no option, but to protest.”Rohtak: Farmers burnt the effigy of the Union Government outside Mansarovar Park here. They also celebrated the festival of Budhha Purnima. They reiterated that the government must revoke the three controversial farm laws.The effigies were also burnt in Sonepat and Panipat.Cong doesn’t want stir to succeed: VijChandigarh: The Congress doesn’t want the farmers’ movement to succeed and was not in their interests, said Home Minister Anil Vij. Interacting with the media on Wednesday, he said, “Everyone has a right to protest in independent India. The Congress and other parties are hiding behind the farmers' movement and have been exposed. They don't want the movement to succeed.” He pointed out that he and even farmers’ leaders had written to the Union Agriculture Minister for starting talks again. TNSShould start talks with farmers: SeljaChandigarh: Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja on Wednesday supported the “black day” observed by farmers and appealed to the Central government to accept their demands. She said the BJP government at the Centre should immediately “do away with its ego” and start the process of dialogue with the farmers and withdraw the black laws. Besides, the Haryana Government should withdraw the cases registered against farmers in the state during the agitation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/massive-show-of-strength-at-tikri-singhu-borders-258916
27-05-2021||Abohar||Notice against hospital official’s son for black marketing remdesivir||A lookout notice has been issued by the Sriganganagar police to prevent Rahul Gehlot (22), a student of MBBS, from leaving India. His father Dhiraj Gehlot is serving as an administrative official in the district hospital. Rahul is wanted in the remdesivir injection black-marketing case.The Immigration Department has been informed by the police in this regard. SI Shambhu Dayal said a lookout notice had been issued as the police suspected Rahul might flee the country. He is pursuing MBBS in Armenia. Dhiraj has been reassuring that he would produce his son for questioning, but an attempt was reportedly made to procure Covid-negative report for him without sampling.Dr BS Chauhan, Principal Medical Officer, has constituted a team of two doctors for investigation and they have been told to submit a report. A section of the hospital staff has come under the scanner for preparing “fake” RT-PCR negative report. Cops said the role of the doctor in-charge of the Covid-19 lab could not be ruled out. They said Dhiraj was not available for questioning as his office was locked. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/notice-against-hospital-officials-son-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-259127
27-05-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Two Jalandhar families lose breadwinners to virus||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 26Tragedy struck two Jalandhar-based families with both losing all breadwinners to Covid in a short span. Both families have lost four members to the viral disease leaving behind women and children, who are completely devastated not just emotionally but also financially.Three brothers, aged 45, 48 and 55 years and their septuagenarian mother from a family in Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar succumbed to the infection in a matter of just a week. While 48-year-old Gurmeet Singh passed away on May 19, his younger brother Surjit Singh died three days later. This morning, their mother Mahinder Kaur and elder brother Avtar Singh also lost their battle against the disease.Charanjit Singh, a relative, said, “Gurmeet’s daughter, who is married, had come to meet them and she perhaps had Covid then. She herself got cured but the infection proved too fatal for everyone else. The three brothers were engaged in small finance business. The women have never worked. It has been the worst tragedy I have ever seen.”Another family based at Jyoti Nagar saw four deaths within three weeks. While it all started with Manmohan Kaur Bedi (76) falling prey to the infection on May 8, her husband Jagjit Singh Bedi (86) died the next day. The family was still recovering from the shock of the death of the two elderly when their elder son Kanwaljit S Bedi (55) passed away on May 16. Yesterday, Kanwaljit’s younger brother Manpreet Singh Bedi (52), who ran a popular stationery shop in Jalandhar, also failed in his fight against the infection.The members of both families said re-building their lives would not be easy as the women lived in joint families and had never stepped out all their lives. The children, though all adults, are still not settled to bear the burden. 4 black fungus cases detected in FazilkaFazilka: After four cases of black fungus infection were reported in Fazilka district, one patient succumbed to the disease. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kumar said Sukhminder Singh (52) of Chak Saidoke village, who was infected with black fungus, was admitted to the DMC, Ludhiana, but died. OCTeacher donates 5 O2 concentratorsFaridkot: An assistant professor of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday donated five oxygen concentrators of 10-litre capacity each to the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. Dr Manraj Kang, a fourth generation doctor, took help from an NRI relative to procure the concentrators. TNSAnti-pneumonia drive launchedChandigarh: Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu launched SAANS (Social Awareness & Action to Neutralise Pneumonia Successfully) campaign. He said, “Mild, moderate and severe pneumonia can affect Covid-hit children severely.” TNSCM for one lakh jobsChandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has asked the Employment Generation and Training Department to give a push to achieve the target of 1 lakh government jobs at the earliest. He lauded the department’s efforts in facilitating 17.61 lakh jobs since March 2017 even during Covid-19. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-jalandhar-families-lose-breadwinners-to-virus-259126
27-05-2021||Vishav Bharti||Covid: 28 per cent health workers in Punjab yet to be inoculated||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26The Covid vaccination drive for health workers was started across the country over four months ago, but in Punjab, around 28 per cent of them are yet to get even the first dose. Similarly, around 10 per cent of the frontline workers are yet to be vaccinated.Additional Health Secretary Dr Manohar Agnani, in a letter to the state, said so far the Centre had supplied 49.13 lakh doses, of which 47.87 lakh doses were consumed.“An analysis of the vaccination drive for priority groups reveals that till date 27.82 per cent of the registered healthcare workers and 9.67 of frontline workers have not received the first dose,” he said.The state is also lagging behind in vaccinating other groups as well. For the 45-plus age group, the first dose coverage in Punjab is 30.04 per cent against the national average of 33.7 per cent.The Centre has requested the state to accelerate the inoculations using the Centre’s supply for 45-plus age group and direct procurement for 18-44 age group.For the past two months, the state has been seeking adequate supply of vaccines. It says it has infrastructure to administer 3 lakh doses a day, but due to shortage, it is able to give just 60,000-70,000 doses per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-28-per-cent-health-workers-in-punjab-yet-to-be-inoculated-259116
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Black day’: Protesters burn effigies of PM Modi, Amit Shah, Tomar  in tricity||Six months on, the rage against the Central Government’s agro-market laws continues to smoulder. Pro-farmer groups, farmers and civil society members set afire effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Cabinet members, including Home Minister Amit Shah and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to mark ‘black day’ in the tricity today.On a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a total of 19 such effigies were burnt in Chandigarh alone. In Mohali, hundreds toured the city with hoisting black flags on tractors, cars, tractor-trailers, scooters, cycles and motorbikes from the Sohana gurdwara to Bestech Square Mall.Public backs causeWhile the Mohali police struggled to manage the traffic, the general public remained supportive and sympathetic towards protesters. “They till the soil in this heat. They work hard. They don’t want these laws; why force them to accept? I am with farmers. I will wait here till the traffic clears. No problem,” said Simranjit Kaur, who was stuck at the traffic lights near Amb Sahib.Coming all the way from the rally in Mohali, Satnam Singh Tanda describes his experience as ‘motivating’. Showing a video, he says, “Modi’s effigy was hung atop a crane, and it was in front of the Sohana gurdwara that we hung a garland of shoes around the effigy. Then we toured across Mohali to reach the mall where the effigy was finally set ablaze.”While the Mohali police struggled to manage the traffic, general public remained supportive and sympathetic towards protesters. “They till the soil in this heat. They work hard. They don’t want these laws; why force them to accept? I am with farmers. I will wait here till the traffic clears. No problem,” said Simranjit Kaur, a resident of Mohali, who was stuck at the traffic lights near Amb Sahib.The situation at the Sector 34/33 light point in the city was, however, different. The Sector 33 road, on which the BJP office is located, was closed. The office was fortified with cops deployed on both sides of the road. Some 300 protesters raised slogans against Modi-Shah at the light point.“They are using heavy police force to monitor a peaceful protest! It only shows they are scared,” said Parteek Maan of Nojawan Kisan Ekta.Another protester, Aman, said, “If only the government had shown such preparedness in guarding its people against Covid, things would have been better. The BJP just wants to protect itself, nobody else.”Protesters burnt an effigy of Modi at the Sector 34 traffic light point at 3 pm, barely 200 metres from the BJP office. These protesters were joined by door-to-door garbage collectors as well as members of Pendu Sangharsh Commitee and Samuh Gurdwara Sangathan, Chandigarh.The effigies were burnt at many other places in the city, including Matka Chowk, the PGI chowk and Sector 39, Sector 19/27 and other traffic light points, where people have been protesting for more than five months. Protests were held at Mani Majra and Panjab University. At the university, members of the Students for Society and the Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkaar) held the protest. Most people were dressed in black and held black flags along with farmer-union flags.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-day-protesters-burn-effigies-of-pm-modi-amit-shah-tomar-in-tricity-258836
27-05-2021||---||From Amritsar to Tikri, black flags hoisted to mark six months of farmers’ agitation||New Delhi/Chandigarh, May 26Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday hoisted black flags atop their houses and vehicles and burnt effigies of the Union Government to mark the completion of six months of their agitation against the three contentious agri laws. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, spearheading the protest, said they were prepared to stretch the stir till 2024 when the next General Election is to be held.Speaking at an event in Delhi, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said the SKM was prepared for a long haul.“There is no going back,” he stressed. Protesters at Singhu and Tikri, the epicentres of the farm movement, hoisted flags at the main stage, atop tents, bamboo huts and vehicles. They gathered at the ‘Kisan Andolan’ office at Kundli and held a march amid sloganeering.At Tikri, male protesters wore black badges and the women black salwar-suits and dupattas. They held a bike rally that culminated at the Dhansa border while passing through Jhajjar. “Contrary to the government claims that the stir would end in the course of time, it has spread across the country,” a buoyant Gurnam Singh, BKU (Charuni) chief, said.Rallies were held across Punjab with farmers sporting black bands on turbans. At some places, the protesters burnt effigies of senior BJP leaders. Political leaders in Punjab backed the farmers by hoisting black flags atop their houses.While the Kirti Kisan Union held tractor marches, the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), All-India Kisan Federation, BKU (Rajewal) and BKU (Dakaunda) organised foot marches. In Phagwara, Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba) general secretary Satnam Singh Sahni claimed shopkeepers and traders too put up black flags outside their shops in solidarity with the farming community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/from-amritsar-to-tikri-black-flags-hoisted-to-mark-six-months-of-farmers-agitation-259054
27-05-2021||Ropar||10 years on, BBMB revives Nangal oxygen plant||The district administration got a major boost in supplying extra medical oxygen to hospitals in the district when a five-decade-old plant of Bhakra Beas Management Board in Nangal was revived and it started generating oxygen around 2 am.Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said initially six cylinders were filled with oxygen. “After examining the quality of oxygen, the plant will start production at full capacity,” she added. The oxygen plant set up in 1950s during the construction of Bhakra dam was shut down 10 years ago due to its old technology and higher cost of oxygen production. Before closure, the plant used to produce nearly 100 cylinders of 43 kg each per day.Keeping in view the increasing demand for oxygen in hospitals due to spike in Covid-19 cases, the DC had last month asked the BBMB authorities to consider reopening the plant. Following this, technical experts from the Army visited the plant and after efforts of around one month, it started producing oxygen today. Bhakra dam deputy chief engineer HL Kamboj said the plant had been re-started on trial basis. “Its production capacity would be known only after a few days of regular production.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-years-on-bbmb-revives-nangal-oxygen-plant-259017
27-05-2021||Balwant Garg||Don’t charge capitation fee, National Medical Commission tells colleges in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 26In the draft of its guidelines for the determination of fee for MBBS and MD/MS courses in private medical colleges, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has recommended no institution should charge capitation fee in any form.For the determination of fee, it needs to be ensured that the principle of the education being “not-for-profit” is strictly adhered to.“It is necessary that whereas all operating costs and other expenses for running and maintenance of the institution for imparting medical education on a sustainable basis are covered in the fee, no excessive expense and exorbitant profit component should be allowed to be added to it,” read the draft guidelines issued by the NMC, inviting public comments, on Wednesday.In July last year, the Union Health Ministry had set up a “fee guidelines” draft to streamline the fee in private medical and deemed universities for UG, PG medical and dental courses. The revised or streamlined fee will be imposed on the private medical colleges from 2021-22 academic session, said sources.The NMC has also stated that medical colleges cannot add the cost of running a hospital to the cost for providing medical education. Only the portion of hospital resources used for teaching can be factored in while computing fee. However, if a hospital is running at a loss, then the State Fee Regulatory Authority can allow up to 20 per cent of the costs of the hospital to be counted as part of the operating cost of the medical college.“Even the stipends paid to PG students on residency cannot be included in the operation cost of the medical college and will be counted as the hospital’s expenses,” read the draft. The NMC has also asked medical colleges to not charge exorbitant amounts as a security deposit or caution money and the fee will be based mainly on the “operating cost” of the institution. The draft has computed the “operation cost” of a medical college in its seven-page draft guidelines.The draft read that the fee can be fixed “for a block” of three years or annually. The guidelines allow colleges to charge security deposits or caution money, provided they are not “exorbitant” and “development fee at the rate of 6% to 15% of the operating cost can be added for meeting the development expenditure for growth and expansion of the medical college”.“The fee determined on the basis of these guidelines should not be more than the existing fee determined by the State Fee Regulatory Authority,” read the document. The total sanctioned roll-strength will be a factor in determining the cost-per-student for both MBBS and PG courses.Stipends not part of running cost||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-charge-capitation-fee-national-medical-commission-tells-colleges-in-punjab-258990
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Speed up infra projects in Patiala: Punjab CM||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday asked the Patiala Deputy Commissioner to speed up the ongoing canal-based water supply project with an investment of Rs 468 crore for ensuring potable drinking water supply to residents of the city with a direction to formulate a plan to cover all colonies in and around the city under the scheme.He also directed all line departments to work in tandem for speedy completion of these ongoing major projects, including the new bus stand, sports university, rejuvenation of “chhoti” and “badi nadi” besides sprucing up the heritage street.The DC informed the CM that 60 per cent of the work on the water supply project would be completed by L&T infrastructure company by March 2022. The Principal Secretary, Public Works, said the bus stand over an area of 6.31 acre would be completed by November 2021 while the workshop over 2.20 acre by March 2022. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/speed-up-infra-projects-in-patiala-punjab-cm-258968
27-05-2021||---||Held for sacrilege, Dera Sacha Sauda men move court, allege being forced to confess||Faridkot, May 26Shakti Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola and Pardeep Kumar, alias Raju, three of the six arrested Dera Sacha Sauda followers and accused in sacrilege cases, have moved an application in the court of the Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMIC), Faridkot, here alleging that officials in the special investigation team (SIT) of the police were threatening them to wrongfully confess guilt.In their application in the court, the accused dera followers alleged the SIT members were threatening them to confess their guilt by recording a statement before the court. “We are being threatened that if a confessional statement was not recorded by us, we and our family members will have to face inhuman physical torture and we will be done to death in judicial custody,” alleged the accused in their application to the court.While the SIT members denied making any comment on the allegation, saying they will not speak to media as per the High Court orders, the accused in their application in the court claimed they had not committed the alleged offence and were innocent.“We do not want to make any confessional statement but we are being wrongfully coerced by the SIT officials. So the necessary intimation is being given to the court with the request to save us from physical and mental torture by SIT officials to avoid any forced involuntary confessional statement,” the accused wrote to the court.For the offence of pasting derogatory posters near a gurdwara at Bargari village in 2015, the JMIC on Wednesday allowed two-day extension in police remand of two of the accused.On May 16, the newly constituted SIT had arrested six dera followers for allegedly scattering torn pages of a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib, which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara on June 1, 2015. While three of the arrested dera followers are under treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital after they tested positive for Covid-19, the SIT arrested Ranjit Singh and Shakti Singh in another case of pasting derogatory posters near the gurdwara.‘Under pressure’In their application to the court, the dera followers have alleged they are being threatened if a confessional statement is not recorded, they and their family members will have to face torture and death in judicial custody||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/held-for-sacrilege-dera-sacha-sauda-men-move-court-allege-being-forced-to-confess-258959
27-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||BKU (Charuni) sets up unit in Punjab, elects leaders||Haryana-based BKU (Charuni), led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s firebrand leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, has made a foray into Punjab. The Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Union (BKMU) in Majha, Malwa, and Doaba merged with the BKU (Charuni) todayThe merger happened at a function at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib. Charuni nominated Gurmeet Singh as Punjab president and Chamkaur Singh as vice-president and authorised them to form units across the state and strengthen the union further.The merger plan was kept secret and mediapersons came to know about it very late. Charuni’s entry into the state may hit other farmer groups, as, sources said, smaller groups may join it. The speculation is rife that Charuni after entrenching his roots in Punjab may even support some political party or float his own outfit or may even contest the SGPC elections. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-charuni-sets-up-unit-in-punjab-elects-leaders-258953
27-05-2021||Vibha Sharma||Ready to stretch stir against three farm laws till 2024: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 26Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders today said they were prepared to continue their agitation against the three farm laws and one on the MSP till 2024 when the next General Elections are due.Don’t be misled: BJP to farmersSpeaking at an event, organised by the Indian Women Press Corps on the six months of ‘kisan andolan’, BKU leader from Western UP Rakesh Tikait said the SKM was prepared for a long haul.“The talks will begin from where they ended. There is no going back. Only the government can now take back the agitation. We are prepared to continue the agitation till 2024,” he said. Tikait said they had not received any reply from the Modi government on their letter for resumption of talks, adding “we cannot leave them like this, it is a democratic country”.Speaking on the six-month agitation that had catapulted the farmers’ issue to the international level, Tikait and farm leader from Haryana Gurnam Singh Charuni said farm unions managed to gain the confidence of people.“This despite the government telling lies, making all sorts of allegations against us. Today, it will say that because of us Covid is spreading,” Tikait added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-stretch-stir-against-three-farm-laws-till-2024-samyukt-kisan-morcha-258865
27-05-2021||Tribune Reporters||Farmers hold protests across Punjab||Bathinda/Patiala, May 26Farmers and people from various sections of society hoisted black flags atop their houses, burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government and held rallies and protest marches across the state on Wednesday, joining the ‘black day’ call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to mark the six months of their agitation at Delhi borders against the three agricultural laws.Amarjot Singh Jandiala, BKU (Rajewal) Leader Stir will prove to be bjp’s nemesisThis protest will serve as an indication to the Centre that the BJP will be completely wiped out in Punjab and other states. Even six months after the protest, the Centre remains unmoved. We, too, won’t budge.In Bathinda and Mansa districts, farmers under the banner of Ugrahan, Sidhupur, Dakonda and Mansa factions of the BKU, Punjab Kisan Union and several other organisations carried out marches and burnt effigies of the Centre to express their resentment.In a meeting held in Mansa district, Punjab Kisan Union state president Ruldu Singh Mansa warned that “if the obdurate stance of the Modi government continues, the BJP will have to face its consequences in the future elections.” He said farmers would start the mass mobilisation against the BJP.In Patiala, protesters burnt effigies of the central government at many places, including Samana, Rajpura and the National Highway near Shambhu. The Congress, SAD and AAP extended their support to the farmers’ call. Farmers and women carrying black flags held protests and raised slogans in many villages.In Amritsar, farmer unions organised protests on main roads of the city. They burnt effigies of corporate houses and Modi and reiterated their commitment to continue the protest until the farm laws were repealed. The effigies were burnt in rural areas also. People in the city hoisted black flags atop their homes and vehicles.In Jalandhar, farmers under the banner of Doaba, Kadiyan and Rajewal factions of the BKU, Kirti Kisan Union, Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, Mazdoor Ekta Sangh and other organisations held protests at various places. Nearly 200 farmers under the banner of BKU (Rajewal) assembled outside the District Administration Office to burn the effigies of PM and Home Minister Amit Shah. SAD and Congress leaders also participated in the protest. Advocates hit the roads and raised slogans against the Centre near the court complex.A similar show of solidarity was witnessed in Ludhiana. BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said braving vagaries of weather, farmers had been protesting at Delhi borders since November 26 to get the three farm Acts revoked.“Protesting farmers were left with no other choice but to observe the black day across the nation to wake up the Centre from its deep slumber,” he said.Lakhowal urged the Centre to dispense justice to protesting farmers so that they could return to their fields. In Moga, farmers, social activists, political leaders and people of all age groups and from various walks of life raised black flags, carried out marches and rallies and burnt effigies of the PM Modi at 30 locations in Moga.Farm unions burnt the PM’s effigies at the bus stand in Kishanpura Kalan, Madheke, Dagru, Rama, Khukhrana and Brahmke villages and Dharmkot town.Farmers also burnt PM Modi’s and Shah’s effigies at Charik, Machike Talwandi Mallian, Bhagike, Kot-ise-Khan town, Bhaloor, Himmatpura, Fathegarh Panjtoor, Badhni Kalan and Alamwala villages. Protesters carried out at a tractor march at Khukhrana, Singhanwala, Rode, Badhni Kalan villages and Baghapurana town.Members of social and teachers’ organisations in Moga city also carried black flags. BKU youth activists held motorcycle rallies in villages.(With inputs from Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Moga)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-hold-protests-across-punjab-258950
27-05-2021||Abohar||Protesters wave black flags along highways in Punjab||Hundreds of farmers in Abohar, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh today expressed their anger by burning effigies of PM Narendra Modi and hoisting black flags.Activists of Gramin Mazdoor Kisan Samiti (GKS), Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Jai Kisan Andolan burnt effigies in their own villages and waved black flags. Effigies were burnt in villages also.The Kisan Sangharsh Samiti burnt the PM’s effigy on Abohar-Sriganganagar highway at Sadhuwali. Some activists gathered to hoist black flags at toll points on Padampur Road and Suratgarh Road. The PM’s effigy was burnt by former CPM MLA Het Ram Beniwal outside the Traders Association building in Grain Market. A black flag was also hoisted at the Traders Association building. Sheopat Ram Meghwal, a member of the National Executive of the All-India Kisan Sabha led the protest in Raisinghnagar. A black flag was also hoisted at PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s residence. – OC Lawyers, traders stand by farmersLawyers and traders on Wednesday observed the black day in Fatehgarh Sahib. SKM members burnt an effigy of the Centre and presented a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner. Led by District Bar Association former president AS Dharni, lawyers put up a black flag atop the district lawyers’ complex.AAP demonstrates outside Raj BhawanChandigarh: On the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, AAP leaders protested in front of Punjab Raj Bhawan on Wednesday. Led by party MLA and state Kisan Wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Youth Wing president and MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, AAP workers observed black day and raised slogans in favour of the farmers' rights and against the central government. TNSBadal family shows supportMuktsar: The Badals on Wednesday hoisted black flags atop their residences in Badal village and Delhi. A black flag was hoisted atop the entrance of the residence of former CM Parkash Singh Badal at Badal village here. Later, Bathinda MP hoisted a black flag atop her official residence in Delhi. TTNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-wave-black-flags-along-highways-in-punjab-258951
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 4,124 fresh Covid-19 cases, 186 more deaths||Punjab’s Covid-19 caseload surged to 5,52,235 on Wednesday as 4,124 more people tested positive for the disease while the death toll climbed to 13,827 with 186 more fatalities, according to a medical bulletin.Of the latest deaths, 20 each were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala, 15 from Sangrur and 14 each from Amritsar, Bathinda and Fazilka, the bulletin stated.Ludhiana reported the highest number of fresh cases at 438, followed by 385 in Bathinda, 337 in Jalandhar and 318 in Mansa, it said.The number of active cases dropped to 50,549 from 53,127 on Tuesday. The state’s positivity rate stands at 5.44 per cent, the bulletin said.There are 354 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 942 other critical patients and 6,007 patients on oxygen support, it said.As many as 6,397 Covid-19 patients recovered in a day. With this, the number of cured persons increased to 4,87,859, it added.So far, 89,25,740 samples have been collected for testing in the state, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-4-124-fresh-covid-19-cases-186-more-deaths-258830
27-05-2021||Nitin Jain||UK strain to blame for surge in Punjab: Survey||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 25Contrary to the national trend, the UK variant is growing fast and has become the most dominant strain in Punjab, the state government has confirmed.B.1.617 variant in just 10% samplesThis variant (B.1.1.7) accounts for 84.6 per cent of all variants of concern (VoCs) found in the state during the genome sequencing of 965 samples since January, the data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department has revealed.However, B.1.617 (the variant first detected in India), which has become the most dominant in the country, accounting for 65 per cent of the total VoCs found in India so far and was also spreading rapidly in several other countries as well, was detected in only 10.5 per cent samples.The official analysis of the VoCs, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that a total of 965 VoCs were found by the researchers during the whole genome sequencing of the samples collected in the state from January to May.Of those, 816 were that of the UK variant, 101 of B.1.617, four B.1 (0.4 per cent), two South African variant B.1.351 (0.2 per cent), one each of Nigerian variant B.1.525 and B.1.36 (0.1 per cent each), and 40 other mutations, which accounted for 4.1 per cent of the total VoCs detected during the last less than five months.The month-wise break-up of the VoCs found in the state suggested that a maximum of 672 VoCs, which accounted for 95.9 per cent, were found in the total of 701 samples genome sequenced in the state in March, followed by 94.2 per cent VoCs in 195 of the total 207 samples in April, 16 per cent VoCs in 16 of the total 100 samples in February, and single variant of concern was detected in the total of four samples processed in the state in January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uk-strain-to-blame-for-surge-in-punjab-survey-258656
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black day: From Amritsar to Tikri, farmers hoist black flags, burn effigies of BJP leaders||Six months after they descended on the Delhi border seeking repeal of the three farm laws, the protesting farmers may have been forgotten by the Centre amid the Covid surge, but their movement is still alive.Farmers at several places in Punjab put up black flags atop their houses, led protest marches and burnt effigies of central government leaders on Wednesday. Protests were witnessed in Punjab's Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar and Mohali districts. In Zirakpur, farmers protested at the Singapura lights point. Slogans against the Centre were raised in Landran village. In Amritsar, farmers raised anti-government slogans and burnt effigies of central government leaders. In the Jalandhar district, protests were held at Sultanpur Lodhi in Kapurthala and on the Nakodar road. In Haryana too, state BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni has appealed farmers to hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles to register their protest.Also read: Badal hoists black, saffron flags atop residence in support of farmersSeveral political parties including the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party have extended their support to the farmers' call of observing the day as 'black day'.Farmers in Dandoor village of Hisar district on Wednesday raised anti-government slogans and burned the effigy of the BJP government to mark the Black Day on the completion of six months of farmers agitation against the three farms laws.In Jhajjar, farmers hoisted black flags and took out a motorbike rally at the Tikri border to mark the completion of six months of their protest at Delhi borders."Six months have passed since the farmers' protest at Delhi borders against the three farm legislations began," said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, slamming the Central government for not scrapping the legislations.Pandher and Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that besides hoisting black flags at houses and vehicles, effigies of the BJP-led Union government will also be burnt.As #KisanAndolan completes 6 months today, I again urge the Centre to deal compassionately with farmers & repeal the black laws. Have hoisted a #BlackFlag atop my Badal residence today & likewise @Akali_Dal_ leaders & workers have done the same observing #Black_Day_Of_Farmers. pic.twitter.com/HO72LRepXy  Farmers burnt the effigy of Chief Minister Manohar Lal khattar in Bhiwani village.In Manimajra, pro-farmer organisations burnt effigies of PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah to mark the 6-month long protest against the agro-market laws.Protest flags, slogans and marches at three Delhi border points Farmers agitating at three Delhi border points raised black flags, shouted anti-government slogans, burnt effigies and took out protest marches.A brief ruckus was also reported from the Ghazipur protest site where farmers burnt an effigy of the central government amid heavy police deployment.As part of their 'black day' protest, the farmers put up black flags and burnt effigies of government leaders at the three border points -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri -- to register their protest against the three laws as well as the Centre.The Delhi Police has urged people not to hold gatherings due to the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing lockdown and said it is keeping a tight vigil to deal with any situation at the protest sites.Senior farmer leader Avtar Singh Mehma said that black flags have been hoisted not only at the protest sites but also in villages in Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, adding that villagers have put up black flags atop their houses as well as on their vehicles."Effigies of government leaders were burnt. This day is to reiterate the fact that it has been six months since we have been protesting, but the government, which also completes seven years in office today, is not listening to us," said Mehma.All those in solidarity of their movement also donned black turbans and dupattas.At the Singhu border, protestors gathered at the Kajaria Tiles office, held meetings, and took out a march towards the stage.Farmer leader Kulwant Singh said, "The protesters took out a march carrying black flags. They burnt Prime Minister Narendra Modi's effigy while raising slogans against the three farm laws. "We are urging people to support farmers by putting the black flag at their residence and other places," he said.On Tuesday, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had issued notices to Delhi, UP, Haryana on the alleged flouting of COVID norms by the protesting farmers.The Delhi Police too had urged people not to hold gatherings due to the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing lockdown.However, Mehma said that the government shouldn't have introduced the three laws during the pandemic in the first place."If the government wants us to go back then it should listen to us and repeal the laws, because we are not going anywhere unless our demands are met."It is not our hobby to sit in the heat and the cold at the borders. We also want to go back home and be safe," the farmer leader told PTI.Police force has been in place at all the borders points, including the protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, since Tuesday.At Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, hundreds of farmers, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, converged into groups as they burnt an effigy of the Centre in protest.A ruckus briefly ensued between protestors and the local police, donning anti-riot gears, who had tried to stop them from burning the effigy at the UP Gate below the Delhi-Meerut Expressway.While many BKU supporters held black flags in their hands, several others had placards that condemned the government and demanded withdrawal of the contentious laws, even as COVID-19 protocols on social distancing and face masks were largely amiss at the site.Tikait, who has been leading the protest at Ghazipur since November 2020 and had become a prominent face of the protest after the January 26 violence in Delhi, was seen sporting a black-colour turban and a black flag.--with agencies It's been six months since the farmers have been protesting against the three black laws. But the Modi Govt refuses to budge. The nation will not forget.#NationalBlackDay pic.twitter.com/hQAxTKygID  "We will continue the farmer protests till the time Centre repeals the farm laws. We had planned to protest by putting tri-colour flags. However, the authorities had objections to it and hence, we decided to mark this protest by hoisting black flags", said Tikait.--with agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/black-day-from-amritsar-to-tikri-farmers-hoist-black-flags-burn-effigies-of-bjp-leaders-258566
