28-05-2021||Amritsar||Pakistan govt must ensure Sikhs’ safety: SGPC||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee on Friday demanded from the Pakistan government the safety and security of Sikhs living there.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur raised the demand raising concern over reports of threats to members of the Sikh community in Pakistan.In a statement issued by the SGPC, Kaur said since Thursday it is being reported that Sikhs in Pakistan are receiving threats from the Taliban.“This is a matter of serious concern, which the government of Pakistan needs to take seriously. The security of the Sikh community in Pakistan is the responsibility of the government and it should take strict action against those threats. The government should assure the Sikhs that they are safe inside Pakistan,” said Kaur. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-govt-must-ensure-sikhs-safety-sgpc-259907
28-05-2021||New Delhi||R-Day violence: Court adjourns charge sheet cognisance to June 17, prosecution sanction awaited||A Delhi court on Friday deferred till June 17 its order on the cognisance of the charge sheet filed against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and 15 others in connection with the Republic Day violence case, saying that the prosecution sanction is awaited.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar said sanction under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Arms Act is still awaited from the concerned authorities.The judge, who directed the police to expedite the process, also refused to provide the copy of the charge sheet to the counsel of the accused. However, they have been allowed to inspect the final report on visiting the court.The prosecutor informed the court that the process for getting sanction has been initiated by them.“We will file the supplementary charge sheet soon,” he added.On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with the police personnel during a tractor rally against three agricultural laws and stormed into the Red Fort, injuring scores of policemen.The Delhi Police had filed a 3,224 pages-long charge sheet on May 17, nearly four months after the violence.Fourteen out 16 accused including Sidhu, Jabarjang Singh, Iqbal Singh, Mohinder Singh Khalsa are out on bail while other two namely Maninder Singh and Khempreet Singh are still in judicial custody.Sidhu, who was accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was arrested on February 9. The police had also accused him of fuelling the chaos at the Red fort.The Delhi Police had told the court that they have electronic evidence to show that Sidhu entered the Red Fort with supporters carrying lathis and flags and provoked the violence.He is facing charges of rioting, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, dacoity, culpable homicide among various other sections of the Indian Penal Code. He was in jail for over two months and released on bail on April 17.Besides Sidhu, the police have also mentioned the name of Iqbal Singh, who was doing a Facebook Live session in which he allegedly instigated the protesters. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/r-day-violence-court-adjourns-charge-sheet-cognisance-to-june-17-prosecution-sanction-awaited-259869
28-05-2021||Vijay Mohan||Bhakra water level plummets to 8 per cent; power generation cut by 20 per cent||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 28The available storage in the reservoir at Bhakra Dam, which is crucial for supply of water for drinking and irrigation in the region, as well as for power generation, has plummeted to just 8 per cent of its total capacity.Also read: Eye on elections, Punjab government cuts power tariff by up to Re 1 per unit for domestic consumersThe low water level has adversely impacted power generation as well as the release of water for irrigation to the beneficiary states in the region. Against a target of 1,337 million units for till date in the current fiscal, the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has generated 1,080 million units, accounting for a reduction of about 20 per cent in production, sources said.Last year, the BBMB had generated 1,909 million units during this period.On Friday morning, the water level recorded in the reservoir at Bhakra Dam that lies on the Sutlej river, was 1,505.30 feet, as compared to 1561.16 feet on the same day last year. According to sources, the water level has fallen below this on only two occasions in the past 16 years, in 2009 and 2018.At Pong Dam, that lies on the Beas, the level recorded was 1,298.57 feet against 1,345.58 feet last year. The maximum permissible level at Bhakra and Pong is 1,680 feet and 1,390 feet, respectively. The level at Thein Dam, which lies on the Ravi and is controlled by the Punjab Irrigation Department, the level was 1,652.65 feet. Last year it was 1,679.88 feet.Data released by the Central Water Commission (CWC) on May 27 reveals that departure from the past 10-year average of water storage is minus 59 per cent for dams in Himachal Pradesh and minus 34 per cent for Punjab.The current storage in the reservoir at Bhakra is 0.524 billion cubic meters (BCM), which is 8 percent of its total capacity of 6.229 BCM. The storage was 22 per cent at this time last year.The current storage at Pong is 14 per cent as compared to 48 per cent last year while at Thein it is 34 per cent against 51 percent for the corresponding period last year, CWC data shows.Given the low availability of water, BBMB officials are in constant touch with the state governments of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi to assess their respective demands for water and work out daily releases so that in addition to drinking water, only urgent demands for irrigation are catered to.Deficient snow and rainfall during the preceding winters have been cited as the reason for low water storage. Further, unseasonal rain and snow in many parts of the Himalayas during May kept temperatures low, thereby reducing snow melt. Bhakra Dam, which lies on the Sutlej, is primarily snow-fed while the other two major dams in the region, Pong on the Beas and Thein on the Ravi are primarily rain-fed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhakra-water-level-plummets-to-8-per-cent-power-generation-cut-by-20-per-cent-259862
28-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill's 'thumkas' to this old Punjabi wedding song has internet melting; don't miss it||Bigg Boss star Shehnaaz Gill has once again taken the internet by the storm. The Punjabi star dropped a new video clip where she could be seen dancing to an old, but popular Punjabi wedding song "Deor De Vyah" sung by Prakash and Surinder Kaur.The actress was dressed in a beautiful black and pink Anarkali, paired with a bright red and yellow phulkari dupatta, Shehnaaz’s infectious smile left her fans in complete awe.As soon as she shared this, her fans couldn’t stop gushing about how amazing she looks.A post shared by Shehnaaz Gill (@shehnaazgill)  They have showered the post with comments.A user commented, “Wow you look extremely beautiful in this dress” along with a red heart emoji. Another user wrote, “Wowwwwww punjaban back”.The clip has garnered over 3 lakh likes within a day.On the work front, Shehnaaz was last seen in music video Shona Shona with Sidharth Shukla. The song had received immense love from her fans. She also signed a film with Diljit Dosanjh named ‘Honsla Rakh’. The shooting for the film was done in Canada. Apart from Shehnaaz and Diljit, Sonam Bajwa will also be seen in the film.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gills-thumkas-to-this-old-punjabi-wedding-song-has-internet-melting-dont-miss-it-259838
28-05-2021||Patiala||Farmers converge in Patiala, allege governments 'failed' in duty against Covid-19||Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ugrahan on Friday started a three-day protest in Patiala alleging that the central and state governments failed to act against the spread of Covid-19.Over 1,500 farmers gathered at the PUDA ground near the Tripuri police station. The farmers sat in straight lines ensuring social distancing, wore face masks, carried sanitisers and water bottles.Leaders of the Union said the state and the central governments, both, have failed in executing their duties in relation to the spread of Covid-19.General Secretary of BKU Ugrahan, Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, said, "People are dying but the governments have not been able to ensure availability of ventilators for them. We have proved time and again that farmers in Haryana or elsewhere have not been the reason for the spread of Covid-19. In fact, farmers and their families who came to the protest sites have been saved from Covid-19 because we have been warning them and informing about ensuring safety and social distancing."Responding to a question, he said actor Deep Sidhu along with others is responsible for trying to derail the farmers' protest.About 'Mission Fateh' launched by the Punjab government, he said, "The government had failed in ensuring facilities for people. The centre and state governments want to divert the attention of the people from important questions of the state. They have failed to ensure facilities in relation to the spread of Covid-19 because of which the people are scared of its infection and are not questioning the authorities."Manjit Singh Nyal, district Patiala president of BKU Ekta Ugrahan said, "We will continue this protest for three days. We will also ensure that guidelines in relation to Covid-19 are followed. Farmers in far more numbers want to gather but we have decided to keep the gathering to a maximum of 1,500 to 2,000 only."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-converge-in-patiala-allege-governments-failed-in-duty-against-covid-19-259837
28-05-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||The Kapil Sharma Show season 2 is set to return in this month; details inside||The Kapil Sharma Show is returning with their second season finally, and their loyal fans cannot contain their excitement. The popular comedy-chat show went off-air in February this year.  The comedy show is set to make a comeback on Sony Entertainment TV. Now, as per the latest reports, Telly Chakkar has revealed that the latest season will hit the screens in July. The new season will have new additions to the creative team. Along with the actors such as Krushna Abhishek, Kiku Sharda, Bharti Singh, Sumona Chakravarti, Chandan Prabhakar and Archana Puran Singh, the show will introduce new faces in the upcoming season. Reportedly, the team will start shooting in the first week of July. After the show went off-air in February this year, speculations were a riff that the show would be reprised version with a fresh format. Later, Kapil also confirmed the news when he uploaded a post sharing his plans on bringing new actors on board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/the-kapil-sharma-show-season-2-is-set-to-return-in-this-month-details-inside-259836
28-05-2021||---||Opioid tablets worth Rs 15 cr seized from pharma unit in Himachal||Solan, May 28In a night-long join raid by the Himachal Pradesh and Punjab Police, over 30.2 lakh tablets of illegally produced pharma opioids were seized from Unique Formulations pharmaceutical unit located in Devi Nagar area of Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur.Seizure valued at over 15 crores rupees, informed Director General of Police, Sanjay Kundu. Recently, the Amritsar police had confiscated a huge quantity of tramadol illegally smuggled to the area. Around 50,000 tablets were recovered. The raid was a fallow up of that, said the DIG.State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha informed that the unit has been asked to stop production by issuance of a show cause notice by the additional drug controller, Nahan, Sunny Kaushal.In a bid to curb any such nefarious activity, all ADCs and deputy drug controlled have been directed to keep a watch on such units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opioid-tablets-worth-rs-15-cr-seized-from-pharma-unit-in-himachal-259805
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Augment vax supply first: Punjab||Punjab has 1.34 lakh teachers. It does not have any data on the number of teachers vaccinated so far. After students were infected with Covid-19, Punjab had shut its schools on March 12, but the teaching staff continued to report on duty. Teachers’ unions claim at least 30 teachers have died due to the virus. “We definitely need to pursue the issue of vaccinating students and teachers with the Centre,” Singla stressed.— Sanjeev Singh Bariana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/augment-vax-supply-first-punjab-259681
28-05-2021||Manav Mander||Fateh kits not in sync with fresh guidelines||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 27The use of antibiotics in the treatment of Covid-19 has been discontinued by the state but these are still part of the ‘Fateh kits’ provided to patients under home isolation. The guidelines have been updated but the state has failed to update the kits and continues to deliver the old packets.Doxy off the listDoxycycline tablets, found in the kit, were used last year to treat Covid-positive patients but are now no longer part of the state’s guidelines.In 2020, doxycycline tablet was recommended for 5 days and ivermectin for 3 days but subsequently in April this year, doxycycline was dropped and ivermectin was included under investigational therapy to be given to only mild patients for three days. Dr Bishav Mohan, a senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital who is also a member of Covid task force formed by the state government, said Covid-19 being a viral disease needed limited requirement of antibiotics for treatment.“Doxycycline has been discontinued from the treatment guidelines and ivermectin should not be given to moderately ill patients and is recommended only for mild cases,” he said. “The team which visits home isolation patients explains to them whether ivermectin is required or not,” said Dr Mohan.A senior medical officer from the district admitted that last year’s guidelines were being followed for the Fateh kits. “We cannot open the kits and check the medicines otherwise we will be accused of taking some stuff out. The department delivers sealed kits to patients,” he said.Despite repeated attempts, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fateh-kits-not-in-sync-with-fresh-guidelines-259653
28-05-2021||Tribune correspondent Manmeet Singh Gill and photo journalist Sunil Kumar take you to the holy land of Tarn Taran||Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn Taran||Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarGuru Arjan Dev — the fifth Sikh master — started digging a holy sarovar — ‘Tarn Taran’, which means the boat that takes one across, in 1590. Six years later, he laid the foundation stone of the city, which is now known as Tarn Taran. Even though Amritsar, the holiest of the Sikh cities, was founded in 1577, the Guru felt the need for a new city to reach out to travellers and traders for preaching the religion far and wide. The place where Tarn Taran exists now is chosen due to its proximity to the Grand Trunk Road built by Sher Shah Suri from Lahore to Delhi.A district headquarter since 2006, Tarn Taran has Goindwal Sahib and Khadoor Sahib towns in its vicinity, where many Sikh gurus spent significant years of their lives. Several gurdwaras from the Guru period still exist in these towns. Have a look...Tarn Taran SarovarLargest of the Sikh holy sarovars, it is nearly rectangular in shape with its northern and southern sides measuring 289 metres and 283 metres, respectively, and eastern and western sides measuring 230 metres and 233 metres, respectively. It was originally fed by rainwater that flowed in from the surrounding lands. A water channel connecting it with the Kasur Branch Lower of the canal was constructed in 1833. Gurdwara Darbar Sahib (Tarn Taran)It is a three-storey building on the south-east corner of the holy sarovar — Tarn Taran. The upper portion of the building is covered with glittering gold-plated sheets. The lotus dome, damaged in an earthquake in the early 20th century, was subsequently reconstructed and has an ornamental gold pinnacle with an umbrella-shaped gold finial. Gurdwara Chaubara SahibIt was once the residence of Guru Amar Das and his family. It has a small room with a smaller room having an entrance through it. The Guru Granth Sahib is seated in the front room.Gurdwara Angitha Sahib (Darbar Sahib)Khadoor Sahib is a place which had been visited by eight Sikh gurus. Guru Angad Dev — the second Sikh master — lived at the place for many years and it was from this place that he left for his heavenly abode.Gurdwara Shri Tapiana SahibIt is a place associated with the first Sikh master — Guru Nanak Dev, who visited Khadoor Sahib five times during his lifetime. It is said the Guru, along with Bhai Bala and Bhai Mardana sang hymns at this place. Later, Bhai Bala on the instructions of Guru Angad Dev wrote the Janam Sakhi of Guru Nanak Dev at this place. The MinaretOnly one minaret of the four planned by Kunwar Nau Nihal Singh on the four corners of the holy sarovar stands on its northeastern corner. A dome was added later on top of the 156-feet and 6-inch high three-storeyed tower constructed during the Kunwar’s lifetime. Darshani DeoriA double-storeyed arched gateway, ‘darshani deori’ of the Darbar Sahib was built during the era of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The existing structure has survived the onslaught of time and the recent attempt by a kar sewa sect to demolish it.Parkash Asthan Guru Granth SahibIt is a square building adjacent to the Baoli Sahib with a sanctum in the centre, where the holy book is installed.Baoli SahibThe Goindwal Baoli, which comprises a flight of 84 steps, was built by Guru Amar Das in the 16th century. It is believed that the recitation of complete Japji Sahib on each of the steps followed by bath in the holy well helps liberate one from the cycle of transmigration. The devotees start from the topmost step, complete the recitation and then descend 84 steps to bathe in the holy water. They then start from the second step at the top and complete the cycle till all steps are covered.Khoo (well) of Bibi AmroThe water of the well got dug by Bibi Amro, daughter of Guru Angad Dev, was saline. It is said on the request from followers, Guru Angad Dev gave them a log of wood, which was thrown into the well and the water became drinkable.Gurdwara Khoo Guru Ram DasIt’s a gurdwara in Goindwal, west of Chaubara Sahib, where Guru Ram Das served water to devotees in his childhood. Bhai Gurdas had also ascended for heavenly abode from this place.Killi SahibIt is a wooden peg (now covered with a silver sheath) fixed in the wall inside Chaubara Sahib, which is believed to be used by Guru Amar Das for support when he meditated in a standing posture.Gurdwara Guru Ka Khoo (well)The well was a resting place for Guru Arjan Dev at night. After overseeing the digging work of the sarovar at Darbar Sahib all day, he used to spend his nights at this place. It is believed that the water of the well has a medicinal value, especially for patients suffering from leprosy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spiritual-journey-of-gurdwaras-in-tarn-taran-259741
28-05-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Vidhan Sabha committee records statements  of farmers injured in protest||Members of a Punjab Vidhan Sabha committee today met farmers who got injured while protesting against the Central farm laws in Delhi.The committee, headed by Gill MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, along with other members of the legislative assembly, including Kulbir Singh Zira, Saravjit Kaur Manuke and Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra, recorded the statements of the farmers and others who suffered injuries or allegedly faced police brutality in their protest against the central farms laws.According to the members, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh has constituted this committee comprising MLAs from all parties, to table a detailed report about atrocities on the farmers during the protest.MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke said the police had committed atrocities on farmers in Delhi during protest against the central farm bills. Now, the committee is preparing a report in this regard.The committee said that it would visit every area of Punjab and would meet each victim of atrocities by cops of Delhi and Haryana police force. The committee assured justice to the victims and said it would highlight every atrocity before Vidhan Sabha in the report.They said anyone who wants to record his statement about any atrocity they suffered from the police can call on 97797-11022 and 80544-95901. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-vidhan-sabha-committee-records-statements-of-farmers-injured-in-protest-259714
28-05-2021||---||Only 2nd dose of Covaxin to be administered today||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 27The Health Department will not carry out vaccination for those aged between 18 to 44 years and above 45 years tomorrow due to shortage of vaccine doses. As such, only second dose of Covaxin will be administered at two centres in Model Town and Samana.Officials in the Health Department said no one in the age group of 18 to 44 years and above 45 years would be vaccinated tomorrow. This would happen for the third day in succession.The department has run out of vaccine doses for those between 18 to 44 years within a week of the starting the vaccination drive for them. In fact, only those with ailments, construction workers and family members of health workers falling in this age group are being vaccinated in the drive.Meanwhile, 923 people were administered vaccine today taking the total count of beneficiaries, who had been inoculated to 3.39 lakh, in the district, officials of the Health Department added.The Health Department today registered 275 fresh cases of Covid. The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said the number of active cases in the district had now reached 2,950. Of the total 275 fresh cases, 105 were detected in Patiala city alone, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-2nd-dose-of-covaxin-to-be-administered-today-259657
28-05-2021||---||Patran-based farmer, son shot dead over land dispute||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 27A patran-based farmer Balbir Singh (59) and his son Charanjeet Singh (32) were allegedly murdered at Hamcheri village over a property dispute yesterday night.The police said a case had been registered against Balbir’s brother Karnail Singh, his mother Balwinder Kaur, his nephews Khuvinder Singh and Gurpal Singh, besides his friend Jaspal Singh under Section 302 (Murder) and 120-B (Criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code in this regard.The two brothers and their families had locked horns over the ownership of two acres of agricultural land following which a dispute was pending between the two factions.Senior police officers from Patran said the incident occurred around 10.30 pm yesterday when Balbir’s nephews Khuvinder and Gurpal knocked at the doors of his house and said they wanted to discuss their plans to join the Delhi farmers’ agitation.“However once inside the house, they allegedly fired multiple shots with their .12-bore gun leaving the father-son duo dead on the spot and fled from the crime scene,” said the police. Raids were on to nab the two suspects, the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patran-based-farmer-son-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-259646
28-05-2021||Patiala||Special chance for students of  Punjabi University to clear exam||Punjabi University has decided to charge Rs50,000 as fee for allowing its former students, who failed to complete their courses due to absence or could not clear one of their papers in the semester. The university said the offer was as a special chance for students to complete their courses.“A special fee of Rs50,000 has been decided for those, who could not complete their course or class because of being absent or failing in a paper of the semester,” the university added.Also, the university will charge Rs40,000 from those students, who could not pass their re-appear or improvement examination within the allotted time as per the rules. This is for re-appear in two papers in a maximum two semesters.The university will collect separate form and examination fee from students. This chance is being offered for students other than MPhil and PhD scholars.While some students said the university was charging exorbitant fee officials said it was a special offer provided every year and there was only a marginal increase in the fee.Dr Jasvirinder Singh Khattar said, “The university is offering this chance to those, who have not been able to attain their degrees. This is a special initiative by the university. Also, the fee has been increased only marginally from that charged last year.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-chance-for-students-of-punjabi-university-to-clear-exam-259638
28-05-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University to work on operating system based on Linux||Punjabi University will now work on Linux-based operating system. The University Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Arvind, said they would develop an operating system that worked in Punjabi.The VC made the announcement on the concluding day of the 50th seven-day workshop organised by the Department of Punjabi Computer Help Centre.Such programmes organised by the department for university students and outsiders would also be started for foreign apprentices, the VC added. Computerisation of Punjabi was imperative, said the VC. The centre co-ordinator, Dr Devinder Singh, said 30 researchers, students, teachers and writers participated in the seven-day workshop.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-to-work-on-operating-system-based-on-linux-259631
28-05-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Of 74, only 10 owners join probe into Majrian scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27The Punjab Vigilance Bureau’s probe into the 2,714-acre land scam at Majrian village in Mohali has turned murkier.After processing ownership records of about 700 acres, the VB has come to know that there were 74 owners of different pieces of land. Of these, only 10 have joined the investigation so far. The remaining have not responded to the summons.Land prices at Majrian and other villages in the periphery of Chandigarh had multiplied fast in the last decade when influential persons moved there to develop farm houses, resorts or high-rise residential buildings.Sources in the department said the owners who did not join the investigation were already under suspicion. “Either the piece of land has a proxy owner or it is benami,” said the sources. The VB believes there could be proxy owners as one of the four persons arrested for tampering with the records of the village common land so that it could be sold illegally was Hans Raj, a driver of property dealer and main accused Sham Lal. Sham Lal is absconding.The VB had on May 9 arrested four of the 11 persons booked for selling the shamlat (village common land) in a fraudulent manner at Majrian.Under the rules, the village common land or the panchayat land cannot be sold or bought. However, around two decades ago, the land mafia started buying and selling hundreds of acres by tampering with revenue records.Some of the present owners, may be the victims of the land scam, as they trusted revenue officials who approved the sale-purchase.VB officials have already announced that 558 acres of land was registered in 14 fake names by tampering with the mutation number 3159. The VB officials said in connivance with revenue officials, the original documents under which land had been transferred were destroyed from the records of the Revenue Department.Fail to respond to summonsAfter processing ownership records of about 700 acres, the VB has come to know that there were 74 owners of different pieces of land. Of these, only 10 have joined the investigation so far. The remaining have not responded to the summons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/of-74-only-10-owners-join-probe-into-majrian-scam-259489
28-05-2021||---||Kotkapura firing: New SIT begins recording statements of witnesses||Faridkot, May 27The newly formed Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the Kotkapura police firing case, reached Faridkot on Thursday to record the statements of witnesses in the October 14, 2015, incident.While SIT members declined to share any information with mediapersons, sources revealed the SIT had summoned about 40 persons for recording statements. About 25 persons recorded their version of the police firing incident. The SIT will continue to record the statements of the witnesses on Friday.The SIT has invited any person who was witness to the incident to get his or her statement recorded. Earlier, the SIT had visited Kotkapura to inspect the spots where the firing had occurred. The new SIT was constituted after the Punjab and Haryana High Court had quashed the investigation reports of the SIT led by IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in the Kotkapura firing case.Most of the witnesses, who appeared before the SIT here on Thursday, had also earlier deposed before the SIT led by Kunwar Vijay Pratap.Speaking to The Tribune, some of the witnesses said their statements before the new SIT were same as they had given to the old SIT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-new-sit-begins-recording-statements-of-witnesses-259490
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Post-matric Scholarship Scheme: SC panel notice to Punjab||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has issued a notice to the Punjab Government to ensure immediate release of roll numbers to SC students studying under the Post-matric Scholarship Scheme in the state.  Pertinently, some private colleges in Punjab, especially in Barnala district, are forcing SC students to submit fee as a pre-condition for the release of their roll numbers. The NCSC has issued a notice to the Punjab Chief Secretary; Principal Secretary, Department of Social Justice; Barnala DC and SSP, asking them to submit with 15 days, the facts and information on the action taken in the matter. NCSC chairman Vijay Sampla warned that non-issuance of roll numbers or withholding of degree of any student admitted under the scholarship scheme was an offence. Strict action would be taken against the erring college/institute, he said. Sampla cautioned the officers that if action taken report was not received within the stipulated time, then he panel might  issue summons for personal appearance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-matric-scholarship-scheme-sc-panel-notice-to-punjab-259491
28-05-2021||---||Debt-ridden farmer kills self in Muktsar||Debt-ridden farmer kills self in Muktsar Muktsar, May 27 A 50-year-old debt-ridden farmer allegedly died by suicide after consuming a poisonous substance at Kothe Ramsar near Kotli village here. Sources said Jagjit Singh allegedly consumed poison yesterday and was taken to a hospital at Goneana, where he died today. Victim’s son Sandeep Singh told the police his father had been under stress due to debt taken from a bank and some private lenders. The deceased owned four acres. The police have started inquest proceedings in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debt-ridden-farmer-kills-self-in-muktsar-259492
28-05-2021||---||Punjab Cong infighting: Mallikarjun Kharge, Harish Rawat on 3-member panel||Chandigarh, May 27After days of hiatus in the infighting between warring factions of the state Congress, the party high command is learnt to have finally constituted a three-member committee to listen to the Chief Minister’ camp and disgruntled leaders.The panel comprises Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge, former MP Jai Parkash Aggarwal, and AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat. Both Kharge and Aggarwal are said to be confidants of the Gandhi family.The dissident Congress leaders, led by ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Channi and MLA Pargat Singh have been questioning the Chief Minister over delay in giving justice in sacrilege case and subsequent police firing incidents. Pargat has gone to the extent of saying the popularity graph of the CM had gone down since the last elections.Randhawa and Channi had held meetings with Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and Navjot Singh Sidhu. Some ministers and MLAs had also extended support to the rebel leaders, but did not go public. On the other hand, the Chief Minister’s camp has been going all out to woo the MLAs by addressing their long-pending issues.It is learnt the dissident leaders had sought a direct audience with party’s former president Rahul Gandhi, while refusing to air their grouse in virtual meeting with the high command as they feared their phones were being tapped by the state government.A senior Congress leader said the three-member committee would listen to the disgruntled party leaders and CM’s loyalists, besides other MLAs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cong-infighting-mallikarjun-kharge-harish-rawat-on-3-member-panel-259494
28-05-2021||Patiala||Ensure no illegal felling in Patiala, says NGT||Disposing of an application by Sangrur residents, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Department of Forests to ensure no illegal felling of trees is done and remedial action is taken.The residents had approached the NGT after several trees were axed by the Public Works Department (PWD) in the name of widening of road from the Fountain Chowk to Kali Mata Mandir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-no-illegal-felling-in-patiala-says-ngt-259495
28-05-2021||Patiala||Farmers' agitation: Hundreds set to join three-day Patiala dharna||Despite requests by the Punjab Government and the district administration not to go ahead with their agitation, hundreds of farmers from across Punjab are expected to participate in a three-day dharna under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) at CM’s hometown, starting Friday.While experts suggest it could be a “super-spreader” event, given the high rate of infection in the rural areas, farmers from villages that have been declared containment zones are likely to make matters worse. “It will be serious, given the chances of spread of infection in such large gatherings,” said an expert.However, BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said: “We will highlight government’s failure in tackling the virus, especially when it came to relaxations for the poor, who had to pay lakhs of rupees at private hospitals”.“All preparations are complete and over 3,000 farmers will be in attendance on the first day and gradually the numbers will increase. All efforts will be made to follow the social distancing norms,” he said, adding the central and state governments were responsible for the plight of the farmers.Meanwhile, health officials said holding such an agitation at this juncture was ill advised as many villages had been declared containment zones and if farmers from these villages attended the event, it was likely the virus would spread further. “We have recorded a spike in cases in the rural areas. If they attend gatherings now, chances of its spread increase further, putting others at risk,” said an official.However, farm unions are adamant as thousands of protesters are camping in Patiala. “The dharna will be held to expose the government on unfilled vacancies in the health sector and how the poor were being fleeced in the name of treatment. Where were the governments during rallies and similar gatherings?” said a farm leader. — TNSJyani serves notice on private channel||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-hundreds-set-to-join-three-day-patiala-dharna-259496
28-05-2021||Muktsar||Excise Department suspends inspector posted at Badal village||The Excise and Taxation Department has suspended its inspector, Mandeep Singh, posted at the authorised bottling plant at Badal village for alleged negligence in keeping a vigil over its functioning. “Since a large number of bottles of Royal Shot, Blue Legacy and Big Barrel brands were found without bearing holograms from some rooms located in an orchard at Badal village on Saturday, the Inspector has been placed under suspension. Even the CCTV cameras of the authorised bottling plant had remained non-functional on some days in the recent past, which is mandatory for such plants,” said a source — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/excise-department-suspends-inspector-posted-at-badal-village-259497
28-05-2021||Patiala||Three Patiala jail officials suspended||A month after three prisoners escaped from the Central Jail here, the Prisons Department has suspended two assistant jail superintendents and a warder for negligence. Two of the three prisoners are still at large.Additional DGP (Prisons) PK Sinha ordered suspension of assistant jail superintendents Tarlochan Singh and Kuldip Singh and warder Sant Singh on the basis of an inquiry report.While one of the accused was arrested along with an aide, the other two are absconding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-patiala-jail-officials-suspended-259498
28-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Day after voting, 9 names dropped||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27Two days after a committee set up by the Punjab and Haryana High Court cleared a list of 27 advocates for senior designation, more than 30 per cent of the names have failed to find favour with the full court.Available information suggests nine of the names were dropped from the list following voting by the full court, taking the total down to 18. One name was, however, added after the candidates left out by the committee were considered by the full court, comprising the Chief Justice and other judges. It is believed a majority of the judges was in favour of designating the advocate as senior, following which her name was included in the final list, taking the total to 19.The list, signed by the Chief Justice and the other judges, has two women advocates. One of the lawyers was enrolled in 1978, while the youngest was enrolled in 2003. The initial list cleared by the committee had apparently failed to find ready approval by the full court. The judges attending the meeting not only voted on the names of the 27 short-listed candidates, but also “ticked” against the names of left-out applicants they considered deserving.In all, 113 advocates had initially applied for the senior tag, but one died due to Covid during the process. The remaining 112 applications were scanned by the “permanent committee for designation as senior advocates” before the applicants were interviewed. The list of the short-listed candidates was then placed for discussion before the full court.But some of the judges during the meeting expressed displeasure with the list. A substantial number of judges was, rather, of the opinion certain other names were also required to be included.The judges then resorted to voting upon the names of short-listed candidates and also tick-marked the names from the original list of applicants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-voting-9-names-dropped-259500
28-05-2021||---||HC orders uniform rates for Covid tests in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 27The state today sought the Punjab and Haryana HC’s urgent intervention for additional ventilators for paediatric use following apprehensions of a third wave.The request came as the Bench issued a slew of directions on uniform rates for Covid-19 tests and reduction in the rates for HRCT (chest) by private diagnostic centres.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh also called for setting up ICU control rooms for the relatives to remain in regular touch with patients and to be aware of their medical condition.The Bench also made it clear that fact-finding inquiries on overcharging by some private hospitals could be called for and examined by the court at an appropriate stage to see if further action was required.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda told the Bench that the positivity rate in urban areas had come down to 2.98 per cent and to 3.74 per cent in rural areas. Nanda said around 200 additional ventilators would be required. “As far as the ventilators are concerned, 55 are not working. We have written to the Centre to immediately attend to it. We are also demanding ventilators for paediatric use. If the third wave is to hit, and it is to hit the junior citizens of the state, this will be immediately required and we should be prepared for it,” Nanda added.Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain, in response, submitted the needful would be done without delay. “If any further request is received from UT Chandigarh or Haryana in this regard, it shall also be considered forthwith and necessary steps taken,” he added.The Bench also directed that the rates for rapid antigen test (RAT) and RT-PCR test in the two states and the UT were required to be uniform. Taking a cue from the rates prescribed by Punjab for private labs — Rs 350 for RAT and Rs 450 for RT-PCR — the Bench asked Haryana and UT to reconsider.The Bench also described as reasonable reduced rate of Rs 1,800 charged by private diagnostic centres for HRCT (chest) in the UT, before expressing “hope and trust” that Punjab and Haryana, too, would impress upon private diagnostic centres to reduce the rates on similar lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-orders-uniform-rates-for-covid-tests-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-259502
28-05-2021||---||Entrance test for Army postponed||Faridkot, May 27Common Entrance Examination (CEE) for Army recruitment, which was scheduled for May 30 at Army Public School, Ferozepur Cantt, has been postponed due to Covid-19 situation.In this CEE, candidates from Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Fazilka were to participate. All these candidates, eligible for the CEE, have already been declared medically fit during an Army recruitment rally held from April 1-9 in Ferozepur.“The fresh date for the test will be announced later and the candidates will be informed accordingly to collect fresh admit cards from Army Recruiting Office, Ferozepur,” said Gagandeep Kaur, public relation officer (defence).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/entrance-test-for-army-postponed-259503
28-05-2021||Manav Mander||Blamed for virus spread, over 20 5G towers damaged in Punjab in 3 weeks||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 27Over 20 telecom towers have been damaged in the state in the past three weeks after misleading messages, videos and recorded audios, linking Covid to telecom network and 5G network testing, have gone viral on the social media.It is creating connectivity problem for consumers, while telecom infrastructure providers (IP-1) are facing issues in operation and maintenance of existing towers and installation of new ones due to the increasing resistance.TR Dua, Director-General, Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association, said: “Such incidents, if not controlled, may significantly affect the telecom connectivity and deprive people of uninterrupted services amid pandemic when telecom and internet connectivity is essential to enable work from home, virtual meetings, e-commerce, e-education, e-health and various other initiatives of the government, including vaccination, which requires technology and connectivity support.”To counter these fake and misleading messages, the Department of Telecommunications has already clarified that there is no link between 5G technology and the spread of Covid and urged people not to be misguided by rumours.“Moreover, testing of 5G network has not yet started anywhere in the country. So, the claim that 5G trials or networks are leading to the spread of virus is baseless,” the Department of Telecommunications said.The association has also written to Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan in this regard.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist, DMCH, said: “Whosoever is spreading this false information should be put behind bars. Covid spread is not linked to mobile towers or 5G trials. Instead of falling prey to such fake messages, people should focus on taking precautions and getting vaccinated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blamed-for-virus-spread-over-20-5g-towers-damaged-in-punjab-in-3-weeks-259504
28-05-2021||Balwant Garg||Last yr’s result awaited, Edu Dept readies for next exam||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 27Though government schools have been directed to begin preparing Class X students for the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) scheduled for May 31, the result of the exam conducted last year is yet to be declared.Held on December 20, 2020, the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) usually declares the result within 40-50 days after the exam. The delay has left many meritorious students sulking as they get scholarship in private institutions on the basis of their result in NTSE-Stage I. But as the results have been withheld amid pandemic, these students are being forced to pay full fee for their courses.Jagtar Singh Kulria, Director, SCERT, Punjab, said they were waiting for the NCERT nod to declare the results.On January 11, 2021, the SCERT had announced that the NTSE-Stage II exam would be held on February 14, 2021. This exam is conducted after students are shortlisted on the basis of their performance in Stage-I exam. Later, the Stage-II exam was postponed to June 13. “However, due to the pandemic-induced lockdown across the country, the exam has been deferred for indefinite period,” Kulria said.Now, many students of Class XI are deprived of the scholarship and other benefits, which they were expecting on the basis of their score in Stage-I test. The students, who qualify the NTSE-Stage II, receive a scholarship of Rs 1,250 per month for Classes XI and XII and Rs 2,000 per month for undergraduation or above courses.The School Education Department will conduct an online NTSE Baseline test of Class X students in the government schools on May 31 to shortlist the candidates for NTSE-Stage I test in the coming months. The SCERT has released Rs 4.65 lakh to the government schools to arrange zoom classes for Class X students to prepare them for the next NTSE-Stage I test.No NCERT nod yet||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/last-yrs-result-awaited-edu-dept-readies-for-next-exam-259505
28-05-2021||---||Punjab Govt mulls ‘Covid volunteers’ to stem spread in rural areas||Chandigarh, May 27Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday rolled out a new initiative, involving youth, to take forward the state’s Mission Fateh 2.0 as part of the ‘Corona Mukt Punjab Abhiyan’ (Covid-free Punjab Campaign), with directions to form groups of seven rural corona volunteers (RCVs) per village or municipal ward as a cadre to fight the pandemic.With the villages badly affected in the second wave, it was important to drive a strong campaign for “Corona Mukt Pind”, he said, directing the Department of Sports and Youth Affairs and DCs to form such RCVs to be the torchbearers in the war against the contagion. Existing clubs can also become RCVs, he said, adding that these could work as a powerful support system for the panchayats and municipalities in the war against Covid.Interacting with youth from rural and urban areas through video-conferencing, the CM said as a result of the support of the people, the number of cases in the state had come down from around 9,000 to 4,000+ in a matter of about three weeks. But given the impact on rural areas this time, the situation continued to be grave, he said.The Chief Minister tasked the RCVs with carrying forward the 3Ts drive (Test, Trace and Treat), taking care of poor and elderly and connecting them to the Covid control rooms and helplines, conducting theekri pehras in all villages, promoting Covid appropriate behaviour, assisting villagers in accessing adequate healthcare, discouraging quacks, encouraging download of COVA App, besides preparing and displaying banners and pamphlets.He said the state government was trying to procure vaccines from all possible sources to meet the sudden demand. Brand Ambassador of Covid Vaccine Campaign, Sonu Sood said he would personally try to ensure maximum vaccine supply from Bharat Biotech for the state. He also evinced interest in setting up a medical oxygen plant in Government Hospital, Moga. Health Advisor to Punjab Government Dr KK Talwar also spoke on the occasion.Badges, stickers for those jabbedCM Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said the distribution of one lakh badges and four lakh car stickers carrying the message “I am vaccinated” had begun. He urged people to flaunt their vaccination status to motivate others. He also said 15,000 sports kits would be distributed among rural corona volunteers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-mulls-covid-volunteers-to-stem-spread-in-rural-areas-259506
28-05-2021||---||Punjab curbs extended till June 10||Chandigarh, May 27The Punjab Government today extended Covid restrictions in the state till June 10, but removed the cap on the number of passengers in personal vehicles and allowed elective surgeries in both private and government hospitals.With a decline in Covid cases, the OPD services have been allowed to resume in government hospitals. Some government hospitals had already started OPD operations at 50 per cent capacity, which would be scaled up to 100 per cent. The elective surgeries were discontinued on April 12 to ensure adequate beds for serious Covid patients.The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. While the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles is being removed, the curbs on commercial passenger vehicles and taxis shall continue to be in place.The CM directed the health authorities to strengthen the Covid care infrastructure to deal with a possible third wave and seek 500 paediatric ventilators from the Centre. The meeting was informed that all the 809 ventilators received earlier under the PM Cares Fund had been distributed and 136 of them were not functioning.Capt Amarinder directed that all mid-level IAS and PCS transfers in various departments be put on hold till the Covid crisis continued.Taking note of overcharging by some private hospitals, the CM asked the health authorities to ensure hospitals displayed 11x5 feet boards at their entrance specifying service charges. He directed continuous monitoring of high-risk individuals and pregnant women in home isolation through special teams.Given the comfortable oxygen situation currently, the CM directed that oxygen may now be allowed to be used for essential non-medical purposes. However, a three-day buffer stock of medical oxygen would have to be maintained. The daily oxygen demand in Punjab has come down from 304 MT to 236 MT over the last 10 days.Passenger cap goes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-curbs-extended-till-june-10-259507
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM should go out to know reality: Ex-MLA  Ashwani Sekhri||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-should-go-out-to-know-reality-ex-mla-ashwani-sekhri-259508
28-05-2021||---||Muktsar villagers’ indifference to Covid norms worries officials||Muktsar, May 27Despite the repeated requests of Health Department officials to villagers to follow Covid protocols, the infection continues to grow in rural areas in Muktsar district.In about two weeks, a large numbers of cases continue to be reported from villages. For instance, as many as 32 Covid cases were reported at Midda village today only; 20 at Warring Khera village on May 25; 18 at Virk Khera village on May 23; 17 at Urang village on May 23; and 116 at Bhundar village on May 17.A senior government doctor said they were repeatedly appealing to the public, especially those living in villages, to follow the guidelines for their own safety. “However, it is observed that a majority of people don’t wear the mandatory face mask in villages. They wear it only while travelling on any major road or coming to the town. Further, a number of people still show reluctance to Covid test and hide their symptoms,” said the doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-villagers-indifference-to-covid-norms-worries-officials-259509
28-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Suspend biometric system for ration: Punjab to Centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27Amid the virulent second wave of the Covid-19, lakhs of persons from socially disadvantaged sections stand chance of being exposed to the virus as the Punjab Government has started distributing ration under the public distribution system (PDS), using Aadhaar-based biometric authentication system.For getting ration, the beneficiaries are required to mark their attendance by pressing a button on the ePOS machines. This could become a breeding ground for the virus. Last year, after the pandemic hit the country, the use of the system was suspended by the government.However, this time the Government of India is insisting that the ration be distributed using the biometric authentication, say sources in the state Food and Supplies Department. This is because ration meant for public distribution has been allegedly siphoned off by unscrupulous elements, say the sources. Though the government has reportedly asked the Centre to waive the rule, citing the health risk, it has so far not been exempted.Information available with The Tribune shows that over 17 per cent of the wheat for the May-June period, has already been distributed to 7.36 lakh card holders under the Food for All Scheme till today.The drive to distribute the ration using ePOS started on May 15. There are 1,900 ePOS machines, which have been sent to 17,000 fair price (ration) shops to be used by 39,03,616 card-holders to get 5 kg per person per month share of wheat.Risk of infection||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspend-biometric-system-for-ration-punjab-to-centre-259510
28-05-2021||---||Free distribution of ayurvedic drug Ayush-64 for Covid patients begins in Punjab||Bathinda, May 27The free distribution of Ayush-64, an ayurvedic medicine effective in treating Covid-19 patients, has started in the state. The first consignment of around 12 lakh tablets has already arrived from the Ministry of Ayush and further distribution through Sewa Bharti (a social service organisation roped in by the ministry) has started in different districts.This medicine is given to patients who have mild, moderate or no symptoms but are undergoing treatment in home isolation as an adjunct to standard medical care (allopathic medicine).As per ayurvedic doctors, this medicine, if given with standard care, has proved quite effective in treating patients and also aid in reducing the recovery period.Ayush-64, a drug developed to cure malaria in 1980, has been recommended by the ministry after thorough research and several trials.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Assistant Director, Central Ayurveda Research Institute, Patiala, said: “We received 12 lakh tablets on May 10 from the Ayush ministry out of which we gave 10 lakh to Sewa Bharti on May 16 for further distribution. Several clinical studies have revealed that the medicine exhibits early clinical recovery of Covid-19 patients without further progression. The medicine is given to patients in the age group of 18-60 years and not to pregnant and lactating women.”He said: “A total of 1,000 tablets have already been distributed in Patiala, Ludhiana, Fazilka, Bathinda and Sangrur districts and around 2,500 tablets have been distributed from the Central Ayurveda Research Institute’s Patiala centre.”Pardeep Kumar Monga, state in charge for Ayush-64 distribution who also heads Sewa Bharti, said: “We have already started providing the medicine to patients in a few districts and distribution will be intensified through our 47 centres in the state in the coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-distribution-of-ayurvedic-drug-ayush-64-for-covid-patients-begins-in-punjab-259511
28-05-2021||---||188 black fungus cases so far in Punjab; 40 not Covid-linked||Chandigarh, May 27With as many as 188 cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) reported so far in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered ramp-up of stocks of alternative drugs to treat the disease in view of the shortage of Amphotericin B injection.With this, Punjab will be the first state to make effective use of alternative medicines to treat the disease.With only 880 more Liposomal Amphotericin B injections expected, the Chief Minister stressed the need to strengthen alternative drug stocks, as recommended by the expert group constituted by his government to deal with the crisis.Stressing the need to ensure that every patient had a chance to recover from black fungus, a disease reportedly caused by overuse of steroids in Covid patients, especially those suffering from diabetes, the CM said along with efforts to get more of the drug, the state government had already made available alternative drugs Itraconazole (4,000 tablets) and Posaconazole (500 tablets), as suggested by the expert group.Health Secretary Hussan Lal said of the 188 cases, 40 were not related to Covid, while 148 were of infected persons, with 133 having been on steroid therapy and 122 on oxygen support prior to onset of mucormycosis.As many as 154 had diabetes, 56 were immunocompromised, and 47 had comorbidities. A total of 156 are currently under treatment, nine have been cured while 23 have died.Group head Dr KK Talwar said help was being taken from foreign specialists to deal with the problem. Medical Education Secretary DK Tiwari said maximum cases had been reported at Patiala GMC (16), followed by Amritsar GMC (10), Faridkot GMC (8) and Mohali GMC (2).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/188-black-fungus-cases-so-far-in-punjab-40-not-covid-linked-259512
28-05-2021||---||Jab for shopkeepers, vendors in Punjab from June 1||Chandigarh, May 27The vaccination priority list for 18-45 age group in the state will be expanded from June 1 to include shopkeepers and their staff, hospitality sector, industrial workers, rehriwalas/street vendors, delivery boys, bus/cab drivers/conductors and members of local bodies.Announcing this today, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said so far, 4.3 lakh individuals on the existing vaccination priority list of construction labour, co-morbid individuals and families of healthcare workers in the age group had been vaccinated. Chairing a virtual Covid review meeting, Capt Amarinder expressed happiness over the fact that many donors had contributed to the vaccination fund in the state.Besides shopkeepers and their staff members, as well as industrial workers, the expanded priority list, effective from June 1, will include staff working in hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces, caterers, including cooks, bearers, etc.In addition to rehriwalas, other street vendors will also become eligible, especially those serving food items — juice, chat, fruit etc. — as well as delivery boys, LPG distribution boys. Bus drivers, conductors, auto/cab drivers, mayors, councillors, sarpanches and panches will also be covered in this phase of 18-45 age group vaccination.In terms of the existing vaccine stocks, the state had a balance of 36,000 Covishield and 50,000 Covaxin doses (received from the Government of India) for the 45+ age group. These were sufficient only for a day, the meeting was informed.In the 18-45 age group, the state had received 4,29,780 of the 30 lakh Covishield doses ordered while no Covaxin dose had been received so far though advance payment had been made for 1,14,190 doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jab-for-shopkeepers-vendors-in-punjab-from-june-1-259513
28-05-2021||Amritsar/Abohar||Free vax camp by SGPC tomorrow at Golden Temple entrance plaza||The SGPC has announced to organise a free vaccination camp against Covid on Saturday, while formally inaugurating “Coviserv” campaign launched by a Rajasthan-based Prandharin Trust here today.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a total of 5,000 Covaxin doses worth Rs 53 lakh had been procured which would be administered free of cost. The camp would be organised at the Golden Temple entrance plaza. Meanwhile, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today announced the extension of “oxygen sewa” organised by the party across the state. He launched it at the party’s local office in Abohar and said technicians hired by the party would install oxygen concentrators at the houses of the needy. “If the SGPC is able to order and receive a consignment of Covaxin within ten days of placing an order. Why can’t the state government do so?” asked Sukhbir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-vax-camp-by-sgpc-tomorrow-at-golden-temple-entrance-plaza-259514
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||O2 concentrators, oximeters donated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/o2-concentrators-oximeters-donated-259515
28-05-2021||Sameer Singh
||6 years on, project to build two hospitals in Mansa hangs fire||Tribune News Service Mansa, May 27 The project to construct two government-run hospitals (urban primary health centres) in Mansa district is in limbo for over six years now. The hospitals were to be built in 2015 under a scheme of the National Health Mission (NHM) to provide medical services to people dwelling in slums. Even as funds to the tune of Rs 5 crore were sanctioned by the central body six years ago, the project has not materialised so far. Talking to The Tribune, Gurlabh Singh Mahal, an advocate and social activist, said, “For the construction of the hospitals, approximately 4,500 square feet land was to be acquired but owing to conflict of interest among the councillors, the Nagar Council could not provide land for the project.”  Balwinder Singh Kaka, former president of the Nagar Council, said, “We made all efforts to construct two government hospitals, but certain elements with vested interest did not let it happen. We had suggested land for the project on the Khokhar road area, but objections were raised by some sections on flimsy grounds. Land could not be provided as there was no consensus among councillors on the matter.” The Health Department wrote to the Nagar Council on numerous occasions and letters were issued for acquiring land, but the latter’s non-challant approach hit the project. Manjit Singh, general secretary, PPCC, said, “We all are passing through tough times when we need hospitals and doctors more than anything else. Had such projects been taken on priority earlier, it would have been of great assistance to patients. I have met with representatives of the Nagar Council and after prolonged discussion asked them to start the process to provide the land for the project.” Dr Sukhwinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, Mansa, said, “Despite being asked to provide the land for the construction of hospitals, the Nagar Council could not do so. Now, we will check with the higher authorities whether the funds sanctioned for the project are still available or have been utilised for some other work. If the funds are available, we will initiate the process to acquire land for the project afresh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-years-on-project-to-build-two-hospitals-in-mansa-hangs-fire-259516
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 8.58 cr given under Smart Village drive||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-8-58-cr-given-under-smart-village-drive-259517
28-05-2021||---||Give relief to virus-hit cabbies, traders: AAP||Chandigarh, May 27AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh demanding to financial assistance to taxi drivers, labourers, shopkeepers, small artists and other poor sections hit by the pandemic.He said they were forced to leave work owing to the lockdown imposed by the state government. He urged the CM to give Rs 5,000 assistance to taxi/auto drivers and labourers, besides order loan companies to stop collection of instalments for some time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-relief-to-virus-hit-cabbies-traders-aap-259518
28-05-2021||New Delhi||Attach PACL assets in Punjab to recover investors’ dues: SEBI||Markets watchdog SEBI on Thursday ordered attachment of properties related to PACL in an illegal fundraising case as part of efforts to recover thousands of crores of investors money.The properties being attached are land parcels situated at Banur in Punjab, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) said in a notice. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attach-pacl-assets-in-punjab-to-recover-investors-dues-sebi-259471
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, wife  on path to recovery: Doctors||Former India sprinter Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, who led the Indian women’s volleyball team, are stable and responding well to the treatment, informed the team of doctors looking after the duo at a private hospital.“Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh’s health is stable and improving,” read a media bulletin issued by the hospital.“Both of them are on the path to recovery,” said ace golfer and Milkha Singh’s son Jeev Milkha Singh. Nirmal, 82, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and was admitted to the hospital with Covid pneumonia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flying-sikh-milkha-singh-wife-on-path-to-recovery-doctors-259537
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC orders uniform rates for various Covid tests in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday ordered for having uniform rates for various Covid-19 tests, including the Rapid Antigen Tests and RT-PCR, in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The court’s directives came during a video conference hearing by a Bench of justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh on the Covid-19 situation in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The Bench gave its directions noting that though the respective governments have been taking “appropriate measures” to manage the pandemic, certain issues need its intervention.“We direct as hereunder: the rates for RAT and RT-PCR tests in the two states and the Union territory need to be uniform,” said the Bench, noting sharp differences in prices in the two states.“We feel that the state of Haryana and the UT of Chandigarh need to reconsider the rates prescribed and act accordingly,” noting the lower prices prescribed by the Punjab government for the purpose.Taking note of the Chandigarh administration reducing the HRCT (high-resolution CT-chest) to Rs 1,800 in the Union territory, the Bench said Punjab and Haryana too should ask private diagnostic centres in their areas to reduce the HRCT rates.Pointing out that patients’ relatives cannot be left to their plight in the absence of information about their medical conditions, the Bench also emphasised the need for having ‘ICU Control Rooms’ in hospitals.Senior Counsel Anupam Gupta had earlier raised the issue of the need of the patients and their relatives staying in touch with each other and pointed to the Bench that PGIMER, Chandigarh, had set up such ICU Control Room.Endorsing Gupta’s argument, the Bench asked the two states and the UT to set up similar control rooms in all hospitals to ensure that the patients and their relatives stay in touch with each other and people remain aware of their patients’ health conditions.The Bench also touched upon the issue of overcharging by private hospitals in the treatment and asked authorities to keep a report of their probe into the complaints of overcharging ready to be submitted to the court as and when they are sought by it to examine if they require court’s action.The court was also apprised by the two states regarding black fungus cases. The court felt that guidelines issued by the Centre for screening, diagnosis and management of mucormycosis be examined by the two states and the UT and necessary steps be taken.Senior advocate Rupinder Khosla, who was appointed amicus curiae by the court, had earlier raised various issues including those of overcharging patients for their treatment by private hospitals, high costs for CT scan, HRCT (Chest), the regulatory mechanism for various rates to be charged by laboratories.UT’s counsel earlier informed the court that in pursuance of its orders, the HRCT rate for private diagnostic centres in Chandigarh has been fixed at Rs 1,800 while the RT-PCR and RAT test rates have been fixed at Rs 900 and Rs 500 respectively. Haryana Advocate General Baldev Raj Mahajan earlier told the court that private diagnostic centres in the state charge Rs 2,100 for HRCT, while his Punjab counterpart Atul Nanda said his state government has stipulated that private labs would not charge more than Rs 350 for the Rapid Antigen Test and Rs 450 for the RT-PCR test.Before fixing June 28 as the next date of hearing the issue, the Bench said, “Lastly this court shall be failing in its duty if it does not recognise the work done by front line workers who have rendered their services in this need of the hour.“At the same time, those who shirk their duties in these difficult times, their particulars shall be furnished to the nodal agencies formed to deal with crises created by Covid-19 which this court shall examine at an appropriate stage.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-orders-uniform-rates-for-various-covid-tests-in-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-259361
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab extends Covid-19 restrictions till June 10||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced extension of the restrictions in the state till June 10, but ordered the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles to be removed, in view of decline in the positivity and number of active Covid cases.The chief minister has also directed the resumption of elective surgeries in both government and private hospitals, as well restoration of OPD operations at all GMCHs in the state, in view of the improvement in the overall Covid situation.It may be recalled that elective surgeries had been stopped from April 12 to ensure adequate availability of beds and oxygen for serious Covid cases, but the chief minister has now allowed these to be resumed, subject to the condition that there shall, for the present, be no reduction in beds for L3 patients in the hospital.Medical Education Minister OP Soni said three GMCs had already started 50 per cent OPD operations, which will soon be scaled up to 100 per cent.On the issue of restrictions, the chief minister said it had been decided to continue with the curbs on the advice of experts.He clarified that while the limit on personal cars and two-wheelers was being removed as these are used mainly by family members and close friends, those on commercial passenger vehicles and taxis shall continue to be in place at present.Also read:The DCs will also continue to be empowered to make any adjustments in opening of non-essential shops as are merited by local conditions, he said.Asserting that the state could not afford to be lax despite some easing of the situation, the chief minister directed the health and medical education departments to continue strengthening the Covid care infrastructure and facilities to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic.He asked them to invest also in augmenting paediatric care and to seek 500 paediatric ventilators from the government of India.The meeting was informed all the 809 ventilators received earlier under the PM Cares Fund had been distributed and 136 of them were not working.The chief minister also ordered creation of more technical and specialists posts to meet the demands of the possible third wave.Dr Raj Bahadur informed the meeting that the recruitment of doctors and nurses had been almost completed, while the process for procurement of equipment for the makeshift hospitals had also started.All mid-level IAS/PCS transfers in all departments should be put on hold till the Covid crisis continues, directed the chief minister.Taking strong note of overcharging by some private hospitals, the chief minister warned that profiteering and fleecing of patients amid such a crisis will not be allowed at any cost.He directed the health and medical education departments to ensure that hospitals display huge (11’x5’) boards at the entrance displaying rates.Reviewing the Covid situation with top health experts and officials, as well as police and administrative officers, Capt Amarinder directed close and continuous monitoring of high-risk individuals and pregnant women in home isolation through special teams.Given the comfortable oxygen situation in the state currently, the chief minister also directed that oxygen may now be allowed to be used for essential non-medical purposes, with a three-day buffer stock of medical oxygen, however, to be maintained at all times.He noted with satisfaction that oxygen concentrator banks were now present in every district for post Covid care patients who have a doctor’s prescription. The control room had ensured that there was no shortage of oxygen in any hospital, he said, adding that the demand in the state had come down from 304 MT to 236 MT in the last 10 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-june-10-259289
28-05-2021||New Delhi||January 26 violence: Police say mob aimed to turn Red Fort into farmers' protest site||The Delhi Police, in its charge sheet, has claimed that the violence at Red Fort on January 26 as part of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws by the Centre was a "conspiracy to capture the place and convert it into a new protest site", sources said.The sources said the police charge sheet has also alleged that the violence was part of a “deep-rooted and premeditated conspiracy” and an occasion like Republic Day was chosen to tarnish the image of the Central government at home and abroad.To support its contention, the sources said, the Police have also provided the court data on the sudden increase in the number of purchases of the tractors and trolleys in Haryana and Punjab during a few days before the planned rally in Delhi by the agitating farmers.The Charge sheet in connection with the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day has named actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu and others as accused in the case. It was filed before a magistrate in Tis Hazari on May 17. The Court listed it for May 28 for further hearing and taking cognizance of the charges.On Republic Day, protestors allegedly did not follow the prearranged route and broke barricades to enter Delhi, clashed with police, and vandalised property in several parts of the national capital during the farmers’ tractor rally. They also entered the Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.A total of 43 different cases were registered with the Crime Branch, Special Cell, and local police stations and over 150 persons were arrested in connection with various cases relating to Republic Day violence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/january-26-violence-police-say-mob-aimed-to-turn-red-fort-into-farmers-protest-site-259241
