29-05-2021||---||19-year old woman accuses maternal uncle of raping, impregnating her||Sukhmeet BhasinTribune News ServiceBathinda, May 29A 19-year-old woman has accused her maternal uncle of repeatedly raping her in Bathinda in November last year, police sources said on Saturday.The victim was unaware that the rape had lead to pregnancy, police sources said. Police sources quoted a complaint by the woman’s family as saying that when the suspect had come to her house in Bathinda last year during Diwali, her mother had asked him to stay over for a few days so she could take her son who was ill to a hospital.   The rapes, the complaint said, happened during the times when her mother was absent. The complainant said that the suspect raped over repeatedly over the next few days and even shot a video of her, which he threatened to make viral if she admitted the incident to anyone, sources said.The victim fainted a few days ago while she was on her way to the market with her mother, police sources said. When she was taken to the hospital, they found out that she was seven months pregnant. She then told her family of the alleged rapes, police sources said, bringing the family to file a police complaint o Saturday.Baljit Singh, an assistant sub-inspector at Model Town Police Station—where the woman had filed the complaint—said police had taken down the victim’s statement and were now looking to arrest the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/19-year-old-woman-accuses-maternal-uncle-of-raping-impregnating-her-260486
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s vaccinated 50 lakh people so far, says state government||Punjab said it had administered 50 lakh doses under its Mission Fateh programme, the state government said in a press note on Saturday.State Nodal Officer for Vaccination Vikas Garg said that as on May 29, 2021, a total of 50,05,767 doses of vaccine have been administered in Punjab.Out of quota received from the Government of India (GoI) for the frontline, health workers and people above 45 years of age, as many as 45,53,187 vaccines have been administered in the state while a total of 4,52,580 people in the priorities group of 18-44 age category have been inoculated, he said.“Out of the 45,53,187 doses, 41,40,179 people have got the jab of Covishield vaccine while as many as 4,13,008 have been administered Covaxin,” he said.Of these 38,01,062 were first doses and 7,52,125 were second doses, he said.  “In terms of categories, the highest number of 32, 83, 848 vaccinated people fall in the 45 years plus age group while the number of frontline workers inoculated is 9,63,881 and the number of health workers stands at 3,05,458. These include 28,958 people who got the jab privately out of whom 21625 have got Covieshield and 7343 have been administered Covaxin,” he said.Garg said out of the priority groups set up by Punjab Government for the age group of 18-44 years, 86,101 persons with co-morbidities including 2520 jail inmates, 3,01,981 construction workers and their families, 64,395 Family members of health workers and 1,103 private industrial workers have been vaccinated.Further, Covishield 4.29 lakh doses have been purchased at the cost of Rs. 13.25 Crore and Covaxin 1,14,190 doses procured at a cost of Rs. 4.70 crore, Garg said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-vaccinated-50-lakh-people-so-far-says-state-government-260480
29-05-2021||New Delhi||Farmers to observe June 5 as ‘Sampoorna Kranti Divas’ by burning copies of farm laws||Farmers will observe June 5 as ‘Sampoorna Kranti Divas’ by burning copies of the Central farm laws in front of the offices of BJP MPs and MLAs to mark the day when these legislations were initially promulgated as ordinances last year, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Saturday.After being promulgated as ordinances, Parliament in September last year passed the proposed legislations and were later made law following presidential assent.Scores of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year demanding the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for their crops.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmers unions spearheading the agitation, said, “On June 5, 1974, Jayaprakash Narayan had declared ‘Sampoorna Kranti’ and launched a mass movement against the then central government. Last year on June 5 the government had presented these anti-farmer laws as ordinances.”        Jayprakash Narayan had at a public meeting in Patna’s Gandhi Maidan on June 5, 1974, asked the people of Bihar to observe the day as ‘Sampoorna Kranti Divas’ (Total Revolution) and then form a ‘janata sarkar’ in every village to usher in a new social order.“The SKM has decided that on June 5, ‘Sampoorna Kranti Divas’ will be observed all over the country. We appeal to citizens to burn the copies of three agricultural laws in front of offices of BJP MPs, MLAs and representatives... make it a mass movement and force the government to repeal the farm laws,” the umbrella body of protesting farmers unions added.The protesting farmers on Saturday also paid tribute to former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on his death anniversary and remembered his contribution for the development of agriculture, farmers and villages.“Chaudhary Charan Singh wanted to make the country ‘aatmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) in which the farmers, labourers and the people of the villages could live happily.“The distrust of farmers in this government reminds them of Chaudhary Charan Singh, who faithfully put every problem and pain of the farmers before the society and the government and resolved it,” they said.According to the SKM, a large batch of farmers from Punjab’s Doaba have joined the protesters at the Singhu border on Saturday and many more are expected to join in the coming days to strengthen the ongoing movement.The Centre has been maintaining that the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price and do away with the ‘mandi’ (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. PTI MG||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-observe-june-5-as-sampoorna-kranti-divas-by-burning-copies-of-farm-laws-260475
29-05-2021||Amritsar||Centre dragging feet on granting necessary approvals to Pfizer, Moderna: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday accused the Centre of dragging its feet on granting US pharma giants Pfizer and Moderna necessary permissions to export their COVID-19 vaccines to India and said the process should be expedited.He also asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to directly place orders with companies that are supplying vaccines instead of waiting to get doses from the Centre.Badal was speaking at the inauguration of a free vaccination ‘sewa’, an initiative by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), at the Golden Temple here.The ‘sewa’ will be extended to Takht Sri Damdama Sahib in Bathinda and Takht Sri Keshgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib in the coming days, he said.The SAD chief accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Singh of having failed to fulfil their duty to provide vaccines to people.Badal expressed surprise over the alleged delay by the Centre in granting permission to companies like Pfizer and Moderna to export their vaccines to India and said all necessary approvals should be fast-tracked.Pfizer, which is ready to offer 5 crore doses to India between July and October this year and has sought certain relaxations including indemnification, has held a series of interactions with the Indian government authorities recently including one this week, during which it shared the most recent data points regarding efficacy trials and approvals for its vaccine in various countries and by the World Health Organisation (WHO).The government is examining Pfizer’s request for indemnity and will take a decision in the larger interest of people and on merit, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul had said on Thursday.Badal also urged the Centre to waive the goods and services tax (GST) on Covid medicines, oxygen concentrators, ventilators and vaccines.“I don’t understand why the Centre wants to earn money by taxing life-saving medicines and machines and making them more expensive for the people. Even the SGPC had to pay GST on purchase of vaccines. This must be waived immediately,” he said.Badal asked Singh to place orders directly with companies that are supplying vaccines instead of waiting for the meagre supply from the Centre.He said the Punjab government should follow the example of the Mumbai municipal corporation, which used Rs 600 crore to purchase vaccines, and demanded that jabs worth Rs 1,000 crore be purchased immediately.States across the country have reported a shortage of Covid vaccine doses and some have been forced to halt the vaccination drive for certain age groups. Many states have also issued global tenders to procure vaccines.Punjab’s nodal officer for vaccination Vikas Garg had said on May 23 that the state has approached all vaccine manufacturers for direct purchase of Covid jabs including Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson.While Moderna and Pfizer have refused to supply vaccines directly to the Punjab government, saying they deal only with the Centre, other firms haven’t yet responded, according to Garg.Badal decried the Congress-led Punjab government for not giving any relief to the people in this time of crisis and allegedly befooling them by claiming that it had affected a 20 per cent reduction in power tariff when nothing of this sort had been done. If the Congress government is really serious about providing relief to the common man and industry, it should have waived electricity bills for a six-month period. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-dragging-feet-on-granting-necessary-approvals-to-pfizer-moderna-sukhbir-badal-260458
29-05-2021||Itanagar||Arunachal court remands Punjab YouTuber to six days in jail in racial slur case||A court in Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday remanded Punjab-based YouTuber Paras Singh to six days in judicial custody, a senior police officer said.Singh, a social media influencer, was produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court at Yupia near Itanagar."The court remanded him to six days in judicial custody. He will be lodged at Jully jail during the period.Further action, whatever is to be taken, will be decided by the court," said SP of Special Investigating Team (SIT) Rohit Rajbir Singh.The court on Friday sent the YouTuber to one-day police custody to investigate the matter of racial remarks he had made against senior Congress MLA Ninong Ering and the people of Arunachal Pradesh.Singh was brought to Itanagar from Ludhiana in Punjab by the police's SIT late on Thursday.The three-member team that brought him to the state was led by inspector Techi Vijay and consisted of constables GL Ray and Aman Kumar Meena.The superintendent of police said that during interrogation, Singh revealed that he has two accounts on YouTube, both of which were created to "generate quick money"."The account with the channel name 'Paras Official', having 4.68 lakh subscribers, is used for showing tips, tricks, and informing his subscribers about the new skins of games like Call Of Duty (COD) mobile and PUBG un-boxing videos. The other channel—'Paras Gamers' with 3.94 lakh subscribers is used to live stream PUBG on YouTube," the police officer said.Both the accounts are monetised by YouTube, and he earns Rs 20,000-25,000 a month."The YouTuber also disclosed that the controversial video, against which a case has now been registered, was made by him to gain widespread attention and views, so that his monetary income could be maximised," the SP said.The SIT has seized a laptop, a tablet and three mobile phones from the YouTuber's possession for further investigation, the officer added.The Arunachal Pradesh government on Monday filed a case against Singh for making racial remarks against Ering and inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of the state.Paras made the comments while reacting to a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by Ering wherein the MLA had asked the PM to ban the re-launch of PUBG Mobile India's new avatar -- Battlegrounds Mobile India.Ering had reasoned that the game was aimed at deceiving the government and citizens and should be banned in the country. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arunachal-court-remands-punjab-youtuber-to-six-days-in-jail-in-racial-slur-case-260450
29-05-2021||Patiala||Punjab govt failed to make arrangements to deal with Covid-19 pandemic: BKU||Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) on Saturday alleged the Congress government in Punjab “failed” to make necessary arrangements to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and demanded that it takes control of all private hospitals accused of overcharging patients.One of the largest farmers’ unions in Punjab, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) on Friday began a three-day protest in Patiala, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s home constituency, over the state government’s alleged failure to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.Read also: Covid-19 positivity rate falls to 5.12 per cent in PunjabOn the second day of the protest, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders also alleged that there was a lack of health staff, ventilators, beds and oxygen in hospitals.“The Punjab government has miserably failed in making necessary arrangements to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan while addressing the farmers here.He demanded the state government takes control of all private hospitals which are being accused of overcharging patients.“New staff should also be recruited in the health department which is facing acute shortage of manpower,” Kokrikalan said.He asked the state government to hire more people in the health department, besides making necessary arrangements for beds, ventilators and oxygen in hospitals.The farmer leader also wanted the government to provide vaccines to villagers free of charge and that proper arrangements should be made for free testing in every village and city.A comprehensive awareness programme should also be conducted about vaccines in rural areas, he said, adding the farmers were following Covid-appropriate behaviour during the protest.Kokrikalan accused the Central and the state governments of not taking adequate steps despite knowing in advance about the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had earlier rejected the allegation of the state government’s failure in tackling the pandemic effectively. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-failed-to-make-arrangements-to-deal-with-covid-19-pandemic-bku-260442
29-05-2021||Mohali||Two AFPI alumni commissioned as officers, 16 others pass out from NDA||Two alumni of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI) here became commissioned officers in the armed forces today while another 16 cadets passed out of the National Defence Academy (NDA), Kharakvasla.   Sub-Lieutenant Vishvajit Singh, who happens to be the grandson of Lt Gen Gurinder Singh, a former General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Northern Command, has been commissioned into the Navy from the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala, where the passing out parade was reviewed by Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command.He had joined the fifth batch at AFPI in 2015 and thereafter was selected for joining the NDA as part of 138th Course, from where he proceeded to the Naval Academy for the final one year of training. His father, Vikram Singh, is a hotelier and mother, Man Mohinder, is a housewife. Lieutenant Barjot Singh Dhillon passed out from the Officers Training Academy, Chennai, on completion of his training with the 111 Short Service Commission Course and has been commissioned into the Jat Regiment. The passing out parade was reviewed by Lt Gen YK Joshi, GOC-in-C, Northern Command. He had joined AFPI in 2011 as part of the First AFPI Course and hails from Patiala. His father, Kuldeep Singh, is a technician and mother, Gurpreet Kaur, is a teacher in a government school. He also has two sisters. Maj Gen BS Grewal (retd), Director AFPI said that with this, the total number of AFPI cadets commissioned as officers has gone up to 71. This number is expected to further increase on June 12, when the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, is scheduled to be held. At the NDA, as many as 16 cadets from AFPI passed out on completion of their three year training as part of the 140th Course. They will undergo one more year of training at respective service academies that they have opted for before being commissioned as officers in the armed forces. The parade was reviewed by Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh. So far 162 alumni from AFPI, which had commenced the two-year training of cadets in April 2011, have joined the NDA and other service academies from the first eight batches. Of these 71 have already become officers and the rest are undergoing training.Currently, there are three batches at AFPI. Cadets of the 9th batch are awaiting to take their final Class 12 board examinations for which dates are expected to be announced by the government soon. Cadets of the 10th batch are studying in Class 12 and are now preparing for the NDA entrance exam scheduled to be held in September this year. Another 42 boys have been selected as part of the 11th batch that commenced training on May 24.Due to COVID-19 restrictions, all training is being carried out online. Notwithstanding the interruption of normal training routine from January 2020 to May 2021 due to the pandemic, as many as 28 cadets from AFPI have joined service academies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-afpi-alumni-commissioned-as-officers-16-others-pass-out-from-nda-260416
29-05-2021||Sangrur||Three women commit suicide at Kuthala village due to financial woes||In a shocking incident, three women allegedly committed suicide in Kuthala village on late Friday night by consuming poison. The maternal grandmother, mother, and daughter, allegedly took their life due to poor financial conditions of the family, suspected the local police. The deceased have been identified as, maternal grandmother, 65-year-old Harmale Kaur—her widow 43-year-old daughter Sukhwinder Kaur wife of late Gurpreet Singh—who was a retired army man—and her 19-year-old daughter Amanjot Kaur. On receiving information, police shifted their bodies to Malerkotla civil hospital for post-mortem."Only the grandmother and her minor granddaughter and minor grandson are left in their family. After receiving information, we shifted all the three bodies to Malerkotla Civil Hospital, where currently the post-mortem is going on. We are conducting a thorough investigation, but during preliminary investigations, it has come to light that family was facing financial problems,” said Amandeep  Singh Brar, SP Malerkotla.The late Army retired man, Gurpreet, passed away a while back, and his pension is the only source of income. Several villagers informed that the 19-year-old was preparing to study abroad, but lack of finances created trouble at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-women-commit-suicide-at-kuthala-village-due-to-financial-woes-260396
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Mika Singh slams 'gadha' Kamaal R. Khan, says will make new single 'KRK Kutta'; here's why||Singer Mika Singh says he will make a new single titled "KRK Kutta", claiming the song is meant to be a "befitting reply" to actor-turned-critic Kamaal R. Khan, or KRK, in the context of the latter's ongoing tussle with Bollywood star Salman Khan.A statement issued by Salman's lawyers recently said that he was filing a defamation suit against KRK for alleging that the star engages in fraudulent activity and launders funds through his NGO, Being Human. Mika's announcement comes at a time when KRK has declared that he refuses to apologise to anybody."KRK is a 'gadha' (ass). Salman Khan should have filed the case on him a long time ago. KRK intentionally says nasty stuff to get attention, so that he keeps getting publicity. He makes personal attacks, he starts attacking family members. This is wrong. He talks absolute garbage, starts abusing people, he just says anything to anyone and the entire entertainment industry is silent. Someone needs to give him a proper reply," claimed Mika, justifying his song."I think KRK would be happy about the song. He seeks popularity, and I am going to make him super popular. I am going to give him a befitting reply through my song. The song is titled 'KRK Kutta' (KRK the dog). The music will be composed by Toshi Sabri," he added, speaking to the media.Asked if Mika himself wasn't out creating controversy with such a song, the singer replied: "I am not trying to create controversy with my song. It is merely a reply to KRK. I don't want to say bad stuff on social media and pick-up unnecessary arguments, it wouldn't look nice. I want to entertain people and make KRK popular, which would make him happy.""I have been working and living in Mumbai since the last 15 years and I haven't seen anyone fighting on streets. Leave Bollywood aside, I haven't seen people arguing or fighting. The vibe of this town is such that people mind their work and don't believe in stooping to low levels, but KRK has crossed all the lines," Mika declared."People from Industry should have filed a case on him a long time ago and put him in his place. KRK is hiding in Dubai because he knows the moment he returns he will be bashed up. I am a singer and I am just replying musically, on behalf of everyone," claimed Mika.Meanwhile, KRK has refused to apologise, saying that he is only doing his job. Incidentally, although the statement by Salman's legal team had said the defamation suit has nothing to do with the latter's review of Salman's new film "Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai", KRK seems to hint that is the case.In a YouTube video, KRK said he has done nothing wrong and would not apologise. In separate tweets, KRK also claimed he has the support of over 20 people in Bollywood."More than 20 Bollywood people have called me to give me their support. They said, that they were not able to do that whatever I am doing. Because they were not ready to have direct conflict with him. They were scared to make him their enemy. I say Thank you all so very much!" he tweeted."Now I don't care, what will be the result. But I will fight for all those people. I can't allow so many people to get disappointed. I won't break their trust," he further wrote.In a reversal to what he had earlier said, KRK had also recently declared he would definitely continue reviewing Salman's films."Normally I don't review the film if producer director or actor of the film asks me to not review it. But Now if this man will request me, or even touch my feet also, still I will review his each film and each song. Satyamev Jayate! Jai Hind!" KRK had tweeted on May 27. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mika-singh-slams%C2%A0gadha%C2%A0kamaal-r-khan-says-will-make-new-single-krk-kutta-heres-why-260379
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cong leader protests Manpreet Badal’s ‘interference’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-leader-protests-manpreet-badals-interference-260257
29-05-2021||Faridkot||Award for Faridkot NIC app||The NIC, Faridkot, has been selected among the top districts by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and National e-Governance Division for good performance. DC Vimal Kumar Setia and district informatics officer Anil Katiyar were awarded for designing “M-Nivaran” mobile app for the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/award-for-faridkot-nic-app-260255
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Talk to striking safai workers, Punjab CM urged||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/talk-to-striking-safai-workers-punjab-cm-urged-260253
29-05-2021||Muktsar||Back from Tikri stir, Muktsar farmer dies||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-from-tikri-stir-muktsar-farmer-dies-260237
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM: Rs 682 cr power relief for 69 lakh domestic consumers||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said the massive cut, ranging from 50 paise to Rs 1 per unit, in domestic power tariff will provide major relief to domestic consumers, especially the poor, who are already reeling under financial problems due to the pandemic. This is the second year in a row that the power tariff for domestic consumption in the state has been reduced. The domestic power rates had been cut down by 50 paise per unit by the regulator in 2020 too. While pointing out that the decision of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) to reduce the domestic tariff would bring relief to the tune of Rs 682 crore for 69 lakh domestic consumers in the state, the Chief Minister also hailed the decision of the regulator not to increase tariff for commercial consumers as well as small and medium industry amid the pandemic. Even the hike in tariff for industrial users was quite marginal, he pointed out, adding that this would also come as a relief to industry, which had been severely impacted by the lockdowns. The industry has been getting power subsidy from the state government since 2017, when the tariff was reduced to Rs 5 per unit as variable cost. Soon after coming to power, the Capt Amarinder Singh government had announced its decision to subsidise power for the industry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-rs-682-cr-power-relief-for-69-lakh-domestic-consumers-260029
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||Govt harming future of Dalit students: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) welcomed the notice issued by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes to the state government on non-issuance of roll numbers to Dalit students, studying under the Post-matric Scholarship Scheme in the state.  In a joint statement issued on Friday, deputy Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Saravjit Kaur Manuke and MLA and youth wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said the state government had embezzled crores of rupees from the scholarship funds, due to which Class X pass Dalit students were facing difficulties in pursuing their studies. Meet Hayer said AAP had started a struggle against Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for harming the future of Dalit students and had staged dharnas across the state, including that outside the minister’s residence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-harming-future-of-dalit-students-aap-260030
29-05-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar man chosen LoP in UK council, villagers rejoice||Rajbir Singh Bhullar of Amritsar’s Wazir Bhullar village has been elected Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in the Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council in the UK. There were 64 councillors of the Labour Party in the council and among them he was appointed the Leader of Opposition on May 19. Residents of his native village and the family erupted in joy.Before moving to the UK, he had been a student of economics at Punjabi University, Patiala, and later he studied English literature at Panjab University, Chandigarh. During his college and university days, he had been an active student leader.His father, a retired Inspector of the Punjab Police, Mann Singh Bhullar said unlike India, politics in the UK was public-oriented with focus on amenities and happiness for all. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-man-chosen-lop-in-uk-council-villagers-rejoice-260031
29-05-2021||Saurabh Malik
||Tax recovery: No coercive step if appeal, pre-deposit filed, says High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 28 In a significant order liable to change the way companies registered with the sales tax department are proceeded against for recovering tax liabilities, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a coercive step cannot be initiated if an appeal along with the pre-deposit is filed before the appellate authority. The ruling by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on a petition filed by JS Grover Autos Pvt Ltd against the Commissioner of Central Goods and Services Tax, Central Goods and Service Tax Commissionerate. The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that a show-cause notice dated November 1, 2019, raising demand of service tax along with interest and penalty was issued to the petitioner, a private limited company, located at Ludhiana and Pathankot. The notice was issued on the premise that the commissions received on account of incentive/sale promotion were liable to service tax under the category of business auxiliary services and were recoverable under the provisions of the Finance Act, 1994, along with interest and penalty.  The demand of service tax, along with interest and penalty, was confirmed. But the petitioner seeking benefit filed a declaration under Sabka Vishwas or Legacy Dispute Resolution Scheme, 2019.  The declaration, however, became meaningless as the company failed to deposit the tax assessed by the due date. The respondent, to recover tax liability arising out of the assessment order, attached the petitioner’s bank account vide an impugned order dated March 23. The petitioner, taking advantage of extension in the limitation period by the Supreme Court, preferred an appeal before the first appellate authority against the assessment order. Appearing before the Bench, the petitioner’s counsel referred to circular dated September 16, 2014, issued by Central Board of Excise and Customs to contend that coercive step could not be initiated if an appeal was filed along with the pre-deposit of 7.5 per cent. As such, the recovery proceedings initiated by respondent were bad and contrary to board circular binding on the respondent. The Bench asserted the board circulars were undisputedly binding on department and the circular made it clear that coercive measures for recovery of balance liability were not permissible if an appeal was filed along with mandatory pre-deposit of 7.5 per cent. Allowing the petitioner to operate its bank account, the Bench asserted: “The respondent-department should have restrained itself from coercive recovery as soon as it came to know of appeal with mandatory pre-deposit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tax-recovery-no-coercive-step-if-appeal-pre-deposit-filed-says-high-court-260032
29-05-2021||---||Three days on, case filed over Moga sacrilege, suspect held||Moga, May 28Three days after alleged sacrilege of ‘gutka’ (a religious book) at Sukhanand village in the district, the local police have finally registered a case and arrested a suspect.The suspect, Ram Singh, a resident of Janduke village, Mansa, was spotted in a drunk state on the intervening night of May 25 and 26 outside Gurdwara Dera Baba Bhag Singh of the village holding three religious books.SGPC objects to use of Guru’s photoAmritsar: The SGPC has lodged a protest against a ‘beedi’ unit in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, for printing a picture of Guru Gobind Singh on its product. The SGPC has written to the factory concerned asking it to remove the picture with immediate effect. TNSOn spotting him, local youths called the panchayat. Soon after, hundreds of people gathered at the spot.The suspect was detained by the local police for investigations the same day, but an FIR under Section 295A of the IPC was registered against him at the Samalsar police station last night. The police announced his arrest today.Jaswinder Singh, a Sahoke resident, said a video of the local police detaining him was circulated on the social media.Initially, the suspect tried to flee by throwing away the religious books but he was overpowered by locals. The police later detained him. The suspect was also seen carrying a bag. Investigations were in progress to find out the source of the books.Former MP Dhian Singh Mand and SAD (Mann) leader Jaskaran Singh of Kahan Singh Wala, who visited the village on May 26, demanded a thorough probe into the incident. There was an attempt to disturb peace and harmony of the state, they claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-days-on-case-filed-over-moga-sacrilege-suspect-held-260033
29-05-2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Congress panel to meet Punjab MLAs in a few days||To resolve the infighting between factions of the Punjab Congress and putting up a united front ahead of the 2022 Assembly election, the three-member committee — comprising veteran leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, JP Aggarwal and Harish Rawat — will start hearing out state leaders over the next few days. The committee was constituted by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi today.Dissent: Members to finalise plan todayRawat, who reached Delhi today, said the committee would listen to the MLAs and ministers in Delhi “as soon as possible”. The committee could also give the option of virtual interaction to those who can’t travel to the national capital. Party’s former chief Rahul Gandhi is also expected to meet select leaders.Beginning with PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, the committee will hear out ministers before interacting with MLAs. It will also hold talks with Capt Amarinder Singh.Rawat, who is party’s Punjab affairs in charge, said he would meet other committee members tomorrow to finalise the schedule of interaction with state leaders. It is learnt the committee may start the interaction from May 31 or June 1.He said Navjot Singh Sidhu was a key component of the party and putting up a united front in the coming Assembly election would be factored in before making any decision. He ruled out any discussion on changing the CM face in the elections. The panel will need to reach a formulation that suits both the CM and Sidhu and brings everyone together in a critical election year. A deputy chief ministerial berth for Sidhu is being seen as an option but top leaders feel there may be two deputy CMs for balance. Sidhu is learnt to be keen on the presidency of state Congress unit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-panel-to-meet-punjab-mlas-in-a-few-days-260034
29-05-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana
||Sangrur hospital fined Rs 10 lakh for negligence||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 28 The Punjab State Consumer Disputed Redressal Commission has ordered the Chandigarh Heart Centre, Sangrur, to pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to 60-year-old Kamalpreet Grewal on account of medical negligence. The hospital had given a report of successful stent implant in her heart. However, her problem persisted. The family visited Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, and another surgery had to be performed. President of the Commission Justice Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal and members Rajinder Kumar Goyal and Kiran Sibal have ordered the hospital to pay the compensation with 8 per cent interest from the date of complaint (January 14, 2019) till the date of payment. The hospital is required to also pay another Rs 22,000 as litigation costs within 45 days of the receipt of the Commission order. Grewal visited the Heart Centre on April 14, 2018, after she complained of uneasiness and pain in her chest. The family was informed after surgery that a stent implant had been done and the blockage cleared. A little later, the patient again experienced chest pain in and around her heart. When there was no response from the hospital, she was taken to the Fortis Hospital in June 2018. After tests, it was found that there was 95 per cent blockage in the artery operated in the previous hospital. After being discharged from the Fortis, the husband of the patient approached the Sangrur hospital and sought the case papers which were allegedly refused. The Chandigarh Heart Centre in its reply argued that the procedure was successful and after the stent implant, the flow of blood was “good in all coronaries”. The second stent had been inserted at the point of second blockage, so there was no question of wrong stent implant, the reply had said. Not agreeing with the defence put forward by the Sangrur hospital to the allegations, the order noted that the hospital had been “grossly negligent” while performing the surgery due to which she had to undergo a second surgery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-hospital-fined-rs-10-lakh-for-negligence-260035
29-05-2021||Sangrur||SIT formed, minister Sukhjinder Randhawa’s ex-pvt secy under lens||To probe the role of Bachitar Singh, former private secretary (secretariat staff) of Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, in a fraud case, the Sangrur police have constituted a special investigation team (SIT). The Punjab and Haryana High Court had last week passed directions to constitute the SIT.Sangrur resident Ramdas Bansal had got registered a fraud case against Abhishek Goyal, Kapil Garg, Sanjeev Kumar and another Sanjeev Kumar after they allegedly refused to pay Rs 75 lakh to him for the sugar that he supplied to them. Later, the police nominated Naveen, Yogesh, Jiwan and Bachitar Singh as an accused in the case.“I supplied sugar to Abhishek Goyal after Bachitar Singh, then private secretary to the minister, introduced him to me. Bachitar called us repeatedly to pressurise us to continue the supply of sugar after we stopped it as Goyal had not released our payment. We have call recordings of Bachitar to prove our allegations. In total, Rs 75 lakh is pending,” said Bansal. The SIT will be headed by SSP Sangrur Vivek Sheel Soni. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-formed-minister-sukhjinder-randhawas-ex-pvt-secy-under-lens-260036
29-05-2021||Tarn Taran||Patti shooting: Day on, police scour CCTV footage||A day after two youths were killed in a shooting incident in Patti town, the district police are trying to identify the two assailants. “The investigation is on. At this stage, we have information that the shooters went towards Sarhali village. There is no information regarding where they went thereafter,” said Patti DSP Kuljinder Singh. The DSP said the police had seen CCTV footage from eight cameras and more were being scanned to gather information. The two assailants were in a Swift Dzire car, he added. Patti residents Amandeep Singh, alias Fauji, and Prabhdeep Singh, alias Pooran, were killed in the firing, while their associate Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, suffered a gunshot wound. His condition was stated to be critical. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patti-shooting-day-on-police-scour-cctv-footage-260037
29-05-2021||Amritsar||Politics behind ‘ardas’ for dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim: Akal Takht||The controversial ‘ardas’ conducted at a Bathinda gurdwara in favour of Dera Sirsa head Gurmeet Ram Rahim appeared to be planned for gaining political mileage. This was revealed in a probe conducted by the Dharam Parchar Committee of the SGPC that has been submitted to Akal Takht.In a video that went viral recently, ‘pathi’ Gurmel Singh Khalsa performed the ‘ardas’ in the presence of devotees at a gurdwara at Bir Talab village in Bathinda for the early release of the Dera Sirsa head. Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said the dera culture was prospered by political parties to gain votes.“As per the probe report, the ‘ardas’ imitation in the presence of Guru Granth Sahib favouring controversial Dera Sirsa head was suspected to be a well-planned conspiracy to gain political ground in the 2022 Assembly poll. The one who planned it has been identified. He has been associated with the BJP,” the jathedar said. Meanwhile, Rampal Kaur, wife of the arrested man, met BJP leader and National Commission of Schedule Castes Chairman Vijay Sampla in Jalandhar and claimed the arrest was “politically motivated”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/politics-behind-ardas-for-dera-head-gurmeet-ram-rahim-akal-takht-260039
29-05-2021||Bathinda||Religious texts found dumped, FIR registered||A sacrilege incident was reported today with Hindu and Sikh religion texts being found dumped at National Colony, near Sirhind canal, here. Sikh leader Mahinder Singh Khalsa said he found some pages of ‘gutka’ and Hanuman Chalisa on the ground while he was on a morning walk.  Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk visited the scene and took information from the police officials. He said ‘gutka’, Hanuman Chalisa and other religious literature were found lying near Sirhind canal this morning. “We have registered a case in this regard and are probing the matter,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/religious-texts-found-dumped-fir-registered-260040
29-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Eye on poll, Punjab slashes domestic power rates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 28With an eye on the Vidhan Sabha elections expected early next year, the Congress-led Punjab Government has announced a 50 paise to Re 1 per unit cut in power tariff for low-consumption domestic users.How much you payThe tariff for commercial consumers and small and medium industry will remain unchanged, though a negligible (less than 2 per cent) hike has been brought about for large industrial consumers. Almost 1.5 lakh industrial consumers stand to benefit from the decision to hold back tariff hike. The per unit tariff for domestic consumers with load up to 2kW and consumption slabs of 0 to 100 units and 101 to 300 units has been reduced by Re 1 and 50 paise. The corresponding cut for those having load between 2kW and 7kW is 75 paise (0-100 units) and 50 paise (101-300 units). However, the domestic consumers using higher power load will have to pay a higher tariff of 15 to 20 paise per unit.Almost 68 lakh consumers stand to benefit from the power tariff cut as they will get a relief of Rs 682 crore, say officials in Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). Besides, 24.5 lakh consumers continue to benefit through subsidy for minorities and economically and socially disadvantaged sections.The Capt Amarinder Singh government has been under fire not just from the Opposition, but even his own party members over the high tariff in Punjab, which is amongst the highest in the country.With elections round the corner, the original annual revenue requirement (ARR) sent by the PSPCL to Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) in December, which had recommended a hike of 8 per cent in tariff, was withdrawn. A new ARR was submitted last month, which recommended a cut in tariff.The new tariff order, announced by the PSERC, will be applicable from June 1 to March 31, 2022, commission Chairman Vishwajit Khanna told The Tribune.In another relief for the industry, the special night tariff has been allowed to continue this year, provided the consumers use power exclusively between 10 pm and 6 am. The facility granted to the industry allowing them to use power for additional four hours, between 6 am to 10 am throughout the year, has been allowed at normal tariff.The PSERC Chairman said the government had given an undertaking to pay the PSPCL Rs 10,600 crore towards power subsidy given to 14.25 lakh agriculture pumpset consumers. Though agriculture consumers do not pay power bill, the tariff has been increased marginally by 9 paise per unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eye-on-poll-punjab-slashes-domestic-power-rates-259965
29-05-2021||---||Punjab raises concern over shortfall in GST relief cess||Chandigarh, May 28Punjab today raised concern over the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax Compensation Cess for 2021-22, which will lead to a compensation cess shortage for a second year in a row.Having been “coerced” by the Government of India into accepting the new terms of borrowings to meet the shortfall in GST compensation in mid-2020, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who was representing the state at the 43rd GST Council meeting today, said he was dismayed that the Centre was going back on the promise of compensation made to states at the time of GST rollout, which was why the compensation announced was less than last year. “We need to apply 14 per cent compounding on actual revenue for 2020-21 and calculate the total compensation entitlement,” he said.Prevailing GSTDuring the meet, Badal also demanded extension of tax concession on all Covid supplies, especially vaccines and medicines. Badal, on behalf of the state government, said everything required for testing, treatment and prevention of the disease should be exempt from the GST.“Use this massive challenge to upgrade medical preparedness and health infrastructure constrained by the burden of taxes,” he said, adding only general items such as ambulances, capable of commercial exploitation, could be taxed.It may be mentioned that many goods attract basic customs duty ranging up to 20 per cent and GST up to 18 per cent, besides a social welfare surcharge of 10 per cent and IGST of 2-3 per cent on taxable value. Badal took a serious view of a number big decisions being taken by the GST Implementation Committee, while the GST Council had been reduced to a bystander. He said decisions should only be taken by the council. “A Group of Ministers could be formed for raking urgent decisions,” he suggested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-raises-concern-over-shortfall-in-gst-relief-cess-260024
29-05-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University hikes transcript fee for students to Rs 20,000||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 28Punjabi University has hiked the fee for issuing educational transcripts to students applying from India. The university will now collect an overall fee of Rs 20,000 for one set of any number of transcripts per student instead of the previously followed process of collection of fee on the basis of number of transcripts.The new orders will come into effect from June 1. In a notice released today, the controller of examinations said, “Fee of Rs 20,000 for sending transcripts abroad will be collected from all students irrespective of whether they are applying from India or abroad. A student will be charged Rs 5,000 for every extra set.” The university will collect separate fee for a form and courier service.Till now the university has been charging Rs 500 per transcript, Rs 1,200 for the courier service along with Rs 100 per form from students applying from India. Those applying from abroad were charged an overall fee of Rs 290 (about Rs 21,000) for preparation and dispatch of documents. This is while the university normally gets nearly 60-70 applications every working day.“This is an exponential increase in fee. Most students undergo graduation or postgraduation courses. The total fee to be paid, as per current rates, for semester-based three-year bachelor and two-year master courses is about Rs 6,000 apart from form and courier fee. The university has now hiked the fee more than three times for us,” said a student. “The university is cash-strapped. They seem to be trying to collect funds with such ‘unwarranted’ hikes,” said another student.Controller Examinations Dr JIS Khattar said, “Till now the Indian students had to travel from far-off distances to present their passports on the campus for verification. With this an effort has been made to make it easy for them. Therefore, a lump sum has been decided and no verification of passport will be done.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-hikes-transcript-fee-for-students-to-rs-20-000-260025
29-05-2021||Balwant Garg||Army technicians fix Faridkot ventilators||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 28To repair the non-functional ventilators and other essential equipment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) in Faridkot, electronics and mechanical engineers from the Army Hospital reached here with a on-the-wheel workshop-cum-laboratory.“The team of biomedical technicians will stay in the medical college for the next three days to repair the equipment, calibrate it, putting in needed parts, doing a thorough inspection and sending it back with all the accessories so that it is ready to use,” said a technician assigned for the job.Not only for Faridkot Medical College, the Army has also offered its help to repair and calibrate all medical equipment in government medical colleges at Patiala and Amritsar.In the fight against Covid, every ventilator the Army can get working is another life potentially saved, said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.With 450 beds for Covid patients at GGSMCH, it has 119 ventilators now. About 30 of these ventilators, most of which were provided under the PM Cares funds, are non-functional due to various technical snags.After facing an acute crisis in dealing with faulty ventilators and other medical equipment, the Department of Medical Education and Research started the process to engage full-time biomedical technicians or engineers for the maintenance and repair of the machinery used in healthcare facilities.Though the medical colleges have workshops to repair the equipment, most of the staff is not skilled enough to work with the cutting-edge technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-technicians-fix-faridkot-ventilators-260026
29-05-2021||Chandigarh||High Court notifies 19 advocates as senior||Just about two days after the names of 19 lawyers, including two women, were cleared by a full court for designation as senior advocates, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today notified the same.The names, initially proposed by a committee constituted by the HC for conferring the senior tag, had apparently failed to find ready approval by the full court. The judges attending the meeting not only voted on the names of the 27 short-listed candidates, but also “ticked” against the names of left-out applicants they considered deserving.Nine of the names were eventually dropped from the list following voting, taking the total down to 18. Advocate Baljit Kaur Mann’s name was, however, added after a majority of the judges was in favour of designating her advocate as senior, taking the total to 19.Information suggests Gaurav Chopra, enrolled in 2003, is the youngest advocate in the notified list of senior advocates. Just about 40, Chopra was not even born when senior-most lawyer in the list, Jai Vir Yadav, was enrolled in 1978.Chopra’s father Ravinder Chopra was a renowned senior advocate practising on the revenue and civil-law side and was a former president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association. Gaurav was also the youngest elected Bar secretary.The other names are Pawan Kumar Mutneja, Rajvinder Singh Bains, Baltej Singh, Gursharan Kaur, Tribhuvan Dahiya, Gurinder Singh Attariwala, Rakesh Nehra, Sumeet Goel, Vinod Sharma (Bhardwaj), Amit Jain, Naresh Singh Shekhawat, Pankaj Jain, Jagmohan Bansal, Harpreet Singh Brar, Aashish Chopra and Amit Jhanji. The order issued by the Chief Justice and the judges also made it clear that the advocates were designated senior subject to the condition that they would conduct 10 free legal aid cases pro bono every year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-notifies-19-advocates-as-senior-260028
29-05-2021||Manav Mander||Unlike Delhi & UP, Punjab ensures dignity to its dead||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 28The Case Fatality Rate in Punjab remains the highest in the country, yet, unlike Delhi and UP, there are no long queues for the last rites of Covid victims, with the administration increasing the number of chambers and platforms at various crematoriums.Free service for needyIn Ludhiana district, the LPG-operated Ramgarhia crematorium in Dholewal and Swami Vivekanand Swarg Ashram Trust at Model Town had two gas chambers each till last year and both have added two more. With this, the city has eight gas-operated chambers. The Dana Mandi crematorium had seven platforms and now it has 20. In all, seven crematoriums have been marked in Ludhiana for Covid victims.To ensure dignity to the dead, the district administration has set up a cremation cell, whose mobile numbers are given by hospitals to the bereaved families. The cell arranges an ambulance, wood/LPG and PPE and informs the family about the cremation time.“We daily cremate 30 bodies as compared to 15 last year. If the patient dies late at night, the cremation is done the next day. The body is moved to the Civil Hospital mortuary in case the hospital does not have its own,” says Judgepreet Singh, member, NGO Samvedna Trust.At Bathinda, the crematorium at the Grain Mandi has 24 platforms and the one adjacent to DAV College has four. Cremations are done round the clock and at times even late in the night by NGOs Naujawan Welfare Society and Sahara Jan Sewa. On one occasion, the crematorium ran out of space and nine bodies were consigned to flames on the ground.“We did not want the families to wait for cremation. So after seeking their permission, the bodies which could not be accommodated on the designated place were burnt on ground that is covered with tiles. The need for more slabs in the crematorium never arose,” says Sonu Maheshwari, chairman, Naujawan Welfare Society. There is no gas-operated crematorium at Bathinda.In Amritsar, the cremation is done mainly at Shivpuri near the Durgiana Temple and the Shaheedan crematorium near Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh. “We have added 35 new platforms. The number now stands at 105. On a couple of occasions, the last rites of the bodies were done on the ground instead of the platform after which more platforms were constructed. We have one gas-operated chamber but people are reluctant to use it,” says Ramesh Sharma, president, Shri Durgaina Committee, who also looks after the Shivpuri cremation ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unlike-delhi-up-punjab-ensures-dignity-to-its-dead-260014
29-05-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar villages’ caseload still high||Of 178 Covid patients detected on Friday in Muktsar district, 120 belonged to villages and the rest to Malout (29), Muktsar (19), and Gidderbaha (10) towns. Besides, not just the elderly, people below the age of 40, too, are dying of Covid. Eight persons in 21-40 age group lost their lives in the recent past in the district.The official data has revealed that a 21-year-old man of Muktsar town died of Covid on May 25; a 26-year-old woman of Kotbhai village lost life on May 24; a 34-year-old man of Shekh village succumbed on May 19; a 38-year-old man of Malout town passed away on May 18; a 38-year-old man of Muktsar died on May 15; a 36-year-old woman of Gidderbaha passed away on May 15; a 35-year-old resident of Killianwali village died on May 13; and a 26-year-old girl of Hakkuwala village lost her life on May 9. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-villages-caseload-still-high-260015
29-05-2021||Kiratpur Sahib||BJP men face farmers’ anger at Kiratpur Sahib||Tension prevailed when BJP leaders led by party’s state secretary Anil Sachhar reached to sanitise Sheetla Mata Temple here today. Soon after a large number of farmers and local party workers of Congress, SAD and AAP reached the spot to oppose them. A heavy police force deployed outside, however, didn’t allow the protesters to enter the temple. Earlier the farmers had forced the RSS not to hold blood donation camps in district twice last week. It was around 12.30 p.m. when BJP leaders reached the temple and started sanitising the temple. As soon as they reached the temple, farmers as well workers of Congress, SAD, AAP and the Left reached outside and started raising slogans against them. They said the BJP or RSS would not be allowed to carry out any activity in the state till the three laws were not repealed, they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-men-face-farmers-anger-at-kiratpur-sahib-260016
29-05-2021||Bathinda||Will start mass mobilisation against BJP, says kisan sabha||Balkaran Brar, state president, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha (Punjab), while addressing a state-level meeting in Bathinda on Friday said farm unions would unite and start mass mobilisation against the BJP at the national level.He also condemned the “arbitrary” hike in petrol and diesel prices recently and demanded that heavy taxes on fuel be curtailed so as not to burden the common man.Brar added, “Centre’s stubbornness will only lead to political consequences for the BJP in the upcoming elections in different states. We will unite against the BJP via mass mobilisation in the country. We will lay bare its anti-farmer and anti-common man policies before the people. Apart from skyrocketing petrol prices, number of other daily need essential items is quite expensive now.” The meeting was jointly conducted by the farm union and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha.Baldeep Singh Kot Shamir, a leader of khet mazdoor sabha said, “People across all sections of society have now seen corporate-favouring face of the Centre. Notwithstanding tenets enshrined in the Constitution, the government has brought in laws against the will of the people. We demand repeal of such laws.”Union leaders also exhorted that more people must visit protest venues at Delhi borders to strengthen the ongoing farm movement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-start-mass-mobilisation-against-bjp-says-kisan-sabha-260017
29-05-2021||---||Centre, Punjab failed to contain Covid spread, allege farmers||Patiala, May 28Farmers under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Ugrahan) today started a three-day protest in Patiala alleging the Centre and state government had failed to act against the spread of Covid-19.Over 1,500 farmers gathered at the PUDA ground near the Tripuri police station. The farmers not only sat in straight lines ensuring social distancing but also wore masks, carried sanitisers and water bottles.Leaders of the union said the state and the central governments had failed in executing their duties in the pandemic.General secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said, “People are dying but the governments have not been able to ensure availability of ventilators for them. We have proved time and again that farmers in Haryana or elsewhere are not the reason for the spread of Covid. In fact, farmers and their families who came to the protest sites have been saved from Covid because we have been warning them and informing about ensuring safety and social distancing.”Responding to a question, he said actor Deep Sidhu along with some others was responsible for trying to derail the farmers’ protest.On Mission Fateh launched by the state government, he said, “The government failed in ensuring facilities for people. The Centre and state want to divert the attention of the people from important questions.” Manjit Singh Nyal, Patiala district president of BKU (Ugrahan), said, “We will continue the protest for three days. We will also ensure that Covid guidelines are followed. Farmers in far more numbers want to gather but we have decided to keep the gathering to a maximum of 1,500 to 2,000 only.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-punjab-failed-to-contain-covid-spread-allege-farmers-260018
29-05-2021||Our Correspondent||No minister on ground to help villagers: SAD||Abohar, May 28Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today dared Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to name one village he or his ministers had visited despite the high incidence of Covid cases in rural areas.“Instead of attending to the people, the ministers have left them to fend for themsleves. Despite a severe shortage of vaccines, the Punjab Government hasn’t thought it fit to allocate Rs 1,000 crore for their immediate purchase, he said.AAP: Book minister for flouting normsSangrur: A day after a video purportedly showing Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot attending a function in a local hotel, went viral, AAP leader Harpal Cheema has demanded the registration of an FIR against him for the violation of Covid norms. Sangrur city SHO Gurvir Singh said they had not received any complaint in this regard. TNSHe added it was reprehensible that the Chief Minister had failed to respond to an offer by the Confederation of Colleges and Schools to donate thousands of oxygen concentrators and establish Covid care centres.Launching “Oxygen Sewa” at Fazilka and Jalalabad, the SAD president said, “We received help from the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee as well as NGOs to carry out ‘Oxygen Sewa’ in 15 constituencies. I appeal to NGOs to help provide oxygen concentrators to needy patients.”Two former Congress legislators Hans Raj Josan and Dr Mohinder Rinwa said Sukhbir had assured them that a medical college would be set up at Fazilka once the SAD came into power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-minister-on-ground-to-help-villagers-sad-260019
29-05-2021||Muktsar||AAP protests ‘fleecing’ by private labs||Against the alleged loot by some private hospitals and laboratories, the AAP youth wing today started a chain hunger strike for five days by sitting near the Bathinda Chowk on the outskirts of the town.Sukhjinder Singh Kaoni, district president of AAP’s youth wing, said five workers of the party would observe a chain hunger strike from 9.30 am to 4 pm daily.He claimed, “Before starting the strike, I had given some evidences of overcharging by a private laboratory to the Chief Medical Officer (CMO), but she did not act in this regard. The laboratory is charging Rs 2,500 for a chest CT scan and on being enquired about the extra amount of Rs 500, the staff said it was the sanitising fee. I met the Deputy Commissioner too in this regard, but to no avail. We want action against private hospitals and laboratories which are fleecing patients.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-protests-fleecing-by-private-labs-260020
29-05-2021||Mohali||Admissions to MBBS courses at BR Ambedkar medical college soon: Soni||The Punjab Government has been making continuous efforts for the development of medical education in the state and under this series admission to the MBBS courses at Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences would be started this year.This was stated by Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Parkash Soni after reviewing the construction work at the institute on Friday. Soni directed the authorities to submit the work-related maps within a week. He also directed the PWD to complete the tendering process without any delay and ensure that the buildings were ready within a year.He also issued instructions to complete the recruitment process of the specialist doctors at the earliest. He said all necessary conditions like staff, hospital beds, machines, basic equipment, etc. should be fulfilled before the visit of the National Medical Council team so that classes could be started from this session. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/admissions-to-mbbs-courses-at-br-ambedkar-medical-college-soon-soni-260021
29-05-2021||---||Bathinda admn aims at 100% testing in all villages by June 10||Bathinda, May 28Amid the fear of Covid spreading in rural areas, the district administration is targeting 100% testing in all villages of Bathinda. In a review meeting with the senior officials on Covid, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan today directed the District Development Panchayat Officer (DDPO) to ensure 100% testing in all villages of the district by June 10.He also directed the authorities concerned that although at present there was no problem of oxygen in the district, the use of gas in the hospitals should be monitored.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to the residents to follow the instructions issued by the government for the prevention of the epidemic. If they have any symptoms like cough, fever, cold etc., they should get their tests done immediately. If a person tests positive for Covid, he/she should not panic. Early detection will contain the disease spread and save their loved ones.He also reviewed the situation of domestic isolation, Covid testing, oxygen and Level-2 and Level-3 beds in the district. In Bathinda today, seven deaths and 257 new cases of Covid were reported, taking the death tally to 883 and cases to 39,863 in the district.Notably, the testing in the rural belt was met with huge resistance by residents during the first wave and even during the initial phases of the second wave, owing to ongoing farmers’ agitation. Many believed “Covid is not a disease but merely a ploy by the Centre to sabotage the farm stir”, but now people are aware in rural areas and have started taking vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-admn-aims-at-100-testing-in-all-villages-by-june-10-260022
29-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Wellness facilities may replace vacant SHCs in rural belt||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 28The crippling rural healthcare system is likely to take a further hit with the government planning to convert vacant Subsidiary Health Centres (SHCs) — the only medical facility in the countryside — into Health and Wellness Centres.If the decision is implemented, 489 posts of rural medical officer (RMO), who are MBBS, are likely to get scrapped in the state. The reason being Health and Wellness Centres are headed by a non-MBBS doctor — Community Health Officer (CHO). Instead of buttressing the existing SHCs — wherein many posts of RMO have been lying vacant for long — the government is dismantling whatever little there is in the rural areas, say experts.Recently, 489 SHCs, which were lying non-functional due to lack of doctors, were shifted from the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats to Health Department. Health experts said each RMO catered to 7-10 villages, affecting around 15,000 residents living in the area. “Primary healthcare in the rural areas is crucial, given the threat of Covid-19 and high case fatality rate therein. Time and again, doctors at tertiary health institutes have said poor primary healthcare is responsible for the Covid-19 crisis,” they said. Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health Department, said the government was planning to upgrade the SHCs into Health and Wellness Centres, but no decision had been taken on the fate of RMOs. Asked how the government would strengthen rural healthcare without MBBS doctors, he said the government was aiming to fill all posts of the medical officer (MO) in the state.Dr Aslam Parvez, state president, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab, said: “The bureaucracy is trying to destroy the rural healthcare system in the state. I urge the Chief Minister to intervene.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wellness-facilities-may-replace-vacant-shcs-in-rural-belt-260023
29-05-2021||New Delhi||Amarinder-Sidhu row: Sonia forms Kharge-led panel to resolve Punjab Congress factionalism||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday constituted a committee of senior leaders to resolve the ongoing factionalism in Punjab Congress where Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and senior MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu are at daggers drawn.The committee will be chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and will have former Delhi MP JP Agarwal and AICC general secretary in charge of Punjab Harish Rawat as members. The first meeting of the panel will be held here tomorrow to finalise modalities of discussions and the way forward.Speaking to The Tribune today, Harish Rawat said the principal aim of the committee was to strengthen the party organisation and the government in the run up to state elections next year and ensure that the Congress returned to power in Punjab in 2022.“The primary mandate of the panel is to strengthen the government and the organisation in Punjab. We will meet the CM, the MLAs, MPs, state unit chief and perhaps also our candidates who lost the last elections to find out what needs to be done to boost Congress poll prospects, where are the weaknesses and what corrective steps need to be taken. We expect state leaders to henceforth air their grievances in party forums and not in public or through the media,” Rawat told The Tribune days after Sidhu and MLA Pargat Singh questioned the chief minister on the sacrilege issue.The Congress general secretary said the panel would start meeting MLAs physically “any moment starting tomorrow”. “We prefer physical meetings, not virtual,” Rawat said, adding that the panel was looking at an early resolution of issues.The challenge for the committee would be to balance warring factions in the state.Sidhu, who quit the Amarinder Singh Cabinet in July 2019 after being divested of local bodies portfolio, has been hoping for rehabilitation for a long time.Of late Sidhu’s public criticism of the CM has led to senior Punjab ministers demanding disciplinary action against him.The panel constituted by Sonia will need to reach a formulation that suits both the CM and Sidhu and brings everyone together in a critical election year.A deputy chief ministerial berth for Sidhu is being seen as an option but top leaders feel there could be two deputy CMs for balance. Sidhu is learnt to be keen on the presidency of state Congress unit, a post Sunil Jakhar holds.The reconstitution of the entire Punjab Congress unit remains in a limbo due to lack of agreement on accommodation of Sidhu and people close to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-sidhu-row-sonia-forms-kharge-led-panel-to-resolve-punjab-congress-factionalism-259899
29-05-2021||Ruchika M Khanna ||Eye on elections, Punjab government cuts power tariff by up to Re 1 per unit for domestic consumers||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 28With an eye on the upcoming Assembly elections, the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Government has announced a cut of 50 paise to Re 1 per unit for domestic power consumers in the state. The tariff for the commercial consumers and small and medium industry will remain unchanged, while there is a negligible (less than 2 per cent) increase in tariff for large industrial consumers. The per unit tariff for domestic consumers with load upto 2kW and consumption slabs of 0 to 100 units and 101 to 300 units has been reduced by Re 1 and 50 paise, respectively.For domestic consumers having load between 2kW and up to 7kW and for consumption slabs of 0 to 100 units and 101 to 300 units, the rates have been reduced by 75 paise and 50 paise, respectively.This will result in financial relief to the tune of Rs 682 crore to these consumers. The new tariff order, announced by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC), will be applicable from June 1 to March 3, 2022, commission Chairman Vishwajit Khanna told The Tribune.The previous year’s tariff, which was delayed because of the lockdown last year, will remain in force till end of May now. In another relief for the industry, the special night tariff has been allowed to continue this year, if these consumers use power exclusively between 10 pm and 6 am. The facility granted to industry, allowing them to use power for additional four hours between 6 am to 10 am throughout the year at the normal tariff. The industry has been offered reduced  energy charge for consumption of power exceeding the threshold limit.  The commission has decided to continue with its policy of encouraging the industry in promoting the productive use of surplus power by offering lower energy rate of Rs 4.86/kVAh for consumption of power exceeding the threshold limit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eye-on-elections-punjab-government-cuts-power-tariff-by-up-to-re-1-per-unit-for-domestic-consumers-259785
