30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 2,627 fresh Covid-19 cases, 127 more fatalities in a day||Punjab on Sunday registered 2,627 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 127 more fatalities while Chandigarh recorded 182 new instances of the infection and five deaths in a day, officials said.With Punjab witnessing a decline in the number of fresh cases of the infection for the past several days, the number of active cases declined to 39,263 from 42,177 on Saturday.The state had recorded 3,102 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday.The total number of Covid-19 infections reported in Punjab so far has reached 5,65,415 while the death toll has risen to 14,432 with 127 more people succumbing to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.Nineteen deaths were reported from Amritsar, 13 from Bathinda, 12 from Ludhiana and 10 from Gurdaspur. Among the fresh cases, Ludhiana reported 298, Bathinda 295, Jalandhar 195 and Mohali 182.The case positivity rate dropped to 3.92 per cent as against 4.56 per cent on Saturday, the bulletin stated.With 5,371 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,11,720. There are 310 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 861 other critical patients and 4,740 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 92,09,841 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-2-627-fresh-covid-19-cases-127-more-fatalities-in-a-day-260767
30-05-2021||Peshawar||Missing Sikh man in Pakistan found after 3 months||A Sikh man in Pakistan, who was missing since February after being abducted from his home, has been found by the police in a village in the country’s northwest Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.Avinash Singh, in his 20s, went missing from the Gulberg area of Peshawar Cantonment on February 28.According to police, Singh was found on Friday night from a village near Laachi Tehsil of district Kohat.He has been admitted to Lady Reading Hospital Peshawar as he was severely tortured by the abductors, they said.Four accused, including a woman, who were named in the case filed by Singh’s father have been arrested.The family members of Singh said he was tortured by the abductors during his captivity.SSP Operations Peshawar Yasir Afridi and SP City Attique Shah visited Singh in the hospital and enquired about his health.All the legal formalities would be fulfilled in the case, Afridi said.Last month, members of the Sikh community protested in Pakistan’s Peshawar city, demanding the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provincial government find the missing youth.Speaking at the protest outside the Peshawar Press Club, community leader Sardar Parvinder Singh had said the missing youth was well-educated and his family had no ill-relations.Scores of protesters, including women and children, had demonstrated, holding banners and placards. They alleged Singh had been kidnapped by the anti-social elements. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-sikh-man-in-pakistan-found-after-3-months-260763
30-05-2021||---||SSP plays Good Samaritan, takes vendor to hospital||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, May 29Krishan Kumar, who is suffering from various ailments, had been lying in the grain market here for the last eight months without food and clothes.However, after the PCR cops saw him, they informed Sandeep Goel, SSP, Barnala, who got him admitted to the Civil Hospital for treatment.“After suffering from various ailments, I had been lying in the grain market. I am thankful to the SSP who got me admitted here for treatment,” Krishan said.Doctors are trying to treat his multiple problems, including avascular necrosis hip and rheumatoid arthritis.“Krishan was in good health one-and-a-half years ago and was earning his livelihood by selling vegetables, but after his rehri was hit by a vehicle, he suffered fracture in the backbone. Later, due to financial issues, he couldn’t get proper treatment. We have started his treatment,” said Dr Harish Kumar.The SSP said he had asked doctors to provide the best treatment to Krishan. “We will arrange the required money for him,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ssp-plays-good-samaritan-takes-vendor-to-hospital-260576
30-05-2021||Aman Sood||PSPCL short of equipment, outage fear looms ahead of paddy season||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 29Short of material ahead of the crucial paddy season that starts in a week, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has now asked its field officers “to arrange it”.No cables for maintenance workTariff cut eyewashThe govt is projecting Rs1 cut in tariff of those who have 2-kW connection for first 200 units, which must be free as was the case under SAD. The truth is tariff has been increased. - Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD ChiefWhile the top management claims it is due to pandemic conditions, top engineers claim the management has failed to procure the material in time. “There are practically no cables of different sizes to carry out maintenance work in many districts,” said a senior engineer.Officials confirmed that the industry in Punjab, which is on revival after the last year’s pandemic, is again facing problems as expansion and other works, which started earlier this year, have again been put on hold due to material shortage. In view of the low stock of critical items, the task to allocate material has been given to chief engineers and they have been asked to regulate the material so that there is no major problem during paddy season starting from June 10.The PSPCL Chief Managing Director recently asked all superintending engineers not to approach him for any material and instead coordinate with the chief engineers concerned. The CMD has also sought an explanation from senior engineers in Gurdaspur and Ludhiana who wrote to him directly, citing shortage.Engineers fear manhandling in villages in case of power failure during peak season in the absence of essential material. “This year, the situation is even worse. Distribution transformers, insulators, cables and cable boxes are in limited supply in many districts,” said Ajay Pal Singh Atwal, general secretary, PSEB Engineers Federation.Vinod Gupta, spokesman, All India Power Engineers Federation, said the non-availability of critical material and lax decision making was detrimental to energy security of the state. “Putting onus on field engineers for on-the-spot purchase shows they will be held accountable in case of power pangs,” he said.Denying the allegations, PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said: “There is no financial problem and sufficient material is available. Problems are due to lockdown. We have allowed spot purchase to meet any urgent demand and have extended existing tenders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-short-of-equipment-outage-fear-looms-ahead-of-paddy-season-260578
30-05-2021||---||HC stays admission sans transfer certificate order||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the operation of instructions permitting admission to government schools without producing a transfer certificate.The direction by Justice Sudhir Mittal came on a petition filed by the Recognised Affiliated Schools’ Association and another petitioner against the State of Punjab and other respondents. Appearing before the Bench, senior advocate Rajiv Atma Ram and DS Gandhi submitted that the order dated April 20 and another order dated September 8, 2020, were illegal and arbitrary.Elaborating, they submitted that the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) was insisting upon submission of transfer certificate/ marks sheet/result card before a student could be admitted to another school as was evident from certain instructions.All government schools in Punjab were affiliated with the board and there could not be different set of instructions for government schools as done vide instructions dated September 8, 2020, and April 20. The instructions permit admission to government schools without producing a transfer certificate.Fixing July 9 as the next date of hearing, the Bench asserted: “Meanwhile, operation of instructions dated September 8, 2020, and April 20 shall remain stayed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-stays-admission-sans-transfer-certificate-order-260579
30-05-2021||---||SIT seeks production warrant of two dera men||Tribune News ServiceFairkdot, May 29The special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police, probing sacrilege incidents, today moved court seeking production warrant of two dera followers — Sukhjinder Singh and Baljit Singh — in a case relating to pasting of derogatory posters near a Bargari gurdwara in 2015.Sacrilege cases: ‘Repentance day’ on June 1Bathinda: Sikh organisations on Saturday decided to stage a protest at Bargari on June 1, which would be observed as ‘Day of Repentance’, over the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. SAD (Amritsar) leader Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala said seven years had elapsed since the desecration but the Sikh community had not received justice yet. TNSThis came as the court of judicial magistrate remanded two other Dera Sacha Sauda followers — Shakti Singh and Ranjit Singh — in judicial custody. On May 16, six dera men, including the four, were arrested by the SIT for scattering pages of a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib near a gurdwara in Bargari.While Sukhjinder and Baljit are admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here after having tested positive for Covid-19 on May 19, the SIT had arrested Ranjit and Shakti in the poster pasting case after their police remand in the “bir” pages scattering case ended.Now, with the police remand of Sukhjinder and Baljit ending in the second case, the SIT has approached the court seeking their production warrant in the second case.With the SIT seeking police remand of the accused in one after another case over the past two weeks without making any recovery, dera followers accuse the police of building pressure on them to make confessional statements before court.The accused have already informed the court about alleged pressure on them by the SIT to confess to the crime which they “never” committed, claimed Vinod Monga, advocate for the dera followers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-seeks-production-warrant-of-two-dera-men-260580
30-05-2021||PK Jaiswar||Drug seizure: Himachal unit ‘owned’ by politico||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29A day after the Amritsar (rural) police seized over 30 lakh tablets of tramadol and alprazolam from a firm, Unique Formulations, in Paonta Sahib of HP, it is learnt that the building from where these were seized belonged to a ruling party leader in the state.Munish Mohan, proprietor of the company, told the police that he was a partner in the firm. The leader suspected to be involved in the case belongs to a prominent political family who had switched to the BJP during the 2017 Assembly polls.“A thorough probe is underway to ascertain the role of each and every person,” said Amritsar rural SSP Dhruv Dahiya. Besides Munish, the police have booked three others, including a Chandigarh-based broker, and raids are on to nab them.Meanwhile, the police today raided Mansi Medicos in Delhi as several receipts, including e-way bills, showed drug sales were credited to it. However, the police learnt that its proprietor Prem Kumar Jha was in the Kurukshetra Police custody in a similar case. He would be brought on production warrant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-seizure-himachal-unit-owned-by-politico-260581
30-05-2021||Sriganganagar||3 Army men booked for abetting suicide||The police have booked three Army men for alleged abetment of suicide by soldier Prabhdayal Singh (24) from Burj Hari village in Mansa. Prabhdayal’s body was found hanging at Birdhwal camp gate in Suratgarh, Rajasthan, on May 24.Investigation officer Om Prakash Mann said a case had been registered under Section 306 of the IPC on the statement of Navdeep Singh, uncle of the deceased. Those named in the FIR were Lt Col Paramjeet Singh, Capt Vinod Tapre and Havildar Major Udhamjit Singh. They had been accused of harassing Prabhdayal by forcing him to clean pots, utensils and toilets. On refusal, he was physically and mentally tortured, he claimed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-army-men-booked-for-abetting-suicide-260583
30-05-2021||Bathinda||Girl pregnant after rape, uncle booked||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/girl-pregnant-after-rape-uncle-booked-260585
30-05-2021||Sangrur||3 women of family end life in Sangrur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-women-of-family-end-life-in-sangrur-260586
30-05-2021||Gurdaspur||Man shot over land dispute||DC offices’ staff on strikeChandigarh: Work in the DC offices across the state has come to a halt as the Punjab Deputy Commissioners’ Employees Union has gone on an indefinite strike over unfulfilled demands. State general secretary Joginder Kumar Zira and state chairman Om Parkash Singh said their main demands were filling of vacancies, more promotion channels for the steno cadre and clerks, etc. tnsRoad after Baba Meenha SinghChandigarh: PWD and School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday said the government had decided to name the Malaud-Butahari Pul road after Sant Baba Meenha Singh (Riar Wale). He said local leaders led by Payal MLA Lakhbir Singh Lakha had sent a representation seeking naming of the road after the religious leader. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-shot-over-land-dispute-260588
30-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Oxygen demand drops, Punjab heaves sign of relief||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 29In what appears to be a sign of gradual retreat and plateauing of the devastating second Covid wave, the demand of medical oxygen in the state has dropped considerably.Sanitisation drive by Congress in AboharAbohar: With rapid antigen tests indicating Covid positivity in 15-20 per cent of people and 82 deaths being recorded in the district this month, the Congress on Saturday engaged 35 tractors for sanitisation of various localities here. OCGiving a much-needed respite and a sigh of relief to the government, the consumption of life-saving gas for both Covid and non-Covid patients has come down by almost 70 metric tonne (MT) in the past 10 days, officials said.Data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department revealed the medical oxygen demand had dipped to a record low of 236.8 MT on May 26 after touching its peak at 304.1 MT on May 17. This included 274.4 MT for Covid and 29.7 MT for non-Covid use on May 17 and 209.3 MT for Covid and 27.5 MT for non-Covid consumption on May 26.With the constant decline in the daily cases and also the number of critical patients put on ventilator support during the past 10 days, the state has been witnessing a decrease in the demand of medical oxygen on a day-on-day basis. Official figures showed the consumption of life-saving gas fell to 303.4 MT on May 18, further to 296.8 MT (May 19), 286.9 MT (May 20), 281.5 MT (May 21), 278.7 MT (May 22), 268.2 MT (May 23), 263.6 MT (May 24), and 244.5 MT on (May 25).With the projected daily demand of 235 MT, Punjab has been allocated 215 MT medical oxygen by the Centre from outside the state, of which only 90 to 100 MT was now being lifted on an average daily from outside in view of the decline in the oxygen consumption. Besides, the state was producing 32 MT life-saving gas from its own resources. The state was left with 450 MT excess life-saving gas after consuming 7,971.2 MT of the total available 8,421.2 MT stock from April 26 to May 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oxygen-demand-drops-punjab-heaves-sign-of-relief-260555
30-05-2021||---||Cases, fatalities on the decline across Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda/Muktsar, May 29After registering a spike in cases and mortality rate for the past few weeks, Bathinda district has shown signs of recovery. Both positivity and mortality rate have come down significantly in the district.While around two weeks ago, 20 to 25 patients were dying of Covid daily, the number has come down to seven to 10 now as per records of the Health Department.The recovery rate has improved and active cases have also come down. As per data, while 137 patients died of Covid between May 15 and May 21, the number halved this week with 80 deaths from May 22 to May 28. Similarly, active cases have also come down from 7,264 on May 15 to 3,746 on May 28.Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “The combined efforts of people and administration resulted in reduction of cases and mortality. People are more aware now. We have conducted testing on a mass scale in rural areas where the impact of the second wave was more intense. Every disease has its own pattern. There is overall decline in the number of cases everywhere now.”Meanwhile, the graph of fresh Covid cases and deaths has also comedown in Muktsar district.For instance, 1,626 people tested positive and 55 died between May 23 and 29 in the district. In comparison, 2,929 people had tested positive and 86 died between May 16 and 22 in the district. The maximum 19 deaths were reported in the district on May 16 and 18. Similarly, the maximum number of fresh cases — 619 — were reported on May 17. The minimum number of patients — 120 — were reported on May 29. Dr Ranju Singla, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar, said, “Due to speedy Covid testing, vaccination, efforts of the staff and awareness among people, the number of Covid cases has come down in the district.”She said people should not trust rumours about the Covid testing or vaccination. “The tests and vaccines are safe, thus there is no need to worry. People should cooperate with the state government at this juncture,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cases-fatalities-on-the-decline-across-punjab-260559
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccination in Punjab cross 50 lakh mark||The state’s Covid vaccination drive today crossed the 50-lakh dose mark.State nodal officer for vaccination Vikas Garg said as on May 29, a total of 50,05,767 doses of vaccine had been administered in Punjab.Garg said of the quota received from the Government of India for frontline, health workers and people above 45 years of age, as many as 45.53 lakh vaccines had been administered in the state while a total of 4.52 lakh people in the age group of 18-44 years had been inoculated.He said of the 45.53 lakh doses, 41.40 lakh people had got the jab of Covishield vaccine while as many as 4.13 lakh had been administered Covaxin. These include 38.01 lakh people getting the first dose and 7.52 lakh who got the second dose.The 4.29 lakh Covishield doses had been purchased at the cost of Rs 13.25 crore and 1,14,190 doses of Covaxin were procured at a cost of Rs 4.70 crore, Garg said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-vaccination-in-punjab-cross-50-lakh-mark-260561
30-05-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Ambulance driver killed in mishap, one injured||An ambulance driver was killed and a co-driver injured in an accident on the Sirhind-Patiala road late last night.The accident occurred when the driver, in a bid to save a stray cow, lost control of the vehicle and it hit a roadside tree. The driver, identified as Hardeep Singh (29), died on the spot, while his co-driver, Labh Singh, was admitted to the Civil Hospital, from where he was referred to a Ludhiana hospital in a critical condition.ASI Piara Singh said Hardeep and Labh, residents of Mulanpur Dakha and Ludhiana, respectively, were ambulance drivers with ESIC Model Hospital, Ludhiana.They were returning to Ludhiana after dropping off a Covid patient at Rajindra hospital, Patiala, when their ambulance met with an accident around 1 am. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ambulance-driver-killed-in-mishap-one-injured-260563
30-05-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda sees four black fungus deaths in 3 days||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 29Seven fresh cases and four deaths due to black fungus in the past three days in the district have set the alarm ringing for the authorities.As per official figures, 45 cases of the Covid-triggered infection have been reported in the district so far of which 25 are from Bathinda, while the rest are from outside the district.Though the Civil Hospital is not equipped to treat the disease, the local unit of AIIMS has started the treatment after constituting a task force.Bathinda AIIMS Director Dr DK Singh said: “We have started treating black fungus. Injections to treat the infection are being supplied by the central government and now the state government has also assured us of the supply.”Covid has also started affecting eyes as cases of retinal haemorrhage and conjunctivitis are being reported in the district.Dr Parul Gupta, an ophthalmologist, said: “We have seen patients with retinal haemorrhage. Conjunctivitis is also common among Covid-recovered patients.”She said: “Repeated reuse of masks without washing is one of the main reasons of black fungus. So, everyone should wash and air dry cotton masks daily and discard medical, surgical and N95 masks after using once.”Health expert Dr Vitull K Gupta said: “Probable reasons for the surge in black fungus cases are being studied. The probable causes may be unhygienic way of delivering oxygen, that too industrial, indiscriminate use of steroids, unsanitary use of masks, contaminated humidifiers, low oxygen, diabetes, high iron levels, immunosuppression, prolongedhospitalisation with mechanical ventilators and excessive use of zinc.”Bathinda Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: “As many as 45 cases of black fungus have been reported here so far but most of them have recovered. There is no shortage of injections, but black fungus is a priority-based treatment. An injection will only be given to those who need it.”He said: “We are fully supporting AIIMS and have asked them to increase the beds for the black fungus patients. We have also provided them with injections and other support for the benefit of patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-sees-four-black-fungus-deaths-in-3-days-260565
30-05-2021||---||Faridkot's Baba Farid University to recruit 143 paramedics||Faridkot, May 29Amid growing pressure on medical and paramedical staff in government medical colleges of the state, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) is going to conduct a written test to recruit 143 paramedics on Sunday here.About 1,400 candidates will appear in the test at six exam centres. The test is for the posts in various departments such as anaesthesia, ECG, cardiac, dialysis, audiometry, CSSD, MGPS, gas plant, etc. As it is mandatory for all candidates to produce a rapid antigen test report at the examination centre, so one isolation exam centre has also been set up for the Covid-positive candidates. As per the latest information from the BFUHS, six candidates have tested positive, so they would appear for the test at the isolation exam centre.Other than making recruitment of the paramedical staff, the Department of Medical Education and Research is going to hire services of specialist doctors.Post-graduate doctors in microbiology and anaesthesia are in a high demand in the medical colleges in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Amritsar and Patiala medical colleges have a demand of 22 anaesthetists.After the outbreak, anaesthetists are required by hospitals, especially for intubating Covid patients on ventilators at the intensive care units.“They insert intravenous injection lines, food pipes, intubate ventilator patients and manage extremely critical cases,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, BFUHS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkots-baba-farid-university-to-recruit-143-paramedics-260567
30-05-2021||Patiala||Give financial relief to kin of Covid victims: Farmers||Hundreds of farmers under the aegis of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Ugrahan) today continued with their three-day protest in Patiala alleging the Centre and state government had failed to act against the spread of Covid-19.On the second day of the agitation, 1,500 farmers gathered at the PUDA ground ensuring social distancing. They wore masks, carried sanitisers and water bottles.General secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said: “The Punjab Government should tell us where the money allocated to the Health Department was spent. Last year, they got Rs 1,000 crore, but no one knows where it was spent. Why all available ventilators in Punjab are still non-functional? They should answer why out of 2,010 level-3 beds, only 550 are in government facilities. Government hospitals have one bed per 55,455 persons and people are suffering, especially in villages.”Leaders of the union said the state and the central governments had failed in executing their duties in the pandemic. “The state government should provide monetary benefits to the farmers and families of those who died due to Covid along with a government job,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-financial-relief-to-kin-of-covid-victims-farmers-260569
30-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Extramarital relation no ground to deny child’s  custody to mother: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that extramarital relationship of a mother was no ground to deny the child’s custody in case of a marital dispute. Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal asserted it did not indicate she was not a good mother.Justice Grewal also ruled that modern times were replete with instances of children, raised by the single parent, growing up to become responsible adults contributing to nation-building in various fields. “It is fairly common to cast aspersions on the moral character of a woman. More often than not these allegations are made without any basis or foundation. Even assuming a woman is, or has been, in an extramarital relationship, the same by itself cannot lead to the conclusion that she would not be a good mother to deny her the custody of her child,” Justice Grewal asserted.The assertion by Justice Grewal came on a habeas corpus petition by a mother settled in Australia for the release of her four-year-old daughter from her estranged husband’s custody. The husband had alleged during the hearing that the petitioner was in an extramarital relationship with his relative.Justice Grewal asserted the allegations were wholly unsubstantiated and could not be considered relevant to adjudicate the issue. The child would require mother’s love, care and affection for her development in the formative years. The mother’s support and guidance would also be imperative during adolescence. The mother, in any case, was the child’s natural guardian till the age of five in terms of Section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956.“In the facts and circumstances, especially when there is an order of the Australian court, the child is under five years of age, she is an Australian citizen and the petitioner is fairly well settled in Australia, I am of the view that it would be in the best interest of the child if her custody is handed to the petitioner-mother," Justice Grewal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extramarital-relation-no-ground-to-deny-childs-custody-to-mother-hc-260571
30-05-2021||Moga||Summer camps go online; storytelling, art projects in offing||At a time when the second wave of Covid is at its peak and children are studying from home, the government is organising online summer camps for government school students.In these camps, the emphasis is being laid on English and social studies subjects. The Education Department claims efforts have been made to make summer vacation useful. The activities of various subjects have been listed under the project ‘Padho Punjab’ by the State Council of Education Research and Training.Education officials said a total of 13 activities had been suggested for English subject, including “handwriting, public speaking, show and tell, storytelling, poem recitation, newspaper/ book review and scrap book preparation. Media research officer Dr Davinder Singh Chhina said: “Under social studies, students have been asked to prepare a map of school/village/home, to make scrapbooks from different types of soils, to collect scrapbooks by collecting pictures of historical buildings and patriots.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/summer-camps-go-online-storytelling-art-projects-in-offing-260572
30-05-2021||Sangrur||DC drives tractor to spread info on direct rice seeding||Amid the Covid pandemic when officials are overburdened, Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ramvir and other officials of the Agriculture Department are visiting villages and motivating farmers to adopt the direct sowing of rice (DSR) technique for paddy transplantation to save groundwater.The DC himself runs the tractor to show how to use DSR while other officials share vital information. For many, it is an unprecedented sight. The officials are hopeful of getting positive results in the coming days. On Saturday, the department organised a programme at Balwarh Kalan village to encourage farmers to adopt DSR. “Since I come from a family of farmers, I know their problems and mindset. I am driving the tractor in fields with officials to convince farmers to adopt DSR,” DC Ramvir said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dc-drives-tractor-to-spread-info-on-direct-rice-seeding-260574
30-05-2021||Our Correspondent||SAD supporters join Congress in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 29The SAD (B) suffered a major setback after a large number of supporter families from Chunni Majra in the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency joined the Congress under the leadership of Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra.Residents are reportedly impressed over the all-round development of the constituency in rural and urban areas by the MLA. They said even the critics of the MLA admitted that the area had witnessed development.Welcoming the families into the Congress party, MLA Nagra said the leaders who joined the party would be accorded full respect in the party and their presence would further strengthen the party and make the Fatehgarh Sahib team stronger. He assured them to continue to initiate the development of Fatehgarh Sahib with utmost sincerity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-supporters-join-congress-in-fatehgarh-sahib-260575
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab positivity rate declines to 5.8%||Punjab’s Covid positivity rate has dropped to 5.89 per cent from 13.51 per cent in nearly two weeks, pointing towards a possible downward curve of the pandemic.According to the Health Department, the state was witnessing around 9,000 cases and over 200 deaths everyday till about two weeks ago. The daily cases have come down to 3,000-4,000. However, the case fatality rate, which is 2.4 per cent, continues to be a cause of concern, with the state still reporting around 150 deaths per day. The state’s positivity rate was 13.51 per cent on May 12 with many districts, including Bathinda, Fazilka and Mohali, recording more than the average rate.High fatality rate remains a worryThe positivity rate for the last week (May 22-28) was 5.89 per cent. It dropped to 5.12 per cent on Friday. With the situation getting better, it may decline further, say officials. The number of active cases too has dipped from 79,963 on May 12 to 44,964 on May 28.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-positivity-rate-declines-to-5-8-260497
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster’s aides nabbed for killing 2 Punjab ASIs||The Punjab Police have arrested two aides of a gangster accused of killing ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh at a grain market in Jagraon on May 15.The accused — Baljinder Singh alias Babbi of Moga and Darshan Singh of Ludhiana, both associates of gangster Jaipal Bhullar — were nabbed from Dabra in Gwalior (MP) on Friday evening.Had shot cops in Jagraon on May 15Their aide Harcharan Singh, who had allegedly given shelter to them, was also arrested. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the accused had gone to Jagraon in a Canter to pick Jaipal and another gangster Jaspreet alias Jassi Baba. The two ASIs cornered them on seeing some drugs in the Canter. Darshan opened fire at the ASIs from his .32 revolver and fled with others. On a tip-off, a police team nabbed the accused from Dabra railway station near Gwalior.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangsters-aides-nabbed-for-killing-2-punjab-asis-260498
30-05-2021||New Delhi||Congress panel’s one-on-one meetings to end Punjab unit rift start Monday||The Congress panel on Punjab affairs will kickstart its proceedings from Monday with one-on-one meetings, starting with state unit president Sunil Jakhar.The panel, led by Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, met at AICC headquarters this morning for three hours. It decided to conduct meetings with state leaders, starting with the PCC chief, MLAs and then ministers, MPs, past presidents and finally the CM. “The panel plans to wind up discussions with MLAs by the first week of June,” AICC general secretary incharge of Punjab Harish Rawat said.Asked under what category former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu would fall for the purpose of deliberations, he replied: “Sidhu is an important leader of Punjab. He can come as an MLA or separately as he wants.” The panel would hold physical meetings with the leaders in Delhi. “Virtual interactions are not on the table yet,” Rawat said. “We will start deliberations from Monday. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar will come to meet us on Monday after which we will meet MLAs, ministers, MPs, important state leaders and past state chiefs. Among the senior leaders, we will meet Ambika Soni, Partap Singh Bajwa, Shamsher Singh Dullo and Ashwani Kumar,” he said, adding, “We are going into the process of consultation with an open mind. There are no pre-conceived ideas.”The committee will submit its report to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi for a final call. The challenge is to accommodate Sidhu and take along other tall leaders of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-panels-one-on-one-meetings-to-end-punjab-unit-rift-start-monday-260499
30-05-2021||Aditi Tandon||Cong panel on Punjab to start one-on-one meeting with leaders from Monday||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 29The Congress panel on Punjab affairs will kick-start its proceedings from Monday with one on one meetings starting with the state unit president Sunil Jakhar.The panel led by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarkun Kharge met at AICC headquarters here this morning for three hours and decided to conduct meetings with state leaders, starting with the PCC chief, MLAs and going over to ministers, MPs, past presidents and finally the chief minister.“We will start meeting the MLAs soon after our deliberations with the state unit chief. The panel plans to wind up discussions with MLAs by the first week of June,” AICC general secretary in charge of Punjab Harish Rawat told The Tribune today.Asked under what category former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu would fall for the purpose of deliberations, Rawat said, “Navajot Singh Sidhu is an important leader of Punjab. He can come as an MLA or separately as he wants. We will meet him separately also.”The panel, which consists of Rawat and former Delhi MP JP Agarwal as members, also said today that it would hold physical meetings with leaders in Delhi.“Virtual interactions are not on the table yet,” Rawat said.On the order in which the committee would engage MLAs, Rawat said the state unit president would formalize an arrangement and decide who to send when.“We will start our deliberations from Monday in Delhi. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar will come to meet us on Monday after which we will meet the MLAs, followed by ministers, MPs, important state leaders, past state chiefs. We will meet Ambika Ssoni, Partap Singh Bajwa, Shamsher Singh Dullo, Ashwani Kumar among other senior leaders. The aim is to conclude the consultations in the minimum time possible,” Rawat added.On a question about whether a larger collective group of leaders could be named on the eve of state elections, Rawat said, “We are going into the process of consultation with an open mind. There are no preconceived ideas.”The committee will submit its report to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi for a final call.The challenge is to accommodate Sidhu and take other tall leaders of the state together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-panel-on-punjab-to-start-one-on-one-meeting-with-leaders-from-monday-260467
30-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 positivity rate falls to 5.12 per cent in Punjab||Punjab's Covid positivity rate has dropped to 5.12 per cent from 13.51 per cent in the past 16 days, with the state showing a declining trend in daily new coronavirus cases, according to data of the Health Department.However, the case fatality rate, which is 2.4 per cent, continues to be an area of concern for the state health authorities.Read also: Punjab govt failed to make arrangements to deal with Covid-19 pandemic: BKUUnlike Delhi & UP, Punjab ensures dignity to its deadThe number of new Covid-19 cases has been declining in Punjab, with the state witnessing less than 4,000 fresh infections on May 28 as against over 8,000 single-day cases registered on May 12, according to the data.The state had registered the highest single-day spike of 9,100 fresh cases on May 8.Punjab's Covid positivity rate stood at 13.51 per cent on May 12 with many districts, including Bathinda, Fazilka and Mohali, recording more than the state's overall positivity rate, the data showed.The positivity rate dropped to 5.12 per cent on Friday, it said.The number of active cases has also sharply dipped from 79,963 on May 12 to 44,964 on May 28 in the state.Punjab recorded over 90,000 fresh cases from May 12 till May 28, according to the data.The state has witnessed 3,069 more deaths due to the disease since May 12.Punjab had registered a record 231 deaths on May 18, with Ludhiana being one of the worst-affected districts.So far, Covid-19 has claimed 14,180 lives in the state.Health officials on Saturday pointed out that the delay in approaching hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms and comorbidities was the main reason behind the rising deaths.The number of patients on oxygen support in the state has also come down from 9,736 on May 12 to 5,302 on May 28, according to the data. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-positivity-rate-falls-to-5-12-per-cent-in-punjab-260398
30-05-2021||---||Wanted for shooting dead two ASIs in Jagraon, 2 gangsters nabbed from Madhya Pradesh||Chandigarh, May 29Punjab Police have arrested two of the main accused in the killing of CIA Assistant Sub Inspectors Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, who were gunned down in cold blood in Jagraon Grain Market on May 15.The suspects, Baljinder Singh alias Babbi, a resident of Mahla Khurd village, Moga, and Darshan Singh, a resident of Sahauli village in Ludhiana district, who were carrying reward  of Rs 2 lakh each on their heads, are associates of gangster and drug smuggler, Jaipal Bhullar, and they were nabbed from Dabra in Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh) on Friday evening. Another associate of theirs, Harcharan Singh, who had allegedly given shelter to them, was also arrested.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said preliminary questioning of the suspects has revealed that on the fateful day while Baljinder had come to Jagraon in his Canter vehicle for providing safe transportation to Jaipal and Jassi to a hideout outside the state, Darshan had met them there with some clothes for the gangster and his associate. Gupta said the two CIA ASIs, who were on duty, got suspicious after seeing some drugs in the Canter vehicle and they confronted the driver.An apparently cornered Darshan opened fire at the ASIs from his 0.32 revolver and later fled the scene, along with Jaipal and Jassi, in their i-10 Hyundai car. Babbi, who fled in the spot in the Canter vehicle, joined the others after some distance and they all fled towards Haryana and Rajasthan.Gupta said during investigations, intelligence inputs were received that the suspects could be in hiding in and around Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. A team from the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU), led by Inspector Pushpinder Singh, was immediately despatched to Madhya Pradesh for further investigations. He said after painstaking investigations for a few days, the OCCU team managed to track the suspects and arrested them from a platform at Dabra Railway station near Gwalior last evening. The suspects were planning to board a train to Maharashtra, Gupta said.Gupta said the arrested duo has a criminal past and both of them had been convicted in two different murder cases earlier. In fact they had come in contact with each other while undergoing their conviction in jail. While Darshan was granted remission while undergoing his sentence, Baljinder Singh had been released on bail by the High court after his conviction by the Sessions court, Moga. Darshan reportedly has two more criminal cases registered against him and was recently also involved in smuggling of opium.The DGP said Jaipal Bhullar is one of the few gangsters who has managed to elude arrest so far. While he remains at large, his close associate, Gavi, was arrested by Punjab Police from Jamshedpur last month. Gavi was wanted in the case of recovery of 11-kg heroin in Jalandhar district.Both Jaipal and Gavi have close links with drug smugglers based in Pakistan and Jammu. Another associate of theirs, Jaspreet alias Jassi, who is also absconding after the Jagraon shootout, was earlier arrested in a case of smuggling of heroin in Mohali and is also wanted in a case of kidnapping.Gupta said a massive manhunt is still on for the absconding suspects and he was confident that they too would be arrested soon. He reiterated that the supreme sacrifice of the two brave hearts ASIs will not go in vain and the force was committed to get all the accused. He said rewards of Rs 10 lakh and Rs 5 lakh have been announced for the arrest of Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet alias Jassi Baba, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wanted-for-shooting-dead-two-asis-in-jagraon-2-gangsters-nabbed-from-madhya-pradesh-260382
