03-08-2021||IN less than 24 hours starting Sunday evening||Chak de India!||The Indian women deserve praise for beating the formidable Australians, who had won all five of their preliminary matches in Group B. India had barely made it to the quarterfinals, with only two wins in five matches in Group A. However, after losses to the Netherlands, Germany and Great Britain, the women showed great character in winning the last two matches to remain in contention. Against Australia on Monday, they had a mountain to climb — the Aussies had scored 13 goals in the group stage and conceded only one and were expected to dominate India. Australia started on a strong footing, too, but India replied in the same coin. Soon after three fine saves by goalkeeper Savita, India earned a penalty corner and Gurjit Kaur scored — making it 1-0 in the 22nd minute. At half-time, India had had greater ball-possession and only two circle penetrations less than Australia. The Australians came back hard, but the Indian defence line stood firm, and Savita was outstanding. The Haryana girl made an astonishing nine saves — seven off penalty shots and two off field attempts. Maintaining a clean sheet against Australia is a very fine achievement indeed.Since the men’s team failed to qualify for the 2008 Olympics, persistent attempts have been made to rejuvenate hockey; one notable contribution has come from Odisha, which has set up excellent sporting infrastructure in Bhubaneswar, hosted top tournaments and has also been the sponsor of the national teams for the last few years. A medal in Tokyo would be fine payback for the lover and backers of hockey in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chak-de-india-292058
03-08-2021||THE Assam-Mizoram border dispute||Settling border disputes||It is heartening that the Centre’s active intervention is helping to cool frayed tempers. Inter-state relations had touched a new low in the aftermath of the clash when the Mizoram police registered an FIR against Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on the charges of attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy, even as the Assam police had booked Mizoram MP K Vanlalvena for allegedly threatening that all cops who trespassed into his state’s territory would be killed.There are several inter-state conflicts awaiting resolution in the Northeast, a strategically important region that has witnessed prolonged unrest and violence in the past few decades. The political leadership of various states needs to exercise restraint and respect the decisions taken by the Centre in its role of a mediator. The CMs of Assam and Mizoram have been insisting that talks are the only way to resolve disputes. Such statements should be backed by stern action against law enforcers who take the law into their own hands. Hemmed in by two hostile neighbours, India cannot afford to let civil strife and territorial conflicts imperil national security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/settling-border-disputes-292063
