04-08-2021||With the Supreme Court set to hear the pleas seeking a court-monitored probe into the Pegasus snooping row on Thursday||Pegasus controversy||Ever since the revelation about the phone-tapping incident was made, there have been demands for an inquiry. The demand was earlier raised by TMC chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who called for an all-party meeting on the issue. West Bengal even constituted a commission to probe the controversy. The Centre, on its part, has continued to deny that it has got anything to do with the snooping row, calling it instead an attack on Indian democracy. With the country figuring on the list of global democracy watchdogs that are concerned over the growing trend towards ‘authoritarianism’ and the plight of minorities, the government may well be on the defensive, but the attempts at stone-walling the Opposition have not helped matters either. In fact, the meetings of the parliamentary panel on information technology have seen BJP members boycott the proceedings and spar with the chairman who is from the Congress.Allegations of surveillance remain a matter of concern as it is as much about security as about privacy. With France and Israel initiating an inquiry into the Pegasus row, India should also look into ways to prevent such incidents. Democracy is about reconciling governmental concerns with individual rights. Misuse of technology can prove to be detrimental in furthering its cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pegasus-controversy-292456
04-08-2021||Aditya Birla group Chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla||Dangers of duopoly||Birla has red-flagged the concerns of foreign investors, who are reluctant to pump their money into the company unless they are reassured that the government is keen on a three-player telecom market instead of a duopoly. According to him, investors also want clarity on AGR liability, adequate moratorium on spectrum payments and the floor pricing regime above the cost of service. The government needs to address these issues on priority and dispel doubts about its commitment to providing a level playing field.According to data released by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India recently, the country’s mobile market lost 62.7 lakh users in May, when the second wave of Covid-19 was at its peak. However, Reliance Jio managed to add 35 lakh mobile users even during this turbulent month, raising its subscriber base to over 43 crore. This clearly shows which way the wind is blowing. If no efforts are made urgently to stop VIL’s freefall, tens of crores of Vodafone customers will suffer. This will be a huge setback not only to the cause of digital empowerment repeatedly espoused by the government but also to India’s 5G dreams. It’s up to the Centre to make an intervention in the best interests of the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dangers-of-duopoly-292464
