05-08-2021||Feeding a black market fuelled by the booming construction industry||Checking illegal mining||The immense environmental damage caused to the river ecosystem, like altering currents, changing water course and resultant threats, seems to be the least of concerns at all levels of governance. The need to identify ecologically sensitive and biodiversity hotspots has been stressed several times in the past, but guidelines on sustainable mining and monitoring of sites are ignored with impunity. Several technical resources can be put to use in the fight against the illegal activity, provided there is the will. And that is where the real problem lies, be it the hill states, Punjab, Haryana or Jammu and Kashmir. When the benefits of breaking the law far outweigh the consequences, the only conclusion drawn is that the system is broken.In the face of a constant market demand, a key intervention could be to rely on scientific studies to identify large river sand mining sites based on the aggregation and degradation rate, and then have a strict monitoring mechanism. Serious thought also needs to be given to setting up village-level groups and letting the stakeholders appreciate the importance of and their crucial role in resisting illegal sand mining. Active community involvement may well be the answer to make governments act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/checking-illegal-mining-293111
05-08-2021||It’s worrying that the reproductive number (R-value)||Covid resurgence||The influx of tourists has contributed to the rise in Covid cases in HP and J&K in particular. The lifting of restrictions has led to all-round laxity in adhering to the precautionary norms. Reports/visuals of people shunning masks and social distancing at hill stations and crowded city markets underscore the prevailing complacency. The states witnessing a surge need to do contact tracing on a war footing and create containment zones depending on the spread of infections. The possibility of reimposing curbs can also be explored. The devastation wreaked by the second wave should hopefully spur the authorities to be better prepared this time on all counts – oxygen, ventilators, ICU beds, medicines.Vaccination, of course, is the best bet to contain the virus. Over 48 crore vaccine doses have been administered in India so far — over 6.1 crore in May, 11.96 crore in June and 13.45 crore in July. The absolute numbers seem impressive, but the percentages present a different picture. India has managed to fully vaccinate merely one-tenth of its adult population. This rate can be enhanced only if the production and supply of vaccines are ramped up. The government’s initiative to fast-track emergency approvals for all foreign-produced shots has fallen short of achieving the desired results. The bottlenecks need to be removed quickly so that we stand a chance against the third wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-resurgence-293107
