06-08-2021||The Tokyo Olympics have showcased the incredible stories of Indian players hailing from villages or small towns who have made a mark in the global arena||Start from the grassroots||There is no denying that the bulk of our talent pool is available in the hinterland, where facilities for sports are grossly inadequate or non-existent. Not many budding players can afford to stay long in cities such as New Delhi, Bengaluru, Patiala and Chennai, which have top-notch infrastructure, to hone their skills. Some aspiring sportspersons simply have to abandon their dreams due to lack of practice and training avenues at the local level. It’s imperative to build — and maintain — a state-of-the-art sports complex in every district to attract youngsters living in the vicinity. The accessibility of these premises can spur them to pursue their passion not far from their native places. At the macro level, the stadiums in the big cities are best suited to host major events and organise training camps for Asian, Commonwealth and Olympic Games.A look at how Odisha is making its moves can help other states fine-tune their game plan. The state, which will host the Men’s Hockey World Cup in January 2023, is busy completing astroturf grounds in all 17 blocks of Sundargarh district with the aim of tapping local talent; simultaneously, work on the Birsa Munda International Hockey Stadium is in progress in the district’s main city, Rourkela. Indeed, it’s the investment in the grassroots that holds the key to our sporting glory in the long run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/start-from-the-grassroots-293623
06-08-2021||Proudly displaying the military might and defence engineering capability of India in the high seas is the country’s maiden Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC-1) that on Wednesday sailed out for rigorous trials to validate its efficiency. It marks an important milestone for this vessel — which has been in the making for nearly 20 years — before it is commissioned in the Indian Navy as INS Vikrant next year. Behind this stellar accomplishment that has catapulted India to the stratospheric band of nations (the US||Indigenous naval warship||The aircraft carrier is tactically and operationally significant for an India whose endeavours to become a world power are increasingly undermined by China’s nefarious activities in the Indian Ocean region. Along with INS Vikramaditya (the aircraft carrier acquired from Russia already in service since 2013) this new warship will enable the country to extend mobile air power in both the eastern and western seas simultaneously, spanning the waters from the Gulf of Aden to the Malacca Straits, and help thwart any challenges to its supremacy. For, this 40,000-tonne complex vessel is a beastly machine. The IAC-1 is empowered to operate MiG-29K fighter aircraft, Kamov Ka-31 Airborne Early Warning Helicopters, MH-60R Multi-Role Helicopters and the domestically built Advanced Light Helicopters.Experts have been urging the Central government for building another carrier so as to offset the times when a warship is undergoing a refit, given that China is armed with five carriers. While the response so far has been tepid, if and when the go-ahead comes, stress should be on cutting the design and construction time of IAC-2 to half.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/indigenous-naval-warship-293621
