07-08-2021||Perturbed by the perceived attempts by the government to appropriate Gandhian institutions in the country||Sabarmati Ashram recast||The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre has in the past faced similar criticism over its plans to construct the Statue of Unity, the tallest statue of India’s first Home Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who like Gandhi, also hailed from Gujarat. Prime Minister Modi, right from his days as the state’s chief minister, has been harping on the Gujarat model of governance, laying thrust on development projects to put his state on the path to progress. He even hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping there during his visit and to showcase the Sabarmati riverfront project that envisaged bringing about a profound change in the urban vista. While the second phase of the scheme is now underway, it has also seen displacement and court cases for the rehabilitation of those forced to move out of their homes.The BJP has been strident in its criticism of the country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, but it should ensure that the basic character of Gandhian legacy remains intact. Gandhi embodied the essence of India’s struggle for Independence, acting for the lowest common denominator, uniting people against the might of the British empire. Any change should retain the historic significance and heritage character of the place. There is more to Gandhi and Patel than just Gujarat and for the BJP, harping on them would also indicate that it does not have icons of its own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sabarmati-ashram-recast-294104
07-08-2021||Adverse decisions by international arbitration tribunals in the cases of UK telecom major Vodafone Group and oil producer Cairn Energy have prompted the Union government to table the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha||Retrospective tax||Though the NDA government has been reiterating its opposition to retrospective taxation ever since it came to power in 2014, it kept banking on arbitration for too long, hoping against hope for favourable judgments to resolve the ‘legacy disputes’. On December 21, 2020, an arbitration tribunal at The Hague pronounced its award in favour of Cairn Energy Plc and Cairn UK Holdings Ltd. In another setback for the Indian government last year, the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague ruled that India’s retrospective demand of Rs 22,100 crore as capital gains and withholding tax imposed on Vodafone for a 2007 deal was in breach of the guarantee of equitable treatment.The protracted litigation has not only been expensive and time-consuming but has also dented India’s reputation as an investor-friendly destination. It is hoped that the new legislation will usher in a fair and predictable tax regime and boost investors’ confidence, which is a prerequisite for bringing the country’s Covid-battered economy back on track. India is ranked a middling 63rd on the Ease of Doing Business index, way behind other Asian nations such as Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, UAE, Japan and China. Foreign investors have many options, and they won’t prefer countries where they are likely to face uncertainty and intimidation on the taxation front. The challenge for India will be to optimally use the new law to attract big-ticket investments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/retrospective-tax-294103
