09-08-2021||The stunning throw of 87.58 metres||Golden show in Tokyo||Chopra’s gold, India’s first medal ever in athletics — Norman Pritchard won two silver at Paris in 1900 while representing India, but he was a British citizen — is rightly being hailed as historic for it was won in a mainstream sport that demands a very high degree of athleticism, strength and technical finesse. Before Chopra arrived on the scene, the hope of India winning an Olympics track and field medal — let alone gold! — seemed an impossible dream. The performance by the hockey teams was exceptional, too, with the men winning bronze to end a 41-year drought. The silver won by Ravi Dahiya and Mirabai Chanu and the bronze by PV Sindhu — the first Indian woman to win medals in two Olympics — were just rewards of great performances.The most pleasing aspect of India's show was that the circle of India’s competitiveness expanded, if ever so slightly, in Tokyo. Aditi Ashok was in contention for a golf medal until the very end; fencer Bhavani Devi and Fouaad Mirza in equestrian impressed, too. All in all, the festival of sport went off pretty well, despite an alarming surge in Covid-19 cases in Tokyo. Crucially, the pre-Olympics horror scenario, as projected by Japan’s doctors and health experts, was averted. Over time, we’ll know the cost to Japan’s economy for holding the Olympics during the pandemic. For now, let’s celebrate our and the world’s exceptional athletes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/golden-show-in-tokyo-294980
09-08-2021||Statistics have been pointing to the frighteningly rising graph of sexual offences against minor girls in Haryana. Equally shameful are the grossly inadequate steps taken by the state to deal with the situation that is potentially pregnant with multifarious repercussions||Haryana’s child pregnancies||That in only 21 of these 37 cases could the pregnancy be terminated lays bare the loopholes in the state’s efforts to curb this social evil. While mostly the abortions could not be carried out as they were reported after the permitted 24 weeks, criminal delays by child welfare committees or medical boards have also led to the missing of the crucial deadline. Publicity campaigns to sensitise both children and adults towards this heinous crime need to be ramped up. The girls’ education about good and bad touch in homes and schools can be effective only in conjunction with boys being raised with morals imbued with sensitivity to women’s agency and the shedding of misogynistic patriarchy. The stigma of rape must stick to the violator rather than to the naive victim.Also essential to deterring the perpetrators is swift and assured justice. More courts like the one set up in Ambala last year to exclusively deal with child abuse cases — nearly 100 under the POCSO Act are pending in the district — are needed to fast-track trials. Notably, the SC’s rejection of the plea of the Catholic priest (now defrocked) for marriage with his victim whom he had impregnated four years ago — after all scandalous tricks to escape the 20 years’ RI awarded to him failed — affirms that child rapists invite upon themselves nothing but punishment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/haryanas-child-pregnancies-294979
