10-08-2021||A STUDY by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)||Mixing vaccines||Though India has administered over 50 crore doses so far, supply delays and vaccine hesitancy have impeded efforts to expedite the vaccination programme. Mixing of vaccines can give a fillip to the campaign, subject to validation of the ICMR study at the international level. Several countries, including Russia, Germany, South Korea and Thailand, are keen on switching to different vaccines for second doses or booster shots, even though the World Health Organisation (WHO) had said on July 12 that the practice of mixing vaccines was a ‘dangerous trend’ since there was little data on record about its health impact. Europe’s drug regulator, too, has not made any definitive recommendation on combining shots.The ICMR study won’t be enough to dispel doubts in the people’s minds as long as the WHO keeps sounding a cautionary note. The findings must be reconciled with scientific evidence available with the global health body. With research to establish the safety or otherwise of mixing vaccines continuing, it is not advisable to jump to conclusions. The government should take an informed decision on the matter, once it has sufficient data to reassure the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mixing-vaccines-295333
10-08-2021||The Geological Survey of India’s conclusion of the study into the massive cave-in of the 150-m stretch of the Paonta Sahib-Shillai road (NH-707) on July 30 following heavy rain corroborates the findings of other experts in Himachal Pradesh over the past several years. Fingers have again been pointed at the rampant illegal quarrying for the cave-in. It is imperative that the GSI report leads to action rather than it being consigned to the back-burner||Mining mafia holds sway||Aggravating the problem are unscientific approaches and short-cuts adopted by various agencies undertaking the road-building jobs and other projects despite clearly defined rules aimed to protect the environment. In the Paonta road case, for example, the NHAI must be put in the dock for dumping debris in the nullahs on NH-707. It was a recipe for disaster and brooks no escaping from the law. These transgressions have cumulatively rendered the hills more prone to landslides. The common man is suffering the increasingly frequent disasters triggered by flashfloods and rain every monsoon. Causing immense loss of life and property (buildings, roads and bridges), they are sure indicators of the hilly slopes having been further weakened.A sustainable and long-term plan to counter the risky activities regularly red-flagged is needed. Proper planning to avoid the burden of compensation doled out and the huge cost of rebuilding damaged infrastructure will be beneficial in the long run. Unless the hazardous activities are controlled, the already fragile ecosystem of the state will sink deeper into the critically vulnerable zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mining-mafia-holds-sway-295335
