11-08-2021||LENDING scientific credence to the warnings of the impending catastrophic global warming is the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPPC) report released on Monday. The report sounds the alarm bells at a higher level||The heat is on||6 per cent a year through 2030, the planet is dangerously headed the opposite way, towards an average annual increase of 2 per cent.An urgent reversal of this trend — that bodes disastrous consequences — by drastically cutting emissions of CO2 and greenhouse gases can help prevent the outbreak of the more widespread, frequent and intense weather events predicted by the IPCC. Coming a couple of months before the critical COP26 summit, the report should goad all nations to resolve to meet in Glasgow with strengthened and unified climate change strategies.It is time the developed world and developing nations align towards the goal of leaving a liveable and peaceful Earth for our children. The rich nations that are majorly responsible for today’s distressing scenario must fund the mitigation measures of the poorer countries and transfer technology without strings attached. It would pave the way for countries like India, which are still stuck with the highly polluting thermal power plants, to quickly adopt cleaner and greener methods of development. The IPCC report might well be the last siren to stalling an irreversible global warming. The heat is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-heat-is-on-295872
11-08-2021||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a holistic approach to maritime security has struck a chord with the UN Security Council||Maritime security||India, however, should avoid putting all its eggs in the Quad basket, considering that the US is keen on a new quadrilateral framework in partnership with Pakistan, Uzbekistan and Afghanistan. Last month, the US State Department had announced that the four countries aimed to expand trade, build transit links and capitalise on ‘the historic opportunity to open inter-regional trade routes’. India has to understand that there is more to this US-led ‘parallel Quad’ than enhancing regional connectivity. It could well be a desperate ploy by Washington to keep itself relevant in trouble-torn Afghanistan.The onus is on India to expand its horizons to safeguard its strategic and economic interests. New Delhi has already sharpened its focus on the Persian Gulf, where China is making rapid strides. Strengthening ties with Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Iran will bolster India’s energy security, which is inseparable from maritime peace and stability in the entire region. Our all-out Gulf diplomacy can help us counter Beijing’s expansionist ambitions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/maritime-security-295871
