12-08-2021||ALARM bells have been sounded for a possible third wave of infections with the ‘R’ value||Third wave fears||Himachal, to its credit, has been prompt in taking seriously last month’s advisory to state governments warning against blatant violations of Covid norms. Its bold decision to allow entry into the state only on production of a Covid-negative or fully-vaccinated report may not have gone down well with tourists, but is sensible considering that six districts have been showing a rise in cases for a fortnight. The hill state’s precautionary outlook, though, stands in sharp contrast to Punjab’s, where social distancing and mask protocols seem to have been given a defiant burial. Images of public figures going about their business without caring for the pandemic norms have only added to the misplaced bravado. With elections round the corner, such casualness and cavalier behaviour can have devastating consequences. That was the big lesson of the killer second wave, and it is being blatantly and wilfully ignored. The low number of cases cannot be made an excuse for such foolhardiness.Vaccination has emerged as a vital protective shield, but that in itself falls short in the absence of following the mandated measures. As academic institutions open and economic and social activity gathers pace, a clear message has to be sent out to stick to the new basics, and the responsibility to set an example falls first and foremost on those in public life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/third-wave-fears-296410
12-08-2021||POLITICS and crime have become inseparable bedfellows||Cleansing politics||On paper, every voter has the right to know whether any contesting candidate has a criminal background or not. This information can help him exercise his franchise judiciously. In reality, however, he is kept in the dark as the top brass prefers to conceal facts which would show their nominees in an unflattering light. In the February 2020 order, the apex court had directed parties not only to upload details of pending criminal cases against their candidates but also give reasons why they picked the tainted ones instead of those with a clean record. Such directions can achieve the desired purpose only if there is strict implementation. The ECI has its work cut out on this count.In another affirmation of the top judiciary’s commitment to cleansing politics, the Supreme Court has curtailed the power of state prosecutors and ordered that they cannot withdraw prosecution against the lawmakers under the Code of Criminal Procedure without prior sanction from high courts. This ruling can curb arbitrary disposal of cases by governments. It’s equally important to fast-track trials against politicians, particularly MPs and MLAs, so as to prevent the black sheep from making a mockery of democracy. Above all, it boils down to political will. Politics will remain murky as long as there is lack of transparency and accountability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cleansing-politics-296409
