13-08-2021||The tragic loss of lives in a landslide near Nigulsari in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh is yet another reminder of the fragile ecology of the Himalayan ranges — which are still rising by over 1cm every year — and the dangers of tampering with the natural ecosystem. Four major perennial rivers originate in or traverse through steep hills of Himachal Pradesh||Tragedy in the hills||In 2019, a parliamentary committee noted that the state has the potential to double its hydropower generation, and Kinnaur, through which the Sutlej passes, has been the focus. A study conducted by environmental group Himdhara in 2012-16 showed that the ecology of Kinnaur had been adversely affected by the hydropower projects in the region — 90 per cent of forest land diverted for non-forest activities between 1980 and 2014 was used for them. Construction activity — which includes tunnelling and blasting of the mountains — has impacted the ecosystem. The study found that of the compensatory afforestation, less than 10% saplings survived. Due to changed rainfall patterns, the region has been getting abnormally high rainfall — continuous rains and steep hills lead to loose soil and rolling boulders.Landslides have been a way of life in Himachal, but the level of human exposure to risk of disaster had remained low due to the state’s low population density. However, due to a big push for construction of infrastructure and roads, and the resultant increase in human settlements and road traffic, more lives are in danger than ever before, especially during rains. The state’s Disaster Management Plan of 2017 listed several ‘landslide risk mitigation’ measures — including stabilising of hill slopes, afforestation and early warning systems. If implemented fully, these measures could reduce risk to life and property. If that is not possible, the least the state could do is to close the dangerous roads for all but emergency traffic during rains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tragedy-in-the-hills-296820
13-08-2021||When leaders of political parties||Pandemonium in Parliament||That it was possible to hold even a curtailed session of Parliament in Covid times was a positive sign, but the refusal to allow discussions on issues like the Pegasus row that has international ramifications and the repeal of farm laws, followed by unruly scenes, with members even climbing atop the table and throwing files at the Rajya Sabha Chairman and the alleged manhandling of women MPs by male marshals during the passage of the Insurance Amendment Bill remain an unhealthy sign. While the Speaker and the Rajya Sabha Chairman have called for a review of the House rules because of the MPs’ conduct, MPs belonging to the Opposition objected to the way in which parliamentary business was conducted. The scene in the Rajya Sabha appeared to be a repeat of last year’s Monsoon session when eight MPs were suspended during the passage of the farm Bills.A curtailed session of Parliament should also be marked by decorum. PM Modi expressed his disappointment over MPs, even from his own party, staying away during the passage of key legislations. Members of Parliament have to realise that it is the people who elect them. They cannot fail their cause by staying away from the discharge of duty, despite the strength in the House of the elected government of the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pandemonium-in-parliament-296792
