14-08-2021||With the rampaging Taliban having captured Kandahar and Herat||Afghanistan in turmoil||According to a US military intelligence assessment, the Taliban could gain full control of the country in a few months. The developments leave no room for doubt that the Taliban will remain a decisive player in the scheme of things. India, which has invested $3 billion in projects aimed at rebuilding Afghanistan over the past two decades, has repeatedly said that it is in touch with various stakeholders. New Delhi’s contingency plan ought to include negotiations with the Taliban so that all the good work — infrastructure development and financial assistance in healthcare, education, transport and power sectors — doesn’t come to naught.Of grave concern to India are the reports of Pakistan’s continued support to the Taliban and the influx of terrorists into Afghanistan from that country. India’s strategic interests in Afghanistan will be under threat as long as Pakistan keeps providing logistical and tactical aid to the militant outfit. New Delhi must spearhead global efforts to expose Islamabad’s nefarious designs. India, which holds the UN Security Council presidency for August, should also take the lead in administering the healing touch to the battered and bruised Afghan citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/afghanistan-in-turmoil-297219
14-08-2021||After setting sanitation goals for the country||Managing wastewater||The other cities should learn a trick or two from Indore. Single-minded and determined efforts to ensure that no dirty or untreated wastewater escapes into any drain, nullah or river as well as the reuse of greywater hold the key. It calls for the identification of polluting industries and homes/shanties spilling waste directly into water bodies. Having connected the outfalls of the dwellers living around nullahs and drains (around 5,000) with drainage pipes and ensuring that the effluents of commercial establishments (around 2,000) are treated properly before release, Indore is on the much-needed path of freeing its rivers from pollution. Reusing 30 per cent of wastewater in gardening or construction activities and having clean public toilets linked with sewers are its other laudable achievements.Only if every town and city emulates Indore will India truly head towards bettering its water quality and, consequently, the health of its citizens. With an estimated 70 per cent of freshwater sources contaminated and unpotable, it shamefully ranks among the bottom three of 122 countries in this respect. Only a drastic reduction in the almost 40 million litres of largely untreated wastewater entering the water bodies daily can help reverse the damage. Every penny of the crores of rupees sanctioned to mitigate the problem must be accounted for and decision-makers held responsible for lapses in output. We cannot afford any more slip-ups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/managing-wastewater-297221
