17-08-2021||The survey by the Association of Physicians of India (Malwa branch) has brought to fore the alarming fact about the Covid-19 pandemic affecting people psychologically even as they were finding it hard to cope with the surging virus and the strict lockdown that followed it. The survey||Covid’s psychological fallout||The pandemic has affected lives like never before. The uncertainty surrounding the disease and its fallout triggered myriad problems, economically, socially, physically and emotionally. With no known protocol initially to treat the disease and the costs involved, the loss of loved ones triggering emotional distress and the confinement arising out of the shutdown with movements getting restricted because of flights, trains, schools, colleges and facilities being closed, resulted in problems that must have exhausted the mind. The loss of livelihoods also entailed a drain on savings.While the incidence of the problem is not clear, whether it was more in cities or in rural areas, it does call for paying attention. The problem in this case is a corollary to the outbreak of Covid-19, and a decline in the number of cases and related mortality, along with increased reliability on medical facilities, may help alleviate the problem to some extent. Inter-personal relations have become a casualty because of the fear of infection and enforcement of social distancing. With technology playing a major role in facilitating work and keeping connectivity intact, social interaction and personal ties offer the best safety valve to ward off such problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covids-psychological-fallout-298152
17-08-2021||A full-blown humanitarian crisis is looming in Afghanistan||Humanitarian crisis||Ghani’s escapade may shield him from meeting the horrible fate that former President Najibullah was dealt with by the Taliban after they seized power in 1996 — he was hunted out of the UN compound where he was seeking shelter and brutally assassinated by the Taliban. But it is the common folks, specially women, left behind who face a setback as the new rulers are known for their patriarchal and harsh interpretation of the Islamic law. The women’s hard-won rights gained over the past two decades regarding gender equality, education and right to work as also the significant Elimination of Violence Against Women Law, 2009, are again in peril.Though the Taliban have claimed that women’s rights and freedoms would be respected, going by the poor condition of the girls in the hitherto Taliban-controlled areas, the huge strides made by them with regard to education and participation in public and political life are endangered. The situation calls for an urgent intervention of the international forces to protect the rights of the citizens and prevent the country from regressing into the pre-2001 times. Global efforts for restoring peace must be made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/humanitarian-crisis-298154
