18-08-2021||Defending his decision to withdraw troops from Afghanistan||Biden’s blame game||Biden’s contention that the US had ‘planned for every contingency’ does not hold water in the light of the chaotic and messy pullout, even as he has deigned to concede that the Taliban takeover happened ‘more quickly’ than anticipated. The disturbing developments have also brought under scrutiny the US-Taliban agreement of February 2020, signed during Donald Trump’s presidency with Pakistan’s support. The Doha deal, which was expected to pave the way for intra-Afghan negotiations on a political settlement and a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire, went horribly wrong. This self-defeating pact and Biden’s April announcement of a withdrawal were together the straw that broke the camel’s back.America’s unwillingness to take Pakistan to task for helping the Taliban run riot has been plainly visible all along. During his visit to New Delhi last month, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken failed to address India’s concerns about the ‘malign influences’ that were plaguing Afghanistan. The least that the US can do now is to stop passing the buck and accept responsibility for the disastrous turn of events. Biden has asserted that he won’t repeat the mistakes the US has made in the past. Going by the course of American history, that’s easier said than done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bidens-blame-game-298633
18-08-2021||The Indian cricket team effected a remarkable turnaround on Day 5 of the second Test against England in London||Remarkable win at Lord’s||India declared at 298/8, having added 117 runs in only 27.3 overs on Day 5. England were set 272 for victory, a difficult task against a quality pace attack. Sure enough, England lost their openers early, both of them unable to open their account. Captain Joe Root, who scored a magnificent 180 not out in the first innings to wrestle the advantage for his team, was the biggest obstacle between Virat Kohli’s men and victory — and when Bumrah dismissed him with an unplayable ball, the writing was on the wall. Only three English batsmen touched double figures while five had a duck against their names.This Indian team has scored some remarkable wins away from home in the last few years, including at Brisbane, Melbourne and Johannesburg. This victory at Lord’s must rank among the very best. The win vindicated Kohli’s decision to field four fast bowlers in the playing eleven as, for the second Test in a row, the pacemen bowled out the home team twice. All 39 English wickets to fall to bowlers so far in the series have been taken by the pace bowlers. However, Kohli and Co. must keep their focus over the next three Tests, for this English team has the ability to hit back hard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/remarkable-win-at-lords-298628
