19-08-2021||IN keeping with the reform envisaged in the New Education Policy (NEP 2020) that all universities and colleges must aim to become multidisciplinary by 2040||JNU’s medical school||With vast expanses of land at the disposal of many established universities and institutes that can be put to constructive use and the prestige of the high standards of learning that they enjoy, the new medical schools would be trustworthy fountainheads of medical personnel. Once such citadels of higher learning expand and diversify their curricula, the need for the largely bureaucratic and dubious clearances, as resorted to by many private medical colleges that have mushroomed in the past two decades, is likely to be minimised, if not obviated.That our healthcare sector is ailing has been starkly exposed during the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides the poor and inequitable infrastructure in the health system, the building blocks of human resources have been found to be critically inadequate. The NEP’s push for an easier and more balanced access to professional medical courses for all aspiring students is, thus, timely. An increased funding for the medical education holds the key to the success of the worthy goal. The scheme of the Centre in partnership with state governments to build medical colleges attached with district hospitals, specially in underserved areas, is another effort geared to plugging the systemic gaps. Notably, the region stands to gain soon, with work on upgrading the civil hospitals of SAS Nagar (Punjab), Bhiwani (Haryana), Chamba, Hamirpur, Nahan (HP) and Almora (Uttarakhand) as medical colleges going on briskly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/jnus-medical-school-299169
19-08-2021||THE festering border dispute between Assam and Mizoram continues to trigger violence||Assam-Mizoram dispute||Two days after the July 26 clash, consensus was reached at a meeting convened by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs in New Delhi on deploying a neutral Central force along the Assam-Mizoram border. Nevertheless, state police forces are still guarding the border, heightening the risk of more clashes. Early this month, the Centre had decided to demarcate the boundaries of the northeastern states through satellite imaging with the intention of settling various inter-state disputes in the insurgency-prone region. This exercise, being conducted by the North Eastern Space Applications Centre, needs to be expedited so that a mutually agreeable solution can be worked out at the earliest.In his Independence Day speech, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga vowed that no stone would be left unturned to promote and maintain peace and harmony among the people living in Assam and Mizoram, particularly in the border areas. Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma, in his I-Day address, said his state was committed to maintaining friendly relations with all neighbouring states. These reassuring words would serve their purpose only if the law enforcers and politicians exercise restraint and prevent a flare-up of violence. The focus of both states should be on tackling the Covid crisis, not on confronting each other. On its part, the Centre ought to closely monitor the situation and thwart attempts by vested interests to foment trouble in the vulnerable Northeast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/assam-mizoram-dispute-299168
