21-08-2021||WHILE it may sound encouraging that Haryana is trying to bring back to school over 29||Bringing kids back to school||The pandemic saw educational institutions being closed for health reasons and the process of learning getting affected. The switch to the online medium of instruction ensured that there was no abrupt discontinuation, but it was not so in the case of many because of lack of necessary tools like Internet connectivity and smartphones, resulting in another form of inequality. Children getting affected is not just about the present but also the future, for no investment is more worthwhile than in terms of human resources. Online learning served its purpose in the exigency but ways have to be found to mitigate the impact of the loss of campus life that affects students at the psycho-social level. The disruption of studies also amounts to a negation of the right to education that demands free and compulsory schooling for children.Like Haryana, other states also need to map the children deprived educationally. But while bringing back children to school, safety measures should not be compromised to prevent a recurrence of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bringing-kids-back-to-school-299954
21-08-2021||THE disruptions caused by Covid-19 have driven home the point that India’s economic recovery is inextricably linked to the physical and financial health of its citizens. According to India Ratings and Research||Focus on jobs, wages||Expediting vaccination can boost confidence of consumers and investors, but at the same time there is a dire need to create jobs and restore livelihoods that were lost to the lockdowns. The buoyancy in the stock markets — Sensex breached the 56,000-mark for the first time on Wednesday — should not mislead the nation into believing that all is well on the economic front. India Ratings has noted that rural wage growth, both for agricultural and non-agricultural activities, has declined of late, even as daily-wage earners rather than farmers account for the biggest chunk of the rural population. The situation is far from promising in cities and towns too, with urban households grappling with a surge in health expenditure and bearing the brunt of income loss/stagnation as well as high consumer inflation.Central schemes such as Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Protsahan Yojana need to be firmed up so as to maximise the gains. The government’s push for disinvestment and privatisation has triggered fears of more job losses and wage cuts. Even as the Centre is eyeing Rs 1.75 lakh crore in 2021-22 from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, it has failed to reassure employees about protection of their jobs after the change of ownership. The government should make the most of the present lull (before the third wave strikes) to restore the people’s purchasing power to pre-Covid levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/focus-on-jobs-wages-299953
