23-08-2021||The Drug Controller General of India’s approval for emergency use of the world’s first needle-free||Jab for adolescents||India has set itself a steep task of vaccinating at least 90 lakh people a day and the Zydus vaccine’s arrival next month promises to provide a huge fillip to the inoculation programme. Though stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius, it has good stability at 25 degrees for at least three months, making it easier to transport and store. To be given at intervals of 28 and 56 days using the painless PharmaJet needle-free applicator, it will bring adolescents within the ambit of vaccination and also those avoiding getting inoculated because of their fear of needles. The opening of schools thus could become a reality sooner than later.Along with this heartening news come distressing figures detailing the gross inequities across regions in the global fight against the pandemic. Data shows that though one-fourth of the world is now fully vaccinated against Covid-19, which is an encouraging aggregate, just 0.6 per cent of people in the poorest nations figure among them, while 50 per cent people are fully vaccinated in the richest nations. The stark difference in numbers only highlights the lack of a cohesive, determined effort at the global level to combat coronavirus, and how it could mar the march against the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/jab-for-adolescents-300766
23-08-2021||IT was at the fag end of a press conference by US President Joe Biden that the White House’s narrative about the unexpected collapse of the Afghan army having caught the Americans unawares came apart. In the process||Stranded in Kabul||The US had sounded the death knell for the democratically elected Afghan government after the Doha talks with the Taliban. The Kabul dispensation, on life support from the West, was made to look further emasculated by the Americans biting the ISI bait of an engagement with the Taliban. For all the satellites in the sky and watchers on the ground, including militias run by the CIA, the Americans seemed to have no inkling of the collapse of the will of the Afghan army or the setting up of well-oiled supply lines from Pakistan that sustained the Taliban advance.There are conspiracy theories about how the Americans had actually willed a Taliban takeover, which is why the Afghan army folded up the way it did. The truth may never be revealed. But what is known is that US Secretary of State Antony Blinken had to thank, at the last count, a dozen countries, including bête noire China, for the safe transit of Americans and other foreign nationals. Meanwhile, the Taliban are dismantling abandoned US military equipment and transporting it to Pakistan, undoubtedly for onward transmission to China. The US has not just hurt itself by accepting the assurances from the Taliban and the ISI; it has ruined the results of assiduous developmental work by countries such as India, besides leaving their citizens in Afghanistan in peril.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stranded-in-kabul-300767
