24-08-2021||There are disconcerting reports that hundreds of Indians are still stuck in Afghanistan||Prioritise evacuation||Though the government has been reiterating that the evacuation of all Indians from Afghanistan is its top priority, some bottlenecks impeding the process have not been removed. Many Indian workers have found themselves stranded as they are not in possession of their passports – these had been deposited with their employers, who fled for their lives as the Taliban made rapid inroads into the cities. Documentation or lack of it should not be a decisive factor when the safety of citizens is at stake, especially when no embassy staffers are around to provide assistance.The Centre needs to consider its options sooner than later in the interests of these citizens. Such moves would necessitate keeping all channels of communication open with the Taliban. India has pumped over $3 billion into Afghanistan in the past two decades, including investments in over 400 infrastructure projects across the country. With a Taliban-led government set to take shape, India should go all out to protect its strategic interests and build on the development initiatives undertaken in healthcare, education and other sectors. The strength of the bilateral ties can be gauged from the fact that Afghanistan’s new parliament building was raised with funds disbursed by India. All the good work and the consequent goodwill must not go down the drain. Certain Indian presence in Kabul is a prerequisite for engaging constructively with the new rulers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/prioritise-evacuation-301109
24-08-2021||A shamefully ubiquitous sight at almost every construction site in the country is of infants and toddlers lying or playing around with little safety provisions||Exposed to dust & danger||The cess of nearly Rs 4,000 crore earned by the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board mirrors that of the other states. The Building and Other Construction Workers’ Act mandates the provision of daycare facilities at worksites that have 50 or more female workers. The crèches also serve to facilitate access to nutritious food and breastfeeding by mothers as well as safe and pollution-free environs to the kids. Flush with funds, surely, the boards can aim to enlarge the mandate and cater to all construction sites. Mobile crèches could be considered as a means for including all children in the welfare scheme and helping plug a significant chink in the armoury of benefits doled out by the boards.The booming construction sector, which is the second largest labour employer in the country, is largely dependent on migrant labour, with one-tenth of the workers being women. The health and education of the children of this workforce are pivotal to the long-term economic growth and development of the country. The Covid-induced lockdowns laid bare their huge numbers and heart-wrenching vulnerability. Woefully, the welfare boards were found wanting in the updation of documenting workers. As registration is the key to the labourers availing themselves of the benefits, steps to ensure the inclusion of all eligible workers need to be ramped up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/exposed-to-dust-danger-301108
