25-08-2021||The National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) is an ambitious plan under which the Central government hopes to raise Rs 6 lakh crore over a four-year period by involving private companies in infrastructure sectors – right from roads||Asset monetisation||According to the NMP document, the monetisation value that can be realised may either be in the form of upfront accruals or by way of private sector investment. The biggest chunk (Rs 1.6 lakh crore) is expected to come from monetising 26,700 km of existing national highways and new roads. The onus will be on the Central and state governments to provide an enabling environment to the companies to run their operations smoothly. The ongoing farmers’ agitation has forced the closure of about 50 toll plazas in Punjab and Haryana for the past eight months or so, with estimated losses being around Rs 5 crore daily. Such prolonged disruptions won’t inspire confidence among investors. In civil aviation, the successful asset monetisation of four major airports – Mumbai, New Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru – has set the ball rolling for maximising the gains, even as the scenario is starkly different in the power sector. Punjab, for instance, has been bearing the brunt of purchase agreements signed with independent power producers, with cheap tariff and improved supply remaining elusive.The Centre intends to make policy and regulatory interventions to ensure ‘efficient and effective’ asset monetisation. Real-time monitoring has been envisaged. How much benefit the government will actually derive from the plan will depend on the rollout, followed by course correction in case things go awry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/asset-monetisation-301617
25-08-2021||With the country barely recovering from the deadly second wave of Covid-19||Predicting third wave||The pandemic has seen the medical community being tested to the hilt. Healthcare workers have found themselves outnumbered because of the relentless flow of patients and ran out of resources with which to work. The Centre and the states need to demarcate their areas of responsibility and provide hospitals with the necessary equipment to prevent any recurrence. Shortage of doctors, like at Tanda Medical College in Himachal Pradesh, that saw specialists and super-specialists quit for lack of proper working conditions should be looked into. The needs of frontline workers should be a priority to meet any health emergency.The Covid-19 pandemic has seen death and destruction across the world. But if after two waves of the disease, lessons are not learnt, allowing for more damage, it will be a matter of immense regret for the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/predicting-third-wave-301616
