26-08-2021||The Shiv Sena and the BJP have been at daggers drawn ever since the former — once the saffron party’s oldest ally — parted ways in 2019||Sena-BJP faceoff||Rane’s remark was indeed irresponsible and potentially inciteful, though such mud-slinging is regarded as par for the course in politics. But the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s retaliation has been disproportionate to the offence committed. Extracting an unconditional apology from Rane would have sufficed to bring the unsavoury matter to an end. However, the ruling party chose to unleash the police on the Union minister rather than confining itself to a verbal duel. This extreme step reeks of vendetta politics — stooping to a new low to settle scores. Battle lines have already been drawn for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation polls, due early next year. Over 40 cases have been registered in four days against Rane’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Mumbai and neighbouring areas on the charge of flouting Covid-19 guidelines that disallow public gatherings. More Sena-BJP confrontations are expected in the run-up to the civic body elections.The buck stops with the leaders of both parties. Whenever they fail to exercise restraint themselves, they give their supporters the liberty to go on the rampage. Notwithstanding their bitter rivalry, the Shiv Sena and the BJP should not allow the Rane episode to take its toll on law and order in Maharashtra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sena-bjp-faceoff-302142
26-08-2021||Attorney General KK Venugopal’s fervent appeal to the Supreme Court to reverse the Bombay High Court’s controversial ‘skin-to-skin’ verdict in a child sexual abuse case is understandable. Any sensible person would share his agony over the outrageous order that said sexual assault offences under the POCSO Act weren’t made out if there was no direct ‘skin-to-skin’ contact between the offender and the child. In a country where 43||‘Skin-to-skin’ verdict||Dispensing justice is a complex process involving interpretation of laws and applying them to a given set of facts and circumstances to reach a decision. But often it’s ignored that it also requires a great deal of training and discipline on the part of judges to overcome personal biases, perceptions and misconceptions about what’s right and wrong. The process involves understanding the relationship between the State, society and citizens within the framework of the Constitution that acts as the ‘grundnorm’. Notwithstanding the Constitution guaranteeing equal rights to women, their dream of walking shoulder to shoulder with their male counterparts has largely remained unfulfilled, thanks to the gender bias existing in society.Unfortunately, the constitutional courts which are supposed to ensure protection of their right to equality to enable them to lead a dignified life often pass orders and remarks that leave much to be desired. Sometime back, the Madhya Pradesh High Court had passed a gender-insensitive order asking a molestation accused to get a rakhi tied from the victim as a condition for grant of bail. Thankfully, the Supreme Court set aside the HC order and issued instructions to judges requiring them to desist from misogynistic and patriarchal stereotypes that undermine the importance of women and demean their existence and role in society. In this case, the high court’s interpretation of POCSO provisions goes against the legislative intent behind the special law to protect children. One is sure the SC would again take the corrective measure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/skin-to-skin-verdict-302141
