28-08-2021||The death of at least 110 people||Chaotic evacuation||It’s a catch-22 situation for the US. Biden’s call for revenge may not only impede the withdrawal but also prompt the Islamic State’s Afghanistan affiliate to launch more attacks in the coming days, thus endangering the lives of hundreds of citizens of the US and other countries who are still stranded there. The US runs the risk of shooting itself in the foot all over again if it pursues the perilous course of retribution. With the Islamic State bent on causing damage to the US as well as the Taliban, various nations have no option but to work in coordination with the Taliban for the safety of their residents.Several countries, including Spain, Australia and New Zealand, have completed the evacuation process. It’s a race against time for the others, including India. Briefing an all-party meeting on Thursday, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said the government was committed to ‘full evacuation’ of Indians from Afghanistan. This task needs to be concluded at the earliest, considering the likelihood of more bombings at or around the Kabul airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chaotic-evacuation-302998
28-08-2021||By clinching India’s first Olympic gold medal in athletics at Tokyo||Sagacity golden, too||Reinforcing the fact that sports is a unifying force rather than a divisive one, Neeraj has also asked people to refrain from using his (now very popular) name for their vested ends. Given the traditional Indo-Pak rivalry, coupled with the fact that click-happy social media users seldom cross-check facts before hurling abuse, it is not surprising that there were many takers for the bait, ready to lap it up as ammo and create a flare-up. Credit goes to the 23-year-old Neeraj, who has shot into limelight after his commendable performance in Tokyo and is being wooed by one and all for interviews, for staying grounded and believing in the brotherhood of sportspersons.Sadly, the same cannot be said for some seasoned players. The cricket field is particularly pockmarked with unsportsmanlike comments and actions. The inconclusive ‘monkeygate’ scandal of 2008 that covered Harbhajan Singh in an ingloriously racist colour against Australia’s Andrew Symonds is still stuck to the off-spinner. Another dark chapter was added last month with the ‘Rajput boy’ declaration by Ravindra Jadeja. Suresh Raina had similarly flaunted his caste identity with the ‘I am Brahmin’ comment. Such conduct is not the stuff that the sports culture endorses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sagacity-golden-too-302997
