30-08-2021||A PEOPLE’S movement seems to have taken birth across the tribal district of Kinnaur against ecologically hazardous hydroelectric projects on the Sutlej. Isolated voices of worried individuals||No should mean no||Voices fearing for the endangered chilgoza tree, river ecosystem and fragile hills in Kinnaur have been trying to get themselves heard through the thick tangle of legal and corporate one-upmanship that the hydel project has been caught in over the past 15 years. Not surprisingly, the development-vs-environment debate has tended to tilt towards the moneyed lobbies vying for multi-crore deals. Though various committees of experts have red-flagged the concerns, projects eventually get okayed with ‘certain modifications’. Kinnaur, being the hydropower hub of Himachal Pradesh, knows too well the havoc dam-building can wreak, especially as compliance with environment norms is usually compromised. The Sutlej basin bears over half of the hydel load in the state, with the river dammed at multiple places.This time, the locals are determined to resist further degradation by exercising their right to consent, which is embedded in the rule that an NOC from the Gram Sabha is mandatory for setting up a project. Incidentally, the SJVNL, which has been allotted the Jangi Thopan project, became a member of the International Solar Alliance (a coalition of solar resource-rich countries) earlier this year. It would do well to spend more energy on tapping sun and wind — renewable and greener sources — for power generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-should-mean-no-303921
30-08-2021||THE mission to vaccinate India’s nearly 90 crore adult population against Covid-19 before the year ends requires the administration of one crore jabs daily until December 31. The ambitious inoculation drive saw two milestones being reached on consecutive days last week. Thursday saw the country crossing 50 per cent first dose vaccine coverage of those above 18 — 35.9 per cent partially vaccinated and 15.1 per cent having received both doses. On Friday||1 crore doses a day||The first 10 crore doses in the country were administered in 85 days, the next 10 crore in 45. The march from 50 crore to 60 crore took 19 days. A creditable progress, but it still may not be good enough as studies predict a third wave and a surge in cases in October. Sustaining the momentum of the focused push to the vaccination programme, thus, needs to remain high priority. The responsibility is as much of the states as that of the Centre.The increase in vaccine availability has resulted in August emerging as India’s biggest vaccination month, with Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra leading the way. In Himachal Pradesh, over 99 per cent of the eligible 18-plus population has been vaccinated at least once. The state has set itself a target of complete vaccination by November 30. Over 62 crore doses of the anti-coronavirus vaccines have been administered so far countrywide, the second highest after China, but a staggering number of the eligible population has still not been covered. That’s the challenge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/1-crore-doses-a-day-303915
