31-08-2021||Indian history has always been a battleground of identity politics and a contested territory of colonial||Erasing Nehru||The erasure of Nehru and the inclusion of VD Savarkar ought to lead any history enthusiast to a ‘what if’ question: what if the Nehru government had vigorously prosecuted the Gandhi murder case and refused to accept the acquittal of Savarkar by the trial court? All those who celebrate Savarkar in the Indian Council for Historical Research poster should thank Nehru for not appealing against the trial court order. They ought to be grateful to Indira Gandhi too for legitimising Savarkar’s memory by issuing a postage stamp just a year after the JL Kapur Commission probing the Gandhi assassination found that ‘all these facts taken together were destructive of any theory other than the conspiracy to murder by Savarkar and his group’.Nehru is not just the nation’s first and the longest serving Prime Minister, but a brilliant leader of the vanguard of India’s freedom struggle who spent about nine years in British prisons. He made mistakes, no doubt, but who hasn’t? When the government hails Savarkar and Ambedkar, who opposed the Quit India struggle, as heroes, it could be accused of political pettiness if it removes Nehru from the publicity material for the celebrations of 75 years of Independence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/erasing-nehru-304353
31-08-2021||When javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia and Sundar Singh Gurjar won a silver and a bronze||Paralympic glory||It is heartening that India’s differently abled players are finally getting recognition for their sterling performances at the highest level. Their achievements are all the more remarkable as they have overcome major constraints to excel in the international arena. On Sunday, which happened to be National Sports Day, Bhavinaben Patel (table tennis) and Nishad Kumar (high jump) won silver medals. Nishad, who hails from Himachal Pradesh, was only eight years old when his right hand was severed by a grass-cutting machine on his family’s farm. In the run-up to the Tokyo games, he had contracted Covid-19 earlier this year. It was also a tough journey for Bhavinaben, who was diagnosed with polio when she was just an infant.India has already won seven medals in the Tokyo Paralympics so far, three more than its previous best haul (four medals at Rio 2016). In the Tokyo Olympic Games that concluded earlier this month, the country’s medal tally (seven) was also its highest ever. These are good tidings for Indian sports and there is a need to maintain the momentum. It’s time the nation as a whole supports and encourages its players through thick and thin, no matter whether they are differently abled or otherwise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/paralympic-glory-304341
