01-05-2021||First Edit||EC deserved rap on the knuckles ||The Election Commission of India (ECI) deserved the Madras High Court’s sharp criticism of its conduct of elections in four states and one union territory, which concluded on Thursday. The criticism amounted to a strong censure. The court went to the extent of suggesting that the EC officials should be booked for murder for the death of many people in the second wave of the pandemic, because it thought many of these deaths might be the result of the Commission’s failure to enforce protocol during the campaign period. The court wondered whether the Commission was on a different planet when huge election rallies were taking place. Similar criticism was voiced about the panel by the Calcutta High Court last week. It said that the ECI was only passing circulars and had failed to enforce Covid guidelines during the West Bengal elections.   Even before the courts made these observations there has been criticism of the EC’s conduct from various quarters including the media, observers of the election scene, persons who were in the past associated with the election machinery and political parties other than the BJP. Such criticism had pointed out deficiencies in the ECI’s conduct of elections, its questionable decisions and acts of commission and omission which were seen to have favoured the BJP. The decision to hold the elections in eight phases in West Bengal and in three phases in Assam was seen as a step to enable Prime Minister Narendra Modi to campaign for an extended period and to help the BJP. The EC also did nothing to stop or to limit the big rallies which would have contributed to the fast spread of the pandemic. West Bengal’s Covid cases increased 40 times after the first phase elections. The number of cases increased in other states also during the campaign period. The proposal to hold virtual rallies was hardly implemented.  The conduct of free and fair elections is the basic requirement of democracy. In times of pandemic as at present, and in similar situations, the safe conduct of elections also becomes important. As the Madras High Court pointed out, the EC’s failure to enforce Covid protocol endangered the lives of people. The Commission has announced some measures now but they have come after the strictures from the courts. It has banned victory processions after the results are declared on May 2. There are restrictions on the number of persons who can accompany the winning candidate to the returning officer and norms to be followed in the counting centres. These are welcome and will certainly help in these times of fast speed of the pandemic. The criticism made by the court and others should guide the Commission in similar situations in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/ec-deserved-rap-on-the-knuckles-981033.html
01-05-2021||In Perspective||Bat for development, climate can wait||The New York Times article: ‘Coal set to roar back’ (NYT, April 23, 2021) re-published in DH on the same date seems to be aimed at bringing India and China in line with the pro-climate position in the review meeting in the UK in the next few days. The article says: “China is by far the largest consumer of coal and is still building coal-fired power plants at home and abroad… China’s coal electricity plants’ capacity grew by a whopping 38 GW in 2020… while the US and Europe consumed most of the coal historically, today it is India and China which account for two-thirds of coal consumption. With the picking up of these economies post-Covid, coal demand is forecast to rise by 9%.” China has fortified its position by significant contribution in renewable energy (RE), by reducing the cost of solar cells, but without change in the relative share of coal vs RE. Xi has said, in the context of carbon emission for developing countries, “the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities must be upheld”.  India on the other hand has been going gung-ho on renewables, bringing misery to coal-based electricity plants and their unwilling buyers, ie discoms, alike. There is a lot of naïve thinking: We have abundant free sunshine in Rajasthan, so solar must be cheaper. So is wind in places like Kodagu etc. By the same logic, there should be no shortage of oxygen for hospitals, because it is freely available in the air! It is quite clear that solar and wind can be no match for good old coal-based electricity because the RE is intermittent energy, i.e. it provides only energy;  while the coal/storage hydro is continuous energy providing both capacity and energy. The comparison should be of the full cost of renewables without storage capacity with the cost of producing electricity by burning coal, i.e. marginal coal cost. The original winning bid–levellised cost of Ultra Mega Power Plant’s coal-based electricity at Sasan in Madhya Pradesh was Rs 1.19/kWh including both capacity and energy, being allotted the captive coal mine. At half this price for energy alone, it has to match about 60 paise per kWh.  At the rate of around $60 per tonne for imported coal which is a very high figure, energy cost would be around Rs 2.5 per kWh. Even if one wants to add the external cost of carbon dioxide emission, to the coal electricity, the present price of carbon is fairly low at $5 per tonne for the Northeastern states of the US (NYT, April 2, 2019) which will add 20 paise per kWh. Then the total renewable cost to beat the coal cost must be less than Rs 2.70.  But there is no need to import coal, as India has about 300 billion tonnes of coal, enough to last about 50 years. We have utilised only about 15% of the biggest and cheapest renewable, that is large hydro, whereas the US and Europe have utilized 90 and 98% of their potential respectively. A number of large hydro projects in India are stalled by environmentalists. The only area where solar is viable is when households put up rooftop solar for hot water purposes, i.e. direct heating from the sun through reflectors. Also increasing block tariffs may make it viable to install solar panels at the household level, by saving consumption of grid electricity. Unviable option But at the discom level, it is almost never viable. Achieving viability through grid connection for solar and wind is the biggest deception because in this case the capacity cost is borne by some other continuous energy source in the grid, like a higher powerhouse capacity designed for large hydro. The rare case where it is worth is when the renewable energy supply is in phase with the system peak demand. But it is seldom so.  Rich countries may have the luxury to experiment with renewables because they can afford the higher cost or it will be subsidised in the name of greenhouse gas emission abatement. But climate change is what economists would call a ‘public bad’ which normally is said to suffer the fate of ‘tragedy of the commons’. Poor countries like India should not take part in averting this tragedy, because, for them, development should be first priority. After all, on a per capita basis, India’s contribution to greenhouse gases is minuscule. What is amazing is how the financiers are also actively backing RE in India knowing well that it is not viable. It only speaks of their confidence in their ability to mislead the government and immiserate the poor discoms. (The writer is former RBI Chair Professor of IIM, Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/bat-for-development-climate-can-wait-981038.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada records whopping 1,205 Covid-19 cases||Dakshina Kannada (DK) district reported one Covid-19 fatality and a record 1,205 positive cases in the past 24 hours. The positive cases are the highest single-day spike in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic. The district had reported 1,175 cases on Thursday. The Covid-19 death tally has increased to 757 in the district. With this, the total positive cases reported in the district has increased to 45,019. With 380 discharges in the past 24 hours, the total discharges have risen to 37,866. The district has 6,486 active cases with patients undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital, other government and private hospitals, along with home isolation. Machines for testing District In-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that machines worth Rs 25 lakh will be installed at District Wenlock Hospital, to increase the testing of samples. He was interacting with officials at a district-level meeting on Friday. The results of swab tests should be given without any delay. To ensure speedy results, three additional machines worth Rs 25 lakh will be installed within three days. This will help in conducting more tests of swabs. Further, the minister said that the corona curfew should be implemented effectively to break the chain. Strict action should be initiated against those who violate the rules. The body of the Covid-19 victims will be shifted to the crematorium free of charge. The last rites will be conducted by the government and funds had been released to Tahsildar. Many from cities are migrating to villages following the lockdown. There are chances that these migrants will spread Covid in their villages. The village-level task force should take all precautionary measures to check the spread of the virus. All the primary contacts should be traced. They should be home quarantined. Mobile Swab testing vehicle should be taken to the primary contacts to collect the swabs, he added. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, Dakshina Kannada ZP CEO Dr Kumar, DHO Dr Kishore among others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-records-whopping-1205-covid-19-cases-981116.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||ECG machines reach rural Karnataka through Anganwadi, PHCs||Realising the inadequate facilities and delayed diagnosis in heart attack cases in rural areas, ‘CAD’ (Cardiology At Doorsteps), a crusade against coronary artery disease initiative, has installed an ECG machine at an Anganwadi centre in Ampar, a remote village in Kundapura taluk in Udupi district Four people in the village, located 27 km from Kundapur town, died due to heart attacks, which prompted villagers to seek the help of the CAD Foundation in installing an ECG machine. Another ECG machine will be installed at an Aganwadi centre in Iruvail soon. Dr Padmanabha Kamath, Professor and Head of Department of Cardiology in Kasturba Medical College Hospital, the person behind the CAD, said that the foundation had trained Anganwadi worker and Asha worker in handling ECG machine and sending the report to CAD WhatsApp group for further consultation. The demonstration of ECG on three senior citizens was carried out at the centre soon after installation. “The Anganwadi worker volunteered to serve people and were trained,” Dr Kamath told DH. In his tweet, Dr Kamath said, “This is pathbreaking. For decades, Ampar village in Kundapur didn’t have a PHC. A simple out-of-the-box thinking by a villager enlightened me. Today, we installed the country’s first-ever ECG machine at Ampar Anganwadi with support of local bodies.” Advocate Umesh Shetty Shankat said Ampar has no road connectivity to reach hospitals during emergencies, with the nearest PHC located 12 km away. Even a sub-PHC is located 7 km away from the village. “We had lost four lives due to cardiac arrest in the past one year. The installation of the ECG machine will help in early diagnosis and rushing heart attack patients to the nearest hospital within the golden hour,” he added. The Anganwadis will be kept open on Sundays for the benefit of the villagers, he said. With this, the CAD has installed 350 ECG machines in rural PHCs across the state, Jan Aushadhi Kendras and now at an Anganwadi centre, Kamath said. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi too had lauded the CAD’s initiative of installing ECG machines in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ecg-machines-reach-rural-karnataka-through-anganwadi-phcs-981131.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cops at this police station use steam to fight viruses||The Barke police station personnel in Mangaluru have set up an apparatus attached to a pressure cooker to generate steam for inhalation to destroy viruses. Herbs like tulasi, pacche karpura, and cloves are added to water for the steam. The police Inspector Jyothirlinga C Honnakatti said, "The facility is meant for the staff of the station and the visitors." The Ayurveda practitioner Dr Jnaneshwar Nayak said that steaming was an important aspect in Ayurveda treatment. One should take care of eyes while steaming. It helps ease congestion in the throat. Cops were seen inhaling steam from three pipes attached to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cops-at-this-police-station-use-steam-to-fight-viruses-981135.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Housewives to stitch 10,000 masks for police personnel||The family of corona warriors have been engaged in stitching masks for police personnel at the Jnanodaya Mahila Mandali building at Police Lane in Mangaluru. The women, led by Mahila Mandali President Bhagirathi, have been engaged in stitching masks for all the police personnel of Mangaluru Police Commissionerate jurisdiction in the past five days. The team comprising of Bhagirathi, Susheela, Sunitha, Nethravathi, Poornima, Tanuja, Asha and Poornima S have already stitched 2,500 masks.  As housewives, these women were engaged in stitching, embroidery and other art works during their free time at home. On seeing rise in Covid-19 cases, the women decided to prepare masks for the corona warriors in their family. And support came from least expected quarters. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar who got to know about the initiative of the women supported them by supplying required khakhi colour cloth, elastic, other raw materials and asked them to stitch 10,000 masks for all the police personnel in the commissionerate jurisdiction. The Commissioner said that to match the uniform of the police personnel, it was decided to have khakhi-coloured masks. There are around 2,000 police personnel in the commissionerate jurisdiction. Each police will get five masks for free. “Hence Mahila Mandali members were asked to stitch 10,000 masks. These masks can be reused," Commissioner informed. Mahila Mandali President Bhagirathi said; “we stitch 75 to 80 masks daily. Already 2,500 masks are ready. The commissioner has asked us to stitch 10,000 masks. The required raw materials has already reached us.” Lauding the efforts of the women in helping the police personnel, the Commissioner visited the Mahila Mandali office on Saturday. The Commissioner also has plans to pay honorarium for eight women engaged in stitching masks. These women engaged in stitching, embroidery, and other art work are supplementing the family’s income. They have come forward to stitch the masks free of cost. “But we have decided to give them a honorarium,” the Commissioner added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/housewives-to-stitch-10000-masks-for-police-personnel-981285.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Citizens, police turn Good Samaritans for elderly woman||Citizens, police, and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials played the role of Good Samaritans by rescuing a 70-year-old sick lone woman from a house in the city. Lalitha of Ramakrishna Nagar was rescued from her house. Lalitha is unmarried and is suffering from health issues for the past one week. She was staying with her sister in Bengaluru and returned her home a few months ago. Following the health issues, she was severely malnourished and dehydrated as she did not consume food. According to the sources, Kiran Robert of Rotary Panchsheel, Mysuru, received the message about the woman and he visited the spot. Despite the pandemic, the members rescued her with the help of Mysuru Lokayukta Superintendent of Police P V Sneha. According to the sources, Robert approached Sneha, and the officer, with the support of the Police Control Room, arranged a health care facility for the woman. The woman was shifted to Vimala Terminal Care Home at Hinkal. The MCC officials rushed to the spot and collected the samples for the Covid test. The SP spoke to MCC Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraju and he sent his team. As the health condition of the woman was poor, blood and other examination were conducted free of cost at the private diagnostic centre. City-based DRM Hospital extended support with its ambulance and staff to shift the woman to the health care centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/citizens-police-turn-good-samaritans-for-elderly-woman-981315.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Irregularities suspected in Covid vaccination||A few citizens, who have not received vaccination for Covid-19, have received SMS claiming that they have obtained vaccination against the infection and it gave rise to suspicion. Residents Praveen Kumar and K P Madhusudhan had visited the private hospital but, returned home without getting the vaccine. However, the SMS they got showed that they had received the jab.  BJP Yuva Morcha office-bearer K M Nishanth, who registered their names for the vaccination in the portal said that while Praveen returned as it was over crowded, Madhusdhan was sent back as he was less than 45 years old. The names were registered on April 28 and they visited the hospital on April 29. Suspecting irregularities, Nishanth demanded an investigation and also questioned about the vaccine allotted to the duo. Even certificates have been generated in their name in the portal, he said.   However, the district health officer and others were not available for contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/irregularities-suspected-in-covid-vaccination-981316.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pregnant Covid patient ‘unattended’ for 3 hrs, delivers baby||A pregnant woman was left without any guidance or help, for over three hours, after she tested positive for Covid-19, at Saligrama in Mysuru district on Frirday. Luckily, she delivered a health baby boy on Saturday morning. Mamatha, wife of Raghu of Thandrekoppalu, Saligrama taluk, used to consult the doctors at Saligrama Community Health Centre (CHC) for her pregnancy. A couple of days back, she was advised to undergo Covid test, as a precautionary measure. She was subject to the test on Thursday and the result was given on Friday. Incidentally, her delivery due date was also Friday (April 30). “The CHC staff told her that she should go to the district hospital in Mysuru, for treatment and also delivery, and she will have to wait for the ambulance. But, they did not take any measures to either isolate her or to shift her to the district hospital. On her due date for delivery, Mamatha was left alone, for over three hours, till a contract employee of the CHC arranged for a private vehicle. She was crying, not knowing what to do,” said family members. Seeing her helpless condition, the contract employee of the CHC called a private driver, Chandranna, and requested him for help, explaining the plight of Mamatha. Chandranna brought his car to shift Mamatha to the district hospital in Mysuru, 60 km away. Saligrama CHC administrator Dr Ashok said, “There are only two ambulances for the undivided KR Nagar taluk, including the bifurcated Saligrama taluk, to shift Covid patients to Mysuru. We were pained on Friday, when we could not get an ambulance to shift the pregnant woman, infected with Covid.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pregnant-covid-patient-unattended-for-3-hrs-delivers-baby-981318.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cong to hold postcard campaign against reduction of rice in PDS||Congress will launch a postcard campaign against the state government, condemning the reduction in quota of rice for BPL card holders, under Anna Bhagya scheme on Monday. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president R Dhruvanarayan told reporters that the government is claiming that rice will be replaced by ragi and wheat. Let the government give ragi and wheat additionally. But, the quantity of rice should not be reduced, he said. He said that the government has no commitment and has failed in tackling Covid-19 cases. "The people above 18 years of age are not getting vaccine for Covid. The people are against the BJP and it is proved in the recent elections to urban local bodies. The people have voted against the corruption and failure of the government. The by-election results will also be in favour of the Congress," he said. Dhruvanarayan launched ‘Health Helpline’, an initiative of the Congress to lend support to Covid patients. "The BJP has no concern for public health and its leaders are greedy for power. Information on availability of beds, oxygen, ventilators will be given to needy people through the helpline," he said. Dhruvanarayan, targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said, "The country’s leader has failed in managing the Covid pandemic. The whole system has collapsed. Our MPs have turned voiceless. They have failed to take a delegation from Karnataka to the PM, at least once. No one has the guts to demand for benefits for the state. The people are suffering, due to the MPs' failure.” KPCC women's wing president B Pushpa Amarnath, MLA Anil Chikkamadu and ex-MLAs Vasu and M K Somashekar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cong-to-hold-postcard-campaign-against-reduction-of-rice-in-pds-981319.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Traditional aalemanes get new look, produce chemical-free jaggery||With emerging competition and owing to growing demand for modern consumerism, traditional indigenous products and skills are taking a back seat in the recent past. Despite several health and social benefits, many traditional items have already moved out of market, due to various reasons. In order to revive the Indian traditional products and to upgrade skills, a commerce platform eSamudaay and JSS Rural Incubation Skill and Development Centre (JSS RISDC), Chamarajanagar, have joined hands. As a first step, they have launched a jaggery producer circle in Chamarajanagar, to restore and digitise traditional aalemanes and to produce healthy, chemical-free jaggery. eSamudaay and JSS RISDC, through this jaggery producer circle, aim to restore the aalemanes to build a demand for chemical-free jaggery in the market, to introduce the best practices and to help the producers to connect with wholesalers and retailers. The initiative is a ray of hope for the farmers, who are under stress due to unscientific pricing and lack of demand for jaggery. Nagendra, a jaggery producer of Chamrajnagar, said that the farmers want to give the best produce to the consumers. “We were in search of the processes and markets, which can help produce good quality jaggery and the right market to sell our produce. JSS RISDC and eSamudaay have arrived at the right time, for us, to give better quality jaggery, with the best practices, and market access. We hope this collaboration will help us generate more income and support us to produce chemical-free jaggery," he said. Chief executive of JSS RISDC B Shivashankar said that the new initiative is to build good practices, to get a better product out in the market, without affecting or disturbing the existing functioning of the jaggery processes. "The idea is to increase the market demand for chemical-free jaggery, even for small quantities. Besides, the cost should be matched with the existing cost of the jaggery in the market," he said. According to him, the biggest challenge is creating a market. "Thus, we are developing a marketplace through eSamudaay circles, deploying a direct consumer selling strategy, and we are also planning to sell through Business-to-Business (B2B) modes," he said. “We believe reviving and modernising traditional aalemanes can, not only help in producing high-quality products, but also attract better talent and widen livelihood opportunities in the community. Through our holistic intervention, we want to bring women into this business, who can truly add a lot of value and strengthen each aalemane,” he said. “The goal of the producer-centred initiative is to improve old practices, from the health, hygiene and holistic perspective, while retaining the traditional goodness and benefits that are intrinsic to the product. The aim is also to enrich the life of the people and the community that depends on this product," said Ravi Haldipur, co-founder and CBO, eSamudaay. eSamudaay and JSS RISDC also have plans to work on more such producer circles of jackfruit, arecanut and fish in the next 12 months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/traditional-aalemanes-get-new-look-produce-chemical-free-jaggery-981320.html
01-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Officer turns ambulance driver, ferries Covid-19 victims in Karnataka||An officer attached to Mysuru City Corporation turned an ambulance driver and transported Covid-infected dead bodies. Birth and death division statistical officer Anil Christie drove an ambulance carrying a dead body, as the driver developed health issues, recently. Ambulance driver Ravi developed fatigue when he was on duty. As no other driver was available at that point of time, Christie took the wheels. He made four trips between KR Hospital and a crematorium.    “I sent Ravi home as he developed health issues. There were many dead bodies at KR Hospital and the family members of the deceased were waiting outside. Therefore, I took over driving," Christie said. During the first wave of Covid-19, Christie served as a nodal officer to perform the final rites of Covid-infected bodies. As many as 1,221 dead bodies were cremated under his leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/officer-turns-ambulance-driver-ferries-covid-19-victims-in-karnataka-981343.html
01-05-2021||Main Article||An unequal battle||The flood of images of devotees-- a sea of naked bodies of sadhus and sanths at the Kumbh Mela, millions of them, flesh pressing on flesh, masks only on their nether regions, chants issuing out of their gaping cavities in their faces, taking a dip in the Holy Ganga, and then the visuals of hundreds of thousands of people, also crazed devotees but of their political masters, jostling against each other in election rallies, wide-eyed and open-mouthed with party slogans and war cries of Modi or Didi-- made me wonder, can all the waters of the Ganga, the reverberating incantations of the sadhus, and the rousing exhortations of the politicians save the devotees, their leaders themselves, from the raging virus that is killing indiscriminately? Putting the noisy television on mute, I watched the images of the silent, jumbled millions and their chanting and haranguing messiahs, it seemed a surreal pantomime, as though a pact had been with the devil as they flirted with the virus, a virus that was performing its eerie dance of death. I recalled my first Army posting in the jungles and frontier posts of the Army in Sikkim and later the Assam-Bengal borders. As a young officer of the regiment, I was made to attend and monitor by my company commander, the ‘machchardani parade’ (mosquito-net repair parade). Once a month, all jawans were lined up on the courtyard of the barracks and their mosquito nets were inspected. Those that had holes were repaired by the regimental tailors. I was surprised but also mortified that I was assigned to supervise this pointless parade. ‘Did I train at the prestigious National Defence Academy only to do this silly chore?‘ I thought It was also my duty to inspect and ensure that the mosquito nets were drawn down on the beds of jawans at sunset time every day. Disregarding this was a punishable offence. My commander, seeing a cynical smirk on my face, did not lecture me but simply gave me a folder on the Burma Campaign and asked me to read it. In the Burma campaign of 1942-43 during the Second World War, I learnt that the mosquito was more dangerous than the mortar round. Malaria felled and incapacitated more allied soldiers, including thousands of Indian soldiers. This affected more soldiers than even the bullets and artillery shells of the invading Japanese army. I felt deeply embarrassed by my vanity and ignorance. If such was the rigour with which malaria was fought, why is our response to a virulent virus like Covid-19, which is decimating people around the world in millions and wreaking havoc on our lives and livelihoods, so cavalier? Writing in his essay, Men Versus Insects, nearly 90 years ago, Bertrand Russel presciently wrote, “Man is safe, except from the little creatures-- the insects and the microorganisms. An acre of forest may have more insects and a single animal more microbes than the entire human population. Insects have an advantage over us -- they devour our food before it is ripe for us. Microbes are altogether a different mysterious universe. There can be no life or death without microbes.” Even the great scientist Louis Pasteur said, “Gentlemen, it’s the microbes who will have the last word.” But he added there is hope through science. Stark contrast The battle between men versus the virus is an unequal battle when people of a country fighting the virus are infected with obscurantism, superstition, jingoism and hubris. We have to cure ourselves of this ailment first. There can be salvation from the virus only through science. When a society that has a rich civilisational past dives down deep into its mythological folklore and finds that the present is in stark contrast to the past, that it has now been scientifically, technologically and developmentally left behind by other advanced economies, it is easy to fall into the trap of worshipping past glories. It is a convenient way for political and religious leaders, the former promising a utopian future in this world and the latter in the next world, to divert attention out of the present morass the country has sunk into. Such smug wallowing in the past will leave the country deeper in mire and mud. These are not just metaphors. If you were to fall into a bog no amount of prayers invoking our Gods or singing praises to the exploits of our mythic heroes, who had ‘mastered plastic surgery’, or ‘aviation’ and ‘rocketry’ will save us. The only way to come out of it before being swallowed is to stop being delusional and in denial, and recognise the reality and do everything to strike out of the bog. Our leaders should face the present honestly, shun all sycophants and courtiers, marshal all data, ensuring that the facts presented to them are not distorted or selectively presented. That is the first step. And then swiftly prepare an action plan to develop capabilities in scaling up vaccination and affordable healthcare infrastructure by consulting the brightest and best minds--doctors, scientists, administrators with integrity--there’s no dearth of them, and execute it flawlessly through a task force that continuously monitors the implementation. Dr Prabhat Jha, chair in global health and epidemiology, University of Toronto, said, “Without data, there is no way for India to walk out of this pandemic. And secrecy in data can only backfire.” “Man is quite insane. He wouldn’t know how to create a maggot, and he creates Gods by the dozen,” said Montaigne, the celebrated French philosopher. We have surpassed all other peoples of the world in creating Gods. (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/an-unequal-battle-981040.html
01-05-2021||National||Diaspora watch in despair as Covid-19 ravages India||Bad news, knowing no time zones, arrives in a jarring burst of messages, calls, and posts informing millions of members of India's worldwide diaspora that yet another loved one has been sickened or lost to the coronavirus. Sometimes it comes in a barrage of WhatsApp messages first thing in the morning, and sometimes it lands in the middle of the night, as it did for Mohini Gadre's father. A 3 am call at his San Francisco Bay Area home let him know that his octogenarian mother — who had tested positive in Mumbai — was too weak to say her morning prayers, setting off a mad scramble to find her the hospital bed where she remained for days. In the US, where half of the adult population has gotten at least one Covid-19 shot, the talk has been of reopening, moving forward and healing. But for Indian Americans, the daily crush of dark news from “desh,” the homeland, is a stark reminder that the pandemic is far from over. “We’re seeing life slowly start to get back to normal in small ways, and you’re feeling like a bit of hope — like with spring. You know that things are improving, it’s been a year,” Gadré, 27, said. “And meanwhile there’s this tinderbox that’s been ignited in India. The more than 4.2 million people like Gadré who make up the Indian diaspora in the US, according to census estimates, have watched in horror as the latest coronavirus surge burns through India, killing thousands of people a day and catapulting the death toll to more than 200,000 — the fourth-highest in the world. In a culture that generally makes no distinctions between cousin and sibling, biological aunt or close friend, family is family. Many Indian Americans are wracked with guilt over emerging from more than a year of isolation as relatives overseas struggle to find vaccines, hospital beds, and, fatefully, their breath. Like India itself, the diaspora is striated by religion, caste, class, mother tongue and other factors that continue to divide. But now many of its members are united in frustration and helplessness with little recourse. The State Department has issued a “do not travel” advisory for India, citing Covid-19. That leaves families few options except to try to arrange resources from afar and persuade relatives to keep safe. In the UK — home to about 1.4 million Indians — the government has added India to its “red list” of countries, banning arrivals for anyone from India except for UK citizens and residents. That adds to a sense of isolation and helplessness for many who feel cut off from loved ones. “Apart from raising funds, being generous with donations and going to offer prayers, there’s not much else we can do at the moment,” said Yogesh Patel, a spokesperson at one of the UK’s largest Hindu temples. “We can’t go and console family and friends, everything is happening online.” Compounding the frustration is the struggle by many in the diaspora to convince family and friends in India to abide by basic social distancing and masking protocols. The problem is twofold and cultural: A certain generational hierarchy means elders are not inclined to heed the advice of their children, grandchildren or outsiders. And misinformation spreads widely through the same social channels that are vital to coordinating help and bridging the gap across oceans. “My dad, he was all over the place, and I told him: ‘You’ve got to stay at home, you’ve got to wear masks,’ but, you know, they don’t listen,” said Ankur Chandra, 38, a New York-based consultant whose father is now recovering from Covid-19, alone in an apartment in India’s national capital region of Gurugram. Shivani Nath, a Manhattan-based interior designer for hotels who was born and raised in New Delhi, offended relatives when she expressed horror instead of congratulations at pictures of a “complete five-day, traditional Indian Hindu wedding” in the family — no masks in sight. “My cousin was like, ‘You Americans are so arrogant and look at your own country and you have over 5,00,000 people who have died.’ And she actually told me — she’s like, ‘Indians have herd immunity. We are born with herd immunity,’” Nath recounted. Her cousin later apologized, after several wedding attendees were diagnosed with Covid-19. Vijaya Subrahmanyam, 58, typically travels to India every six months to see her family, including her older sister and 91-year-old mother in Hyderabad, in the southern state of Telangana. Because of the pandemic, she hasn’t been back in almost two years, and her summer plans to visit were scrapped at her own mother’s advisement. The same week that the Atlanta-based college professor received her second dose of the vaccine, her mother and sister both tested positive for Covid-19. Her mother had not left her home, but her sister took a two-minute diversion to the mall to purchase a handbag after picking up some medicine, and that's where Subrahmanyam suspects she got infected. “Initially, we were like, ‘What’s wrong with you?’” she said. But Subrahmanyam realized her sister probably felt worse about it than anyone else — and recognized that she was the one still in India, tasked with taking care of their mother. Some of those who feel similarly helpless are channeling their energies into mutual aid projects. Anand Chaturvedi, 23, is from Mumbai but now works in New York. Coming from a tech background, he volunteered to help the same websites he himself has used, including an open-source site that helps search for virus-related resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diaspora-watch-in-despair-as-covid-19-ravages-india-981008.html
01-05-2021||National||US to restrict travel from India from May 4 over Covid-19||The White House, citing guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, announced Friday that it would begin restricting travel from India to the United States next week, a major new test of the Biden administration’s pandemic response. The decision was one of the most significant steps yet taken by the White House in response to the crush of new infections in India, where over 3,000 people are dying each day as citizens gasp for air on the streets. The country recorded almost 400,000 new coronavirus cases on Thursday alone. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the policy would go into effect Tuesday. The travel restrictions will not apply to citizens or lawful permanent residents of the United States, their spouses or minor children or siblings, or to the parents of citizens or lawful permanent residents who are under 21. The surge of the virus in India has posed a new challenge for President Joe Biden’s pandemic response. Former President Donald Trump’s decision to issue restrictions on travel from China early in the pandemic followed days of fierce debate among national security and public health officials and was heavily criticised by Democrats and public health experts, who worried that the decision would hinder the nascent global response to the new threat. In retrospect, federal health officials say the decision was one of the best that Trump made in the early weeks of the crisis. But the restrictions proved porous. Tens of thousands of people still arrived in the United States on direct flights from China in the two months after Trump imposed the limits. Ron Klain, now Biden’s chief of staff, criticised the move as an ineffectual “Band-Aid.” And the panicked flight of Americans from Europe ahead of a travel ban that Trump then imposed on the continent overwhelmed airports in the United States and most likely brought still more infections. The Biden administration has to avoid a repeat of those problems while it tries to rush humanitarian aid to a country that it counts as an ally. The India travel restrictions may prove to be as porous as the China order. Beyond Americans and lawful permanent residents, exemptions include students, some academics, journalists, fiancés and immigrants. People may also travel for humanitarian purposes, public health, national security or to support critical infrastructure. But Biden has advantages over his predecessor, including widespread testing and vaccines. People who are exempt from the ban must still abide by the guidance the United States has already put in place for international travellers, including a negative test for the virus before travelling and again upon entering the country from India, and they must quarantine if they are not vaccinated. Other countries, including Britain, Germany and Italy, have instituted similar restrictions on travel from India. Early in his presidency, Biden barred travel by non-citizens into the United States from South Africa because of concerns about a coronavirus variant spreading in that country, and he extended similar bans imposed by Trump on travel from Brazil and some European countries. One senior Biden administration official said Friday that representatives from the National Security Council as well as public health officials in the administration had debated the India move in recent days, though not contentiously. It was recommended by Biden’s Covid-19 response team, medical experts and national security aides across the federal government. Another senior official familiar with the decision said that it rested heavily on uncertainty over a homegrown variant spreading in India known as B.1.617. Doctors and news reports have cited anecdotal — but inconclusive — evidence to suggest that it is driving the country’s outbreak. As federal health officials, including Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the CDC director, and Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert, discussed the possible move in recent days with White House officials, they emphasised that there was little known about how coronavirus vaccines respond to that variant. One official said the travel restrictions could be modified once there was more data on vaccine response. The move comes amid a deceleration in U.S. vaccination rates that has complicated the nation’s quest to protect itself. Even with significant momentum in the government’s vaccination campaign — the White House announced Friday that 100 million people in the United States had been fully vaccinated — a majority of American adults are still not considered fully protected against the virus. And in a sign that the government does not want to ease restrictions too quickly, the Transportation Security Administration on Friday extended mandates for mask-wearing on airplanes and public transit through Sept. 13. Even as cases have ebbed in the United States, the virus has raged through India, leading to mass cremations that run through the night. Under intense pressure to do more to help the ailing nation, the White House announced this week a slate of assistance measures, including sending vaccine-making materials, rapid tests and a tranche of the antiviral drug remdesivir, which received Food and Drug Administration approval last year for treating Covid-19. In the past 24 hours, military cargo planes from the United States delivered to India small oxygen cylinders, large oxygen cylinders, regulators, pulse oximeters, about 184,000 rapid tests, and about 84,000 N-95 masks, Psaki said Friday. “There is no question that it is a great tragedy, in terms of the loss of life,” Vice President Kamala Harris, who is of Indian descent, told reporters on Friday in Cincinnati. “And as I have said before, and I will say again, we as a country have made a commitment to the people of India to support them.” On Monday, the Biden administration said that it intended to make available to other countries up to 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine — which has not yet been cleared for use in the United States — so long as federal regulators deemed the doses safe. The announcement came after Biden spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and the two pledged to “work closely together in the fight against Covid-19.” Several Indian states said this week that they could not fulfil the government’s directive to expand vaccinations to all adults beginning on Saturday because they lacked doses. Only a small fraction of the country has been fully vaccinated. Dr. Luciana Borio, former director for medical and bio-defence preparedness at the National Security Council, said that if the United States had more effective systems for quarantining travellers and was further into its vaccination campaign, travel restrictions like the ones announced Friday would not be as necessary. “You can’t battle a pandemic with travel restrictions, unfortunately, which makes it so important to share vaccines with the world and implement public health measures before the virus gets to our shores,” she said. Experts have long recommended against restricting travel during outbreaks, arguing that it is often ineffective and can limit the movements of doctors and other health professionals trying to contain the disease. The decision on Friday comes under drastically different circumstances than those seen in the early weeks of the public health crisis. Health officials have a much more sophisticated understanding of how the virus spreads. Coronavirus tests, which were in short supply last year when Trump issued travel restrictions, are widely available, with results often returned quickly. And three highly protective vaccines are in broad circulation. Even as health officials grapple with limited knowledge of the homegrown virus variant in India, those vaccines appear to be effective against other variants. Months ago, India appeared to be escaping the kind of calamity it is now experiencing. After an initial lockdown, the country did not see an explosion in new cases and deaths comparable to those in other countries. But after the early restrictions were lifted, many Indians adopted a more relaxed approach to virus restrictions. Large gatherings, including political rallies and religious festivals, resumed and drew millions of people. Hospitals in India are now facing dire shortages of beds, while relatives of the sick have pleaded on social media for access to them, as well as for oxygen and medicine. Many Indians say they do not know if they are infected with the coronavirus because overwhelmed labs have stopped processing tests. One in five tests are coming back positive, but experts fear the true toll is much higher. There is some debate over how to explain the wave of virus cases, including which variant might be most responsible. Researchers say that data so far points to a variant that has spread widely in Britain and in the United States, B.1.1.7, as a significant factor in the country’s suffering. Scientists say that different variants seem to dominate specific parts of India. The B.1.617 variant has been detected in a large number of samples from the central state of Maharashtra, while the B.1.1.7 variant is rising quickly in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-to-restrict-travel-from-india-from-may-4-over-covid-19-981019.html
01-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Assam govt extends night curfew till May 7||The Assam government on Friday extended the night curfew till May 7, following a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. The restrictions on the movement of individuals from 8 pm to 5 am were to end on Saturday. All shops and market places will close by 6 pm, though pharmacies, hospitals, animal care centres and veterinary clinics may operate without restrictions, being providers of essential services, according to an official order by Chief Secretary Jishnu Baruah. Services like electricity, water and sanitation and public transport are also exempt from the purview of the night curfew, it said. Officials and persons entrusted with election-related work are exempted, too, on production of a valid identity card. Regarding containment zones, the order said district magistrates shall take the call. Assam on Friday reported 26 Covid-19 deaths and 3,197 fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-govt-extends-night-curfew-till-may-7-981020.html
01-05-2021||National||Soli Sorabjee: A jurist with an eye for detail and an ear for jazz||Soli Sorabjee was taken by Covid on Friday at the “ripe” old age of 91 but yet, not quite ready to go to the next world. I met him recently celebrating his 91st birthday at one of his favourite haunts – India International Centre on the 9th of March 2021…just a few weeks ago.  He was quieter but far from on-his-way-out of this world having maintained a close connection with reality, news and the law all his life. I have known ‘Soli’ as we all affectionately called him, for over 30 years. He first came to Oxford where I was studying law in 1991 and demonstrated an uncanny desire to pick up special knowledge. We met at an old historic pub, the Eagle & Child, one we affectionately called ‘the Bird & the Babe’, while he was there on what he called a six-month sabbatical, a knowledge gleaning exercise. When I came back to work with Mr J B Dadachanji, another towering legal figure, I was sent to brief Soli for a every difficult case.  My experience, unlike that of many others, was that he was exceptionally gentle with young lawyers and readily forgave mistakes that he felt were unavoidable. He could sometimes thunder if one of us failed to read the brief, the law or to connect the factual dots, but it washed over us as a blessing for the many tests beyond his chambers. Inside the courtroom, Soli also took on responsibility for our mistakes and always apologised charmingly to the Court if the brief or facts came undone. What happened outside and in the late evenings remains legally privileged! A stickler for detail, Mr Sorabjee would notice everything in the brief and around it, even the health of one of the briefing juniors. Unlike many jurists, he took sides readily without considering political angles. In December 1992, he marched (with me along-side) protesting against the demolition of the Babri Masjid, he believed that was an assault on the law, yet he remained a stoic believer in positivism and hated mushy principles that could be moulded by different judges differently. He wrote against the widening of judicial discretion and had pointed out the dangers of the ‘basic structure doctrine’ which he wrote about extensively.     Soli enjoyed his books, travel and jazz music, remarking once that he never understood why people played golf when they could finish a book or hear several CDs in the time it took for a round of ‘that game’. He made one of the finest attorney generals and jurists of our lives fighting for the right side and for human rights. Another casualty of the Covid scourge, Padma Vibhushan Soli Sorabjee’s loss even after six decades of his legal practice is a great loss to India. A man who would never rest in his quest for justice, we wish him all the best for his onward journey, and if there is life after death, God help the other side!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soli-sorabjee-a-jurist-with-an-eye-for-detail-and-an-ear-for-jazz-981061.html
01-05-2021||National||States should focus on containment, vaccination: Centre||The Centre on Friday expressed concern that many states are not only recording higher peak of coronavirus cases than in September last year but also seeing a high growth trajectory. At a press conference, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said the country witnessed its first peak in September and is witnessing another peak in April. Some countries have also witnessed a third wave of Covid-19, he said. Agarwal said Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Goa and Odisha are not only recording higher peaks, but also high growth trajectory. The states should focus on containment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination, he said. "We saw many states that witnessed a peak in September are recording high numbers and this has put health infrastructure under stress and it is very important for them to work on this," the joint secretary said. He cited the example of Maharashtra which saw 24,886 cases in September but in April it scaled a new height of 68,631 infections which is 2.8 times higher. Uttar Pradesh saw 5.4 times more cases in April than September. Chhattisgarh 4.5 times, Delhi 3.3 times, Rajasthan 5 five and Andhra Pradesh 1.4 times more cases than September last year, Agarwal said. About the fatalities, he said from February 4-17, Maharashtra contributed 34.3 per cent of the total deaths, followed by Kerala 18.2 per cent and Punjab 6.4 per cent. The rest of the country contributed to 41.1 per cent of the total deaths during that period, Agarwal said. From February 18 to March 3, Maharashtra recorded 45.2 per cent of the total deaths in the country, followed by Kerala 14.7 per cent and Punjab 10.3 per cent. Between March 4 and 17, Maharashtra recorded 44.6 per cent of the total deaths, followed by Punjab 16.3 per cent and Kerala 11.5 per cent, he said. Between March 18 and 31, Maharashtra contributed to 41.6 per cent of the total deaths, followed by Punjab 19.7 per cent, Chhattisgarh 6.5 per cent and 32.1 per cent by the rest. From April 1-14, Maharashtra contributed 42.7 per cent of the total deaths, followed by Chhattisgarh 11 per cent, Punjab 8.3 per cent and the rest of the states 38.1 per cent. From April 15-28, Maharashtra contributed to 26.3 per cent of the total deaths, followed by Delhi 12.3 per cent, Chhattisgarh 8.9 per cent and the rest of the states 52.5 per cent, the joint secretary said. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said that in the second wave of the pandemic, the rate of the rise in infection has been rapid which has put immense strain on health infrastructure for some time. "Also, doubling of Covid-19 cases has been rapid. That should ease if turnover time reduces." He observed that this time, coronavirus infection is spreading in tier two and three cities. "So, it is important to train doctors about treating this new disease," Guleria said and underlined avoiding misuse of drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab. "Systemic oral steroids are not indicated in case of mild disease and may be counter-productive especially if started too early. One should consult doctors before starting it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-should-focus-on-containment-vaccination-centre-981064.html
01-05-2021||National||Principal scientific adviser's office releases home-care tips to treat Covid-19||Most coronavirus infections are not severe and do not need hospitalisation, the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser said on Friday, prescribing home-care tips for patients. The PSA advised people not to self-medicate and use antibiotics or any supplements as a means of prevention or treatment of Covid-19, adding that it should be used only if directed by a doctor. "Majority of Covid-19 patients recover by simply following self-care methods at home," it said in the manual. Those experiencing fever, dry cough, sore throat, breathing difficulty, body ache, loss of smell or taste, headache, fatigue, chills, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea must immediately begin self-care measures and get tested, it stated. "Do not stress or become anxious, as these interfere with the body's natural response to fight the infection," it said. The manual also prescribed to isolate oneself and other family members at home at first sign of experiencing symptoms and immediately wear a mask, preferably two masks. It has also asked to drink at least 2 to 3 litres of water a day and rest as much as possible. The body temperature and oxygen levels should be monitored. "Check your body temperature 2 to 4 times a day. Those with fever are advised to take ONLY paracetamol. If fever persists for 5 days, seek hospital care immediately," it said. The manual said community welfare societies and resident welfare associations might consider investing in some oximeters that families could borrow after thorough sanitisation. "Monitor your oxygen levels with a pulse oximeter 3-4 times a day. Make sure your fingers are clean (no nail polish!) before you use the oximeter to avoid inaccurate reading," it said. Outdoor facing doors and windows should be wide open to maintain air circulation. "Infection carrying droplets and aerosols, can rapidly accumulate in closed unventilated spaces and increase risk of transmission to others in your home," it said. It has also prescribed proning to increase oxygen levels. If the oximeter reading shows SpO2 levels below 94 per cent, patients in home care are advised to lie prone on their stomachs. This will improve breathing and increase oxygen saturation. As a first step, the patient should begin by lying in prone position on a flat bed for 30 minutes to 2 hours. As a next step, the patient should switch to lying on the right side for 30 mins to 2 hours. As a third step, the patient should switch to 30 minutes to 2 hours of sitting up (30-60 degrees). As a fourth step, the patient should switch to lying on left side for 30 minutes to 2 hours. The next step should be to switch to semi-proning position for 30 minutes to 2 hours. The final step should be to return to proning position for 30 minutes to 2 hours. This should be repeated. It cautioned that proning in conditions like pregnancy, deep vein thrombosis, cardiac conditions, spinal or fracture issues should be avoided. The manual also prescribes to keep monitoring oxygen levels after switching between positions. If oxygen levels drop below 92 per cent, then a doctor should be consulted to seek hospital care immediately. It said Covaxin and Covishield were effective against the B.1.617 variant, also known as the double mutant. "India's Covaxin and Covishield vaccines both provide immune protection. Vaccination drives in some countries have resulted in 95.8 per cent drop in infection rates in those who have been fully vaccinated," the manual said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/principal-scientific-advisers-office-releases-home-care-tips-to-treat-covid-19-981073.html
01-05-2021||National||Covid-19 pandemic deepened employment inequality between genders: Naidu||Noting that the coronavirus pandemic has further deepened employment inequality between genders, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday advised looking into the issues of representation and remuneration to empower women. Flagging the issue of pay disparity at a virtual event organised by an industry body, Naidu noted that equal pay for equal work continues to be a basic demand that is still unfulfilled even in the most developed nations and in the highest strata of the corporate world. He observed that the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report, 2020 points to a pay disparity of around 15 per cent even in advanced economies and that no country has achieved gender parity in wages yet. In this regard, the vice president said India should lead way in bridging the divide. Pointing at the issue of under-representation of women in the formal sector, Naidu remarked that the issue of breaking barriers doesn't stop at the lowest rungs. "The glass ceiling stretches to the very top," he said, observing that there are only around 35 women CEOs in the Fortune 500 companies. According to an official statement, he said every year, many women from all over India are making a mark with their accomplishments in diverse fields. He cited a report which said that India ranks third in the world for women working in senior management positions. This signals a changing outlook of Indian businesses towards working women and positive tidings for the country's economy, he said. Underscoring the importance of providing quality education to the girl child, the vice-president noted that girls in school are performing better than boys, but there is a gap in their enrolment in higher education. He also observed that the pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on girl child's education. "We need to correct these disparities on a mission mode." The vice president also reflected on the importance of empowering women politically, economically and socially. "Politically, we need to introduce adequate reservations for women in state legislatures and Parliament. Economically, we have to enable women to start businesses and cooperatives through schemes like Stand Up India. "Socially, we need to ensure that women do not face any kind of discrimination and stringent action should be taken against those committing atrocities against women," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-deepened-employment-inequality-between-genders-naidu-981077.html
01-05-2021||National||DH Toon | May Day: 'Government may or may not exist'||Oxygen, hospital beds, medicines...these resources are taken for granted when they are easily accessible. Everything changed over the last month, however, when the might of the pandemic's second wave broke the back of health infrastructure in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-may-day-government-may-or-may-not-exist-981090.html
01-05-2021||National||16 Covid-19 patients, two nurses killed in fire at hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch||At least 18 persons, including 16 coronavirus patients and two nurses, were killed in a fire at a hospital early on Saturday morning in Bharuch district. Police said the reason behind the fire, prima facie, was a "short circuit" in the ICU ward. Local police said the incident happened around midnight at Welfare Hospital. They said the staff tried to rescue patients, but it was too late. A large number of residents and relatives of patients rushed to the spot and broke open doors and windows to rescue those trapped inside. A gut-wrenching visual showed patients lying dead on beds and stretchers. "A total of 18 persons died in the incident," Bharuch superintendent of police Rajendrasinh Chudasama told DH. When asked about the primary reason behind the fire, he said "short circuit in ICU-1 ward". Locals said there were about 50 patients inside the four-storeyed private Covid-19 designated hospital. Hours after the incident, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, while expressing condolences, announced assistance of Rs 4 lakh to the families of victims. Rupani also ordered two IAS officers — additional chief secretary (labour) Vipul Mitra and Commissioner Municipalities Administration Rajkumar Beniwal — to reach Bharuch and investigate the case. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, "Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a hospital in Bharuch. Condolences to the bereaved families." Since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, this is the fourth case of a fire in a Covid-19 hospital. Earlier, in Ahmedabad, eight patients died after a fire broke out in the ICU ward at Shrey Hospital in August 2020. In November, five Covid patients were killed in Rajkot's Uday Shivanand hospital. Similar incidents were reported in Jamnagar and Vadodara hospitals, but patients were safely evacuated in both instances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-covid-19-patients-two-nurses-killed-in-fire-at-hospital-in-gujarats-bharuch-981097.html
01-05-2021||National||SC to examine constitutional validity of sedition||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the constitutional validity of the penal provision of sedition on a plea, contending that it clearly infringed upon the citizens' fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Indira Banerjee and K M Joseph issued notice to the Union government on a joined petition filed by journalists Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and another. The petitioners, represented by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, submitted that the Supreme Court's judgment in Kedar Nath Singh Versus State of Bihar (1962), which upheld the validity of sedition, may require reconsideration. The court, besides seeking the Centre's reply, also asked the petitioners to serve a copy on the office of the Attorney General. It posted the matter for consideration on July 12. The plea claimed Sedition as mentioned under Section 124-A of the India Penal Code, with a maximum sentence of life term, was unconstitutional and void for imposing unreasonable restrictions on freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 (1)(a) of the Constitution. Wangkhemcha, who is a journalist from Manipur, has faced several FIRs since 2018 with a view to silencing him. He has remained in jail for 210 days and lost his job. A co-petitioner, Kanhaiya Lal Shukla is a cartoonist from Chandigarh. The top court had in the Kedar Nath Singh case had then clarified that only those acts, which involved incitement to violence or violence, constituted a seditious act under Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-examine-constitutional-validity-of-sedition-981102.html
01-05-2021||National||Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla plans to start vaccine production outside India||The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, is planning to start vaccine production in other countries as it struggles to meet supply commitments, its chief executive officer told The Times. "There's going to be an announcement in the next few days," Adar Poonawalla was quoted as saying by the newspaper in an interview published on Friday. Poonawalla said last week that the Serum Institute would be able to raise its monthly output to 100 million doses by July, later than a previous timeline of end-May. Several states in India have run out of vaccines against Covid-19. He hoped to increase the Serum Institute's production capacity from 2.5 billion to 3 billion doses a year within six months, the Times reported, adding that he flew to London before Britain banned travellers from India eight days ago. Coronavirus cases and deaths have surged in India as the world's second-most populous country has reported more than 300,000 new infections daily for nine consecutive days, hitting another global record of 386,452 on Friday.   The surge has led to a public health crisis and forced the government to seek oxygen, medicines and other essentials from abroad. The nation's coronavirus cases may peak between May 3-5, according to scientists advising the government. Some health experts said India became complacent when new cases were running at about 10,000 a day and the novel coronavirus seemed to be under control. Authorities lifted restrictions, allowing the resumption of large festivals and political rallies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-ceo-adar-poonawalla-plans-to-start-vaccine-production-outside-india-981104.html
01-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis in India very serious, cases yet to peak: US official||The Covid-19 crisis in India is indeed very serious, the Biden Administration said on Friday, noting that the cases have not peaked yet. “I’m afraid that the crisis in India with the surge in the virus is indeed very, very serious. India’s reporting an increasing number of cases almost every day. The crisis has not peaked yet,” Gayle E Smith, the State Department Coordinator for Global COVID Response and Health Security told reporters at a news conference here. Smith explained that in a surge, there’s a lag time between when people are infected, when they become sick and when they may need care. "I think this is something that’s going to need urgent and persistent attention for some time. That’s why we have in the immediate sense been focused on key supplies like oxygen support, protective medical gear, vaccine manufacturing supplies, diagnostic tests and other things that are needed quite simply to respond to this immediate surge,” she said. The Biden Administration is looking at other things that can be done to build up supply chains within India so that there can be a more steady supply of all those things that are needed to manage this over time, Smith asserted. Smith said once the Administration received the request of items from India, the interagency quickly moved to get these approved. “There are a couple of outstanding things that agencies are working on. But again, we’ve rotated these goods in on a steady rhythm so far so I think it’s been a pretty prompt response,” Smith said. State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said the United States will continue to lead the world in confronting Covid-19. Smith also praised the role being played by the US corporate sector in this assistance effort towards India. “With the crisis in India, we have been very active on responding to that. Planes have landed with supplies. Our teams are closely engaged with the Government of India to see what else may be needed additionally,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-in-india-very-serious-cases-yet-to-peak-us-official-981112.html
01-05-2021||National||Australia bans arrivals from India, says offenders to face jail, fines||Australian residents and citizens who have been in India within 14 days of the date they plan to return home will be banned from entering Australia as of Monday and those who disobey will face fines and jail, government officials said. The emergency determination, made late on Friday, is part of strict measures to stop travellers to Australia from the world's second most populous nation as it contends with a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths. The restrictions come into effect from May 3 and breaching the ban risks civil penalties and up to five years imprisonment, Health Minister Greg Hunt said in a statement. "Our hearts go out to the people of India – and our Indian-Australian community. The friends and family of those in Australia are in extreme risk. Tragically, many are contracting Covid-19 and many, sadly, are dying every day," Hunt said. The Australian government will reconsider the restrictions on May 15, he said. India's coronavirus death toll passed 200,000 this week, and cases are nearing 19 million - nearly 8 million since February - as virulent new strains have combined with "super-spreader" events such as political rallies and religious festivals. Australia, which has no community transmissions, on Tuesday introduced a temporary suspension of direct flights from India to prevent more virulent Covid-19 variants entering the country. However, some Australians, including cricketers Adam Zampa and Kane Richardson, returned via Doha. "The Government does not make these decisions lightly. However, it is critical the integrity of the Australian public health and quarantine systems is protected and the number of Covid-19 cases in quarantine facilities is reduced to a manageable level," Hunt said. Australia has all but stamped out the coronavirus from its shores after closing its borders to non-citizens and permanent residents in March 2020 to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus. Travellers now have to undergo a mandatory two-week hotel quarantine at their own expense, a system that has largely helped Australia to keep its Covid-19 numbers relatively low, with just over 29,800 cases and 910 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australia-bans-arrivals-from-india-says-offenders-to-face-jail-fines-981115.html
01-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 1||India reported over 4 lakh new Covid-19 cases and over 3,500 deaths, as per the latest Union Health Ministry data on Saturday, continuing the rise in fresh infections in the country, as a shortage of oxygen and drugs continues. Countries across the world rushed to the aid of India to help the curb of Covid-19. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  19,164,969 as of May 1, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,11,853 as of May 1, 2021 No. of people discharged: 1,56,84,406           Total Vaccination: 15,49,89,635 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-may-1-981118.html
01-05-2021||National||India sees over 4 lakh new Covid-19 cases in another grim record, more than 3,500 deaths||Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high with over 4 lakh new infections being reported in the last 24 hours, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry update on Saturday. The infection tally rose to 1,91,64,969 with 4,01,993 new cases, while the death toll increased to 2,11,853 with 3,523 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 32,68,710, accounting for 17.06 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.84 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,56,84,406, while the case fatality rate stands 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29;  90 lakh on November 20; and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 28,83,37,385 samples have been tested up to April 30, of which 19,45,299 were done on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-4-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-in-another-grim-record-more-than-3500-deaths-981120.html
01-05-2021||National||India expands Covid-19 vaccine drive despite chronic shortage||India was due Saturday to open up its jumbo vaccination drive to all adults, but many states don't have the stocks as hospitals reel from a vicious Covid surge. Less than two months ago the health minister said India was in the "end game" of the pandemic as New Delhi sent millions of vaccines to dozens of countries. Now the world's second-most populous nation is the epicentre of the global outbreak with almost 400,000 cases and more than 3,000 deaths every day. Exports of the AstraZeneca vaccine by India's Serum Institute and of Bharat Biotech's homegrown Covaxin have now been frozen to prioritise India's needs. Until now, only "frontline" workers like medical staff, people over 45 and those with existing illnesses have been given vaccines. But even this more modest programme has faltered, with some areas running out of shots and others throwing them away because of a lack of demand, in part because of the recent surge. "The queues here are so colossal," said Jayanti Vasant as he waited for hours at a busy vaccination centre in Mumbai this week. "The people are just fighting amongst themselves." So far around 150 million shots have been administered, equating to 11.5 per cent of the population of 1.3 billion people. Just 25 million have had two shots. On Saturday the programme will be expanded to all Indians over 18, equating to around 600 million people. Millions of younger people terrified by the current situation and desperate to get inoculated have registered on the government's digital platform. But very few of them have been given appointments and many states including the capital New Delhi, Maharashtra and Punjab have said they don't have enough stocks. The megacity of Mumbai, the capital of Maharashtra, on Thursday, halted all vaccinations for three days because it had run out. Further confusion has been created by New Delhi's decision to ask states and private hospitals to order vaccine supplies on their own, creating a three-tier pricing system that requires them to pay more per dose than the central government. This has led to squabbles between the central government, run by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, and states governed by opposition parties. Anecdotal evidence suggests that some private clinics have been told they won't receive any vials for months. "The whole thing looks like a confused elephant to me right now," said T Jacob John, a retired clinical virology professor at the Christian Medical College Vellore. "Do you want to control the epidemic, save lives or both? If you want both you'll require a huge amount of vaccines. And we don't have it," John told AFP. He and other experts say that given the shortages, and its colossal population, India should have a much more targeted policy, concentrating vaccinations in hotspots. Gujarat is among the few states to have said they would do so, with chief minister Vijay Rupani saying Friday that vaccinations for over-18s would happen only in the 10 worst-hit districts. The Serum is making 60-70 million AstraZeneca doses per month and is aiming for 100 million by July. Bharat is aiming to produce 10 million a month and targets 60-70 million. Indian firms also have deals to produce other shots including Russia's Sputnik V -- some doses of which were due to arrive soon -- and Johnson & Johnson's single-dose vaccine, but it could be months until these are deployed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expands-covid-19-vaccine-drive-despite-chronic-shortage-981123.html
01-05-2021||National||PM Modi offers prayers at Sis Ganj Gurudwara, pays tributes to Guru Teg Bahadur||Paying tributes to ninth Sikh guru Teg Bahadur on his 400th birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that he refused to bow to tyranny and injustice and his supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many. On the occasion, the prime minister visited Sis Ganj Gurudwara in Delhi and offered prayers. The gurudwara was built by Sikhs at the site where the ninth guru was beheaded by the Mughals in 1675. The prime minister said Guru Teg Bahadur is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. Modi tweeted, "On the special occasion of his 400th Parkash Purab, I bow to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji. He is widely respected globally for his courage and his efforts to serve the downtrodden. He refused to bow to tyranny and injustice. His supreme sacrifice gives strength and motivation to many." Prayed at Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib today. Officials said PM Modi visited Sis Ganj Gurudwara without any special security arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-offers-prayers-at-sis-ganj-gurudwara-pays-tributes-to-guru-teg-bahadur-981128.html
01-05-2021||National||Joe Biden is sending top diplomat Daniel Smith as interim envoy to India||US President Joe Biden is sending top American diplomat Daniel Smith as its interim envoy to India amidst the unfolding humanitarian crisis in the country to spearhead close cooperation with it and ensure the two nations continue to advance their shared priorities, including overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic. “Ambassador Daniel Smith, the Director of the Foreign Service Institute who recently served as acting Secretary of State and Acting Deputy Secretary of State, will be departing for New Delhi to serve as Charge d’Affaires, ad interim,” the US State Department announced on Friday. The position of US Ambassador to India is lying vacant since January 20, when Biden was sworn in as the 46th president of the United States. The position needs a Senate confirmation. The confirmation process after the nomination generally takes several months. Given the unfolding humanitarian crisis in India, the Biden administration cannot afford not to have its diplomatic post in New Delhi without a head. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. In Smith, the administration is sending someone carrying the highest Foreign Service rank of Career Ambassador. “Smith’s appointment underscores the United States’ strong commitment to our partnership with the Government of India and the Indian people," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said. "He will spearhead close cooperation with India to ensure that our countries continue to advance our shared priorities, including overcoming the global pandemic,” Price said. The US stands in solidarity with India, and Smith is committed to working together with India in partnership, said the State Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/joe-biden-is-sending-top-diplomat-daniel-smith-as-interim-envoy-to-india-981130.html
01-05-2021||National||Centre ignored warnings amid coronavirus surge: Scientists||A forum of scientific advisers set up by the government warned Indian officials in early March of a new and more contagious variant of the coronavirus taking hold in the country, five scientists who are part of the forum told Reuters. Despite the warning, four of the scientists said the government did not seek to impose major restrictions to stop the spread of the virus. Millions of largely unmasked people attended religious festivals and political rallies that were held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, leaders of the ruling BJP and opposition politicians. Tens of thousands of farmers, meanwhile, continued to camp on the edge of New Delhi protesting the Centre’s agricultural policy changes. The world’s second-most populous country is now struggling to contain a second wave of infections much more severe than its first last year, which some scientists say is being accelerated by the new variant and another variant first detected in Britain. India reported 386,452 new cases on Friday, a global record. The warning about the new variant in early March was issued by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium or INSACOG. It was conveyed to a top official who reports directly to the prime minister, according to one of the scientists, the director of a research centre in northern India who spoke on condition of anonymity. Reuters could not determine whether the INSACOG findings were passed on to PM Modi himself. Prime Minister's Office did not respond to a request for comment from Reuters. INSACOG was set up as a forum of scientific advisers by the government in late December specifically to detect genomic variants of the coronavirus that might threaten public health. INSACOG brings together 10 national laboratories capable of studying virus variants. INSACOG researchers first detected B.1.617, which is now known as the Indian variant of the virus, as early as February, Ajay Parida, director of the state-run Institute of Life Sciences and a member of INSACOG, told Reuters. INSACOG shared its findings with the health ministry’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) before March 10, warning that infections could quickly increase in parts of the country, the director of the northern India research centre told Reuters. The findings were then passed on to the Indian health ministry, this person said. The health ministry did not respond to requests for comment. Around that date, INSACOG began to prepare a draft media statement for the health ministry. A version of that draft, seen by Reuters, set out the forum’s findings: the new Indian variant had two significant mutations to the portion of the virus that attaches to human cells, and it had been traced in 15% to 20% of samples from Maharashtra, India's worst-affected state. The draft statement said that the mutations, called E484Q and L452R, were of “high concern.” It said, “there is data of E484Q mutant viruses escaping highly neutralising antibodies in cultures, and there is data that L452R mutation was responsible for both increased transmissibility and immune escape." In other words, essentially, this meant that mutated versions of the virus could more easily enter a human cell and counter a person’s immune response to it. The ministry made the findings public about two weeks later, on March 24, when it issued a statement to the media that did not include the words "high concern." The statement said only that more problematic variants required the following measures already underway - increased testing and quarantine. Testing has since nearly doubled to 1.9 million tests a day. Asked why the government did not respond more forcefully to the findings, for example by restricting large gatherings, Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of INSACOG, said he was concerned that authorities were not paying enough attention to the evidence as they set policy. "Policy has to be based on evidence and not the other way around," he told Reuters. “I am worried that science was not taken into account to drive policy. But I know where my jurisdiction stops. As scientists we provide the evidence, policymaking is the job of the government.” The northern India research centre director told Reuters the draft media release was sent to the most senior bureaucrat in the country, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, who reports directly to the prime minister. Reuters was unable to learn whether Modi or his office were informed of the findings. Gauba did not respond to a request for comment. The government took no steps to prevent gatherings that might hasten the spread of the new variant, as new infections quadrupled by April 1 from a month earlier. Modi, some of his top lieutenants, and dozens of other politicians, including opposition figures, held rallies across the country for local elections throughout March and into April. The government also allowed the weeks-long Kumbh Mela religious festival, attended by millions of Hindus, to proceed from mid-March. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of farmers were allowed to remain camped on the outskirts of the capital New Delhi to protest against new agriculture laws. To be sure, some scientists say the surge was much larger than expected and the setback cannot be pinned on political leadership alone. "There is no point blaming the government," Saumitra Das, director of the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, which is part of INSACOG, told Reuters. STRICT MEASURES NOT TAKEN INSACOG reports to the National Centre for Disease Control in New Delhi. NCDC director Sujeet Kumar Singh recently told a private online gathering that strict lockdown measures had been needed in early April, according to a recording of the meeting reviewed by Reuters. "The exact time, as per our thinking, was 15 days before," Singh said in the April 19 meeting, referring to the need for stricter lockdown measures. Singh did not say during the meeting whether he warned the government directly of the need for action at that time. Singh declined to comment to Reuters. Singh told the April 19 gathering that more recently, he had relayed the urgency of the matter to government officials. "It was highlighted very, very clearly that unless drastic measures are taken now, it will be too late to prevent the mortality which we are going to see," said Singh, referring to a meeting which took place on April 18. He did not identify which government officials were in the meeting or describe their seniority. Singh said some government officials in the meeting worried that mid-sized towns could see law and order problems as essential medical supplies like oxygen ran out, a scenario that has already begun to play out in parts of India. The need for urgent action was also expressed the week before by the National Task Force for Covid-19, a group of 21 experts and government officials set up last April to provide scientific and technical guidance to the health ministry on the pandemic. It is chaired by V.K. Paul, Modi’s top coronavirus adviser. The group had a discussion on April 15 and “unanimously agreed that the situation is serious and that we should not hesitate in imposing lockdowns,” said one scientist who took part. Paul was present at the discussion, according to the scientist. Reuters could not determine if Paul relayed the group’s conclusion to Modi. Paul did not respond to a request for comment from Reuters. Two days after Singh’s April 18 warning to government officials, PM Modi addressed the nation on April 20, arguing against lockdowns. He said a lockdown should be the last resort in fighting the virus. India’s two-month-long national lockdown a year ago put millions out of work and devastated the economy. “We have to save the country from lockdowns. I would also request the states to use lockdowns as the last option,” Modi said. “We have to try our best to avoid lockdowns and focus on micro-containment zones,” he said, referring to small, localised lockdowns imposed by authorities to control outbreaks. State governments have wide latitude in setting health policy for their regions, and some have acted independently to try to control the spread of the virus. Maharashtra, the country’s second-most populous state, which includes Mumbai, imposed tough restrictions such as office and store closures early in April as hospitals ran out of beds, oxygen and medicines. It imposed a full lockdown on April 14. ‘TICKING TIME BOMB’ The Indian variant has now reached at least 17 countries including Britain, Switzerland and Iran, leading several governments to close their borders to people travelling from India. The World Health Organization has not declared the India mutant a "variant of concern," as it has done for variants first detected in Britain, Brazil, and South Africa. But the WHO said on April 27 that its early modelling, based on genome sequencing, suggested that B.1.617 had a higher growth rate than other variants circulating in India. The UK variant, called B.1.1.7, was also detected in India by January, including in the northern state of Punjab, a major epicentre for the farmers’ protests, Anurag Agrawal, a senior INSACOG scientist, told Reuters. The NCDC and some INSACOG laboratories determined that a massive spike in cases in Punjab was caused by the UK variant, according to a statement issued by Punjab’s state government on March 23. Punjab imposed a lockdown from March 23. But thousands of farmers from the state remained at protest camps on the outskirts of Delhi, many moving back and forth between the two places before the restrictions began. "It was a ticking time bomb," said Agrawal, who is director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, which has studied some samples from Punjab. "It was a matter of an explosion, and public gatherings is a huge problem in a time of pandemic. And B.1.1.7 is a really bad variant in terms of spreading potential." By April 7, more than two weeks after Punjab's announcement on the UK variant, cases of coronavirus began rising sharply in Delhi. Within days, hospital beds, critical care facilities, and medical oxygen began running out in the city. At some hospitals, patients died gasping for air before they could be treated. The city's crematoriums overflowed with dead bodies. Delhi is now suffering one of the worst infection rates in the country, with more than three out of every 10 tests positive for the virus. India overall has reported more than 300,000 infections a day for the past nine days, the worst streak anywhere in the world since the pandemic began. Deaths have surged, too, with the total exceeding 200,000 this week. Agrawal and two other senior government scientists told Reuters that federal health authorities and local Delhi officials should have been better prepared after seeing what the variants had done in Maharashtra and Punjab. Reuters could not determine what specific warnings were issued to whom about preparing for a huge surge. “We are in a very grave situation,” said Shanta Dutta, a medical research scientist at the state-run National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases. “People listen to politicians more than scientists.” Rakesh Mishra, director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, which is part of INSACOG, said the country’s scientific community was dejected. "We could have done better, our science could have been given more significance,” he told Reuters. "What we observed in whatever little way, that should have been used better."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-ignored-warnings-amid-coronavirus-surge-scientists-981138.html
01-05-2021||National||US to remain in communication with India on its needs to fight Covid-19: White House||The US will continue to maintain communication with India about its needs to address the Covid-19 crisis, the White House has said, as critical American aid supplies started arriving in the country. Two American military aircraft on Friday brought to India large amounts of emergency medical supplies as part of the Biden administration's support to the country's fight against a devastating wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The first consignment of the supplies was brought to Delhi in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft of the US Air Force, while the second shipment was delivered by a C-17 Globemaster. “We will continue to communicate with India about their needs,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Friday. The first military assistance flight that departed from Travis Air Force Base had cargo including 200 small oxygen cylinders, 223 large oxygen cylinders, regulators and pulse oximeters, she said. It also included approximately 184,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 84,000 N-95s masks. Psaki said that the Secretary of State Antony Blinken called his Indian counterpart External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to review ongoing US government efforts in support of the Indian government's response. “He also noted the outpouring of support from US industries, our ongoing discussions, non-governmental institutions, and private citizens,” Psaki said. In all, the United States expects to deliver more than $100 million in medical supplies to India. The Pentagon said in the coming week, more oxygen cylinders will be sent, as will oxygen concentrators, oxygen generation units, additional personnel protective equipment, rapid diagnostic tests and therapeutics. “The US is also providing vaccine manufacturing supplies. In fact, the US has redirected its order of AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies to India, which will enable the country to make more than 20 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine,” said the Department of Defence. Meanwhile, top American Senator Elizabeth Warren in a letter to President Joe Biden urged him to leverage all tools and resources available to the United States to provide relief to India. “In light of this growing humanitarian crisis, I urge you to leverage all tools and resources available to the United States to provide relief to India,” Warren said in a letter to Biden. “While I am pleased by your commitment to providing transportation and logistics assistance as well as doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine to India, there is a critical need for more to be done,” the top Democrat said. She also encouraged Biden to divert any excess supply of ventilators, PPE, oxygen, diagnostic equipment, as well as vaccines to India to help treat those in need and mitigate the spread of the virus. “India is in the midst of a humanitarian crisis that threatens its 1.4 billion citizens, and billions more around the world. I urge you to leverage all resources and explore all tools available to the United States to alleviate this crisis,” Warren said. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-to-remain-in-communication-with-india-on-its-needs-to-fight-covid-19-white-house-981141.html
01-05-2021||National||UNICEF sent 3,000 oxygen concentrators to India, supporting government in acceleration of vaccine rollout||The UN children’s agency has sent critical life-saving supplies, including 3,000 oxygen concentrators, diagnostic tests and other equipment to help India combat a “devastating new wave” of Covid-19. The UNICEF also said it is continuing to support the Indian government in the acceleration of its national vaccine rollout to equitably reach all population groups. During the daily press briefing on Friday, Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesman for the UN chief, referred to the tweet by Secretary-General Antonio Guterres that he and the UN family stand in solidarity with the people of the country as they face a horrific Covid-19 outbreak and the UN stands ready to step up its support to the country. Haq said UN Resident Coordinator in India Renata Lok-Dessallien shares the Secretary-General’s sentiments. The UNICEF is helping to procure and install 25 oxygen plants for hospitals in the Northeast and Maharashtra, as well as the installation of thermal scanners at ports of entry countrywide. “The UNICEF and partners are continuing to support the Government of India in the acceleration of its national vaccine rollout to equitably reach all population groups,” a press release from the UN agency said. “Vials of the Covid-19 vaccine have to be carefully packed at cold temperatures to ensure they remain effective when administered, part of the so-called cold chain – a series of precisely coordinated events in temperature-controlled environments to store, manage and transport these life-saving products," it said. "The UNICEF and partners have procured special refrigerators as part of cold chain strengthening and Covid-19 vaccine introduction in India,” it added. The UN agency has sent critical life-saving supplies, including 3,000 oxygen concentrators, diagnostic tests, medical kits, and other equipment to help India in its battle with a deadly wave of Covid-19. Along with the oxygen concentrators, UNICEF has supplied more than 500 high flow nasal cannulas and 85 RT-PCR (Covid testing) machines. “Covid-19 is severely overstraining the health system in India,” said Dr Yasmin Haque, UNICEF Representative in India. “Urgent action is needed to avert further tragic loss of life. UNICEF has provided oxygen supplies and other critically needed emergency equipment for an immediate response while supporting resilience building against recurrent shocks and stresses. Indeed, much more is needed as the outbreak continues to spread rapidly.” The UNICEF said in the press release that it is continuing to work with partners to increase access to life-saving oxygen by procuring and installing oxygen generation plants in hospitals to treat severe and critical Covid-19 cases. It is helping to provide rapid, accurate testing machines in some of the most affected districts and support communities and essential workers to weather this storm and prevent further disruption to outreach programmes and services for children. "The scenes we are seeing in India are simply devastating," said George Laryea-Adjei, UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia. "The most vulnerable families are paying a steep price for this deadly new surge. The UNICEF calls on all partners who are able to support in responding to this new wave to do so immediately." The UNICEF has also been helping the Indian Government to ensure that ensuring critical services for the most vulnerable children can continue functioning, as well as to help more than 12 million children in 17 states continue learning from home, Haq said. The UNICEF added that since the start of the pandemic, it has been working with partners in India to help stop the spread of Covid-19, sharing information with more than 660 million people on how to stay safe from the coronavirus. “The UNICEF has consistently worked to counter misinformation and promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviours, including wearing masks, physical distancing, and handwashing.” The UNICEF said it needs USD 21 million for the urgent delivery of additional testing equipment, supplies and oxygen products in India and more than USD 50 million for lifesaving Covid-19 interventions across sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unicef-sent-3000-oxygen-concentrators-to-india-supporting-government-in-acceleration-of-vaccine-rollout-981144.html
01-05-2021||National||India likely to get first shipment of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine on May 1||As India launches the third phase of its inoculation drive against Covid-19, it expects delivery of Russia's Sputnik V vaccines on Saturday, May 1. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which is responsible for the marketing of Sputnik V globally, had said that the vaccines would arrive in India by May 1. The RDIF Chief hopes that these vaccines will help India during its explosive second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, but he did not specify the quantity of the shipment. “The first doses will be delivered on May 1," RDIF chief executive officer Kirill Dmitriev said.  A spokesperson for Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd, which is a partner for the vaccine in India, has said that no specific date has been decided for the launch of this vaccine and that the government, RDIF and Dr Reddy's are still in talks about the price of the vaccine.  RDIF had last year said that they would price the vaccine at less than Rs 750 ($10) per dose in international markets, but it would vary in different countries.  After Covishield and Covaxin, Sputnik V is the third vaccine India has given go-ahead to, and is in talks with other vaccine manufacturers for import.  This consignment is expected to boost India's vaccination drive as many states have flagged shortage and unavailability of vaccines ahead of the third phase. India reported a whopping 4 lakh plus Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the biggest spike ever.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-get-first-shipment-of-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-on-may-1-981154.html
01-05-2021||National||Continue to insist on release of detained leaders & end to violence: India at UNSC meeting on Myanmar||India has welcomed the ASEAN five-point consensus on Myanmar, which calls for an “immediate cessation” of violence in the country and that all parties shall exercise utmost restraint, as New Delhi reiterated its call for the release of detained leaders. Myanmar's military seized power on February 1 after overthrowing the elected government led by Aung San Suu Kyi and declared a state of emergency. Suu Kyi is among an estimated 3,400 people still being held by the junta. India's stand was expounded when the 15-nation UN Security Council held a private meeting in connection with Myanmar on Friday. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti later tweeted that in the Council, he said India welcomes the Association of Southeast Asian Nations' initiative and five-point consensus. He added that India will strengthen ASEAN’s efforts; the Security Council and the UN “should support their efforts.” He added that India continues to “insist on the release of detained leaders and end to violence” and that New Delhi’s overall stand on the situation is consistent. Myanmar's military on February 1 took control of the country for one year and detained top political figures, including de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The ASEAN five-point consensus states that there shall be an immediate cessation of violence in Myanmar and all parties shall exercise utmost restraint; constructive dialogue among all parties concerned shall commence to seek a peaceful solution in the interests of the people. It said a special envoy of the ASEAN Chair shall facilitate mediation of the dialogue process, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of ASEAN; ASEAN shall provide humanitarian assistance through the AHA Centre (ASEAN Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance on disaster management); and the special envoy and delegation shall visit Myanmar to meet with all parties concerned. India has condemned the violence in Myanmar and condoled the loss of life, as it urged maximum restraint and called for the release of detained leaders, emphasised the situation to be resolved peacefully and underlined its steadfast commitment to democratic transition. The UN Development Programme (UNDP) said in its report, 'Covid-19, Coup d’etat and Poverty: Compounding Negative Shocks and their Impact on Human Development in Myanmar' that the ongoing political crisis will "doubtless, further compound the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic,” reducing incomes. “In the worst-case scenario, nearly half of the population of Myanmar (48.2 per cent) will live in poverty (compared to the 24.8 per cent in 2017), reversing gains made since 2005,” the report said. It said if the situation on the ground persists, the poverty rate could double by the beginning of 2022. “By then, the shock from the crisis will have resulted in significant losses of wages and income, particularly from small businesses, and a drop in access to food, basic services and social protection.” UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner said that in the space of 12 years, from 2005 to 2017, Myanmar managed to nearly halve the number of people living in poverty. “However, the challenges of the past 12 months have put all of these hard-won development gains at risk. Without functioning democratic institutions, Myanmar faces a tragic and avoidable backslide towards levels of poverty not seen in a generation.” The situation worsened further with the February 1 military coup and the ensuing security and human rights crisis, with projections indicating a further 12 per cent point increase in poverty as a result. In the nearly three months since, over 750 people – including children – are reported to have been killed by security forces in a brutal crackdown on pro-democracy protests, countless more have been wounded and thousands arrested, the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/continue-to-insist-on-release-of-detained-leaders-end-to-violence-india-at-unsc-meeting-on-myanmar-981161.html
01-05-2021||National||India's power consumption grows 41% in April||Power consumption in the country grew 41 per cent in April to 119.27 billion units (BU) in the same month last year, showing robust recovery in industrial and commercial demand of electricity, according to power ministry data. Power consumption in April last year was recorded at 84.55 BU. On the other hand, peak power demand met, which is the highest supply in a day, during the first half of this month remained well above the highest record of 132.20 GW in April 2020. During April this year, peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day touched the highest level of 182.55 GW and recorded a growth of nearly 38 per cent over 132.73 GW recorded in the same month in 2020. Power consumption in April last year had dropped to 84.55 BU from 110.11 BU in the same month in 2019. This happened mainly because of fewer economic activities following the imposition of lockdown by the government in the last week of March 2020 to contain the spread of deadly Covid-19. Similarly, peak power demand met or the highest power supply in a day also slumped to 132.73 GW in April last year from 176.81 GW in the same month in 2019, showing the impact of lockdown on economic activities. Experts are of the view that high growth in power consumption, as well as demand in April, is mainly because of base erosion last year due to fewer economic activities which proved as dampener on commercial and industrial consumption of electricity due to lockdown. They said, "Now the high growth rate of power consumption has shown a healthy recovery in commercial and industrial demand." However, they cautioned that local lockdowns across the country to curb the surge of Covid-19 positive cases may impact commercial and industrial power consumption adversely in coming months. After a gap of six months, power consumption had recorded a 4.6 per cent year-on-year growth in September and 11.6 per cent in October. In November 2020, the power consumption growth slowed to 3.12 per cent, mainly due to the early onset of winters. In December, power consumption grew by 4.5 per cent while it was 4.4 per cent in January 2021. Power consumption in February this year recorded higher at 104.11 BU compared to 103.81 BU last year despite the fact that 2020 was a leap year. In March this year, the power consumption grew nearly 23 per cent to 121.51 BU compared to 98.95 BU in the same month of 2020. During the entire fiscal of 2020-21, power consumption dipped by 1 per cent to 1,271.54 BU from 1,284.44 BU in 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-power-consumption-grows-41-in-april-981163.html
01-05-2021||National||Anthony Fauci suggests a few weeks' lockdown in India to break chain of coronavirus transmission||Top US epidemiologist Anthony Fauci has suggested a lockdown for a few weeks in India as an immediate step to contain the spread of the coronavirus as its deadly second wave shows no signs of ebbing. He said looking at the magnitude of the crisis, India should look at putting together a crisis group that would meet and start getting things organised. Without naming any government, he said one of the things that should have been recognised that "victory was declared maybe too prematurely". "Well, one of the things you really need to do, to the extent that you can, is shut down temporarily the country, I think is important. If we want to time out and go back to what I said: there is the immediate, the intermediate, and the long-range (measures to contain the virus).  "I think the most important thing in the immediate is to get oxygen, get supplies, get medication, get PPE, those kinds of things but also, one of the immediate things to do is to essentially call a shutdown of the country," said Fauci, who is the chief medical adviser to the Biden administration. He said when China had a big explosion of coronavirus cases a year ago, they completely shut down. Fauci said it is not necessary to shut down for six months, but it can be a temporary one to put an end to the cycle of transmission. So one of the things to be considered is to temporarily shut down, he said. "Literally, lock down so that you wind up having less spread. No one likes to lock down the country. Well, that's a problem when you do it for six months," he said. But just for a few weeks of lockdown could have a significant impact on the dynamics of the outbreak. Some states have imposed a lockdown. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said lockdown should be the "last resort" to deal with the raging pandemic and asked states to convince migrant workers to stay put at their places of work with a guarantee for their lives and livelihood. Breaching its all previous records, India on Saturday hit a record daily high with over 4 lakh new infections, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark. The second wave of the coronavirus has been wreaking havoc, infecting lakhs and killing thousands every day for the past few days. There have been cases where people have died due to lack of medical facilities, including oxygen. In many cases, families have to arrange oxygen for their patients as they are not able to get admission in hospitals. "I heard from some of the people in the street bringing their mothers and their fathers and their sisters and their brothers searching for oxygen. They seem to think there really was not any organisation, any central organisation,” Fauci said. Underlining that vaccination plays a crucial role in handling the coronavirus situation, Fauci said if India, a country of 1.4 billion people, has fully vaccinated only two per cent of its total population, then it has a very long way to go. "You've got to get supplies. You've got to make contractual arrangements with the various companies that are out there in the world. There are many companies that now have vaccines. I think you have to negotiate with them to try and get a commitment," he said. "And also, India is the largest vaccine-producing country in the world. That's the thing — you should rev up your own capabilities to make vaccines,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anthony-fauci-suggests-a-few-weeks-lockdown-in-india-to-break-chain-of-coronavirus-transmission-981164.html
01-05-2021||National||Centre releases Rs 8,873 cr to states from SDRF for Covid-19 relief||The Centre on Saturday released the first instalment of the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) amounting to Rs 8,873.6 crore to state governments with the option to use 50 per cent funds for Covid-19 containment measures. The Finance Ministry said it has released the first instalment ahead of the normal schedule without insisting on the utilisation certificate of the amounts given to the state governments last year. Normally, the first instalment of SDRF is released in the month of June as per the recommendations of the Finance Commission. “However, in relaxation of normal procedure, not only has the release of SDRF been advanced but the amount has also been released without waiting for the utilisation certificate of the amount provided to the states in the last financial year,” the ministry said in a statement. As a special dispensation, the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, at the recommendation of the Ministry of Home Affairs has released in advance of the normal schedule the first instalment of the Central Share of the SDRF for the year 2021-22 to all the states. An amount of Rs 8,873.6 crore has been released to the states, it said.     The funds from the SDRF may be used by the states for various measures related to containment of Covid-19 including meeting the cost of oxygen generation and storage plants in hospitals, ventilators, air purifiers, strengthening ambulance services, Covid-19 hospitals, Covid Care Centres, consumables, thermal scanners, personal protective equipment, testing laboratories, testing kits, containment zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-rs-8873-cr-to-states-from-sdrf-for-covid-19-relief-981178.html
01-05-2021||National||Over 79 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states/UTs: Centre||More than 79 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are available with the states and Union territories and over 17 lakh doses will be supplied to them in the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. The Centre has so far provided nearly 16.37 crore vaccine doses to states/UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 15,58,48,782 doses, according to official data available till 8 am on Saturday. "More than 79,13,518 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. “Furthermore, more than 17,31,110 vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states/UTs within the next 3 days," the ministry said. The ministry also said that Maharashtra has been allocated 17,50,620 ‘Covishield’ and 5,76,890 ‘Covaxin’ vaccine doses by the Centre for the first fortnight of May. Delhi has been allocated 3,73,760 Covishield and 1,23,170 Covaxin doses for the same period, it said. While Chhattisgarh has been allocated 6,47,300 Covishield and 2,13,300 Covaxin doses, West Bengal has been supplied with 9,95,300 Covishield and 3,27,980 Covaxin doses, for the first fortnight of May. Uttar Pradesh has been allocated 13,49,850 Covishield and 4,11,870 Covaxin doses, and Rajasthan 12,92,460 Covishield and 4,42,390 Covaxin doses, for the same period, the ministry said. Kerala has been allocated 6,84,070 Covishield and 2,25,430 Covaxin doses, Punjab 4,63,710 Covishield and 1,52,810 Covaxin doses, and Gujarat supplied with 12,48,700 Covishield and 4,11,490 Covaxin doses, for the first fortnight of May, it added. The central government has been at the forefront of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Vaccination forms an integral component of the five-point strategy of the government to fight the pandemic, including test, track, treat and COVID appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination will be implemented from Saturday. Registration for the new eligible population groups has commenced since April 28. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on CoWIN portal or through the Aarogya Setu mobile application, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-79-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states/uts-centre-981180.html
01-05-2021||National||Anand Mahindra points out a dangerous kind of social distancing||Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, social distancing has become the new norm, but there is a wrong way to do it, pointed out industrialist Anand Mahindra, in a lighthearted tweet. At a time of rising Covid-19 cases and uncertainty around it, Mahindra posted an image on Twitter which "brought a smile" to his face. The picture showed a social distancing method adopted by two bikers who were transporting a ladder by placing them around their neck.  "Brought a smile to my face even in these trying times...Some social distancing techniques may be more hazardous than protective..." wrote Anand Mahindra while sharing the picture on Twitter. Anand Mahindra, an active user of the social media platform, tweeted to his 8.4 million followers, that this social distancing technique is "more hazardous than protective". The shared photo has been on the internet since 2017 and many have poked fun at the riders and also called it unsafe.  Mahindra is known for his amusing and creative tweets. His post has received hundreds of 'likes' and comments on the micro-blogging platform so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anand-mahindra-points-out-a-dangerous-kind-of-social-distancing-981183.html
01-05-2021||National||Nepal government decides to close 22 entry points with India due to rising Covid-19 cases||The Nepal government has decided to close 22 border points with India amid a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring country. The decision came after the Covid Crisis Management Coordination Committee (CCMC) on Friday recommended to the Council of Ministers to shut down 22 out of a total of 35 border points between Nepal and India, according to officials. Now, only 13 border points between Nepal and India will remain operational. The decision comes in the wake of rising cases of Covid-19 infections in the southern neighbour. India's daily coronavirus tally crossed the grim milestone of four lakh, while the death toll rose to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities, according to the date updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. The infection tally rose to 1,91,64,969 with 4,01,993 new cases, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed. Nepal has reported 3,23,187 Covid-19 cases and 3,279 deaths so far, but cases are going up at breakneck speed. The country reported more than 5,000 new cases on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-government-decides-to-close-22-entry-points-with-india-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases-981186.html
01-05-2021||National||Padma Shri 'Rs 5' Ranchi doctor rues crass commercialisation of medical services||What can Rs 5 buy you in India? Perhaps not even a cup of tea at roadside kiosks that dot marketplaces, and definitely not medical treatment for hundreds of poor Covid-19 patients whose distressed cries for help are echoing in hospital corridors across the country. But the humble Rs 5 coin goes a long way if you happen to be a patient of this octogenarian doctor in Ranchi. Despite his own failing health and old age, compassion drives Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, 85, to treat the poor who make a beeline for his clinic. He even waives the paltry Rs 5 consultation fee for those who cannot pay. Honoured with the nation's fourth-highest civilian award - Padma Shri - Mukherjee has one appeal to make to the medical fraternity: "Treat one poor patient free of cost a day". "If you are a doctor, you should ponder how much is enough. Somewhere it has to stop. Compassion and empathy are an integral part of your profession and the pursuit of materialism has to end somewhere," Mukherjee, who has been a messiah for the poorest of the poor for over 55 years, said in an interview with PTI. Inflation and the rising cost of living and maintaining his clinic have forced the doctor to increase his consultation fee to Rs 50 now, but he clarified "it is only for those who can afford and are willing to pay. Those who cannot afford need not pay even a paisa". Mukherjee, who has cardiac and prostate problems, said the cost of sanitising his small chamber located in the heart of Ranchi at Lalpur has forced him to hike the consultation fee. The increase is also because of his own rising medication costs which is about Rs 200 a day. "But poor are not under any compulsion to pay," he said. Even now he treats up to 20 patients a day. "I was compelled to increase my fees to Rs 50 as I have to earn for my roti-daal at this age. I have to consume medicines worth Rs 200 daily for heart and other complications. However, it is up to the poor how much they can afford to pay...There is no compulsion at all," he said. "I cannot bear the sight when a poor mother comes to me and says please see my child as the child specialist has refused to examine for free and I have no money. How can medical professionals be like that? When a child is cured and the mother smiles, it gives me immense satisfaction and pleasure that is beyond any monetary sum," he said. He said he could never understand how doctors, even his students, charge Rs 500, Rs 1,000 from poor patients who do not have money for one square meal. When asked if he felt sad that none of the NGOs or organisations formed by his students came forward to extend a helping hand for his medication or other assistance in these difficult times, Mukherjee said, "Times have changed and I never expect anything from anybody." "Society has changed a lot. Morality, ethics have to be revived...We are considered not up to date but out of date. It is useless to talk about who helps you. This is a selfish world but give to the society what you can with no regrets and be content," he added. Mukherjee, an MBBS from Patna Medical College in 1957 and a former Head of the Department of Pathology, RIMS (erstwhile Rajendra Medical College and Hospital) has provided medical services in Bihar and Jharkhand and claims to have trained about 3,500 medical students including those holding post-graduate degrees. To keep Covid-19 at bay, this general physician's formula is very simple. "I would like to advise one thing which is not being emphasised now neither by the government nor by the media- regular gargle and cleaning of the nostrils. The virus enters through the nose and lodges in the throat before affecting other parts. If we gargle three or four times, then we can kill the virus. "Also, apply mustard oil to your nostrils and keep it clean. This is what I advise to all poor patients. This should be made compulsory for all," stresses Mukherjee. He suggested gargling with antibiotic, antiseptic solutions or with salt or alum besides cleansing the nasal passage with plain water to keep the disease at bay. He held Covid inappropriate behaviour of people responsible for the exponential surge in the pandemic. A documentary on Mukherjee was screened on Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) show where superstar Amitabh Bachchan had lauded him for his appeal "Desh ke sare doctor har roz ek patient ka muft ilaaz karein (Every doctor in the country should treat one patient for free every day)." Mukherjee, who began practising in Ranchi in 1966, was honoured with Padma Shri in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-shri-rs-5-ranchi-doctor-rues-crass-commercialisation-of-medical-services-981191.html
01-05-2021||National||Reliance ramps up daily medical-grade oxygen production to 1,000 tonnes||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Industries Ltd has ramped up production of medical oxygen to 1,000 tonnes per day, making it India's largest producer of medical-grade liquid oxygen from a single location. Reliance ramped up production from near-zero to 1,000 tonnes per day and now produces over 11 per cent of India's total production of medical-grade liquid oxygen - meeting the needs of nearly every one in ten patients, a company said in a statement. Ambani is personally supervising the scale-up of production and transportation at Jamnagar in Gujarat. In April, the firm supplied over 15,000 tonnes of medical-grade liquid oxygen free of cost. It airlifted 24 ISO containers for transporting oxygen from Saudi Arabia, Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands and Thailand - creating an additional 500 tonnes of transportation capacity for India. Private firms are supplementing efforts to augment oxygen supplies as the country battles its worst health crisis. India posted a record daily rise of 4,01,993 new coronavirus cases after 10 consecutive days of over 3 lakh infections. Deaths from Covid-19 jumped by 3,523 over the past 24 hours, taking the total toll in India to 2,11,853. "As India grapples with an unprecedented new wave of the Covid pandemic, Reliance has risen to the occasion by making an all-out effort to save precious lives," the statement said. A critical need of the hour is assured availability of medical-grade liquid oxygen for the treatment of severely ill patients across the country. "Traditionally, Reliance is not a manufacturer of medical-grade liquid oxygen. Yet, starting from nil before the pandemic, Reliance has now become India's largest producer of this life-saving resource from a single location. "At its refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in Jamnagar and other facilities, Reliance now produces over 1,000 tonnes of medical-grade liquid oxygen per day — or over 11 per cent of India's total production – meeting the needs of nearly every one in ten patients," it said. Under the personal supervision of Ambani, Reliance has adopted a two-pronged approach to strengthen the availability of medical oxygen in India - refocusing several industrial processes at Jamnagar and other facilities for rapid scale-up in production of medical-grade liquid oxygen, and augmenting loading and transportation capacities to ensure its swift and safe supply to the states and Union territories. The firm's oil refineries and petrochemical plants produce industrial oxygen as part of processes. This was scrubbed to produce high-purity medical-grade oxygen. Also, it converted nitrogen tankers into transport trucks to move medical-grade oxygen. Commenting on these initiatives, Mukesh Ambani, Chairman and Managing Director, Reliance Industries Limited, said: "For me and all of us at Reliance, nothing is more important than saving every life as India battles against a new wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. There is an immediate need to maximise India's production and transportation capacities for medical grade oxygen."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliance-ramps-up-daily-medical-grade-oxygen-production-to-1000-tonnes-981201.html
01-05-2021||National||Indian diaspora struggles to help homeland 'gasping for air' amid Covid-19 crisis||By Todd Gillespie and Kartikay Mehrotra, Jaspreet Rai is desperately trying to do her part for the country she left more than 30 years ago: Help its people breathe. Rai, 53, who moved to Endicott, New York -- the birthplace of IBM -- from Punjab, in India, is the founder of Sanrai International, a provider of oxygen concentrators. With India now the epicentre of the pandemic, counting about 3,500 Covid-19 deaths daily, and oxygen supplies running out, Rai has rushed to help her former homeland cope with its worst crisis in recent history. “This is probably the hardest time they’re going through,” Rai said of her 100-strong staff on the ground, who will supply 30,000 units across India in May, several times the 1,500 Sanrai normally provides in a year. “When you don’t have equipment, and you’re trying to hold people, and they’re gasping, literally gasping for air. And you’re like, look, I’ve sold my last unit, I have to wait until the next stock comes in.” Like Rai, millions of Indians spread across the globe -- one of the world’s largest diasporas -- are trying to do what they can to help their country of origin as heart-wrenching images of people lining up for oxygen cylinders, waiting outside hospitals for a bed or huddling around funeral pyres flash across their screens. Some have been unable to do anything to save family members who have succumbed to the disease. The number of daily new coronavirus cases in India on Saturday topped the 400,000 mark for the first time, pushing the total infections to more than 19 million. Feeling helpless The diaspora is collecting funds, lobbying governments in countries where they reside and making pledges to shuttle essential supplies and equipment. But the scale of the task is leaving many feeling helpless as the health-care infrastructure in the world’s second-most populous country teeters on the brink of collapse. “They need doctors and hospitals,” said Venktesh Shukla, general partner at Monta Vista Capital in Silicon Valley. “I’ve been struggling for the last three to four days to figure out what to do. Like a lot of Indians, we want to do something. We just can’t find a short-term solution to help.”In spite of that frustration, the need to “do something” in the face of the unfolding tragedy is spurring many into action. Like Sudhir Ravi. Little did Ravi know he would be embarking on a humanitarian mission when the Chicago-based private equity boutique TJM Capital Partners, where he is an operating partner, bought the largest US supplier of military-grade oxygen generators in a strategic acquisition in April. But with Covid raging, Ravi soon identified 11 industrial strength oxygen concentrators between the US and Germany that can be distributed to hospitals in India. The devices can offer oxygen to 50,000 people in the next six months. For the last week, he and Raghu Gullapalli, a close contact and executive director at the LV Prasad Eye Institute in Hyderabad, have been frantically looking for ways to get them to India, requesting the services of Amazon and FedEx. A consortium of Indian philanthropists have committed to cover the $100,000 cost of shipment, and Ravi said they’re hoping to get the cargo in the air on May 5. “Right now, time is measured in lives,” said Gullapalli. Billionaire action Indian-born billionaires and executives are also piling in with help. Tech investor Vinod Khosla tweeted that he’s willing to send supplies by the “planeload.” Google, headed by Sundar Pichai, promised $18 million in cash assistance to victims’ families and medical equipment. Microsoft Corp., led by CEO Satya Nadella, pledged to draw on the company’s network to provide essential supplies. In the UK, home to around two million Indians, aid has come from people like steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal and Karan Bilimoria, who helped draw support from companies as the first Indian head of the Confederation of British Industry. “We are focused on getting this help that is desperately needed as quickly as possible,” said Bilimoria, whose company produces Cobra beer, a staple of Indian restaurants in the UK Air Liquide SA, the French gas supplier that helps create the bubbles in Bilimoria’s beer, has pledged its oxygen production in India to support Covid patients. Mittal’s Indian operations are providing 210 metric tons of liquid oxygen a day. “Helping the people of India means helping India, and that’s crucial for the entire world,” he said in an emailed statement. The charitable foundation of UK-based billionaire brothers Mohsin and Zuber Issa, who bought supermarket chain Asda, donated 2.5 million pounds ($3.5 million) to four hospitals in the western Indian state of Gujarat, from where their family hails. Vaccine woes As life in the UK and the US edges ever closer to pre-pandemic normal, for Indians abroad worrying about family and friends, the unequal access to vaccines is becoming evident. Only 2% of the people in India have been fully vaccinated compared with 30% in the US and 21% in the UK, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker. Monta Vista’s Shukla said he and 60 other influential Indians lobbied to convince the Joe Biden administration to free up vaccine supplies and steroids. The US has decided to start shipping drugs like AstraZeneca’s vaccine and Remdesivir to India. Yet for all that, there’s only so much even powerful Indians can do remotely as raw material and equipment shortages, freight delays and labor limits hamper efforts on the ground. “There’s only so many oxygen concentrators available in the market,” said Jitesh Gadhia, a British politician and a trustee of the British Asian Trust who has helped lead the UK government’s response and engagement with suppliers. “I am concerned that so many people trying to buy a limited stock will just raise prices. What we need is more supply.” And that won’t be easy. While in Endicott Rai is trying to find charter flights to get around bottlenecks to transport her oxygen concentrators to India from China, she said units her company can provide in a month “could probably just be used in one day.” Rai, who started her company after her asthmatic grandmother died in 2008 needing oxygen, said she’s saddened by the continued fight in India over something as essential as the air one breathes. “I couldn’t understand how something so basic as oxygen was so complicated,” she said. “And that question is what I’ve been trying to answer for the past 13 years.” (With assistance from Riley Griffin and Gina Turner)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-diaspora-struggles-to-help-homeland-gasping-for-air-amid-covid-19-crisis-981207.html
01-05-2021||National||Gujarat doctor shares after-effects of wearing PPE suits||It has been over a year since the world has been battling the raging pandemic. Quarantined in our houses, we still find ourselves complaining, "It is bizarre that we can't step out without a mask!"  What we fail to realise is that frontline workers and healthcare professionals are tirelessly working to help bring some sort of relief. A doctor from Gujarat, Sohil Makwana, is one of the many anonymous health workers who have been out in the field, dressed for hours in a PPE suit, serving the nation at the risk of their own lives. Sharing pictures of him in a PPE suit and without it, drenched in sweat, after hours of treating Covid-19 patient, the doctor said that he is proud of serving the country. Urging people to get vaccinated as it is the "only solution", the doctor lamented that all doctors and health workers are working really hard, away from their families, "... sometimes a foot away from a positive patient, sometimes an inch away from critically ill oldies..." Talking on the behalf of all doctors and health workers.. we are really working hard away from our family.. sometimes a foot away from positive patient, sometimes an inch away from critically ill oldies... I request please go for vaccination.. it's only solution ! Stay safe. 🙏🙏 In the same thread, Dr Makwana explained that an oximeter is a "primary caretaker" in these trying times and that an oxygen level of less than 90 can be dangerous. He also shared pictures of his parents, getting the second dose of the vaccine and urged citizens to ensure that everyone in their family gets inoculated. Just inoculated my parents with second dose.. I've protected my parents.. Did u? His tweet has over 1.33 lakh likes with people saluting the sacrifices of healthcare professionals and celebrating them as the real "heroes". Salute you Doctors. Ever indebted to you and your family. All doctors n front line staff are true heroes!! Hats off to your selfless service. Humanity will be indebted to u! "A nation of 130+ crore and humanity would be indebted to you and all the frontline warriors who gave their everything to save us," read a tweet in response to Dr Makwana. A nation of 130+ crore and the humanity would be indebted to you and all the frontline warriors who gave their everything to save us. The least the normal public can do is to stay indoors and observe Covid protocols. Thanks and salute to you and all the frontline warriors!! 🙏🙏 Sharing similar thoughts, Dr Shweta Agarwal said that PPE suit can be "suffocating". I can understand ur condition very well....It's very suffocating... Meanwhile, several states ran out of Covid-19 vaccines before the planned widening of the nationwide inoculation drive, authorities said, as new infections in the crisis-hit country surged to another daily record on Saturday when India recorded over four lakh new infections and 3,523 fatalities in the last 24 hours. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-doctor-shares-after-effects-of-wearing-ppe-suits-981212.html
01-05-2021||National||HC questions Centre why cryogenic tankers not released by Rajasthan govt to Delhi despite orders||The Delhi High Court on Saturday questioned the Centre as to why four cryogenic tankers, which were meant for Delhi to treat Covid-19 patients and held up by the Rajasthan government, have not been released yet despite the court's earlier orders. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said let necessary steps be taken to fulfil the assurance given by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on April 26 that these tankers will be released. It asked the Centre to place compliance of its order on May 3. The bench, which is conducting a special hearing on a holiday, started the proceedings at 11.30 am and is still continuing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-questions-centre-why-cryogenic-tankers-not-released-by-rajasthan-govt-to-delhi-despite-orders-981215.html
01-05-2021||National||India pursued assertive foreign policy in 2020, says US Defence Intelligence Agency||India, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, pursued an assertive foreign policy in 2020 aimed at demonstrating the country's strength and its perception as a net provider of security in the strategically vital Indian Ocean Region, a top American intelligence agency has said. The Defence Intelligence Agency also told lawmakers adding that New Delhi also hardened its approach towards an aggressive China. “Throughout 2020, Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi’s government pursued an assertive foreign policy aimed at demonstrating India’s strength and its perception as a net provider of security in the Indian Ocean Region,” Scott Berrier, Gen Director of Defense Intelligence Agency told members of the Senate Armed Services Committee during a Congressional hearing on worldwide threats. In the first months of the Covid-19 pandemic, New Delhi played a leading role in delivering medical equipment to countries throughout South Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, facilitating the evacuation of Indians and other South Asians from virus hotspots, he said on Friday. “India hardened its approach towards China following a deterioration in bilateral relations that followed Chinese efforts to take Indian-claimed territory along the disputed Line of Actual Control border beginning in the summer of 2020,” Berrier said. In response to the June clash between Indian and Chinese troops, and the deaths of 20 Indian and four Chinese soldiers, New Delhi responded by deploying an additional 40,000 troops, artillery, tanks, and aircraft to the disputed border, occupying strategic mountain passes in disputed territory, and sending Indian Navy ships to shadow Chinese ships in the Gulf of Aden, it said. India also implemented economic measures meant to signal its resolve against China, including banning Chinese mobile phone apps and taking steps to use trustworthy vendors of telecommunications, he told the lawmakers. According to Berrier, India also maintained an assertive approach on its border with Pakistan, refusing to engage in diplomatic dialogue in the absence of Pakistani action to end support to anti-Indian militant groups. Tensions remain high in the aftermath of the 2019 Pulwama terrorist attack and subsequent military reactions, and the Modi government’s August 2019 action "to curtail Jammu and Kashmir’s autonomy by revising the Indian Constitution". The Indian Army units along the Line of Control border periodically conducted artillery strikes targeting suspected militant camps and Pakistan Army positions throughout the year. India and Pakistan announced a ceasefire agreement in late February 2021, but any high-profile militant attacks by suspected Pakistan-based groups will likely elicit an Indian military response that could escalate to military confrontation, he said. “New Delhi is continuing to pursue a wide-ranging military modernisation effort encompassing air, ground, naval, and strategic nuclear forces with an emphasis on domestic defence production. "It will continue its longstanding defence relationship with Russia because of the large amount of Russian-origin equipment in India’s inventory and Moscow’s willingness to assist New Delhi in strengthening its domestic defence industry,” Berrier said. India continued to develop its own hypersonic, ballistic, cruise, and air defence missile capabilities, conducting approximately a dozen tests since September. India has a growing number of satellites in orbit and is expanding its use of space assets, likely pursuing offensive space capabilities to boost the role space assets play in its military strategy. It conducted a successful ASAT (anti-satellite) missile test in March 2019, and has since announced plans to define further the role of ASAT weapons in its National Security Strategy. New Delhi also seeks to build space expertise with the formation of its Defence Space Agency and through space warfare exercises, such as IndSpaceEx held in July 2019. Berrier also told lawmakers that the Pakistan military continues to execute counterterrorism operations against militant groups that pose a threat to it. These efforts have been successful in reducing violence from some anti-Pakistan militant, terrorist, and sectarian groups in Pakistan. “However, we assess these groups remain capable of conducting mostly small-scale attacks and occasional high-profile attacks. Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan—an anti-Pakistan militant group—was weakened by leadership losses, but recently announced its reunification with two splinter groups to bolster its capabilities,” he said. “While Pakistani intelligence continues to provide material support and safe haven to the Taliban, Islamabad continues to support Afghan peace efforts, encouraging the Taliban to engage in dialogue with the Afghan Government,” he added. Berrier said that Pakistan’s relations with India continue to remain tense since New Delhi’s August 2019 revocation of Kashmir’s semiautonomous status. During the year, tensions with India probably will remain elevated, and concerted efforts by both sides to fully implement the February 25, 2021 ceasefire will be necessary to reduce tension along the Line of Control. Pakistan perceives nuclear weapons as key to its national survival, specifically to counter the threat from India’s growing conventional force superiority, and likely will increase its nuclear stockpile in 2021. To that end, Pakistan continues to modernise and expand its nuclear capabilities by conducting training with its deployed weapons and testing developmental missiles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pursued-assertive-foreign-policy-in-2020-says-us-defence-intelligence-agency-981216.html
01-05-2021||National||April was the cruellest month for Covid-19 in India||"April is the cruellest month, breedingLilacs out of the dead land, mixingMemory and desire, stirringDull roots with spring rain." When T S Eliot wrote "April was the cruellest month" in The Wasteland, he perhaps had no idea how true his words would ring in 2021. As India witnesses one of its biggest health tragedies with coronavirus cases spiralling uncontrollably, April is the month of many firsts. Never before did a country report over 3 lakh daily cases of Covid-19. April 30 marked the ninth day of this over 3 lakh daily infections trajectory for India. The death toll owing to the virus now stands at 2,11,853. A fatal month in The Wasteland In April alone, India saw 48,894 deaths, according to data from Wordometer. This is 23.07 per cent of all deaths since the pandemic began in March last year. At its peak last year, India saw the highest daily deaths of around 2,000 in June as against 3,645 deaths on April 28, the highest this year. Delhi worst affected in April Among states, Maharashtra (1.5 per cent), Delhi (1.4 per cent), West Bengal (1.4 per cent), Punjab (2.4 per cent), Sikkim (1.8 per cent) and Himachal Pradesh (1.5 per cent) have the highest case fatality rates, according to data from Covid-19 India. In April alone, Maharashtra recorded 14,164 deaths, accounting for 20.5 per cent of total Covid deaths in the state since March 2020. In Karnataka, deaths in April comprised 19 per cent of the total toll. One-third of total cases in April alone A deadly resurgence With the promise of a new, better 2021, Covid infections at the beginning of the year were declining steadily. Everyday activities resumed slowly, people began stepping out and life looked on its path to normalcy, albeit in a new way. By March 2021, India began seeing a recap of last year, only worse. Governments, health infrastructure and citizens were caught unprepared as the virus surged exponentially. Hospitals across the country, medical personnel and families are on the verge of breakdown as the virus continues to take its toll. No end in sight? Things may only get slightly worse before getting better, predictions show. India currently has over 32 lakh active cases. The scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur and Hyderabad applied the Susceptible, Undetected, Tested (positive), and Removed Approach' (SUTRA) model to arrive at this projection. “Peak timing: May 14-18 for active infections and May 4-8 for new infections. Peak value: 38-48 lakhs for active infections and 3.4 to 4.4 lakhs for new infections,” Maninder Agrawal, professor at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/april-was-the-cruellest-month-for-covid-19-in-india-981221.html
01-05-2021||National||First batch of 1.5 lakh doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine arrive in Hyderabad from Russia||Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the custodian of the Sputnik V vaccine in India, has announced the arrival of 1.5 lakh doses of Russian made Covid-19 vaccine in Hyderabad on Saturday. This is the first consignment as part of the 250 million doses that DRL would import from Russia for use in India. Subsequent consignments would arrive in the next few weeks. The rollout of the consignment will be subject to the necessary clearances, which will be processed over the next few days, said Deepak Sapra, CEO – API and Services, DRL. This initial quantity will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up our supply chain for the larger vaccination program rollout,” Sapra said. The two dose vaccine, found to be displaying 91.6 percent efficacy against Covid-19 infection as per an article in The Lancet, was approved for emergency use in India by the Drugs Controller General of India last month, amid the massive surge in the second wave cases and the shortage of Covishied and Covaxin vaccines. The Hyderabad based pharma major is in an agreement with Russian Direct Investment Fund to supply 250 million imported doses in India. As per the deal in September 2020, DRL also undertook the Phase-2 and 3 trials of Sputnik-V in India, on 1,600 volunteers to verify its safety and immunogenicity and the data was submitted to DCGI. DRL will also market, distribute the vaccine, to be manufactured within India in a few months. Hetero, Virchow, Panacea, Gland, Stellis, Shilpa are the six production sites. DRL top executives had earlier said that they are “still in the midst of negotiating the price and required volumes in the country with the government authorities and other stakeholders.” Sputnik-V's storage requirement is -18 to -22 degrees temperature, while Covaxin is stable at 2 to 8°C.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-batch-of-15-lakh-doses-of-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-arrive-in-hyderabad-from-russia-981229.html
01-05-2021||National||Indian-origin author, playwright Ronnie Govender dies of age related illness in SA||Ronnie Govender, an internationally acclaimed Indian-origin author and playwright known for his books and theatre efforts reflecting the difficulties of the Indian and African communities under apartheid, has died of age-related illness. He was 87. Govender, who died in South Africa’s city of Cape Town on Thursday, was the recipient of the Order of Ikhamanga, among the country’s highest national orders, in 2008 for his contributions to democracy, peace and justice in the country through theatre. In the same year, the media did not miss the irony of his new book ‘In the Manure’ being launched in the beautiful sprawling gardens of the residence of Indian Consul General Navdeep Suri in Johannesburg. Govender’s debut book, ‘Cato Manor Stories’, won the 1997 Commonwealth Writers' Prize for best first book in the Africa section. The book told tales of the Indian and African communities that lived side-by-side in the township in Durban before the minority white apartheid government uprooted them for forced resettlement in other separate ethnic townships. Govender’s grandparents, who had arrived in South Africa as indentured labourers, had settled in Cato Manor, where they farmed on a small piece of land. Govender was also born there. Govender founded his own theatre company, the Shah Theatre Academy, because of the restrictions of the time not allowing participating in ‘white’ theatres. One of his plays, ‘The Lahnee’s Pleasure’, had the longest run across the country and received a lot of attention abroad. But in line with his firm resolve to support the anti-apartheid cultural boycott of South Africa, Govender steadfastly declined highly lucrative offers to tour abroad with the play. In 2014, Govender was honoured with a doctorate from the Durban University of Technology. His demise on Thursday was following a month long age-related ailment, his family said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-author-playwright-ronnie-govender-dies-of-age-related-illness-in-sa-981230.html
01-05-2021||National||Amid Covid-19, Telangana health minister Etela Rajender stripped of portfolio following land grab charges||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao took away the health and family welfare portfolio from Etela Rajender following allegations of land grabbing of about 100 acres by the minister and his associates in Medak. Etela is one of the senior most TRS leaders and was closely associated with KCR, as the CM is popularly known, since the inception of the party in 2001. However, the equation has soured between the two for some time now and the minister had on few occasions made comments seen as in defiance of the party leadership. The Saturday decision came a day after the CM has ordered two probes - one by the Medak district administration and the other by the vigilance DGP Purnachandra Rao - “to find out the truth in the allegations of land encroachments at Achampet in Masaipet mandal of Medak district.” The investigation is based on the complaints of few weaker section farmers from Masaipet that the minister's men had, over the past few months, illegally captured their government assigned lands. The land is said to be used for establishing a poultry industry. Meanwhile, former Medak district administrators told the media that the minister had put pressure on them to regularise the lands. Responding to the developments, Etela said that the allegations are part of a planned conspiracy against him. Stating that he has not committed any transgressions in the land matter, Etela said he is ready for a sitting judge probe too. “This seems more of a preconceived action, rather than one based on a complaint or investigation. I would respond in detail on the 100 acre land grab charges after the probe report is out. People are enraged over my character assassination like this. A price has to be paid in the future ...” Etela told reporters. A leader from the OBC Mudiraj community, Etela has been an MLA since 2004. He presently represents the Huzurabad assembly constituency. Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay demanded CM KCR to take action against other TRS ministers, legislators too facing land grab and corruption charges. Health department with KCR While KCR kept the health and family welfare department with him, Etela now remains as a minister without a portfolio. The sudden change came amidst the Covid-19 case surge, and Telangana is reporting over seven thousand cases lately. On Saturday, the CM instructed the state chief secretary Somesh Kumar to “to be very cautious about Corona-virus spread in the state,” and asked him to review the situation thrice a day. The CM also instructed the top official to ensure availability of Remdesivir, Oxygen, hospital beds and vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-telangana-health-minister-etela-rajender-stripped-of-portfolio-following-land-grab-charges-981243.html
01-05-2021||National||Government is giving utmost priority to infrastructure development, says Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has said the government is giving utmost priority to the development of infrastructure and has set a target of road construction worth Rs 15 lakh crore in the next two years. Gadkari said he is confident that the Ministry for Road Transport and Highways will achieve target of 40 kilometres per day of highways construction in the current fiscal.  "The government is giving utmost priority to the development of infrastructure and has set a target of road construction of worth Rs 15 lakh crore in next two years," the Road Transport and Highways Minister said. He said the government is permitting 100 per cent FDI in road sector. The minister said that in India, project like National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) for 2019-2025 is the first-of-its-kind and the government is committed to provide world-class infrastructure to its citizens and improving quality of their lives.  He said that under the NIP, there are over 7,300 projects to be implemented at a total outlay of Rs 111 lakh crore by year 2025.         Gadkari said NIP aims at improving project preparation, and attract investment into infrastructure like highways, railways, ports, airports, mobility, energy and agriculture and rural industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-is-giving-utmost-priority-to-infrastructure-development-says-nitin-gadkari-981248.html
01-05-2021||National||SC lawyer Keshav Mohan dies of Covid-related complications||Lawyer Keshav Mohan, who has been representing the Bihar government in the Supreme Court, passed away Saturday morning due to Covid-related complications at a hospital here, his family said. Mohan, who was in his early 40s, is survived by his wife and two children. Enrolled with the Bar Council of Delhi after completing LL.B from Campus Law Centre of Delhi University, Mohan was recently appointed as the Additional Standing Counsel to represent Bihar government in the top court.   He had successfully justified in the Supreme Court the decision of Bihar government to transfer to the CBI the case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. The top court had accepted the recommendation of the Bihar government for a CBI probe into the FIR lodged at Patna by Rajput's father, who had accused the actor's former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and six others of various offences including abetment of suicide. Mohan had been appearing for the Sahara group and its chief Subrata Roy in the apex court in the matter related to dispute of the company with markets regulator Sebi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-lawyer-keshav-mohan-dies-of-covid-related-complications-981268.html
01-05-2021||National||Everything falls on my shoulders, but can't do it alone: Adar Poonawalla on vaccine pressure in India||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Saturday spoke out about the pressures he was under over the production of Covid-19 vaccines to meet the ever-increasing demand in India as the country battles through a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. In his first comments since he was provided with ‘Y’ category security by the Indian government earlier this week, Poonawalla told ‘The Times’ in an interview about receiving aggressive calls from some of the most powerful people in India, demanding supplies of Covishield -- the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine that the Serum Institute is producing in India. That pressure is largely behind his decision to fly into London to be with his wife and children, the 40-year-old entrepreneur said. “I’m staying here (London) for an extended time because I don't want to go back to that situation. Everything falls on my shoulders but I can't do it alone...I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do,” Poonawalla told the newspaper. According to Indian government officials, the protection to Poonawalla has been given in view of "potential threats" to him. Armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will be with him every time he travels to any part of the country, they said and added that the 'Y' security cover will entail a posse of about 4-5 armed commandos. “The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them,” Poonawalla said. The businessman indicated in the interview that his move to London is also linked to business plans to expand vaccine manufacturing to countries outside India, which may include the likes of the UK. “There’s going to be an announcement in the next few days,” he said, when asked about Britain as one of the production bases outside India. According to the newspaper, by the time the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine was approved in January this year, the Serum Institute of India (SII) had increased its annual production capacity from 1.5 to 2.5 billion doses at a cost of USD 800 million, and stockpiled 50 million doses of Covishield. The company began exporting to 68 countries, including Britain, as India seemed to have been over the worse, until the situation worsened in recent weeks. “We’re really gasping for all the help we can get,” Poonawalla said in the ‘Times’ interview. “I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad,” he said. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. India's daily coronavirus tally crossed the grim milestone of four lakh on Saturday, while the death toll rose to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities. On the charge of profiteering as the cost of Covishield was recently hiked, he termed it as “totally incorrect” and added that Covishield will still be “the most affordable vaccine on the planet” even at a higher price. “We have done the best we can without cutting corners or doing anything wrong or profiteering. I’ll wait for history to judge,” he said. “I’ve always had this sense of responsibility to India and the world because of the vaccines we were making, but never have we made a vaccine so needed in terms of saving lives,” he added. The Serum Institute on April 21 had announced a price of Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals and at Rs 400 for state governments and for any new contract by the central government. The announcement followed widespread criticism of the company's pricing policy as it has sold the initial doses of Covishield to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. Many states objected to the different prices for the vaccines. Subsequently, SII on Wednesday announced a cut in price of the jab it plans to sell to states to Rs 300 per dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/everything-falls-on-my-shoulders-but-cant-do-it-alone-adar-poonawalla-on-vaccine-pressure-in-india-981271.html
01-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: BSY flags off Covid-19 inoculation drive for 18-44 age group||In your evening news brief, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa flagged off the Covid-19 inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group;  eight Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, died at a leading hospital in New Delhi due to oxygen shortage and the first lot of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine from Russia has arrived in Hyderabad.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 1, 2021: In a shocking incident highlighting oxygen scarcity in the national capital, eight Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, died at a leading hospital here due to oxygen shortage. Batra Hospital Medical Director Dr SCL Gupta said one of the dead was the head of the gastroenterology department, Dr RK Imrani, who was under medical care for Covid-19. Dr Gupta said that six of the eight who died were in the Intensive Care Unit on high flow oxygen.   Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday flagged off the Covid-19 inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group with four lakh vaccine doses currently available, but uncertainty remains on the way forward. In what seemed like a hurried inauguration, Yediyurappa symbolically launched the third phase of vaccination to include everybody in the age group of 18-44 at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Research Institute in Shivajinagar in Bengaluru. “The Centre has given three lakh doses and we have one lakh. In total, there are four lakh doses that will be given to those aged above 18 years,” Yediyurappa said. “We will give the vaccines till they last. We hope to get more vaccines in the days to come,” he added. Based on the availability of vaccines, the inoculation drive will be taken up in a phased manner in the coming days, Yediyurappa said.   The first lot of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine from Russia has arrived in Hyderabad. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which is responsible for the marketing of Sputnik V globally, had said that the vaccines would arrive in India by May 1. The RDIF Chief Kirill Dmitriev said he hopes that these vaccines will help India during its explosive second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, but he did not specify the quantity of the shipment. (Source: DHNS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bsy-flags-off-covid-19-inoculation-drive-for-18-44-age-group-981274.html
01-05-2021||National||Potential of partnership between India, Singapore in manufacturing sector: Envoy||There is a potential for a partnership between India and Singapore in the manufacturing sector, a top Indian diplomat here has said. According to High Commissioner Kumaran Periasamy, there are a number of areas that offer opportunities for India and Singapore to work together. "We had discussed the potential for a manufacturing partnership," he was quoted as saying in an interview in a new book, e-launched here on Saturday. The 182-page book, 'A Harvest of Inspiring Tales', by Singapore-based India-born author Soundara Nayaki Vairavan, has a series of interviews and articles on India-focused diplomats. Vairavan has penned a number of books in both English and Tamil languages. Periasamy said he had held a meeting with the Singapore Manufacturing Federation. The envoy noted Singapore’s financial hub status, high levels of success in developing vocational skills and knowledge of the ASEAN market. This "combined with India’s long term-term growth prospects, land availability and a large and young workforce willing to work at affordable wages offers complementarity that can be exploited for mutual benefit," he said. In addition, there are a number of areas such as research and innovation, start-ups, fintech, artificial intelligence, logistics, pharmaceuticals and vaccines that offer huge opportunities for partnership, Periasamy said. "The world is moving from a ‘just in time’ logistics model to a ‘just in case’ logistics model that increasingly emphasises reliability and resilience to unexpected disturbances," the diplomat quoted Singapore Foreign Minister Dr Vivian Balakrishnan. "India, as a country with shared values and a significant land area and geographical spread, can be a useful partner in this regard. So, overall I see a lot of opportunities for cooperation between India and Singapore. We hope to pursue as many of these as possible in the coming months and years," he said. The book was launched virtually by Benji Dorji, a former Bhutanese diplomat who served as Bhutan's Ambassador to the United Nations and European capitals from 1991 to 1994.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/potential-of-partnership-between-india-singapore-in-manufacturing-sector-envoy-981278.html
01-05-2021||National||India considering producing Covaxin abroad: Report||In the midst of a second Covid-19 wave and a vaccine shortage, the Indian government is giving thought to the idea of producing indigenously-developed Covaxin abroad. “There is a need to meet the demand for Covid-19 vaccines in view of the new mutation of the virus to more infectious nature. We have decided to offer Covaxin to any interested foreign countries. The production would be done through technology transfer between commercial entities. Terms and conditions for the same would have to be finalised by the licence holder, Bharat Biotech,” an official told Hindustan Times. “It has also been communicated to missions abroad to seek interested countries for production abroad.” He added that this would also apply to any other Indian vaccines developed in the future. The move is expected to meet India’s growing demand for Covid-19 vaccines||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-considering-producing-covaxin-abroad-report-981289.html
01-05-2021||National||Sent 3,000 oxygen concentrators to help India: UNICEF||The UNICEF said on Saturday that it sent critical lifesaving supplies, including 3,000 oxygen concentrators, to help India amid the ravaging second coronavirus wave. The United Nations child rights agency has supplied more than 500 high-flow nasal cannulas and 85 RT-PCR machines. It is supporting the procurement and installation of 25 oxygen plants for hospitals in the Northeast and Maharashtra, and the installation of more than 70 thermal scanners at various ports of entry nationwide, it said. "The scenes we are seeing in India are simply devastating," George Laryea-Adjei, UNICEF regional director for South Asia, said in a statement. "The most vulnerable families are paying a steep price for this deadly new surge." The UNICEF called on all partners who are able to support to immediately respond to the deadly new wave that is severely overstraining the health system in India, it said, stressing that urgent action was needed. "UNICEF has sent critical lifesaving supplies, including 3,000 oxygen concentrators, diagnostic tests, medical kits, and other equipment to help India in its battle with a deadly wave of Covid-19," it stated.   "Much more is needed as the outbreak continues to spread rapidly," Yasmin Haque, UNICEF representative in India, said in a statement. The UNICEF has also been assisting the government in ensuring functioning of the critical services for the most vulnerable children. The organisation has provided more than 11,000 personal protection kits for functionaries working on India's Childline so that childcare services could continue. Across all the states, UNICEF is providing guidance and support for the safety and care of children in childcare institutions. The UNICEF is also providing technical support to the government and partners to help 1.23 crore children in 17 states continue learning from home. For example, mobile learning centres in Bihar are helping 28,000 children who did not have access to any type of digital equipment to continue learning. "The UNICEF and partners also continue to support the Government of India in the acceleration of the national vaccine rollout to equitably reach all population groups," it said, Through its work on risk communication and communication engagement (RCCE), UNICEF has also consistently worked to counter misinformation and promote Covid-appropriate behaviours. New multimedia content is produced weekly in multiple languages for broadcast on digital channels and media, especially at the state level, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sent-3000-oxygen-concentrators-to-help-india-unicef-981293.html
01-05-2021||National||Centre permits oxygen concentrator imports via post, courier for personal use under gift category||The government has allowed import of oxygen concentrators for personal use through post, courier or e-commerce portals under the gift category amid increasing demand for oxygen due to rising Covid-19 cases, the commerce ministry said on Saturday. The exemption for oxygen concentrators is allowed only for a period till July 31, 2021, it said. Currently, all imported goods declared as gift with customs authorities attract customs duty and integrated GST. Rajat Mohan, a senior partner at AMRG and Associates, said, "Import of Oxygen concentrators in India are chargeable to a Basic customs duty of 10 per cent, IGST @12 per cent, topped up with applicable cesses. Exempting numerous Covid related relief materials, including Oxygen concentrators from levy of customs duty, would substantially lower the prices of these essential commodities with immediate effect". An oxygen concentrator is a medical device that concentrates oxygen from ambient air. It is in high demand due to increasing Covid-19 cases in the country. These concentrators capture and filter the air, unlike oxygen cylinders which can only store a fixed amount of oxygen. "The government has included the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use, through post, courier or e-commerce portals, in the list of exempted categories, where Customs clearance is sought as gifts," the ministry said. Earlier, oxygen concentrators were not mentioned in the list. Now, it has been added on account of its high demand due to Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-permits-oxygen-concentrator-imports-via-post-courier-for-personal-use-under-gift-category-981298.html
01-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Hardik and Krunal Pandya to donate 200 oxygen concentrators in rural areas||Mumbai Indians all-rounder Hardik Pandya on Saturday announced that his entire family, including brother Krunal, will donate 200 oxygen concentrators to help the rural areas of the country fight the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Talking ahead of his team's match against Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League, Hardik said his family had been looking for ways to help those in need. "Gratitude to all the medical staff, frontline workers and all the individuals who have come out and held their hands at such times to fight out the battle," Hardik said. "Krunal, myself and my mother -- basically our entire family, we were finding ways at trying to help out. We decided to donate 200 oxygen concentrators to the rural parts of India where I feel the medical infrastructure needs more support," he added. India is reeling under the second wave of the pandemic with cases rising rapidly, the crisis compounded by shortage of some crucial medicines and oxygen supplies. The country recorded over four lakh cases since Friday. "We all understand it's difficult, we want to show our gratitude, support and just want to tell everyone that they're always there in our prayers," Hardik added. Several cricketers, including Sachin Tendulkar, Shikhar Dhawan and Jaydev Undakat, Australians Pat Cummins and Brett Lee, and West Indies' Nicholas Pooran also stepped up to help in the fight against Covid-19. IPL sides are also pitching in. Rajasthan Royals have raised 7.5 crore while Delhi Capitals contributed Rs 1.5 crore for the cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hardik-and-krunal-pandya-to-donate-200-oxygen-concentrators-in-rural-areas-981304.html
01-05-2021||National||CBSE to announce Class X results tentatively by third week of June 2021||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Saturday announced a policy for tabulation of marks for class 10 board exams which have been cancelled in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year. "The students will be assessed out of maximum 100 marks for each subject. As per the policy of the board, 20 marks are for internal assessment and 80 marks are for year-end board examinations. "The weightage in terms of maximum marks for schools which have conducted the tests and exams through the year will be -- periodic test/unit test (10 marks), Haly year exam (30 marks) and pre-board exams (40 marks)," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. The board has asked schools to form a result committee consisting of the principal and seven teachers for finalising the results. Five teachers from the school should be from Mathematics, Social Science, Science, and two languages, and two teachers from neighbouring schools should be co-opted by the school as the external members of the committee. "In the pandemic situation, delivering fair and unbiased results to students on time is a challenging task. But the board is confident that every school leader and every teacher of CBSE affiliated schools will complete this process with the highest degree of professionalism, consistency, and care to ensure accurate and fair results. Schools will also have to ensure that the marks awarded by them should be in consonance with past performance of the school in class 10 board exams," he said. "Schools are expected to provide a fair and objective assessment of the student and have been given the autonomy and flexibility to do so. However, to take care of the variations in school-level evaluation processes, there is a need to standardize the scores across schools through a process of moderation of marks," he added. The CBSE has also warned schools against indulging in unfair and biased practices for assessment or they will have to face penalty or disaffiliation. The board said that the result will be announced by June 20. "The schools will form eight-member result committees by May 5. The provision for school-wise distribution of marks as well as finalisation of rationale document will happen by May 10. For candidates who have not appeared in enough tests through the year, the schools will conduct online or telephonic assessment for them by May 15 and will have to finalise the result by May 25," Bhardwaj said. The controller said that the marks will have to be submitted to the CBSE by June 11 and the result will be declared by June 20.  The CBSE had on April 14 cancelled class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The board exams are usually conducted in February-March. However, the board had decided to conduct them in May-June this year due to the pandemic situation. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of Covid-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes are again being suspended because of the rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-announce-class-x-results-tentatively-by-third-week-of-june-2021-981313.html
01-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Armed Forces to set up hospitals, oxygen care in key cities by coming week||The Defence Public Sector Undertakings are procuring 28 oxygen plants and other medical equipment worth Rs 40 crore under Corporate Social Responsibility efforts to supply to hospitals in various states as the nation struggles to cope with the sudden spurt in demand for medical oxygen with critical Covid-19 cases climbing every day. The first four out of 380 Oxygen PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) plants being manufactured under the PM CARES fund will be deployed in hospitals in New Delhi by next week. A 500-bed hospital being set up DRDO in Lucknow will start functioning in the next two to three days. Another hospital is also being set up in Varanasi, which is scheduled to be completed by May 5. In a meeting chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and attended by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, three service chiefs and heads of other wings of the Defence Ministry on Saturday, top officials informed Singh that a telemedicine service, to be operated by health veterans, would soon begin to provide consultations to those patients who remain at home.  The Indian Army has made available more than 720 beds for civilians in various states. The Indian Navy has deployed 200 Battle Field Nursing Assistants to assist in various hospitals. The National Cadet Corps has deployed 300 cadets and staff at various locations in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, and Haryana. Singh on Saturday directed the Armed Forces to provide all necessary assistance to the civilian administration in combating Covid-19. Besides Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, others who attended the meeting were DRDO chief Dr G Satheesh Reddy, Director General Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) Surgeon Vice Admiral Rajat Datta, Deputy Chief Integrated Defence Staff (Medical) Lieutenant General Madhuri Kanitkar, and Additional Secretary (Defence Production) Sanjay Jaju, along with other senior officials of MoD. Singh was briefed that approximately 600 additional doctors are being mobilised through special measures such as calling to duty those who had retired in the last few years. Singh directed the Army to share the details with local administration at the state and district levels. General Bipin Rawat suggested that local military commands had to be actively engaged in assisting the civil administration. Within a week, the Armed forces have been granted special powers twice to enable them to establish and operate quarantine facilities, hospitals, and undertake procurement and repair of equipment, items, material stores, besides provisioning of various services and work required to support the ongoing effort against the pandemic. The Armed Forces are transporting oxygen containers from abroad as well as within the country between places of consumption and production. While transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) carried out several sorties from Singapore, Bangkok, Dubai and within the country, the Indian Navy dispatched four ships — two to the Middle East and two to South East Asia — to transport filled oxygen containers to India. Till May 1, the IAF has carried out 28 sorties from abroad, airlifting 47 oxygen containers with 830 MT of capacity, while from within the country, it carried out 158 sorties, airlifting 109 containers with 2,271 MT capacity. The Navy and the Air Force have also supplied nearly 500 portable oxygen cylinders from their stores to various civilian hospitals. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited has set up a 250-bed hospital in Bengaluru. Another 250-bed hospital is being set up in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-armed-forces-to-set-up-hospitals-oxygen-care-in-key-cities-by-coming-week-981321.html
01-05-2021||National||Fake Remdesivir making unit busted in Gujarat, 7 held||The Gujarat police on Saturday busted a major duplicate Remdesivir manufacturing racket and arrested seven persons from three cities -- Morbi, Ahmedabad and Surat. Police seized over 60,000 empty vials, 30,000 fake stickers and over Rs 90 lakh cash said to have been made by selling the fake injections in the last ten to fifteen days. The accused have been taking advantage of the shortage of Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, which is being used in treating coronavirus cases. The Morbi police got a tip-off about two men suspiciously selling fake Remdesivir injections in the black market at a higher price. Based on the specific information, the police apprehended Rahul Koteya and Raviraj Hirani, both residents of Morbi and found 41 fake injections and Rs 2.15 lakh cash, which they allegedly earned by selling the fake injections, from their possession. In the interrogation, the duo told the cops that they had received the consignment of fake injection from persons residing at Juhapura in Ahmedabad. The information led the Morbi police to Mohammed Ashim alias Ashif and Ramiz Kadri. With the assistance of the Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch, the police arrested both of them and recovered 1,170 injections and Rs 17.37 lakh cash from them.   Their interrogation took Morbi police investigators to a farmhouse in Surat district. With the help of Surat rural police, the Morbi police team apprehended Kaushal Vora, a resident of Surat, who is said to be the mastermind of the racket, and his accomplice Mumbai resident Punit Talal Shah.   "The accused had taken the farmhouse on rent and were involved in making duplicate injections for the past 10 to 15 days. It was like a mini-factory. We have seized 30,000 stickers of Remdesivir and over 60,000 empty vials," said Morbi district Superintendent of Police Subodh Odedra. Meanwhile, the state government on Saturday said that police have registered 23 FIRs in the last month and 57 persons have been arrested for black marketing in the state. These cases have revealed that one injection, which costs Rs 899 in the market, is sold for up to Rs 30,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-remdesivir-making-unit-busted-in-gujarat-7-held-981323.html
01-05-2021||National||Seven states see symbolic start to 3rd phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive||At least seven states on Saturday launched the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive covering the 18-44 age group – albeit in a symbolic way – as infections across the country crossed the four lakh new cases per day mark. A few private hospitals such as Apollo Hospitals, Fortis Healthcare and Max Healthcare also started administering Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries at select centres across the country. Karnataka, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Gujarat began the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group with the small quantity of doses they managed to procure from vaccine makers. By the end of the day, Maharashtra had administered 11,492 doses of the vaccine in the 18-44 age group, while Chhattisgarh said it could inoculate 1,693 beneficiaries across three districts. In Odisha, a dry run of the vaccination drive was conducted in the Bhubaneshwar area, while Goa, Jharkhand and Kerala said that the vaccination drive could not be started due to non-availability of vaccines. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group began symbolically at one vaccination centre in Saraswati Vihar in the national capital. He said the national capital had received 4.5 lakh doses of vaccines and the immunisation drive will begin at more centres from Monday. Earlier, the vaccination drive covered only healthcare workers, frontline workers and those above the age of 45 who the government had identified as “priority group” for receiving vaccines. India has managed to administer 15.5 crore doses of vaccines since the vaccination drive began on January 16. The immunisation drive has been marred by shortages with state governments accusing the Centre for failing to foresee the surge in demand and opting to import the vaccines to foreign countries. The 15.5 crore doses imply 11.5 per cent of the total population of 138 crore have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. However, only 25 lakh people have received both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-states-see-symbolic-start-to-3rd-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-981331.html
01-05-2021||National||Ambulance driver held for demanding Rs 8,500 to ferry Covid-19 patient||The Delhi Police has arrested an ambulance driver for allegedly demanding Rs 8,500 to shift a Covid-19 patient, officials said on Saturday. Police said 30-year-old Pramod Kumar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad, was arrested after a complaint was lodged by a man named Irshad alleged where he alleged that he was charged Rs 8,500 for shifting a patient for a distance of five kilometres, they said. The complainant alleged that he had to shift his Covid positive relative from Apollo hospital in Jasola to Holy family hospital. The ambulance driver demanded Rs 8,500 to shift the patient for a distance of five kilometers, a senior police officer said. The police sent a decoy client who asked Kumar to shift a patient from the Apollo hospital to Holy Family hospital, officials said. This time, the ambulance driver demanded Rs 9,500, the officer said. "After some bargaining, he agreed to take the patient for Rs 8,500. The decoy customer gave him Rs 8,500 cash. The accused was then apprehended," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) R P Meena said. In a similar case in northeast Delhi, a man named Satish, a resident of Sonia Vihar, made a PCR call on Friday, complaining that D K Ambulance Service was charging a high price to shift a patient. "The complainant said through Twitter, he came across a tweet where D K Ambulance Service was charging Rs 10,000 for a short distance of four kilometres. "To verify the facts, he called the office of the ambulance service. He asked them to provide an ambulance to shift a patient from Sonia Vihar to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital. He was asked to pay Rs 15,000," Deputy Commissioner of Police (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain said. Thereafter, he made a PCR call and provided the printout of the receipt, they said. During investigation, the accused was identified as Devendra. He was the owner of D K Ambulance Services and runs it from his residence. He was providing services to shift patients through hospitals and social media, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambulance-driver-held-for-demanding-rs-8500-to-ferry-covid-19-patient-981332.html
01-05-2021||National||Congress launches doctors' helpline, plasma donors directory||Congress on Saturday launched a medical advisory helpline and a plasma help link for those battling Covid-19 at a time when the second wave of the pandemic has been raging throughout the country. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi announced the launch of the ‘Hello Doctor’ helpline – 9983836838 – for giving medical advice to those in need and asked doctors and mental health professionals to sign up to reach those in need. “India needs to stand together and help our people,” Rahul said. “At this unprecedented health crisis, the nation needs compassion, support and hope from each of us. If you are a doctor, kindly register yourself under “Hello Doctor” initiative by AICC, to consult the patient,” he said in an appeal to doctors. With the increasing demand for plasma donors across the country, Congress also launched a ‘plasma help link’ and asked party workers who have recovered from Covid-19 to sign up as donors.   “We have received 20,000 requests from across the country for plasma donation. In Delhi alone, we have 3,000 requests for plasma. We have been able to help only 600,” Srinivas B V, President, Youth Congress told reporters. The Youth Congress now plans to make a district and block-wise list of plasma donors and link them up with those in need. Earlier, BJP President J P Nadda had launched a nation-wide free teleconsultation helpline – 8068173286 – to help Covid patients in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-launches-doctors-helpline-plasma-donors-directory-981335.html
01-05-2021||National||Rajnath Singh asks military officials to monitor progress of initiatives taken to help fight pandemic||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday asked top military and Defence Ministry officials to closely monitor the progress of various initiatives they have embarked upon to support the civilian administration in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infections as hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of oxygen and beds. Singh held a meeting with the officials on Saturday through video conferencing to review their efforts in supporting the civilian administration in its combat against the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a statement by the Defence Ministry noted. Singh was briefed by the officials that approximately 600 additional doctors are being mobilised through special measures such as calling to duty those who had retired in the last few years, it said. "The Indian Navy has deployed 200 battlefield nursing assistants to assist in various hospitals. The National Cadet Corps has deployed 300 cadets and staff at various locations in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Haryana," the statement added. He was briefed that the Indian Army has made available more than 720 beds for civilians in various states.  "The Raksha Mantri (Defence Minister) directed the Army to share the details with local administration at state and district levels. General Bipin Rawat suggested that local military commands have to be actively engaged in assisting the civil administration," the statement noted. Rawat, the Chief of Defence Staff, along with Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, Army Chief General M M Naravane, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Chairman G Satheesh Reddy and other officials attended the meeting through video conferencing. Singh was informed at Saturday's meeting that the 500-bed hospital being set up by the Defence Research Defence Organisation in Lucknow will start functioning in the next two to three days, the statement noted.  "Another hospital is also being set up in Varanasi which is scheduled to be completed by May 5," it said. The DRDO chairman said the first four of 380 oxygen pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, which are being manufactured with the assistance of the PM CARES fund, will be deployed in hospitals in Delhi by the next week, it noted. Singh reiterated that the armed forces should provide all necessary assistance to the civilian administration and asked the top military officials as well as the officials of the Defence Ministry "to closely monitor the progress of various initiatives". India's daily coronavirus tally crossed the grim milestone of four lakh, while the death toll rose to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. The infection tally rose to 1,91,64,969 with 4,01,993 new cases, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-asks-military-officials-to-monitor-progress-of-initiatives-taken-to-help-fight-pandemic-981354.html
01-05-2021||National||Leaders demand Covid-19 lockdown beyond May 3 in Goa||Several leaders in Goa have demanded that the state government extend the coronavirus-induced lockdown beyond Monday for another 10-15 days. The Covid-19-related curbs came into force at 9 pm on Thursday and will remain applicable till 6 am on Monday. Goa recorded 2,303 new cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 93,355, while 54 deaths raised the toll to 1,222. State Port Minister Michael Lobo tweeted that he had spoken to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and had sought an extension of the lockdown by "10 days with stricter SOPs". Opposition MLAs Prasad Gaonkar and Rohan Khaunte also said the lockdown should be extended, with the latter claiming that a longer lockdown of 15 days would help the state "rectify" its statistics.   Goa Youth Congress chief Varad Mardolkar said a 15-day lockdown would help in tackling the massive second wave of infections that has struck the state. Goa currently has an active caseload of 23,884.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaders-demand-covid-19-lockdown-beyond-may-3-in-goa-981357.html
01-05-2021||National||Allocation of remdesivir for states increased significantly, says Sadananda Gowda||Allocation of antiviral drug remdesivir, which is used in the treatment of Covid-19, has been increased significantly to states to ensure uninterrupted supply to patients, Union minister Sadananda Gowda said on Saturday. The chemicals and fertilizers minister also said that medical oxygen allotment for Karnataka has also been increased. In a tweet, Gowda said, "To ensure adequate uninterrupted supply to the needy Covid-19 patients allocation of #Remdesivir for the states has been significantly increased." In another tweet, the minister said, "Medical oxygen allotment for Karnataka has also been increased from 802 MT/day to 865 MT/day." Medical oxygen allotment for Karnataka has also been increased from 802 MT/day to 865 MT/day. A total of 34.5 lakh remdesivir vials are allocated to the states and union territories from April 21 to May 9, 2021, Gowda said. This includes earlier allocation made for the period of April 21 to May 2, 2021 issued by letter issued April 29, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allocation-of-remdesivir-for-states-increased-significantly-says-sadananda-gowda-981361.html
01-05-2021||National||Russia looking forward to cooperate with India to contain Covid-19||As the first batch of 1,50,000 doses of Russian-made Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine arrived in India, Russia on Saturday said it was looking forward to further expand bilateral and multilateral cooperation with New Delhi to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Russian Ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev said the efficacy of the Sputnik V is among the highest in the world, and the vaccine will also be effective against new strains of Covid-19. "As Russia and India continue dedicated joint efforts to combat the Covid-19, this move is especially important to support the Indian government's endeavours to mitigate the deadly second wave and save lives," he said. "The efficacy of the Sputnik V is among the highest in the world, and this vaccine will also be effective against new strains of Covid-19," he added. Kudashev said the production of the Sputnik V vaccine in India is starting soon and the plan is to gradually increase the production up to 850 million doses per year. "Look forward to further expand our bilateral and multilateral cooperation with India to stop the pandemic," he said. The first consignment of the Sputnik V doses landed in Hyderabad from Russia on Saturday.   Leading pharma company Dr Reddy's Laboratories has tied up with the Russian Direct Investment Fund for procurement and production of the vaccine in India. On Thursday, Russia delivered to India 20 tonnes of medical supplies mainly comprising oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines as part of its assistance to help the country deal with the second wave of the pandemic that gripped several states and union territories. The medical supplies were brought to Delhi in two transport aircraft operated by Russia's EMERCOM, a state-run agency overseeing civil emergency services The relief materials were delivered a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin held a telephonic conversation focusing on ways to contain the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-looking-forward-to-cooperate-with-india-to-contain-covid-19-981363.html
01-05-2021||National||Centre slashes integrated GST on oxygen concentrators for personal use from 28% to 12%||The government on Saturday slashed Integrated GST rate on oxygen concentrators for personal use to 12 per cent, from 28 per cent earlier, for two months till June 30. "IGST on Import of Oxygen Concentrators for personal use has been reduced from 28 per cent to 12 per cent to bring IGST rate on such personal imports at par with commercial imports of the same,” the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) tweeted. This reduced IGST rate for imports of concentrator for personal use shall be applicable up to June 30. The government had last month waived customs duty on import of medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator and related equipment. Under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the tax levied on consumption of goods or rendering of service is split 50:50 between the Centre and the state. On inter-state movement of goods as well as imports, an Integrated-GST or IGST is levied, which accrues to the Centre. The amount paid as IGST can be utilised by businesses for claiming credit while making CGST or SGST payments at the time of actual sale. The government on Friday had allowed imports of oxygen concentrators for personal use through post, courier or e-commerce portals under the gift category amid increasing demand for oxygen due to rising Covid-19 cases. Demand for oxygen-related equipment has been increasing in the wake of second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. India reported a record over 4.01 lakh new Covid-19 infections and 3,523 deaths on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-slashes-integrated-gst-on-oxygen-concentrators-for-personal-use-from-28-to-12-981365.html
01-05-2021||National Politics||Evolve political consensus on national policy to tackle Covid-19 surge: Sonia Gandhi to Centre||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday sought political consensus on a national strategy to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it was time the central and state governments woke up to fulfil their responsibilities. In a video message, Gandhi also renewed her demand for free Covid-19 vaccines for all and asked the central government to put Rs 6,000 in the bank accounts of the poor families to prevent their migration to villages. “Earlier too, our country has faced bigger problems successfully through unity. Congress will support every step taken by the Centre to save the country from the problem of Covid-19,” the Congress President said. कोरोना महामारी के इस चुनौतीपूर्ण समय में आपके व आपके परिवार की सुरक्षा और अच्छे स्वास्थ्य की कामना करती हूं। वह लाखों परिवार जिन्होंने अपने परिजनों को खोया है, उनके प्रति दिल से अपनी संवेदना व्यक्त करती हूं। Gandhi’s message came at a time when the Supreme Court too has questioned the Centre over the differential pricing of Covid-19 vaccines and suggested invocation of the compulsory licensing provisions of the Patents Act to regulate the prices of vaccines. “Testing should be increased across the country and medical oxygen and other resources should be arranged on a war footing. Free vaccination should be arranged for all citizens so that people can be saved. A compulsory vaccine license should be invoked to increase vaccine coverage. Black-marketing of life-saving medicines should be stopped,” she said.   She said lakhs of people are getting affected amid the pandemic every day and lakhs have died so far. “These are testing times and we have to support each other. Most states continue to grapple with shortage of medical oxygen, hospital beds and medicines,” she said. “I bow down to all the doctors and health workers who are serving Covid patients while putting themselves at risk. We have to go beyond the differences. Our country has overcome many huge struggles in the past. Congress will support the centre in this battle,” Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/evolve-political-consensus-on-national-policy-to-tackle-covid-19-surge-sonia-gandhi-to-centre-981177.html
01-05-2021||National Politics||Former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin dies of Covid-19||Jailed former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin died of Covid-19 at DDU Hospital here on Saturday, Delhi Prisons Department said. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, “Information has been received from DDU Hospital about the death of Mohd Shahabuddin, an inmate of Delhi Prisons. He was suffering from COVID-19 and was admitted to DDU Hospital on April 20.” Prison officials said he was admitted to the ICU of the hospital two three days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-rjd-mp-mohammad-shahabuddin-dies-of-covid-19-981181.html
01-05-2021||National Politics||World shaken by India's Covid-19 situation; Modi government focussed only on imagery: Rahul Gandhi||As India logged a world record of over four lakh coronavirus infections on Saturday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the entire world is shaken by what is happening here and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of "dropping the ball and throwing it to states" after prematurely taking credit for having "won against Covid-19" when the second wave was already underway. "Rely on yourself is the motto. No one will come to help you. Definitely, not the prime minister," Gandhi said, while alleging that the Covid-19 situation has gone completely out of control for the Modi government, and wondered whether it was their way of making the states and the citizens truly 'Aatmanirbhar'. In an exclusive interview to PTI, the former Congress chief alleged that the government completely failed to understand or to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, right from the very beginning, despite repeated warnings including from scientists. Training his guns on the prime minister and Home Minister Amit Shah, Gandhi said India must be the only country in the world facing this massive pandemic without the guidance of an expert and empowered group that is charged with fighting the virus and protecting the people, with planning ahead, anticipating needs and taking the decisions that will result in swift action to save lives. "They continuously ignored rising cases and were busy instead with election campaigns. They encouraged super-spreader events. They even bragged about them. Our Prime Minister and Home Minister were not even wearing masks in public over the past few months. What sort of a message is that sending to citizens?" Gandhi said. He was referring to election rallies that were recently held for five assemblies for West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry. Leaders of all major parties including BJP and Congress participated in rallies, but decided to curtail the size of meetings and even cancelled some towards the end of the campaign for West Bengal when cases began rising more sharply. Gandhi, who was among the first to cancel his rallies and had also urged other political leaders to do so, noted that the second Covid-19 wave is a tsunami that has brought absolute devastation and has destroyed everything in its way. The former Congress chief termed the story of vaccine pricing in the country as one of "discount sales" and a "complete eyewash" alleging that the vaccine makers first marked up the prices and then reduced that while making a show of the entire exercise. Asked who is responsible for the current situation, Gandhi said, "The prime minister is at fault. He runs a highly centralised and personalised government machinery, is solely and substantially devoted to building his own brand, is utterly focused on imagery rather than substance." "The fact is that this government completely failed to understand or to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic — right from the very beginning, despite repeated warnings," he alleged. Attacking the Modi Government over the handling of the situation, he alleged it is "plainly arrogant and focuses on perception over reality". "Now that the situation is completely out of control, they have dropped the ball and thrown it to the states... The need of the hour is to hold hands, work together and heal our people," Gandhi said. Gandhi alleged that the government declared victory against the virus too soon and that this was "absolute insanity" and demonstrated a complete misunderstanding of the nature of what this virus was. The only way to fight Corona is with humility and by realizing that you are faced with a relentless opponent, who can adapt and is very resilient, he said, noting that the prime minister had an entire year to better prepare, to protect India, and to think through this crisis but did nothing. "The Modi Government was both grossly negligent and blindly overconfident. The BJP announced the end of the pandemic and congratulated the Prime Minister for his 'success' even as the second wave was just beginning. The Prime Minister himself is on record as having said that India had successfully fought the pandemic and won. In reality, there was no coherent strategy," he said. The former Congress chief said the only solution we have is vaccination and India is supposed to be the largest manufacturer of vaccines in the world. "And yet, India is desperately short of vaccines. We are making them, why were our people not the first in line to be vaccinated? If that is not a failure to plan and execute, what is?" Gandhi said since the start of the pandemic in 2020, he warned the government about the disaster ahead if urgent steps to prepare were not taken, but they attacked me and ridiculed me. "It's not just me -– anyone who tried to sound the alarm, the state callously and thoughtlessly ignored," he said. He alleged that the Modi Government let this virus enter India through our airports in February and March of 2020 and then it panicked and without consultation or thought imposed the world's harshest lockdown. Gandhi alleged that this is a government that wants to control everything. "When cases went down, they declared victory, and the Prime Minister took all the credit as he always does. Now that the situation is terrible, why are you blaming the states?" He said Congress is willing to support the government in this crisis, but the problem arises when the government doesn't believe in consultation, in carrying everyone along, in tapping expertise it lacks. "This government seems to think that acknowledging help is needed is a sign of weakness. The hubris and pettiness of this government is unbelievable," he said. On the Madras High Court recently accusing the Election of being a super spreader, Gandhi said the Court was echoing a widely held view. In the past 7 years, like so many other institutions, the Election Commission of India has also crumbled and "The Court has said what it believes, I don't want to make any further comment. Let your readers judge for themselves." He said our institutions are a warning system — they give us feedback and information on how to respond to crisis but our institutions have been completely destroyed and taken over. "The press, judiciary, election commission, bureaucracy - none of them have played their role of guardian/watchdog. This means India today is like a ship in a storm, sailing without any information. "Corona is just part of the problem — the real problem is that India now doesn’t have the capacity to respond to any major crisis because of what has been done to its systems over the last six years," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/world-shaken-by-indias-covid-19-situation-modi-government-focussed-only-on-imagery-rahul-gandhi-981292.html
01-05-2021||National Politics||Workers to decide who should lead party, will do whatever party wants, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said he favours internal elections within the party and it will be the workers who will decide who should lead the party and asserted that he will do whatever the party asks him to. In an exclusive interview with PTI, he said the organisational elections within the party would be held in time, but what is required now is saving lives and controlling the pandemic. There have been demands by the 'Group of 23' leaders for early organisational elections and a full-time Congress president. The group led by former Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad had written to interim president Sonia Gandhi in August last year raising their demands. "I have always favoured internal organisational elections within the Congress and these will be conducted in time," he told PTI. "It is for the party workers to decide as to who should lead the party. I will do whatever the party wants me to do," he said when asked whether he was ready to lead the party again. Gandhi had quit as Congress president in May last year taking responsibility for the party's humiliating defeat in the Lok Sabha elections. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has said that the party would see a new Congress president by June 2021, after she chaired a meeting of the Congress Working Committee earlier this year. "But right now the focus is on controlling the pandemic, saving lives, and alleviating India’s widespread suffering and pain. There will be time for everything else in due course," Gandhi also said. He has blamed the Central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the current crisis in the country due to the second wave of coronavirus which has seen India clocking a record over 4 lakh cases a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/workers-to-decide-who-should-lead-party-will-do-whatever-party-wants-says-rahul-gandhi-981300.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Janata curfew extended in Indore till May 7||Janata curfew has been extended in Indore in Madhya Pradesh till May 7 amid a rise in coronavirus cases, an official said on Friday. The order was issued under Section 144 of CrPC by Collector Manish Singh, he added. The urban areas of the district, the worst hit in the state, have been under janata curfew since April 20. As per the order, movement of people will be allowed for essential and emergency purposes, while milk, grocery, fruits and vegetable outlets will remain open for a fixed period of time in the day. Indore has a caseload of 1,10,840, including 1,139 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/janata-curfew-extended-in-indore-till-may-7-981024.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Lockdown extended in Rajasthan till May 17||The Rajasthan government on Friday extended the lockdown till May 17 due to the soaring coronavirus infections. The Home Department principal secretary issued the order, calling it 'Pandemic Red Alert- Public Discipline Fortnight'. The restrictions, which were imposed from April 19 to to May 3, were extended for 15 days All workplaces, except a few government offices engaged in COVID management, and markets would remain closed, according to the guidelines. Retail and wholesale shops of grocery, flour mills, cattle feed will continue to open for five hours from 6 am to 11 am from Monday to Friday, while dairy shops would operate daily from 6 am to 11 am and from 5 pm to 7 pm. Wholesale markets, vegetable and fruit shops, garland vendors will continue to open daily from 6 am to 11 am. Vendors who sell fruits and vegetables on pull carts, e-rickshaws and others would also be allowed from 6  am to 11 am daily. Optical shops will also be allowed to open on Tuesday and Friday from 6 am to 11 am. Only 31 people will be allowed in marriage ceremonies and the wedding functions will be allowed for only three hours. If anyone who is not under exempted category is found roaming, that person will be shifted to institutional quarantine facility till the RTPCR report is negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-extended-in-rajasthan-till-may-17-981027.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC asks state govt to explain why Covid-19 testing has drastically gone down||The Delhi High Court Friday cited data to ask the AAP government to explain why Covid-19 testing has gone down drastically in the national capital. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli noted that while earlier the testing was around one lakh, now it has reduced to 70-80,000 per day. "Your testing has gone down drastically...," the bench said and asked the Delhi government to explain it. Advocate Ankur Mahindroo, representing a petitioner, said there was no headway in testing and the government can start with RAT at mohalla clinics and mobile clinics but the testing shall not be stalled. He added that mobile vans for testing can be set up in containment zones and hospitals and such tests can be undertaken by the attendants of the patients. The court asked the government to examine this aspect and inform it on Monday. Delhi government counsel Satyakam said these are suggestions where the government cannot have an adversarial view. He said, "We are testing 70 to 80,000 per day... We were testing around one lakh before the curfew. We were going to market places...so those 30,000 were reduced." He added that this was not the final explanation and they have also written to all the labs asking them not to stop the testings. Meanwhile, the counsel for one of the oxygen refillers, 'Seth Air' raised the issue of running out of funds and that the allocation of oxygen made to him was much higher that its capacity and he was unable to supply it, which the court said the Delhi government has to sort out. Advocate Abhinav Tyagi said the refiller's payment was stuck and his outstanding bills were not being paid by the hospitals, to whom he supplies oxygen, and Delhi government and now he was not in a position to lift oxygen supplies from the supplier. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi government, said the dues of 'Seth Air' will be cleared by the government at the earlier so that supply chain of the gas is not affected. The court then asked refiller to continue with the supplies and not to shut his services, saying it will affect hundreds of people admitted in hospitals where he supplies oxygen. Tyagi also raised another issue that the supplier Linde was now giving oxygen to 'Seth Air' at a higher rate and he does not have funds for it. To this, the court interacted with the counsel for Linde who agreed that for the time being, the refiller can take the oxygen supplies on old rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-state-govt-to-explain-why-covid-19-testing-has-drastically-gone-down-981054.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Record 98 new Covid-19 deaths in Haryana; 13,833 fresh cases||Haryana on Friday continued to register a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases and fatalities with the state recording biggest single-day jump of 98 deaths, raising the toll to 4,216, while 13,833 fresh infections pushed the tally to 4,87,978. On April 29, Haryana had recorded 97 fatalities and the biggest single-day surge in cases so far with 13,947 infections. According to the health department daily bulletin, Gurugram district saw a huge surge in infections with 4,435 fresh cases. Fourteen of the new fatalities linked to the virus were from Gurugram, 11 from Hisar, 9 from Ambala, eight from Rewari and Bhiwani and seven each from Kaithal and Karnal districts. Other districts that reported a big spike in cases include Faridabad (1,434), Hisar (860), Sonipat (912) and  Karnal (883). The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state inched towards the one-lakh mark with 97,562 cases. So far, 3,86,200 people have recovered and the state has a recovery rate of 79.14 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/record-98-new-covid-19-deaths-in-haryana-13833-fresh-cases-981055.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees 375 Covid-19 deaths, over 27,000 cases in a day; positivity rate 32.69%||Delhi on Friday recorded 375 deaths due to the coronavirus and 27,047 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 32.69 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the city health department. This is the ninth day on the trot that Delhi has recorded over 300 coronavirus-related deaths. It had reported 395 deaths, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, on Thursday; 368 deaths on Wednesday; 381 on Tuesday; 380 on Monday; 350 on Sunday; 357 deaths on Saturday, and 348 on Friday, according to government data. The national capital had recorded 24,235 cases on Thursday; 25,986 on Wednesday; 24,149 on Tuesday; 20,201 on Monday; 22,933 on Sunday; 24,103 on Saturday; 24,331 on Friday and 26,169 on Thursday. The positivity rate was 32.82 per cent on Thursday, 31.76 per cent on Wednesday, 32.72 per cent on Tuesday, 35.02 per cent on Monday, 30.21 per cent on Sunday, 32.27 per cent on Saturday, 32.43 on Friday, and 36.24 on Thursday -- the highest so far. The cumulative case count stands at 11,49,333, of which over 10.33 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 16,147, the bulletin said. A total of 82,745 tests, including 20,011 rapid-antigen tests, were conducted in the said period, it added. The tally of active cases in the city was at 99,361. Out of 20,938 beds in city hospitals, only 1,199 are vacant. A total of 51616 patients are recovering in home isolation, the bulletin said. A total of 74,250 vaccine doses were administered to people in the said period and the beneficiaries comprised 42,917 who took the first dose and 31,333 who received the second dose, the bulletin said. The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 37,223 from 35,924 the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-375-covid-19-deaths-over-27000-cases-in-a-day-positivity-rate-3269-981062.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi still facing medical oxygen 'crisis', says Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said oxygen crisis still persists in the national capital and they grapple with an SOS situation every day. Hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs have been grappling with oxygen shortage. Last week, several hospitals had sent out SOS messages about depleting oxygen supplies at their medical facilities and some hospitals had even lost patients due to the crisis situation. "Reviewed the status of oxygen supply in hospitals. The crisis still persists and shall continue till we get sufficient quantity of supply. Not for a single day has Delhi been able to receive the allocated quantity of 490 MT oxygen. Every day is an SOS situation for Delhi," Sisodia tweeted on Friday. Saroj Super Specialty Hospital owner Pankaj Chawla said the crisis has not been resolved. "At least, we are not required to make SOS calls frequently. That is not happening, but the crisis has not resolved," he said. Sudhanshu Bankata, Executive Director, Batra Hospital, concurred with Chawla. "At 5 pm on Friday, the oxygen pressure had dropped as we had only 1 ton of oxygen left," he said. The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre as to why Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were given more oxygen than they asked for while Delhi's allocation was not increased as per the request of the AAP government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-still-facing-medical-oxygen-crisis-says-sisodia-981065.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Boeing announces $10 million assistance package for India's fight against Covid-19||US aerospace major Boeing on Friday announced a $10 million (about Rs 74 crore) emergency assistance package for India to support the country's response to the current surge in Covid-19 cases. The assistance from Boeing will be directed to organisations providing relief, including medical supplies and emergency healthcare for communities and families battling the pandemic, the company said in a release. Boeing has some 3,000 employees working in India, besides local customers, suppliers, and business partners. "The Covid-19 pandemic has devastated communities across the globe, and our hearts go out to our friends in India who are going through a very difficult time. “Boeing is a global citizen, and in India, we are directing our pandemic response to the communities most impacted by this recent surge of cases," Boeing Company president and chief executive officer Dave Calhoun said. The company also said it will partner with local and international relief organisations to deploy the $10 million to the areas of greatest need in consultation with medical, government and public health experts. Boeing employees also have an opportunity to donate personally to charitable organisations supporting Covid-19 relief in India, it said. Also, as part of the Boeing Gift Match programme, the company will match monetary donations dollar for dollar, extending the reach of assistance being provided to the Indian people, it said. "Boeing not only stands in solidarity with the Indian people in their effort to confront this pandemic, but we will also be a part of the solution. We will continue to monitor the pandemic response in India and work to support our employees, customers, and partners through this crisis,” Calhoun added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/boeing-announces-10-million-assistance-package-for-indias-fight-against-covid-19-981066.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Protesting farmers to celebrate May Day as Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Diwas||Farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the Centre's new agri laws will celebrate May Day as Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Diwas, a statement from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Friday. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) is an umbrella body of farm unions that is spearheading the agitation. The farmers celebrated the 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Guru of Sikhs Sri Tegh Bahadur on Friday. "It has been more than five months since farmers have been sitting on the borders of Delhi. The central government is forcibly imposing laws on the farmers. Taking inspiration from Guru Teg Bahadur Ji, the farmers are fighting," the statement said. Religious organizations, including farmer leaders, called for strengthening the protest by joining in any form. It was decided in the joint meeting of the SKM and Central Trade Unions that May Day would be celebrated as Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Divas on May 1. "Tomorrow, the workers and farmers will jointly challenge the government strongly on all protest sites," the statement said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops since November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-to-celebrate-may-day-as-mazdoor-kisan-ekta-diwas-981076.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||No prisoner has tested positive for Covid-19 in J&K jails: DG Prisons||Despite a huge surge in the second wave of Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir, no prisoner lodged in 13 major jails of the Union Territory (UT) has tested positive for coronavirus so far. “There are 4,550 prisoners lodged in 13 jails across J&K at the moment; none has tested positive for Covid,” official figures reveal. In Kotbalwal jail Jammu, there are 884 prisoners; in Central Jail Srinagar, 612 prisoners; district jail Jammu, 666; district jail Kathua, 345; district jail Udhampur, 474; district jail Bhaderwah, 171; district jail Rajouri, 251; district jail Baramulla, 300; district jail Kupwara, 261 and district jail Anantnag has 285 prisoners, the figures state. There have been seven new arrivals to the various jails of J&K besides the previous figure of 206. Official documents suggest there is no congestion in any of the prisons and the number of prisoners is less than available capacity in all jails. Director General Prisons J&K, V K Singh, said all new arrivals are being accepted only with Covid-19 negative certificates. “In case of a Covid-positive prisoner, he/she is being shifted to Government Medical College (GMC) with a guard till he recovers,” he said. “Even negative cases on arrival are put under mandatory quarantine. We keep the immune system of inmates in good form by allowing inmates to talk to next of kins (NoKs), play cultural/sports, good sleep etc. Besides, every prisoner wears face masks, uses sanitisers while jails are being fumigated constantly,” the DG Prisons added. These figures from J&K jails come at a time when reports continue to pour in from New Delhi about some Kashmiri prisoners testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-prisoner-has-tested-positive-for-covid-19-in-jk-jails-dg-prisons-981184.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||SC allows counting in UP Panchayat polls with Covid-19 protocols||The Supreme Court on Saturday said heavens would not fall if counting of votes in Panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh, scheduled on May 2, were deferred for a few weeks, due to rising number of Covid-19 cases. The court, however, allowed the Uttar Pradesh State Election Commission to go ahead with the process with strict compliance of Covid-19 guidelines, along with antigen tests for officials and candidates. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Hrishikesh Roy accepted assurance from the state government that rules would be changed to make Covid-19 test mandatory for the officials and candidates entering 829 counting centres. The country has recorded over four lakh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, its highest-ever increase in cases, and over 3,500 deaths. To the court's remark that heavens would not fall if counting was postponed, Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati submitted that it was a choice between devil and deep sea as the state would be deprived of five lakh elected rural representatives to fight Covid surge. There was a constitutional mandate to conduct polls on-time and the state was bound by an order of the Allahabad High Court as well, she said, adding only two lakh seats. The law officer also submitted the counting of ballot papers, scheduled on Sunday, would be held under the weekend curfew, extended till Tuesday morning. It would be easier to control the crowd with officials told to be on guard, she said. The ASG Bhari also said a class-one gazetted officer who will be responsible for observance of Covid protocol at each counting centre. The proceedings would be video recorded and no general public would be allowed at the counting centres. The court directed for presenting the video footage before the Allahabad High Court hearing a matter related to Covid-19 management. Four-phased Panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh ended on April 29, amid reports that 700 teachers died during the election duty. The court disposed of two petitions filed by Sachin Yadav and Kanhaiya Lal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-allows-counting-in-up-panchayat-polls-with-covid-19-protocols-981189.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Truck laden with Covid-19 vaccine abandoned for 12 hours in Madhya Pradesh after driver goes missing||A truck carrying 2.40 lakh doses of Covaxin worth Rs 8 crore was left parked for nearly 12 hours after its driver went missing under mysterious circumstances in Madhya Pradesh's Narsinghpur district, police said on Saturday. The Tamil Nadu-registered vehicle, which was transporting the vaccine from Hyderabad to Karnal in Haryana, was left abandoned for nearly 12 hours in Kareli area, Narsinghpur superintendent of police Vipul Shrivastava said. The matter came to light on Friday afternoon when the police were informed that a truck, with a mention of vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech on it, was parked near Kareli bus stand, around 16 km from the district headquarters, the official said. According to the police, the truck contained 2.40 lakh doses of Covaxin worth Rs 8 crore. "We contacted the transport company TCI of Gurgaon and informed them about the driverless truck. The company also got worried when they couldn't contact the driver after finding out the GPS system that the vehicle remained stationary at Kareli," Shrivastava said. The company then arranged for another driver and the truck set off for Karnal at 8 pm, he said, adding that the driver Vikas Mishra is still missing. "We tracked down his phone at a place 16 km from the spot. As the engine of the vehicle was on, its refrigerator with vaccine doses was functioning. So, I feel that vaccines were safe," he added. When asked if incidents of truck loots had been reported on the route in the past, Shrivastava said road robberies are almost naught in the region. "Circumstantial evidence suggests that the driver was not robbed. Efforts are on to trace the driver, who is in his early to mid-20s and hails from Amethi, Uttar Pradesh," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/truck-laden-with-covid-19-vaccine-abandoned-for-12-hours-in-madhya-pradesh-after-driver-goes-missing-981196.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Man rams car into police picket after falling asleep, kills constable||A 42-year-old man allegedly rammed his car into a police picket killing a constable in southwest Delhi's Vasant Vihar area early on Saturday morning, officials said. The accident took place around 4 am at Al-Kauser picket when the accused, Samit Yadav, dozed off while he was returning from a hospital after attending to his Covid-19 positive wife, police said. The deceased constable was identified as Munshi Lal, 57, they said. "The offending vehicle, Honda CRV, rammed into the picket tent that was erected for staff to ensure lockdown and dragged Lal for 30 to 40 meters," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said. The constable was rushed to AIIMS trauma centre where he died during the course of treatment, he said. Yadav, a resident of Munirka, who works in IT sector, was apprehended from the spot, police said. He told police that he fell asleep while returning from Max Hospital, Gurgaon, to attend to his wife, the DCP said. Yadav was taken to Vasant Vihar police station and given a PPE kit and isolated in police station premises. His medical test will be conducted soon, police said, adding a case has been registered under relevant sections of law and investigation is underway. Lal, an ex-serviceman, was posted in Vasant Vihar police station since August 28, 2020, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-rams-car-into-police-picket-after-falling-asleep-kills-constable-981205.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||12 Covid-19 patients die in Delhi's Batra Hospital due to oxygen shortage||In a shocking incident highlighting oxygen scarcity in the national capital, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, died at a leading hospital here due to oxygen shortage with Delhi High Court warning the Centre to provide oxygen to the capital or face contempt. As Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal described the incident as painful, Batra Hospital Medical Director Dr SCL Gupta said one of the dead was the head of gastroenterology department Dr R K Imrani, who was under medical care for Covid-19. Gupta initially had put the toll at eight while the hospital authorities later updated it to 12. "We had alerted authorities that we were running out of oxygen. Our desperate SOS did not get immediate response. When we received oxygen, eight patients were no more. Those people could have been rescued. This is not right," Gupta said.   "This is happening in Delhi, the national capital and if it is happening here, you can imagine what is happening in other parts of the country," he said. Hospital authorities said they had run out of oxygen at 12:30 PM and the tanker came only at 1.35 PM despite repeated SOS before and after it ran out of oxygen. Kejriwal tweeted soon after Gupta went on record to talk about the incident, "this news is very painful. Their lives could have been saved by giving oxygen on time. Delhi should be given its quota of oxygen. Such deaths of our people should not happen. Delhi required 976 tonnes of oxygen and yesterday (Friday) only 312 tonnes of oxygen was given. How does Delhi breathe?" ये खबर बहुत ही ज़्यादा पीड़ादायी है। इनकी जान बच सकती थी -समय पर ऑक्सिजन देकर   Delhi government and city hospitals had been raising the issue of oxygen scarcity in the capital in the past couple of weeks. Earlier, there were reports that 25 people died due to lack of oxygen in Ganga Ram Hospital here though the officials there denied any such possibility. Last week in another incident, around 20 patients died in Jaipur Golden Hospital in the capital with the hospital authorities attributing it to “oxygen crisis”. The capital has been witnessing huge demand for oxygen and several people have lost their lives as hospitals and families could not arrange oxygen on time. Serpentine queues were seen at oxygen refilling units while there were also complaints that some of the suppliers were over-charging consumers.   The Arvind Kejriwal-led government has projected a demand of 976 tonne of oxygen daily while the Centre has allocated 490 tonne of oxygen daily. Not for a single day has Delhi been able to receive the allocated quantity of 490 MT oxygen. Every day is an SOS situation for Delhi," Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia tweeted on Friday. केंद्र सरकार ने कल सुप्रीम कोर्ट में बताया कि देश में रोज़ाना 10,000 MT ऑक्सिजन बनती है जोकि 7500MT की रोज़ाना की ज़रूरत से काफ़ी सरप्लस है. दिल्ली की ज़रूरत है 976MT, फिर भी दिल्ली का कोटा 490MT और सप्लाई केवल 312MT. क्यों? On Saturday, the Delhi High Court warned the Centre that it will initiate contempt proceedings against it if it does not provide 490 tonne of oxygen today. “Water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said while asking the Centre to supply 490 metric tonnes of allocated oxygen to the national capital on Saturday itself or face contempt. "If not implemented we will have the head of DPIIT shall remain present, in case of non compliance we may consider initiating contempt proceedings," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-covid-19-patients-die-in-delhis-batra-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-981220.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt extends Covid-19 lockdown by a week||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the ongoing lockdown in the national capital will be extended by one more week amid Covid-19 cases showing no signs of declining. The announcement of the extension came through a tweet by Kejriwal in the evening. "Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one week," Kejriwal said. Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one week The lockdown, otherwise, was to conclude at 5 AM on May 3. The national capital has been on lockdown since midnight of April 19.  This is the second extension after Kejriwal last Sunday announced extension till May 3. The capital has witnessed an unprecedented increase in Covid-19 cases in April, which the Chief Minister described as the fourth wave in the capital. The capital has been witnessing over 350 deaths in the past few days while the daily positive cases have been recorded above 25,000 cases. On Friday, there were 27,047 cases while the number of deaths was 375. The positivity rate was recorded at 32.69%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-extends-covid-19-lockdown-by-a-week-981235.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||'Enough is enough, water above head', HC tells Centre on allocation of oxygen to Delhi||The Delhi High Court on Saturday told the Centre to ensure availability of assured quantity of 490 MT of oxygen to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the national capital here, by "whatever means, as water has (now) gone above the head." The court sought presence of senior government officers on May 3, saying it may initiate contempt proceedings in case of non-compliance. Taking up Covid-19 related matter, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, "You have to arrange everything now. You have made the allocations. You have to fulfil it. Enough is enough." "Can we shut our eyes to people within Delhi. If you don't comply, we will have to take into consideration the contempt part," the bench told the counsel. As he claimed the situation was dynamic, the bench told him, "You will have to explain that. If you cannot supply don't supply. We are not asking for more than what has been allocated to Delhi." In its order after hearing Covid-19 related matter, the bench directed the Union government to ensure that Delhi received its 490 MT of oxygen "today by whatever means keeping into consideration that Delhi is not an industrial state and does not have any heavy industries, it does not have availability of cryogenic tankers." It also called upon the Centre to arrange for tankers as well, saying "Not for a single day has Delhi received the required allocated supply." The court directed the hospitals to disclose information on number of Covid-19 patients admitted since April 1, 2021, those discharged since then and the number of patients who stayed behind 10 days and the type of bed occupied by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/enough-is-enough-water-above-head-hc-tells-centre-on-allocation-of-oxygen-to-delhi-981242.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Oxygen available in Jammu and Kashmir? SOS calls say otherwise||As the Jammu and Kashmir government’s claims availability of oxygen, ICU beds, and medicines, the Covid-19 crisis seems to have worsened in the union territory in recent days with social media filled with desperate SOS calls. Desperate relatives of Covid-19 positive patients search for oxygen cylinders, ICU beds and medicines on social media despite the government claiming that there is no shortage. Multiple videos have also emerged showing people crying and sharing their ordeal in search of an ICU bed or oxygen. “#Urgent A Patient (Mohamamad Maqbool Wani) from Srinagar who is admitted in SKIMS, ward 3a bed 26, needs ICU care as his saturation has dipped to 40. His son said the hospital administration is reluctant to shift him and fears with it he might die. Needs immediate attention (sic),” Rifat Abdullah, a journalist posted on his Twitter account. Not only journalists and common people, high profile politicians including former chief minister Omar Abdullah and 2010-IAS topper, Shah Faesal have also been using their Twitter accounts to amplify messages of people who are in need of oxygen, plasma, ICU beds or medicines. “#SOSKashmir COPD patient needs Oxygenconcentrator (5 Litres) in batmaloo srinagar. Contact : 7006430183 (mohsin) (sic),” Omar re-tweeted a message from one Azhar Malik. COPD patient needs Oxygenconcentrator (5 Litres) in batmaloo srinagar.Contact : 7006430183 (mohsin) On Thursday, advisor to J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha addressed a hurriedly called press briefing at 9:40 pm where he announced that the government was equipped with everything to fight against the second wave of Covid-19 and that “people shouldn’t panic.”   “By calling a presser late in the evening, the government has itself revealed that its’ “all is well” theory is failing. The SOS messages on social media platforms make it amply clear that shortage of oxygen, medicines and ICU beds has already begun in J&K and coming days would be tougher,” a senior doctor at Srinagar’s SMHS hospital told DH on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-available-in-jammu-and-kashmir-sos-calls-say-otherwise-981250.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Test Positivity Rate soars from 0.5% to 3.7% in April; active Covid-19 cases up by 1000%||The test positivity rate (TPR) in Jammu and Kashmir has spiraled to 5 per cent in the last two weeks of April, official data revealed. In addition, Covid-19 fatalities have also seen a sudden spurt in the recent past. Five out of every 100 people tested have been found positive in J&K from April 15-30, depicting the widespread SARS-CoV2 infection here. Out of 12,16,934 tests conducted in April, 45,123 people were found positive in J&K. The positive percentage in April was 3.7 per cent, which is a steep rise from the positive percentage of the previous month. Out of 8,49,922 samples tested — both RT-PCR and RAT — in March, just 4,519 returned positive which reveals the positive percentage of samples was just 0.5 per cent. However, the last two weeks of April saw the spread of the infection worsen as out of 6,19,803 tests conducted, 33,206 samples returned positive. The percentage of samples testing positive during this time is 5.01 per cent, meaning out of every 100 tests, five were found positive. On Friday evening, J&K had 28,359 active cases, up from 2,874 on April 1 which is nearly a 1,000 per cent rise in one month. Similarly, there has been a sharp rise in Covid-19 related deaths in the last two weeks of April. While in the first two weeks, only 52 people succumbed to the virus, in the last two weeks the toll rose to 237 which is nearly 4.6 times that of the first two weeks. The rising numbers of positive cases have pushed up the admissions in hospitals, though the admission percentage remains the same as before. In March, 5.4 per cent of the active cases, 139 patients were admitted across hospitals of J&K. In April, 3 per cent of active cases, 878 patients, were admitted in hospitals. A senior doctor at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said the higher positive percentage was an indicator that more facilities would be required to handle the Covid-19 “tsunami” in coming weeks. “If we want to save J&K from a Delhi-like catastrophe, we need to work 24x7 to increase the oxygen, ventilators, and other equipment in our hospitals immediately,” he said. The medico also said that it was important to further increase testing and ensure that more cases are detected early.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-test-positivity-rate-soars-from-05-to-37-in-april-active-covid-19-cases-up-by-1000-981253.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Desperate for oxygen, people with breathing difficulties sleep under peepal tree in UP's Shahjahanpur||People often take recourse to superstitions in times of crisis, believing that it will help them tide over difficulties. An example of the same was seen in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahnpur district, about 175 kilometres from here, when several people, who had breathing difficulties and who were unable to get admitted to the hospitals, flocked to the 'peepal' (Ficus religiosa) trees to sleep under them. The 'peepal' tree, which is also known as 'sacred fig', releases oxygen round-the-clock unlike many other plants, which release oxygen only during the day. Most of the plants uptake Carbon dioxide (CO2) and release oxygen during the day through a process called photosynthesis and uptake oxygen and release CO2 during the night through respiration. Some plants such as the sacred fig uptake CO2 during the night as well because of their ability to perform a type of photosynthesis called Crassulacean Acid Metabolism (CAM). Experts, however, say that only a small amount of oxygen is released during the night.  According to reports, at least half a dozen people were seen sleeping under a 'peepal' tree at Tilahar area in the district on Friday night. Reports said that all of them had been having difficulty in breathing and that they tried to get admitted to the hospital without success. They tried to procure oxygen cylinders but did not succeed. A crowd gathered near the peepal tree just to see these patients lying under the tree. Reports said that they had been sleeping under the tree for the past two days. Though the peepal trees do play a crucial role in keeping the environment clean, it definitely can not replace the medical oxygen needed by the Covid-19 patients with breathing difficulties, doctors say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/desperate-for-oxygen-people-with-breathing-difficulties-sleep-under-peepal-tree-in-ups-shahjahanpur-981262.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Jailed SP leader Azam Khan tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Samajwadi leader Mohammad Azam Khan tested positive for Covid-19 along with 13 other prisoners in Sitapur jail, officials said on Saturday. The 72-year-old Rampur MP and the other prisoners tested positive for the infection in both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, said R S Yadav, jailer, Sitapur Jail. He said the Covid-19 tests were conducted after complaints of fever and cough. Initially, the rapid antigen was done and later the samples were sent for the RT-PCR test, the reports of which came positive late Friday night, he said. Meanwhile, the Samajwadi Party (SP) demanded that Khan be shifted to a high-level hospital considering his age. “News of MP Azam Khan getting Covid-19 infected is extremely saddening. Considering the age of Azam Khan, he should be immediately shifted out of the jail hospital, and admitted to a high-level hospital by the government," the party said in a tweet in Hindi.   Yadav said the treatment of the SP leader is going on as per Covid-19 protocol and he has been isolated. "Azam Khan is under the observation of doctors and his condition is stable," the jailer said, adding that the other Covid-19 positive prisoners have also been isolated and are under treatment. Khan, along with his son and wife, has been in jail since February last year in connection with various cases of land grabbing, encroachment and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jailed-sp-leader-azam-khan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-981266.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court directs hospitals to give information on daily admissions, discharges of Covid patients||The Delhi High Court Saturday directed all hospitals in the national capital to provide information on daily admissions and discharge of Covid-19 patients and of those admitted for over 10 days, since April 1. A concern was raised in the court regarding optimal utilisation of ICU and oxygenated beds and ICU beds in hospitals and nursing homes across Delhi. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, which held a four-hour-long special hearing on a holiday on various issues relating to the Covid-19 situation, said it appears there is choking of beds taking place in hospitals and nursing homes. "Looking into the dearth and shortage of beds, particularly oxygen beds and beds in ICU, we consider it necessary to have this aspect looked into as there are allegations of malpractice of patients not being discharged despite having recovered from the Covid-19 disease," the bench said. It said, "We direct the medical superintendents/ owners/ doctors of all hospitals and nursing homes, including those of Delhi government, Centre and private, to place details of the number of Covid-19 patients admitted and discharged each day from April 1." They shall also give details of the number of patients who have remained hospitalised for 10 days or more and the type of bed occupied by them from April 1. The bench said the details shall be emailed by May 4 to amicus curiae and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao who shall combine the information and place it before the court on May 5. It also directed the Delhi government to forthwith update its portal about admission and discharge of Covid-19 patients from hospitals and to also keep it updated daily without fail. It said the number of hospital beds available on the portal shall separately show how many of them are oxygenated and non-oxygenated. "From what has emerged, it is well known that one who contracts Covid-19, takes about 10-14 days to recover in normal course... about 10 per cent of them require hospitalisation and 1 per cent of the total affected persons are likely to require greater medical intervention and admission to ICU," the court noted. Delhi government counsel Satyakam submitted that in Delhi, there are a total of 20,938 beds for Covid-19 patients as on date in all hospitals here and the data include non-oxygenated, oxygenated, ICU beds. To this, the bench said looking to this number, every day a substantial number of beds should become available for the patients, but that does not appear to be happening. The patients who require hospitalisation with oxygen support should normally be in a position to leave the hospital within 8-10 days subject to the condition, unless it worsens and requires ICU, the court said, adding that in most cases, Covid-19 resolves itself in 10 days to two weeks with medicines. "However it appears that there is choking of beds taking place in hospitals and nursing homes," the bench said. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, showed an office order by Directorate General of Health Services on the new discharge policy and also a document of the medical director of LNJP Hospital which stated that patients are staying in hospitals beyond seven days. "“Therefore, all unit heads and consultants are requested to discharge patients as per the revised discharge policy of the government so that more lives can be saved. Stable patients whose oxygen saturation is more than 91 per cent may be shifted to GNEC, Shehnai banquet and Rouse Avenue School," the hospital order said. Meanwhile, the court also said hospitals should learn from their experiences regarding oxygen scarcity during the prevailing pandemic and set up plants for generating the life-saving gas. It said for commercial considerations, some hospitals reduce capital expenditures on things like oxygen plants which are essential in a hospital, especially the big ones, and it is irresponsible not to have such plants. Mehra also informed the court that a hospital in the name of Gandhi Hospital on Friday made a false statement that it has not received a single oxygen cylinder for the last 48 hours, despite getting various. The hospital's owner submitted that there was some miscommunication between the management and their lawyer and there was no intention to make a false statement. The court warned that such false claims shall not be made in future, particularly at this time as it wastes time and takes away time of the administration which is dealing with the situation on war footing. Regarding a plea by a group of lawyers including Bar Council of Delhi chairman Ramesh Gupta seeking arrangement for treatment of lawyers contracting Covid-19, Mehra said they were working on it and something positive will come up by Monday. Another plea was mentioned by Dwarka Court Bar Association President Y P Singh seeking to make operation Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka, which has been under construction for the last 8 years and near completion now, which could accommodate 1,700 beds. The court asked the government to take instruction on this and apprise it with the development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-directs-hospitals-to-give-information-on-daily-admissions-discharges-of-covid-patients-981295.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police to take strict action against those black marketing Covid-19 drugs, hoarding oxygen||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Saturday directed senior officers to take strict action against those who are overcharging for ambulances and indulging in black marketing and hoarding of medicines and oxygen, critical for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, a statement said. The Delhi Police also informed that people can also call on their Covid helpline -- 011-23469900 -- to complain about such malpractices. "EXPANDING OUR Covid HELPLINE| You can complain on #DelhiPolice Covid Helpline 011-23469900 abt malpractices like #Overcharging by #Ambulances #Fake Covid medicine #Blackmarketing #Hoarding of medicines oxy cylinders, concentrators, med equipment; #harassment at Cremation Grnd etc," the Delhi Police said in a tweet. People can also call the helpline to complain and provide information about overcharging by ambulances, harassment at cremation grounds, cheating and frauds committed in the name of providing Covid medicines and injections, oxygen cylinders etc, it said. According to the statement, Shrivastava reviewed the enforcement of the ongoing lockdown in the national capital and action taken against hoarding or black marketing of medicines or oxygen cylinders during a virtual meeting on Saturday. District Deputy Commissioners of Police were instructed to activate robust human intelligence mechanism with deployment of decoy customer in order to unearth the entire chain, it said. Taking cognizance of some inputs, Shrivastava also told the DCPs to act strongly against overcharging by ambulances and any harassment caused to people at cremation grounds, the statement said. "The court orders for release of seized medicine and oxygen cylinders be taken so that the seized articles could be used by needy patients. At the same time, the charge sheets of arrested people in such cases should be prepared promptly and submitted in the court within minimal time period," he said.   Emphasis was also given to sensitise cyber cells to check online frauds reportedly being committed in the name of arranging oxygen, medicines, medical equipments, etc, the statement said. "On lockdown enforcement, the DCPs were told to use public address system to make people aware about Covid appropriate behaviour and staying home to protect themselves. "Strict action be taken against those found violating the lockdown instructions while the movement of only bonafide e-pass holder, needy or genuine should be allowed," the statement said. Shrivastava further said that the welfare of staff should be looked after by all districts and units and admission to hospital or treatment of infected staff should be ensured on priority, the statement said, adding that it should also be ensured that Ayush kits and other safety material meant for them should reach till the last field functionary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-to-take-strict-action-against-those-black-marketing-covid-19-drugs-hoarding-oxygen-981309.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir reports new daily record of 3,832 Covid-19 cases, 47 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir once again broke its own record of highest-ever single-day tally with a jump of 3,832 new Covid-19 cases and 47 fatalities on Saturday. According to a daily media bulletin, 1,231 of these fresh cases were reported from the Jammu division and 2,601 from Kashmir, taking the overall tally to 1,79,915. The fresh jump in cases has taken J&K’s active caseload to 30,343. Out of 47 new deaths, 30 were reported from Jammu and 17 from Kashmir, taking the fatality count to 2,330. On Friday, J&K had recorded 3,532 new Covid-19 positive cases and 30 deaths which was the highest single-day spike since the pandemic hit the Union Territory in March 2020.  Last year's all-time high in J&K was 1,698 daily positive cases on September 12. Covid-19 infections are witnessing an upsurge and in just five days J&K recorded nearly 17,000 cases. The UT witnessed in excess of 3,000 Covid cases for the 5th day in a row. J&K witnessed an increase of nearly 1000% in active Covid cases in April rising from 2,874 cases in the beginning to 28,359 on April 30. Besides, nearly a 10 times rise in active positive cases, J&K also reported 289 deaths in April, of which over 160 fatalities were reported in just one week. Health experts are of the opinion that the second wave is more infectious and the infection rate is much higher than in the previous year which is evident by the fact that the number of cases is swelling at a rapid pace. They opine that the cases will rise further till people get vaccinated and follow Covid-19 appropriate behavior. Meanwhile, the J&K government on Saturday extended the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown for another 72 hours in four districts. The lockdown which was supposed to end at 7 am Monday morning, shall now run till 7 am Thursday in Srinagar, Budgam, Baramulla, and Jammu districts, a government handout said this evening. It further said the night curfew in J&K’s urban areas shall continue from 8 pm till 7 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-new-daily-record-of-3832-covid-19-cases-47-deaths-981324.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Stressed young doctor dies by suicide in Delhi||A 36-year-old doctor of a private hospital, who was attending to Covid-19 patients and under stress, has died by suicide. Vivek Rai, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur and got married last November, has been attending to Covid-19 patients for the past one month, many of whom died leaving him stressed. His suicide was made public by former Indian Medical Association Chief Dr Ravi Wankhedkar through a series of tweets. Rai was working in Max Hospital in south Delhi's Saket. "He was doing Covid-19 duty since one month and was dealing with ICU patients every day and was providing CPR and ACLS for about 7-8 patients per day in which not many were surviving...Due to this frustrating situation he was into, he took such a difficult decision of ending his own life than living with the suffering and emotions of the people that died on his watch," Wankhedkar said. Saying that Rai was a "very brilliant doctor", Wankhedkar said he had helped to save hundreds of lives during the pandemic. Rai was newly married and his wife is two months into her pregnancy. "This brings into focus the tremendous emotional strain...while managing Covid-19 crisis. This death of a young doctor is nothing short of murder by the 'system' which has created frustrations due to shortages of basic health care facilities. Bad science, bad politics and bad governance," he said. Police said he has left a suicide note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stressed-young-doctor-dies-by-suicide-in-delhi-981326.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||In a first, Jammu and Kashmir government dismisses employee for engaging in 'anti-national' activities||In what is the first such case, the Jammu and Kashmir government headed by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, terminated the service of a government school teacher for allegedly being involved in anti-national activities without holding any inquiry. According to a government order (No 400-JK (GAD) of 2021) issued by the General Administration Department (GAD), Idrees Jan, a teacher at Government Middle School, Kralpora in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, has been dismissed from service.  “….., the Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Mr Idrees Jan, Teacher,” the order reads. While Article 311(2) says no government employee shall be dismissed or removed or “reduced in rank” except after an inquiry, its sub-section C says this clause will not apply “where the President or the Governor, as the case may be, is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold such inquiry”. Accordingly, the order says, the LG dismisses Idrees Jan, with immediate effect. In April, the J&K government had announced the formation of a Special Task Force (STF) to bring under the scanner government employees allegedly involved in ‘anti-national’ activity. The STF has been empowered to compile records of such employees and refer them to the committee constituted on July 30 last year. There were complaints that government employees, who were allegedly involved in anti-national activities during street protests, instigating people against security forces were neither booked nor were FIRs allowed to be filed against them by political governments. In July last year taking note of the situation, the J&K government constituted a panel to scrutinise and recommend cases for dismissal of their services. Sources said social media activities of the employees, even under a fake identity, would also fall in the category of anti-national activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-a-first-jammu-and-kashmir-government-dismisses-employee-for-engaging-in-anti-national-activities-981328.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Hospitals across Delhi run short of oxygen, seek urgent help||Several hospitals in the national capital reported a precipitous drop in their oxygen stocks on Saturday and sent out desperate messages of help on a day 12 Covid-19 patients died at the Batra Hospital here due to lack of the life-saving gas. Delhi government-run GTB Hospital said it has stock till 8 pm while Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital maintained that their oxygen stock will last for four hours. Sources at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital said their facility has put admissions on hold due to the depleting oxygen supplies. The hospital has nearly 350 patients and all of them are on oxygen support. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said a cryogenic tanker carrying two metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) for Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital will reach the facility within minutes. "Hate to say this - but oxygen suppliers have abdicated, and we are using every muscle we've got," he said on Twitter. Similarly, a tanker carrying two metric tonnes of LMO for GTB Hospital will also be reaching the facility, Chadha said on Twitter. "We will spare no effort to secure lives of Delhiites, despite deprivation of oxygen to the NCT of Delhi," Chadha said. At 7.35 pm on Saturday, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital also pressed the SOS button as it said it has only 2,500 cubic metres of oxygen left for five hours. The hospital requires a minimum of 11,000 cubic metre of oxygen per day and has a consumption of 10,000 cubic metres on a daily basis. The hospital has 560 Covid-19 patients. Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj also stopped taking admissions due to oxygen shortage and had only four hours of oxygen left, sources had said in the afternoon. Later, the issue was resolved after the hospital received an oxygen tanker around 4 pm. According to the Delhi Corona mobile application, the hospital has 106 coronavirus patients. Sehgal Neo hospital in Meera Bagh too sent out an SOS message on Twitter about its dwindling oxygen. "We request urgent assistance in getting #SOSoxygen. We are running out of our backup supply, and have been waiting for a supply since early morning. We have 90 patients on O2 & 13 in ICU," the hospital tweeted around 12.40 pm. "78 Patients battling for their life at Sant Parmanand Hospital. We have less than 1 hour of oxygen left!! PLEASE HELP", the facility tweeted 4.20 pm. In response, Raghav Chadha had tweeted, "We have arranged two D Type oxygen cylinders to avert any crisis at Sant Parmanand Hospital, from our Rajghat Response Point. The Govt's oxygen reserves are extremely limited due to reduced supply of oxygen to Delhi, however we are trying out best." Bhagat Chandra Hospital in west Delhi was also in a crisis with its dwindling oxygen supply. However, Chadha said they have "assigned 3 D-type cylinders from Mayapuri Response Point to the hospital". "The officials of Bhagat Chandra Hospital are rushing there to collect it. We are literally hand to mouth today as oxygen supplies to Delhi have further dipped. Not even 1/3rd of allocation is rcvd," he tweeted. At 10.30 am, MD City Hospital situated at Model Town had also said that it has two hours of oxygen left. The hospital has 140 patients and had not received oxygen supplies from 3 am on April 30. Chadha said a cryogenic tanker was rushed to the hospital to avert any crisis. Hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs have been sending out desperate messages of help on social media and other platforms, flagging their dwindling stocks of oxygen. Sir Ganga Ram Hospital had last week reported the death of 25 of its sickest patients as the administration struggled with depleting oxygen supplies. Twenty people died at the Jaipur Golden Hospital last week amid a shortage of oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hospitals-across-delhi-run-short-of-oxygen-seek-urgent-help-981370.html
01-05-2021||North and Central||Ex-Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, wife recover from Covid-19; discharged from hospital||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his wife Asha Hooda were on Saturday discharged from the hospital after they recovered from coronavirus. Hooda and his wife were tested positive for the infection on April 18 and were undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurgaon. Hooda thanked Haryana residents, well-wishers, doctors, nursing and para-medical staff as well as the hospital management for their support and best wishes. "There is improvement in my health," 73-year-old Hooda said. However, he added that doctors have advised him to remain in home isolation for some days as a precautionary measure. He also appealed to the people to take precautions to save themselves from the deadly virus. "Everyone should strictly follow the corona guidelines. Get out of the house only when it is very necessary, take full care of social distancing along with masks and cleanliness." Hooda said the situation is “definitely worrisome” due to the pandemic but there is no need to panic. "This epidemic can be fought by cooperating with each other. This enemy of humanity needs to be recognised in time and it can be easily defeated if we get the right treatment on time. Therefore, it is important that the government provides the best medical services to every corona patient without delay," he said. It is the responsibility of the government to provide medicines, oxygen, and hospital to the patients, he said. It is unfortunate that even a single patient dies in the absence of timely treatment like lack of oxygen and medicines, Hooda said. He expressed dissatisfaction over the problems being faced by people like "shortage" of hospital beds, lack oxygen, and essential medicines across the state. Reports of acute shortage of beds, ventilators, oxygen and medicines are coming in from all around, he added. Last year, Hooda's son and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda had also contracted Covid-19 and recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-haryana-cm-bhupinder-singh-hooda-wife-recover-from-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital-981379.html
01-05-2021||Opinion||Could Sunday herald the rise of a Federal Front?||The spectacular win of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and its prolonged afterglow have managed to conceal another interesting electoral detail: The party that so dominates Parliament has an underwhelming record in Assembly polls. The seemingly unstoppable BJP juggernaut has secured majorities in merely two of the 18 Assembly polls to have taken place since February 2018. The states where it secured outright majorities are Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh. The BJP would hope the results of the current round of Assembly polls to four states and a union territory – Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry – redress this statistic somewhat. The wins could make up for electoral reverses in the Assembly polls held since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP lost its governments in Jharkhand and Maharashtra. Delhi was a resounding defeat, and it struggled to hold on to its governments in Haryana and Bihar. More recent losses have come in the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council elections in April and the Karnataka civic polls on Friday. The best the BJP can wish for in Kerala and Tamil Nadu is a marginal increase in the number of its seats and fractional rise in its vote shares. But the BJP has waged grim battles to return to power with its own majority in Assam and wrest West Bengal from the Trinamool Congress. This is part of its larger plan to expand in eastern India and Coromandel states. The BJP government at the Centre faces mounting criticism over its farm laws and handling of the Covid-19 situation. How it deals with the two issues would be important to its success in the next round of crucial Assembly polls in less than a year from now. In February-March, the states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur are scheduled for polls. The protests on farm laws make it difficult for the BJP to survive as an electoral force in Punjab. In UP, the spread of the coronavirus and its poor handling would be of concern in the run up to the Assembly polls early next year. The results of the ongoing panchayat elections in UP should give us a peek into the minds of the voters in the electorally most important state of India. The BJP's majorities in 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabhas were possible because of its sweeps of most of UP's 80-seats. BJP’s intriguing Assembly poll record However, its inability to secure majorities in 16 of the 18 Assembly polls since 2018 has meant the BJP had to resort to backdoor machinations to form its governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. It saw power slip through its hands in Maharashtra despite emerging the single-largest party. In Haryana, the BJP held on to power only after aligning with a pre-poll opponent, the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP). The BJP has found it embarrassing to support some of the policies of its ally, particularly a proposal to reserve 75 per cent of private jobs for the local youth. The BJP lost Assembly polls and governments in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Jharkhand during this period. It had also lost in Madhya Pradesh, but formed a government through the back door 15 months later. It failed to wrest Delhi, and drew a blank in Andhra Pradesh. Meanwhile, it could not make much of a mark in the Assembly polls that have taken place in the rest of the northeastern states – Sikkim, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Nagaland. Its successes in the Assembly polls 2018 were displacing the Congress as the principal opposition party in Odisha and Telangana, and emerging the single largest party in Bihar. Congress searches for a lifeline Wayanad and Kerala have done in two years what Amethi and Uttar Pradesh could not in 15 years – made Rahul Gandhi a better politician. In representing Wayanad Lok Sabha seat in the last two years, Gandhi has asked 58 questions in the Lok Sabha, which compares favourably with the average of 71 questions for all 543 MPs. In the 15 years that he represented Amethi from 2004 to 2019, Gandhi had asked a grand total of three questions – all three in 2005. Gandhi has himself acknowledged the contribution of the people of Kerala, commending their better understanding of issues. He also visits Wayanad more often than he used to visit Amethi. He has worked on his common touch – cooking biryani with villagers, swimming with fisherfolk and teaching aikido moves to school students. A win in Kerala would ease the way for Gandhi to return as the party chief, and prepare the Congress for its next big electoral battle in Gujarat in December 2022. However, a loss in Kerala would embolden his detractors within the Congress, particularly the ‘group of 23’ leaders. Similarly, a loss in Assam would have many ask Gandhi why the Congress struck an open alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), a party that in popular perception is seen as representing the interests of Muslims from Bangladesh. To Gandhi’s advantage, most of the ‘G23’ leaders do not have much of a mass following. If the party heads for a split, the rank and file are likely to support the dynasty. After the loss in 2019 Lok Sabha, Gandhi had told his friends and lieutenants that the Congress needs to burn down to the ashes before it rediscovers its ideological moorings and rises like the proverbial phoenix. May 2 will tell us if Gandhi and his party would be willing to pay that cost. Federal front A win for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu and Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress in West Bengal would strengthen the calls to shape a federal front to take on the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Banerjee has already proposed a meeting of the leaders of regional parties after May 2. The continuing decline of the Congress in several states, and the BJP replacing the Congress as the principal opposition party against regional outfits, makes the formation of a federal front easier. No longer do Naveen Patnaik of Odisha and K Chandrasekhar Rao of Telangana need to keep away from a front that will also have the Congress as a constituent. The main opposition in their respective states is no longer the Congress, but the BJP. With the Left Front likely to get decimated in Bengal, Banerjee is unlikely to have reservations in sharing the stage with Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan. May 2 promises to open up interesting possibilities in Indian politics. There is, of course, the chance that it could extend the dominance of the BJP from the Centre to at least a couple of the states most geographically distant from Lutyens' Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/could-sunday-herald-the-rise-of-a-federal-front-981217.html
01-05-2021||Right in the Middle||The years of magical living||Childhood is a romance, a looking glass of many colours through which we saw life. No one day seemed like another, no one thing was the same, the blue of the sky transformed to purple and gold and the twilight was awash with the red of the setting sun, the rain gave way to sunshine and summer passed into winter. The trees rustled with music, leaves danced down with grace and the fronds of the palms sounded like wailing witches in the gathering dusk. The flowers were bejewelled with dew, the air was redolent with mangoes and neem and the massive gulmohar tree rained a shower of orange petals everywhere in a blaze of magnificent colour. The walls were a murmur of sleepy greens abuzz with dragonflies.  We had time to see the butterfly with the glint of the sun on her wings, to hear the beckoning of the breeze and look beyond the horizon for the warbling bird. Everything was a matter of wonder and wonder, we were told later, was the beginning of wisdom Every day was an adventure of sorts, running with the sun and racing with the wind. Each day was replete with its own tender joys and gentle sorrows. School was all about friends, the strength of togetherness that made us feel greater than our separate selves and a good book opened the doors to many an enchanted evening. Food meant warmth and love and appetite, flavours emanating from the pots and pans and wood fires in the yard, trails of swirling smoke, the tantalising smell of rice and vegetables cooking and the fragrance of dough that got transformed into chapattis. Suddenly the dream run is over and the adult world has taken charge with its complexities, its compulsions to live up to others, to taste the short highs of success and the long troughs of failure, to adjust to a dystopian time. To grow up we learnt is to live in a bewildering present, to live in an uncertain future to reconcile yourself to the tragic inevitabilities of life. But once in a while we live our lives backwards and hope like the Japanese writer Kazuo Ishiguro for something more stable,” something that will just be there like tomorrows sky”. We can only look back with nostalgia, memory mixed with longing, happy that we had those days and share the meditation with Wordsworth, ”Whither is fled the visionary gleam/Where is it now the glory and the dream?”.  We were all children once. Long ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-years-of-magical-living-981041.html
01-05-2021||South||Isha foundation moves Madras HC seeking external audit of TN temples||Spiritual guru and founder of Isha Foundation, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev has filed a PIL in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to conduct an external audit of temples in Tamil Nadu. He also sought constitution of a commission to examine devolution of shrines to the community, a release from Isha said on Saturday. The PIL petition, filed on Friday, names the state of Tamil Nadu and the Additional Chief Secretary of the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Department (HR&CE) as first and second respondents. Jaggi Vasudev approached the court as there was no response from the government following repeated appeals on the matter. The petitioner wanted an external audit of 44,000 plus temples under HR&CE department to ascertain the condition of all their structures, associated lands and immovable assets, status of possession and occupation of the temple properties, the rents received and the dues, among others. He also wanted to set up a body of experts to manage temples, its rituals and practices and to examine devolution of the temples to the community, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/isha-foundation-moves-madras-hc-seeking-external-audit-of-tn-temples-981232.html
01-05-2021||South||Kerala logs over 35,000 new Covid-19 cases||Kerala recorded 35,636 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, including 81 health workers, pushing the total caseload to 15.69 lakh as the toll climbed to 5,356 with 48 deaths. As many as 15,493 people were discharged. Cumulatively 15,69,620 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 5,356 deaths and 12,77,294 discharges. There are 3,23,828 active cases at present, with 52,836 undergoing treatment in Ernakulam, 46,427 in Kozhikode and 36,650 in Malappuram, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here. Kozhikode reported the highest number of 5,554 cases on Friday, Ernakulam had 5,002 and Thrissur 4070, while Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram reported over 3,000 cases each. In the last 24 hours, 1,46,474 samples were tested and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) stood at 24.33 per cent. Of the positive cases, 81 are health workers, 223 had come from outside the state and 33,196 were infected through contact. A person who returned from South Africa tested positive in the last 24 hours, a government press release said.   At least 108 returnees from the UK, eight from South Africa and one from Brazil have so far tested positive for the virus. The samples of 114 of them returned negative and 11 were found infected with the mutant strains so far, it said. At least 6,87,843 people are under observation in various districts, including 25,326 in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-over-35000-new-covid-19-cases-981288.html
01-05-2021||South||Kerala CM warns of legal action against high rate for RT-PCR tests||Even as the Kerala government decided to reduce the rates for RT-PCR test in the private sector to Rs 500 from Rs 1,700, a section of laboratories were reported to be either still insisting on the higher rate or refusing to conduct the test. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that legal action would be initiated against the laboratories that charge higher rate or refuse to test. He said that the actual cost for the test was only around Rs 240. Considering the human resource and other requirements, a higher rate was fixed. Meanwhile, 35,636 more Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Saturday and the TPR remained at 24.33, almost same to that of Friday. The number of active cases reached 3.23 lakh. But the Chief Minister said that 90 per cent of the patients were only having mild issues. With the counting of the Assembly election scheduled for Sunday, strict restrictions have been imposed on victory celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-warns-of-legal-action-against-high-rate-for-rt-pcr-tests-981294.html
01-05-2021||South||Record high of 19,412 new Covid cases reported in Andhra Pradesh||A record number of 98,214 tests turned out a new high of 19,412 positive cases of coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh in 24 hours ending 9 am on Saturday. The state also reported 11,579 recoveries and 61 fresh fatalities in a day, a health department bulletin said. The gross positive cases has climbed to 11,21,102, recoveries to 9,82,297 and toll 8,053. The state now has 1,30,752 active cases, the bulletin said. Ten out of 13 districts reported fresh cases in excess of 1,000 each and the remaining less than 800 each. State Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal told a press conference on Saturday evening that results of 1.30 lakh samples were overdue and they were trying to clear the backlog in the next two days. "From Monday, we will hopefully deliver the results without any delay," Anil said. He said out of the 43,491 beds available in 551 Covid-19 hospitals, 32,301 were now occupied. "We have started a discharge drive in hospitals where the load is high. It started in Vijayawada, Guntur, Chittoor, Anantapuramu and other places. The more the beds vacated, the more new patients can be accommodated," the Principal Secretary said. He said 75,898 patients were now in home isolation. "We are advising patients (with mild symptoms) to first get admitted in Covid Care Centres, he added. On the Oxygen supply position, he said 443 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen was delivered to the state on Saturday. Meanwhile, the state government airlifted, by IAFs C-17 Globemaster, two empty tankers to Angul in neighbouring Odisha for bringing oxygen from Tata Steel's plant. Covid Special Officer M T Krishna Babu said the state was currently getting 170 tonnes of oxygen from the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and another 200 tonnes from different sources within Andhra Pradesh. The balance 100 tonnes has been allotted from Angul, Bellary and Chennai, he said. Another two tankers would be airlifted to Angul tomorrow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/record-high-of-19412-new-covid-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-981303.html
01-05-2021||South||Vaccination of those over 18 will be delayed: Kerala CM||The Kerala government on Saturday said that vaccination of those in the over 18 years age bracket, as part of the country's fight against Covid-19, will be delayed due to shortage of vaccines and urged the Centre to take steps immediately to ensure their availability. "The vaccination of those above 18 years of age will be delayed by a few days. As efforts are on to procure vaccines from manufacturers, those in the 18 plus category cannot be given the jabs from tomorrow", Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters. The third phase of the vaccination drive for those in the 18-45 age group was to have started from May 1. The Chief Minister also urged people not to rush to the vaccination centres for their shots and said those who have to get the second booster dose would be contacted. A huge rush is being witnessed in many vaccination centres, which should not turn into virus spreaders, he said. In Kerala, it had been decided to vaccinate all those above 45 years by May 30. However, the necessary vaccines for the same have not been received so far.   So, immediate steps have to be taken by the central government to make more vaccines available, he said. Vijayan also warned that the government would be forced to take legal action against private laboratories that do not pass on the benefits of the revised RT-PCR testing rate to the customers. The government had on April 29 slashed the rate of the RT-PCR test, used to detect Coronavirus infection, from Rs 1,700 to Rs 500. Most private labs have agreed to adhere to the new rates, but some are refusing to conduct the tests at the reduced rates, he said adding the government expects everyone to cooperate with it on the matter. The revised tariff of Rs 500 is inclusive of the manpower cost for conducting the test and the price of materials/ equipment used for the test, which comes to Rs 240. These rates were decided after a detailed study, he said. Vijayan said it has also been noticed that some labs were encouraging customers to opt for the costly TrueNat test. The government will not accept this at a time when the disease spread is on the rise. "We will be forced to take legal action against those labs that refuse to do the tests or insist on billing the old rate. We expect them to do the test at the rate fixed by the government," he said. Vijayan also urged people not to hold victory celebrations and gatherings after the counting tomorrow. The winning candidates should avoid personally meeting their voters to thank them and instead, use social media to express their gratitude. The Chief Minister also extended his May Day greetings to all the healthcare workers who have dedicated themselves to Covid prevention and are at the forefront in the fight against this pandemic for more than a year now without a break. In Kerala, there are over three lakh Covid cases. Due to the rising cases, arrangements are being made for more oxygen war rooms, ICU beds, Ventilators and Covid First Line treatment centres, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaccination-of-those-over-18-will-be-delayed-kerala-cm-981330.html
01-05-2021||State||IPS officer in charge of setting up 500 ICU beds in 8 BBMP zones||The state government on Friday appointed IPS officer P S Harsha to oversee the establishment of 500 ICU beds in Bengaluru "on a fast track mode" to deal with the Covid-19 onslaught in the city.  According to an order issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunatha Prasad, Harsha will be the nodal officer in charge of setting up 500 ICU beds in each of the eight municipal zones of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).  "It is also directed that all concerned departments extend full cooperation and support towards this," Prasad, the member-secretary of the state executive committee for disaster management, said in his order.  Harsha, a medical doctor, is currently the commissioner of Information and Public Relations. Harsha's appointment came on a day Bengaluru recorded 26,756 fresh Covid-19 infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ips-officer-in-charge-of-setting-up-500-icu-beds-in-8-bbmp-zones-981080.html
01-05-2021||State||Covid-19 to haunt till Dec, but next 3 months crucial: Dr Manjunath||At least one in every five persons of the population is infected with Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic, according to Dr C N Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research.  “If we do not follow the Covid-19 guidelines, the pandemic will prove costly for all of us,” he said. Dr Manjunath, who is also the member of the State’s Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, was delivering a talk in the webinar on “Precautions for Journalists During Covid-19 Pandemic,” organised by the Karnataka Working Journalists’ Association. Acknowledging that the second wave has resulted in the increased mortality, Dr Manjunath said, “The next three months are crucial for all of us in our fight against the pandemic even though the threat of Covid-19 will continue to grip us until December 2021.”   Expressing shock over the exponential rise in the cases, Dr Manjunath lamented, “It is concerning that we (India) are almost surpassing Brazil and USA in cases and mortality with about 4 lakh cases and 4,000 deaths.” Urging people not to brush aside even simple body ache, fever in any time of the year, Dr Manjunath appealed to the public to get tested immediately and avoid mingling with the crowd in any place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-to-haunt-till-dec-but-next-3-months-crucial-dr-manjunath-981081.html
01-05-2021||State||BSY's vaccine drive only for photo-op: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday said the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group will not start until the third week of May, criticizing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s ‘symbolic’ launch as a “photo op.”  Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah questioned on what basis the government had announced a vaccination drive for all above 18 without ensuring vaccine stock. “I personally spoke to the chief secretary who told me that the state requires 3.5 crore doses of vaccines to inoculate everyone. Why did they give statements without any preparation?” Taking to Twitter, he also criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for having “misled the nation” by promising youngsters that vaccine will be available from May 1 even though the state governments were not ready with vaccines. Though Modi appeared on television promising the vaccines, the state governments are having to take the responsibility of announcing to the public that the vaccines are not available, he said. Further, he asked the government to take vaccination to people’s doorsteps as many in rural areas will be unable to register online. The Union government will give money only for vaccination of those above 45. The rest of it will have to be chipped in by the state government. Nonetheless, in the present circumstances, vaccination is the only way forward. The government must immediately vaccinate everyone, he urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bsys-vaccine-drive-only-for-photo-op-siddaramaiah-981339.html
01-05-2021||State||A hill and a deity: The search for Hanuman’s birthplace||A recent claim by the Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams (TTD) that Lord Hanuman was born in Anjanadri Hill in Tirumala has sparked off several debates on the “actual” birthplace of one of the most prominent Hindu deities.  As soon as the TTD went public with its claim, the Karnataka government said it will push for a survey by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to settle this. For, Karnataka’s Hampi is believed to be ‘Kishkindha,’ Hanuman’s birthplace as narrated in Indian mythology. A hill near Anegundi in the hinterlands of Koppal district (20 km away from Hampi) is the contender in question. Also named as Anjanadri, this hill atop which there is a temple dedicated to the deity is believed to be the birthplace of Hanuman. The hill overlooks the Tungabhadra river. On the other side of the river stands Hampi in Vijayanagara district.  People’s belief stems from mythological references to Anjanadri, the birthplace of Hanuman and the reference of ‘Kishkindha’ in Ramayana. Since, there are many places in and around Hampi with references in the epic, it is believed that Kishkindha and Hampi are the same.  In 2020, the Hampi-based Hanumad Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust was constituted, headed by Govindananda Saraswathi Swami. The Trust announced that it would install a 215-ft Hanuman statue here.  The Trust members are aggrieved by the TTD’s recent announcement and they now plan to counter the claims. “We will soon visit Tirupati and debate these claims with the TTD management,” Govindananda Saraswathi told DH. According to the seer, the TTD management is being misguided by a group of local scholars. “This is not TTD’s fault. They have been misguided by some scholars. The Puranas clearly mention Kishkindha as the birthplace of Hanuman,” he said, contesting the contrary claims. The seer lamented that the state government had neglected the place. “The tourism department has built a restaurant there for tourists. Nothing has been done to promote spirituality,” he said.  Meanwhile, locals say that until two decades ago, only “adventure-seekers” ventured to trek the hill. Since people found it difficult to trek up, they built a temple dedicated to ‘Galamma,’ Hanuman’s mother, at the foothills. Recalling a trek that he made three decades ago, Kannada author Mrutyunjaya Rumale says the hill rarely saw any visitors. “However, certain local groups and political outfits began promoting the religious significance of the place and it eventually gained popularity. Today, the annual Hanuma Jayanthi is a big celebration at the place,” says Rumale, who is associate professor at the Vijayanagara College, Hosapete. The author finds that there is no strong documentation to either support or dispute the birthplace claim. “There are mythological records merely identifying Anjanadri hill. One can also find many references in Ramayana to places surrounding Hampi. That apart, in 16th and 17th century historical records, there is a mention of this hill,” he explains, adding that emotional reasoning and historic records were mixed up over time, making it difficult to decipher.   Recently, the Tourism department announced that it would spend Rs 50 crore on development of the hill, including a ropeway and water sports facilities.  It is believed that the issue of Hanuman’s birthplace is a political agenda of the BJP to gain a stronghold in north Karnataka. However, M J Vinod, professor of international studies, politics and history at Christ University, sees this as a larger trend of revivalism. “What we see in India and in several places outside is a trend of revivalism of cultural ethos. These incidents lend themselves to the larger trend,” he opines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/a-hill-and-a-deity-the-search-for-hanuman-s-birthplace-981342.html
01-05-2021||State||With depleting vaccine stock, vaccination drive for 18-44 age group off to symbolic start in Karnataka||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday flagged off the Covid-19 inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group with four lakh vaccine doses currently available, but uncertainty remains on the way forward.  Yediyurappa symbolically launched the fourth phase of vaccination to include everybody in the age group of 18-44 at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Research Institute in Shivajinagar in Bengaluru. This was as per the Centre’s directive. “The Centre has given three lakh doses and we have one lakh. Totally, there are four lakh doses that will be given to those aged above 18,” Yediyurappa said. “We will give the vaccines till they last. We hope to get more vaccines in the days to come,” he added.  Based on the availability of vaccines, the inoculation drive will be taken up in a phased manner in the coming days, Yediyurappa said.  The ‘symbolic’ launch of the vaccine drive came even as the government had said it did not have enough vaccines to start the process for the 18-44 age group from May 1 as scheduled.  “We can’t keep whatever vaccines we have at home. So, we have started giving them to people,” Yediyurappa said. “In a couple of days, everything will be fine. Vaccines are coming from overseas. In 2-3 days, all questions will be answered. We will do this successfully with PM Modi having vowed on this. Vaccines will arrive in a day or two,” he said.  The CM also asserted that the government will not let the vaccination process for those aged above 45 years be affected.  The state government has already paid money to buy two crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to Yediyurappa. “There are 3.26 crore people in the 18-44 age group,” he said.  Private hospitals cannot charge more than the rate fixed for the vaccine and Rs 100 as service fee. “If they charge more, we will take action,” the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/with-depleting-vaccine-stock-vaccination-drive-for-18-44-age-group-off-to-symbolic-start-in-karnataka-981345.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At last, some sense prevails ||The Karnataka government has taken the right step by tweaking the existing protocols to ensure  Patient Numbers (PNo) are allotted to those who show Covid-19 symptoms even if they test negative. Until now, a patient could be not be hospitalised without a PNo,  which would be allotted only after receipt of an RT-PCR positive report. Patients’ admission should be left to the doctors. Given the undue delay in generating test reports, patients were denied admissions to hospitals and their condition either aggravated or they succumbed to the infection. The problem was more pronounced in Bengaluru which bears about 60% of the state’s active case load, with relatives running from pillar to post to obtain a BU (Bengaluru Urban) patient number.  The government has now acknowledged that during the recent surge, tests have thrown up huge false negatives,  which make it necessary to admit and treat a large number of people under “syndromic approach” to prevent further damage to public health. Hopefully, this will help the infected receive timely medical help. It is strange why the government took so long to address the issue because a similar situation had arisen during the first wave too and an almost identical circular was issued then. Many lives could have been saved had the government acted fast. A coherent decision-making process has been absent in the state, right from the start of the pandemic and this is just another example of bureaucratic ineptitude. The delay in receiving Covid test reports continues, sometimes taking five days or more, and in this intervening period, the patient either deteriorates or he spreads the virus to many others, or both. The state should perhaps take a leaf out of Mumbai which has managed to bring the  pandemic under control after recording the highest daily increase in cases in the country. According to Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Chahal, the positivity rate has come down from 31% in early February to around 13% now while the death rate in the same period is 0.4%. After abolishing the centralised call centre, Mumbai has set up 24 ward war rooms and adopted the ATM system where patients are assessed, triaged (decide the order of treatment) and allotted a hospital bed, if the need arises. Karnataka should for the moment set aside political difference and depute a senior officer to study the Mumbai model which appears to be showing results. As the first step, it would do well to decentralise the war room so that all Covid related issues - be it bed, ICU, oxygen or medicines - are responded to and resolved in quick time at the zonal level itself. The war against the pandemic cannot be won unless the government fixes the basics first.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-last-some-sense-prevails-981032.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PMAY: Officials piling loan burden on beneficiaries, say activists||Slum dwellers across the state are allegedly being forced to avail bank loans for houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), despite an option to construct houses independently. Though there is a Beneficiary-led Construction (BLC) model under PMAY - where houses under the scheme are constructed by beneficiaries themselves, Housing Department officials are allegedly pushing the Affordable Housing in Partnership (AHP) model, where contractors build the housing units and hand it over to beneficiaries. This is being done only with the motive of helping the contractors to make profit, activists have alleged. The officials, however, maintain that AHP is more efficient in urban areas. Speaking to DH, Amruthraj Isaac, convener, Slum Janara Sanghatane - Karnataka, said that sanctioning houses under BLC will be more beneficial as slum dwellers will not have to resort to loans. “But the government is not taking it up under BLC because it cannot float tender for thousands of houses,” he said. Moreover, the beneficiaries are being forced to sign up for loans for constructing houses under AHP. Even under the AHP model, authorities do not ensure that a single contractor takes up the job. “There are at least two sub-contracts,” he said, adding that it would compromise the quality of the houses which are constructed in a budget of around Rs 6 to 7 lakh. According to the proceedings of the 24th State Level Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee meeting held in September 2020, Finance Department was of the view that taking up houses under AHP would lead to “delay in collection of (beneficiary) contribution, bank linkages”, which could ultimately lead to delay in completion and cost escalation.   Under PMAY, the eligible beneficiaries receive a grant of Rs 1.5 lakh from the Centre and Rs 1.2 lakh from the state government (Rs 2 lakh for SC/STs). While the BLC model transfers the amount to slum dwellers benefitting from the scheme, AHP involves beneficiaries availing bank loans to fund almost half the total cost of the house. Meanwhile, Manoj Kumar Meena, secretary to the government, Housing Department, said that all new houses are being built under AHP model. Works of 54,000 houses are on under the model, and 97,000 houses will be taken up shortly. “There are limitations to taking up BLC in urban areas, such as title deeds and issue of planning in areas where such houses will come up,” he said. All the houses under the AHP model are sanctioned with the condition that bank linkage is assured to beneficiaries. “We are in the process of giving title deeds to slum dwellers, which can be used as collateral by beneficiaries to avail loans,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pmay-officials-piling-loan-burden-on-beneficiaries-say-activists-981082.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar's bed quota for people from home district Chikkaballapur in Bengaluru stirs controversy||Even as Covid-infected Bengalureans struggle for ICU and oxygen beds, Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday stirred a controversy by ordering to reserve 15% beds at premier hospitals of Bengaluru for Covid patients from Chikkaballapur district. Anticipating a surge in the number of fresh Covid cases in his home district in the coming days, Dr Sudhakar on Friday ordered that 15% beds at Columbia Asia, Hebbal, Aster CMI Hospital, Sahakar Nagar, Baptist Hospital, Hebbal to Covid patients referred by the Chikkaballapur district administration. However, his orders soon snowballed into a political controversy with the general public and Opposition leaders criticising the move. The Health Minister, after tweeting the order, drew flak from the public on several social media platforms. A Twitter user Prathap Shetty commented, “You have been made the health minister for the whole of Karnataka and not just to Chikkaballapur. If you are so concerned about your district, why don’t you address the medical infrastructural problems and upgrade the hospitals?” Yet another user and a BJP supporter Prajwal Gowda said, “People in other districts are also humans and why only special preference to the people of Chikkaballapura. Already we are unable to face the wrath of the public and with this it is even more embarrassing.” As per the health bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department on Friday, Chikkaballapur reported 579 fresh cases of Covid-19 along with two deaths. A day before, the district had reported 683 Covid cases with one death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-dr-k-sudhakars-bed-quota-for-people-from-home-district-chikkaballapur-in-bengaluru-stirs-controversy-981101.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to direct private hospitals to fix fee for CT scans: Sudhakar||Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr K Sudhakar said an order will be issued today directing all private hospitals to charge a fixed fee for conducting CT scan as advised by a team of experts to know Covid-19 status accurately. Speaking to media persons on Saturday, Sudhakar stated that CT scans are conducted for free at government hospitals, and private hospitals should not fleece patients for the same. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa flagged off the vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group at Atal Bihari Vajapeyee Medical College. Public will be informed about the commencing based on the production of the vaccines. There are about 6,000 vaccination centres that require 3 lakh doses of Covid vaccines per day. If the 18-plus drive begins, as many as six lakh doses are needed, the minister explained. The results of the 14-day curfew can't be achieved in just four days of its imposition, Sudhakar said, invoking Mumbai's example as the situation in Maharashtra has come under control after lockdown-like curbs. Stricter measures will be taken if the scourge of Covid-19 didn't come down, Sudhakar stated. A total of 15 per cent beds have been reserved in Bengaluru's hospitals for the people of Chikkaballapur district to save the lives. As Chikkamagaluru, Ramanagara, Bengaluru rural, Kolar and Yadgir districts have no medical colleges, serious Covid patients are being sent to the nearest hospitals attached to the medical colleges and other hospitals. The same was done last year. The minister who raised this question has lacked information, he taunted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-direct-private-hospitals-to-fix-fee-for-ct-scans-sudhakar-981175.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka begins Covid-19 vaccination for 18-44 age group, till stocks last||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday flagged off the Covid-19 inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group with four lakh vaccine doses currently available, but uncertainty remains on the way forward. In what seemed like a hurried inauguration, Yediyurappa symbolically launched the third phase of vaccination to include everybody in the age group of 18-44 at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Research Institute in Shivajinagar in Bengaluru. “The Centre has given three lakh doses and we have one lakh. In total, there are four lakh doses that will be given to those aged above 18 years,” Yediyurappa said. “We will give the vaccines till they last. We hope to get more vaccines in the days to come,” he added. Based on the availability of vaccines, the inoculation drive will be taken up in a phased manner in the coming days, Yediyurappa said. The ‘symbolic’ launch of the vaccine drive came even as the government had said it did not have enough vaccines to start the process for the 18-44 age group from May 1, as scheduled. “We can’t keep whatever vaccines we have at home. So, we have started giving them to people,” Yediyurappa said. “In a couple of days, everything will be fine. Vaccines are coming from overseas. In 2-3 days, all questions will be answered. We will do this successfully with PM Modi having vowed on this. Vaccines will arrive in a day or two,” he said. The CM also asserted that the government will not let the vaccination process for those aged above 45 years to be affected. The state government has already paid money to buy 2 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to Yediyurappa. “There are 3.26 crore people in the 18-44 age group,” he said. Private hospitals cannot charge more than the rate fixed for the vaccine and Rs 100 as service fee. “If they charge more, we will take action,” the CM said. Till date, Karnataka has vaccinated 96.35 lakh people above 45 years of age. The government has already decided that vaccines will be provided free for the 18-44 age group at government facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-begins-covid-19-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-till-stocks-last-981209.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka vaccine shortage to be sorted out in 2 to 3 days: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said the shortage of vaccine in the state will be sorted out in the next three days, as he made a symbolic start of the inoculation drive for people above 18 years. Yediyurappa's statement comes a day after he said vaccination for people above 18 years of age will be delayed as the vaccine has not been supplied yet to the state. "I have come here to make a symbolic start of the vaccination drive for people above 18 years of age. As per the directions of the Government of India, the drive to vaccinate people about 18 years of age is starting from today," Yediyurappa told reporters. He said his government has decided to give vaccines free of cost to people about 18 years of age. The state has received three lakh vaccines from the Centre while there was a stock of one lakh vaccines in Karnataka. On the full-fledged vaccination drive for people above 18 years, the Chief Minister said the state government has paid money to purchase two crore vaccines. "I am 100 per cent confident that things will improve in the next two to three days... I have set a target to vaccinate 3.26 crore people of the state," the Chief Minister said.   Regarding the black marketing of Remdesivir injection, which is crucial for the Covid-19 treatment, Yediyurappa warned of stringent action against those involved in the crime. To a question on the shortage of beds, the CM said, "I am going to discuss with Dr Devi Shetty and the head of 8 to 10 big hospitals at 4 pm today, the shortage of bed and oxygen to find a solution." The vaccination drive for people above 18 years could not take off fully as vaccines did not arrive from the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Karnataka is also banking on Dr Reddy Laboratory, which according to state Health Minister K Sudhakar, has got the contract to produce Russia's Sputnik vaccine. Karnataka is rushing to get the people of the state vaccinated as the state reported over 48,000 cases on Friday while 217 people died. The active cases have reached close to four lakh in the state. Half of Karnataka's Covid tally, fatalities and active cases are in Bengaluru alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-vaccine-shortage-to-be-sorted-out-in-2-to-3-days-yediyurappa-981234.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sudhakar rules out stringent lockdown in Karnataka for now||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday said there is no proposal before the State government to impose a stringent lockdown though he admitted that at least three to four weeks of strict measures were required to contain the spread of the Covid-19. "There is no proposal before the government to impose a complete lockdown. We want people to strictly follow the regulations," he told reporters in Kalaburagi. He was reacting to a query on open defiance of lockdown at various places. Karnataka imposed a lockdown from the night of April 27 till May 12 following an alarming rise in Covid cases. The State has reported over 48,000 cases in a single day of which over half of the cases were in Bengaluru. The State has over four lakh active cases. As many as 15,523 people have died since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. Citing Maharashtra where a 44-day lockdown brought the infection under control to a good extent, Sudhakar appealed to the people to follow the regulations instead of loitering around unnecessarily. To a question on the vaccination drive for people above 18 years of age, which could not take off fully from May 1 as was announced by the Central government, he said adequate stock of vaccine did not arrive due to which the drive was started symbolically by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with the available stock of three lakh vaccines. "We have a stock of vaccines, which is not huge to meet the requirement. We will inform people once the vaccines arrive in the State," he said. The Health Minister said the State government has set a target to vaccinate everyone.   To a question on shortage of drugs and oxygen, he said there is unnecessary panic among people who are hoarding Remdesivir vials and oxygen fearing that they would not get in case of an emergency. According to him, at least 85 per cent of the infected people remain asymptomatic whereas only five to eight per cent show moderate symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sudhakar-rules-out-stringent-lockdown-in-karnataka-for-now-981241.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Karnataka private hospitals to display bed status or face actions'||Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Saturday issued a notification mandating private hospitals to display the status of beds and set up help desks, warning them of “punishment” if they did not. The state government has asked private hospitals to reserve 50% of their beds for Covid-19 patients referred by authorities.  “However, some patients are finding difficulty in getting beds even after the allocation is made by the central allocation system of BBMP. This is causing a lot of hardship to patients,” Kumar stated. “Therefore, it is mandatory that all hospitals registered under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (KPME) Act should display at the reception counter bed allocation display board.”  The display board should have the hospital’s name, the total number of beds and the total number of beds allocated for Covid-19 patients referred by the BBMP, the notification said.  “The above data must corroborate with the data of the central bed allocation system of BBMP,” Kumar stated.   “The availability of essential medicines and provision of help desk in all hospitals for Covid-19 positive persons shall also be provided,” he stated, adding that non-compliance would attract punishment under the Disaster Management Act and the Karnataka Epidemic Disease Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-private-hospitals-to-display-bed-status-or-face-actions-981265.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||With nearly 41,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, Karnataka's active caseload breaches 4 lakh-mark||Karnataka's active Covid-19 cases crossed the four lakh mark on Saturday, while 271 fatalities took the toll to 15,794, the health department said. The active cases stood at 4,05,068, as against 3,82,690 on Friday. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 19,353 cases out of the total of 40,990 reported in the state. The day also saw as many as 18,341 people getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively, 15,64,132 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 15,794 deaths and 11,43,250 discharges Among the 271 deaths reported on Saturday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 162, Tumakuru and Bengaluru Rural had 12 each, Ballari, Hassan (eight each), Mysuru 7, Davangere, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga (6 each) and Uttara Kannada (5). Deaths were reported in other districts as well. Behind Bengaluru Urban in number of cases was Mysuru 2,529, Tumakuru 2,308, Kalaburagi 1,407, Mandya 1,235, Ballari 1163, Bengaluru Rural 940 and Dakshina Kannada 933, followed by 11 other districts with over 500 cases each. A total of 2.58 crore samples have been tested so far, including 1,77,982 on Saturday, the bulletin said. It said 97.56 lakh people had so far received the first and second shots of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-nearly-41000-fresh-covid-19-cases-karnatakas-active-caseload-breaches-4-lakh-mark-981327.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka draws up action plan, to take help from medical students to combat Covid-19||With four lakh active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, the State government on Saturday drew a detailed action plan to combat the pandemic. The action plan includes roping in final year medical and nursing students. The government decided to use the students in the final year of Nursing, Pharmacy, Physiotherapy, Ayush doctors, dentists and hospital management for Covid-19 duty. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with the head of top private medical hospitals. Later, the Chief Minister posted a series of tweets on his Twitter handle. "Held detailed discussion with management of private hospitals to expand availability of beds and optimise the existing resources. Oxygen beds will be set up at stepdown hospitals using portable oxygen concentrators and centralised oxygen beds will be converted into ICU beds," Yediyurappa tweeted. Triaging and tele-medicine will be strengthened to ensure judicious and optimal utilisation of oxygenated and ICU beds. To augment human resource and reduce burden on healthcare staff, final year medical & paramedical students will be roped in for Covid-19 related work. 2/4 His office issued a statement detailing the measures taken by the government. "To overcome the shortage of 'medical human resource', the government has decided to rope in final year medical and nursing students for the Covid duty and give them grace marks. Their final year exam will be postponed and they will be given incentives," a statement read.   Further, it was decided to enrol doctors with the Karnataka Medical Council who have completed their courses in foreign countries, and put them on Covid duty. The government doctors with less workload would be identified and assigned for Covid duty, the statement read. It has also been decided to convert hotels as step-down hospitals with oxygenated beds and convert the existing oxygenated beds into ICU beds. Converting medical college hostels into oxygenated beds and giving financial aid to the private medical colleges to set up oxygen generation plants were part of the action plan. Patients would be triaged to minimise the number of patients in the hospitals and those who are asymptomatic would be asked to isolate at home where they would be given telemedicine. An expert group will be constituted to advise government on prevention and mitigation of possible third and future waves of infection. The pandemic is an unprecedented challenge to humanity and we have to defeat it together with confidence, compassion and collaboration. 4/4 As Prime Minister Narendra Modi had advised the Chief Ministers in his recent video conference, there would be an audit of oxygen and Remdesivir injection to prevent their misuse. The government also decided to gear up for the third wave of Covid-19 by forming a panel of experts and speed up the vaccination drive. "An expert group will be constituted to advise the government on prevention and mitigation of possible third and future waves of infection. The pandemic is an unprecedented challenge to humanity and we have to defeat it together with confidence, compassion and collaboration," Yediyurappa tweeted. These measures were taken as the State has started logging around 40,000 to 48,000 cases daily with Bengaluru seeing over 50 per cent of the daily caseloads and fatalities. Already, the government has appointed a senior IPS officer to arrange 4,000 ICU beds in the city with 500 beds in each of the eight municipal zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-draws-up-action-plan-to-take-help-from-medical-students-to-combat-covid-19-981352.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka relaxes lockdown rules, grocery shops permitted to stay open from 6 am to 12 pm||Karnataka modified its lockdown order Saturday to allow Hopcoms, milk booths, and sale of fruits and vegetables on pushcarts from 6 am to 6 pm. The government also allowed APMCs and grocery shops to be open from 6 am to 12 pm. Earlier, these activities were allowed only from 6 am to 10 am. The new order comes in the wake of concerns that people were stepping out in large numbers between 6 am and 10 am. Further, the government has prohibited all types of fairs (santhe) "to prevent crowding", Principal Secretary (Revenue) and member-secretary of the executive committee of the state disaster management authority N Manjunatha Prasad said in his order. According to the order, pushcarts selling fruits and vegetables must not overcharge and stick to the market price of the commodities while following Covid-19 protocols. Karnataka announced a two-week lockdown or 'close down' on April 26, which will be in force till 6 am on May 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-relaxes-lockdown-rules-grocery-shops-permitted-to-stay-open-from-6-am-to-12-pm-981355.html
01-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Counting for bypolls Basavakalyan, Maski Assembly segments, Belgaum Lok Sabha segment on May 2||Political parties in Karnataka are keenly awaiting the outcome of the bypolls to one Lok Sabha seat and two assembly segments, counting for which will get underway on Sunday. The voting took place for Belgaum Lok Sabha and Maski and Basavakalyan assembly constituencies on April 17. There were 30 candidates in the fray — 10 in Belgaum, 12 in Basavakalyan, and eight in Maski. The bypolls to Belgaum and Basavakalyan took place following the demise of the sitting public representatives Suresh Angadi (BJP) and B Narayan Rao (Congress) due to Covid-19, while Maski seat fell vacant due to the disqualification of Congress MLA Prathapagouda Patil. Patil was among Congress MLAs who had resigned from the Assembly in 2019, was disqualified and later joined the BJP later to contest the bypoll on the party ticket. The contest in Belgaum and Maski is mainly between Congress and the BJP. In Belgaum, the BJP had fielded Late Suresh Angadi's wife Mangala Suresh Angadi against Congress Karnataka working president Satish Jarkiholi, the Yamkanmardi MLA. In Maski, BJP's Pratapagouda Patil was in a direct fight against Basanagouda Turvihal of Congress. JD(S) contested only in Basavakalyan, fielding Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, while the Congress nominee was Rao's wife Mallamma and Sharanu Salagar was chosen by the BJP. The victory or defeat will not have any bearing on the stability of the BJP government which has a majority with 118 seats (excluding speaker) in the house of 224 members. A win will, however, increase Yediyurappa's hold in the party, as well as the government and silence his critics within the party, who want him to be removed. If the Congress wins the bypolls, it will give ammunition to target the government on the issue of 'failure' to provide good governance and check corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/counting-for-bypolls-basavakalyan-maski-assembly-segments-belgaum-lok-sabha-segment-on-may-2-981392.html
01-05-2021||West||Maharashtra added as many Covid cases in April as in 196 days||The over 17.46 lakh Covid-19 cases Maharashtra added in April this year were equal to the tally it had racked up in 196 days, giving an indication of the intensity of the second wave that has hit the state. Maharashtra added 17,46,309 cases between April 1 and 30, taking the tally from 28,56,163 cases on April 1 to 46,02,472 on April 30, state government data revealed. The caseload was 10,97,856 on September 16 last year, and it took 196 days for the tally to reach 28,56,163 as on April 1, it showed. The month of April also saw 13,915 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 68,813, up from 54,898 as on April 1, as per the state government's data. It took 167 days to witness 14,039 deaths before April, as the toll was 40,859 on October 15 last year, which rose to 54,898 as on April 1. However, the state has also increased the number of tests to detect the infection, with April seeing 1,99,75,341 samples being examined, the data revealed. The number of people discharged in April stood at 14,35,608, as the number of people who recovered shot up from 24,33,368 on April 1 to 38,68,976 on the last day of the month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-added-as-many-covid-cases-in-april-as-in-196-days-981075.html
01-05-2021||West||Maharashtra foundation day celebrations remain low-key amid Covid-19 surge||The 61st foundation day of Maharashtra is being celebrated in a low-key manner on Saturday in view of the coronavirus situation in the state. This is for the second consecutive year that no big events are being held to mark the state foundation day due to the pandemic. On the occasion, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray hoisted the national flag at Mantralaya, the administrative headquarters of the state in south Mumbai. Thackeray paid floral tributes to the portraits of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the Maratha king's mother Jijamata and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar there. Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat were also present there. Earlier, Thackeray visited Hutatma Chowk in south Mumbai and placed a wreath at the memorial to pay respects to 105 martyrs, who laid down their lives for a unified Maharashtra. Apart from Thackeray and Walse Patil, state Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, Mayor Kishori Pednekar, state DGP Sanjay Pandey,Mumbai city Collector Rajiv Nivatkar and Municipal Commissioner I S Chahal were present there. In other parts of the state, gaurdian ministers unfurled the tricolour at the respective district headquarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-foundation-day-celebrations-remain-low-key-amid-covid-19-surge-981140.html
01-05-2021||West||Covid-19 crisis: Maharashtra’s health infra being scaled up ahead of possible 'third wave'||More than a year into the Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra has scaled up the health infrastructure significantly, but there are still challenges ahead of the possible third wave. Accordingly, the health infra in the state is being enhanced – particularly in terms of medical oxygen. On Friday evening, during his webcast on the eve of Maharashtra Day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray reeled out facts and figures. According to him, in March 2020, when the pandemic first broke out, the state had two Covid-19 tests labs – Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai and National Institute of Virology in Pune. Now, the state has 609 testing labs. Thackeray compared figures of Covid care centres and beds between June 2020 and April 29, 2021. During this period, the number of Covid centres have increased from 2,665 to 5,595 while the bed strength rose from 3,36,384 to 4,31,902. The numbers of oxygen beds have increased from 42,813 to 86,908, while ICU beds have increased from 11,882 to 28,937. Besides, ventilators have increased from 3,788 to 11,713. Meanwhile, oxygen-producing capacity in the state is 1,270 MT while the current use is around 1,615 MT. The state’s quota decided by the Centre is 1,784 MT. Thackeray said the state has to plan for the third wave from now on. “It may hit us in July or August. We will have to become self-sufficient, especially in oxygen supply,” he said. Around 275 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants are being set up in districts/tehsils; the Centre will be making 10 of them. “The Maharashtra government is ready to tackle the third wave of coronavirus. The second wave was expected, but nobody knew it would be so ferocious,” he added. The state also has the capacity to ramp up and vaccinate eight lakh people per day, provided vaccine stocks are available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-crisis-maharashtra-s-health-infra-being-scaled-up-ahead-of-possible-third-wave-981179.html
01-05-2021||West||Sikh man provides 'langar' on wheels to needy during pandemic||A Sikh man has been crisscrossing the streets of Nagpur city of Maharashtra on his two-wheeler to provide free food to the needy every day, a practice he has been following for the last few years, which continues even during the distressing times of coronavirus pandemic. Jamshed Singh Kapoor, 41, who is an astrologer, has been running this mobile 'Langar Seva', under which he provides 'dal khichdi' to hundreds of people for five hours starting 3 pm. Wearing a white T-shirt with 'Langar Seva' printed on it, Kapoor can be easily be spotted serving dal khichdi to people at various locations in the city, with a container filled with the eatable item tied to his two-wheeler.   Langar literally means community kitchen, as part of which free vegetarian food is served at Gurdwaras every day. Talking to PTI about his initiative, Kapoor said that he has been running the 'Langar Seva' in Nagpur since 2013. "Earlier, only the underprivileged and poor used to come to get food. But with small eateries remaining shut due to the pandemic and the restrictions, people from all walks of life avail this service," he said. He said people also support him in his endeavour and donate rice and pulses so that he continues to serve the needy. Recalling an incident, Kapoor said a beggar, who used to get food from him, had given him a bag containing some clothes saying that they should be given to some needy people after his death. "I took the bag home. After his death, when I opened it, I found that he had kept Rs 25,000 cash inside along with the clothes, which he had not mentioned earlier," he said. Kapoor says he has been running this service in memory of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, who he says had visited Nagpur in 1512 and provided Langar service to the local tribals. He says that he dreams to run the 'Langar Seva' for the needy 24x7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sikh-man-provides-langar-on-wheels-to-needy-during-pandemic-981200.html
01-05-2021||West||Elgar Parishad case: NIA refutes 'electronic evidence planted' claim by US firm||The National Investigation Agency has disputed a forensic report by a US firm which suggested that electronic evidence had been planted on the computer device belonging to activist Rona Wilson, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. In an affidavit filed in Bombay High Court on Friday, the NIA said it "stoutly" denied the contents of the US firm's report, adding that Wilson's allegations of fabrication of evidence and planting of electronic evidence could not be accepted. The central agency said Wilson's plea based on the US firm's report was not maintainable, and urged HC to dismiss it as well as impose cost on the activist for filing such a plea. In an affidavit filed through its officer Vikram Jhakate, the NIA said, "I stoutly deny the report. I say since the contention made in the petition regarding the aforesaid facts are not admitted by me, they are disputed questions of fact and hence cannot be entertained in the present writ petition," the affidavit reads. The NIA further said the firm's report and a news story carried in a magazine were not part of the charge sheet, and Wilson could not rely on them to seek quashing of charges. It further said that since the US firm's report itself claimed it was difficult to identify the person who allegedly planted such evidence, it was on Wilson to prove allegations of fabrication of evidence at the time of trial. The NIA said the onus of explaining and identifying when and how evidence was planted was on Wilson himself since the alleged planting of electronic evidence took place before the FIR in the case was registered. "As far as the contention of the petitioner that there is fabrication of documents, planting of false evidence and scant regards to procedure established by law is concerned, the same is uncalled for at this stage," the affidavit stated. It said Wilson's plea was vague and based on "ifs and buts" and he himself was not sure of the person who allegedly planted the document. The NIA said Wilson had an alternate remedy of filing an application for discharge under Section 227 or 239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). It also said the US firm had no business giving such an opinion without the permission of the court at a time when the trial was pending and the issue was sub-juice. The central agency also said the purpose of Wilson's plea was to delay the trial. Wilson approached HC earlier this year seeking quashing of charges as well as directions to appoint a Special Investigation Team, headed by a retired Supreme Court or High Court judge and consisting of digital forensic analysis experts, to probe the planting of documents on his computer by using malware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-nia-refutes-electronic-evidence-planted-claim-by-us-firm-981269.html
01-05-2021||West||Fadnavis accuses key Maharashtra ministers of diverting oxygen, Remdesivir||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday alleged some key ministers in the Maharashtra government are diverting the supply of medical oxygen and Remdesivir to their respective districts at the cost of other areas. Speaking at the inauguration of a Covid Care Centre in the interior Palghar district, Fadnavis said the Union government has allocated the largest portion of liquid oxygen as well as Remdesivir, which is in high demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, for Maharashtra compared to other states. "The Union government has allocated 1,800 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen to Maharashtra while Remdesivir quota is increased by 40,000 vials daily. This means, the state now has an adequate supply of oxygen and Remdesivir.   "But some powerful ministers are diverting the supply of medical and Remdesivir to their home districts during distribution," the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly said. A minister belongs to the entire state, the former chief minister said. "Ministers must take care of their districts but it does not mean that people from other areas be deprived of these necessary supplies," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-accuses-key-maharashtra-ministers-of-diverting-oxygen-remdesivir-981270.html
01-05-2021||West||Urban biodiversity plan for Mumbai-MMR region mooted||Focusing on protecting mangroves, wetlands and migratory birds in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has mooted an Urban Biodiversity Plan for the area. "BNHS will take up the project, along with other environment-focused NGOs and groups, with the State government to make sure that whatever we are left with is protected," said BNHS Director Dr Bivash Pandav. Mumbai-MMR region is home to hundreds of thousands of migratory birds and they play a major role in conserving biodiversity, he pointed out. BNHS, formed over 130 years ago, specializes in the conservation of nature and natural resources as well as organising educational activities and exploration of natural history. Taking part in an online discussion on Birds and Biodiversity organised by NatConnect Foundation, Dr Pandav firmly declared: “At no cost, the biodiversity and bird destinations like Panje should be allowed to turn into concrete jungles”. The discussion was part of an awareness week-long campaign launched by NatConnect, ahead of the World Migratory Bird Day being observed on 8 May. NatConnect Director B N Kumar that Mumbai-MMR is blessed with unique biodiversity and it needs to be protected.  The MMR spread over 6,640 sq. km comprises nine municipal corporations and municipal councils spread over Mumbai and neighbouring districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad.  Dr Pandav pointed out that the entire region is blessed with plenty of biodiversity which is very important from an environmental safety point. Taking part in the discussion, Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said that official agencies such as CIDCO have only one point programme – that is to make money even at the cost of the environment. It is sad that the agency does not respect even the National Green Tribunal's order when it comes to saving the Panje wetland. Sunil Agarwal, activist of Save Navi Mumbai Environment and Naresh Chandra Singh, a Kharghar-based activist also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/urban-biodiversity-plan-for-mumbai-mmr-region-mooted-981284.html
01-05-2021||West||1,000 people in 18-44 age group vaccinated in Mumbai on Day 1||The vaccination drive for the people in the age group of 18 to 44 years took off in Mumbai with limited access even as the city civic body stressed to have achieved the set target of inoculating 1,000 people on the first day on Saturday. A senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said the civic body has decided to increase the target of inoculating the individuals in the 18-44 age group to 2,500 on Sunday. "We have decided to vaccinate 200 people from the 18-44 age category today at each of all the five centres and we have fully achieved this target. Each centre was supposed to vaccinate 200 people," Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani told PTI. The BMC has identified five centres for Covid-19 vaccination for the age group 18-44 at Nair Hospital, BKC Jumbo Facility, Cooper Hospital, Seven Hills Hospital and Rajawadi Hospital. The vaccination for the above age group was allowed only through prior registration and walk-ins at the centres are not allowed to avoid crowding.   Kakani said the BMC has decided to increase the target to inoculate 500 individuals in the 18-44 age group at each centre on Sunday. "It means we will vaccinate 2,500 people from this category tomorrow (Sunday)," he said. Kakani said a separate drive for the above-45 age group will continue depending upon the supply of vaccines from the Centre. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the vaccine doses for the 18-44 age group will be administered as per availability and people should not crowd vaccination centres. Vaccination for the citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 against Covid-19 is free at government hospitals, but citizens will have to pay for the jabs at private facilities. Mumbai's Covid-19 caseload stood at 6,48,624 as of April 30 while the overall fatality count is 13,161, as per the civic data. Meanwhile, despite the appeal by the CM not to flock vaccination centres, a vaccination centre in suburban Andheri saw a huge crowd of people earlier in the day. "Many people came for vaccination without prior appointments at the Andheri centre which affected the overall procedure. As per new instructions, only those people having a prior appointment are allowed to be inoculated," a BMC official said. He said people in general are excited about getting jabs even as the shortage of doses is causing panic due to the surge in Covid-19 infections as well as fatalities. "(In earlier phases) when people were hesitant to get themselves vaccinated and adequate supply of vaccines was available, we had decided to vaccinate every eligible person visiting the centre. We had even administered vaccine doses to those people who did not register themselves on Co-WIN application," the official recalled. However, with a growing demand for vaccines by other states, the supply to Maharashtra is restricted, the official added. Mayor Kishori Pednekar has also appealed to the citizens not to crowd at vaccination centres, saying social distancing norms must be followed. Municipal Commissioner I S Chahal had said on Friday that the Covid-19 test positivity rate in Mumbai dropped below 10 per cent to 9.94 per cent as of April 29 despite conducting nearly 44,000 tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1000-people-in-18-44-age-group-vaccinated-in-mumbai-on-day-1-981314.html
01-05-2021||West||Maharashtra sees over 63,000 new Covid-19 cases, 802 deaths; over 61,000 recover||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 63,282 fresh Covid-19 cases and 802 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 46,65,472 and the toll to 69,615, the state health department said. The state had on Friday added 62,919 cases and 828 fatalities. Mumbai recorded 3,897 new cases and 90 deaths, raising the overall tally to 6,52,368 and the toll to 13,215. A total of 61,326 patients were discharged from hospitals in Maharashtra during the day, taking the number of recoveries to 39,30,302, a health official said. Of the 802 fatalities, 438 occurred in the last 48 hours, 178 in the last week, while the rest 186 had occurred in the period before the last week, the official explained. Maharashtra is now left with 6,63,758 active cases. With 2,89,006 new tests, the number of samples examined so far in Maharashtra has gone up to 2,73,95,288, the official said. The number of people in home quarantine came down by 1.49 lakh on Saturday to 40,43,899 from 41,93,686 on Friday. The number of people in institutional quarantine is 26,420, the health department said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 84.24 per cent, while the fatality rate is 1.49 per cent, it said, ading that the case positivity rate is 17.03 per cent. The Mumbai division, including Mumbai city and satellite towns, recorded 10,581 fresh cases and 160 deaths, taking the caseload to 13,81,460 and the toll to 23,466, the department said. After Mumbai, 17 people died in Thane and 12 in Navi Mumbai, the department said. The Nashik division reported 11,291 new cases including 3,192 in Ahmednagar district and 3,115 in Nashik city. Nashik district added 2,299 infections and Jalgaon district 726, the department said. Of the 90 fresh fatalities in the Nashik division, 31 occurred in Nashik district, 17 in Ahmednagar city, 15 in Ahmednagar district, and 10 in Nashik city. The Pune division saw 14,551 fresh infections, including 4,268 in Pune city, 3,739 in rural parts of Pune district, 2,291 in Satara district, and 2,028 from Solapur district, as per the department. Of the 145 new fatalities in the Pune division, 49 occurred in Solapur city followed by 39 in Pune city and 25 in Satara district. The Kolhapur division added 4,052 new cases and 38 deaths, including 14 in Sangli district. Aurangabad division reported 3,413 fresh infections and 54 fatalities of which 25 occurred in Aurangabad city. The Latur division added 4,254 infections with 112 fatalities, of which 37 occurred in Osmanabad district, 29 in Beed, 17 in Latur district, and 14 in Nanded district, the department said. The caseload in the Akola division went up by 4,189 cases of which 1,199 and 1,251 cases were reported from Yavatmal and Buldana districts, respectively. Of the total 69 fatalities in the Akola division, 31 occurred in Yavatmal district and 14 in Amravati district. The Nagpur division registered 10,951 fresh cases, including 4,787 in Nagpur city and 2,463 in Nagpur district. This division reported 134 deaths of which 41 occurred in Nagpur city and 24 in Bhandara district. 18 patients died in Wardha district, the official said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures as follows: Total cases 46,65,754, new cases 63,282, deaths 69,615, recoveries 39,30,302, active cases 6,63,758, people tested so far 2,73,95,288.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-over-63000-new-covid-19-cases-802-deaths-over-61000-recoveries-981348.html
