02-05-2021||Comment||Mamata Banerjee: From Bengal Tigress to Indian Tigress||Mamata Banerjee has today finally promoted herself from ‘Bengal Tigress’ to ‘Indian Tigress’. She has not only stalled the horse of Narendra Modi’s ‘ashwamedh yagna’, she has decimated the conceited saffron brigade. Till yesterday, the question was whether the rise of the BJP in Bengal in 2019 would be followed up by a strong undercurrent in the assembly election making the saffron party a close runner-up, or would it turn into a strong wave to catapult it to power. Today, as the result shows, the BJP is down from its success level of 2019, and has finally managed to become a distant runner-up. Mamata Banerjee played the Bangali swabhiman (pride of the Bengalis) card, and it has paid off. She has proved her mettle by continuously shifting the focus of her campaign, particularly since she understood her instinctive decision to contest from Nandigram was a risky decision. She has succeeded to outwit the entire national leadership of the BJP, and this is just a legendary success. But what brought her this sort of success. There are, perhaps, quite a few factors. BJP’s success or failure depended on the incidence of Hindu polarisation and anti-TMC polarisation. If the indexes of both ran high, the BJP was to go beyond 160 out of 292 constituencies for which polls were held (with two being countermanded due to candidates’ death due to covid-19). If both were low, the possibility was it would have ended at about 120. What is surprising is that not only the indexes have been proved low, but some other factors also crept in. A primary assessment points at a few factors. First, it was thought that a rejuvenated Left-Congress-ISF Morcha would play an important role in this election. But this Morcha has been decimated. The Muslims have en bloc voted for the TMC. That is a solid bloc of 30 per cent vote. It appears a section of the Left-Congress Hindu voters too have voted for the TMC to stall the BJP. Secondly, the BJP has paid price for the central government’s abysmal failure in dealing with the covid situation, the Sitalkuchi firing, non-implementation of CAA, and wrong candidate selection (particularly allowing the tainted leaders to join the party and contest election). Thirdly, the BJP failed to counter the TMC’s campaign of marking it as an ‘anti-Bengali’ party. The central leadership did not project a leader as the Chief Ministerial face, and did not give prominence to the Bengali leaders like Dilip Ghosh who carried the party single-handedly for last several years. The central leadership took over the campaign, thereby giving credence to the TMC campaign that Bengal would be subjugated to Delhi’s rule if BJP came to power. The results have also proved that the BJP cannot sustain the success of Lok Sabha election in the assembly elections. In 2019, the BJP tasted in Bengal an unusual 120 per cent jump in its vote-share compared to 2014 (it got 40.64 per cent votes while TMC secured 43.69). But two years ago, BJP’s organisational presence was limited to two-third constituencies of Bengal. In south-eastern Bengal, where the rest one-third seats are located, no one expected BJP to rise in a big way, and the wave was totally absent there. In other words, two years ago the BJP was able to put the TMC to test in about 28 constituencies out of 42, and won 18. If it could have logically extended it to entire Bengal where it now has organisational presence, it could have succeeded to cross the half-way mark. But, it has failed to retain the success rate of 2019 in the assembly election. It seems that every calculation of the Modi brigade has gone haywire. On the other hand, Didi has played her cards, like ever, perfectly. It has made her the uncrowned numero uno of the opposition camp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/mamata-banerjee-from-bengal-tigress-to-indian-tigress-981550.html
02-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Countdown of votes for Belgaum LS bypoll begins||Coundown has begun for the counting of votes for by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency in the premises of RPD College, Tilakwadi here on Sunday. The fate of ten candidates, including Managala Angadi of BJP and Satish Jarkiholi of Congress, will be known later in the day. Strong rooms were opened in the presence of District Election Officer and Deputy Commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar, election observers and counting agents of respective candidates. Postal ballots stored in respective treasuries in the constituency were brought to the counting centre under armed police security. In wake of Covid-19 pandemic and guidelines issued by Election Commission of India, counting agents of candidates, staff and media were subjected to medical screening and those having Covid-19 negative test certificate were allowed inside the premises. Counting rooms were sanitised and fogging was conducted in the counting centre premises. Counting of votes polled on EVMs will commence at 8 am and it will be followed by counting of votes polled by using postal ballots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/countdown-of-votes-for-belgaum-ls-bypoll-begins-981456.html
02-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Counting of votes in Basavakalyan bypolls begins||Counting of votes polled in by election to Basavakalyan assembly constituency had begun soon on the premises of B V Bhoomareddy College in Bidar on Sunday. The staff have already arrived to the premises. The polling agents are being allowed after being screening with a thermal gun. District Election Officer Ramachandran said the polling staff should come wearing double double masks or N95 mask. The bypoll to constituency was held on April 17.  A total of 1,47,647 voters had cast their votes with 61 per cent voter turnout. Counting will be done in 28 rounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/counting-of-votes-in-basavakalyan-bypolls-begins-981466.html
02-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Agent warned for misconduct during counting of postal ballots||A counting agent who reportedly had been attempting to create problems during the commencement of counting of postal ballots for the bye-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency here on Sunday was been warned by the authorities of being forced out for his conduct. While the ballot boxes containing postal ballots were being opened in the counting centre in the premises of RPD College, one of the counting agents attempted to create some problems. Despite being asked to behave, he continued his acts. Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer Dr K Harish Kumar inspected the situation and asked the agent to behave or leave the hall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/agent-warned-for-misconduct-during-counting-of-postal-ballots-981468.html
02-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||No shortage of medical grade oxygen: Belagavi DC||Deputy Commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar informed that there was no shortage of medical grade oxygen in the district for patients admitted for treatment for Covid-19 in government and private facilities. Dr Harish Kumar told reporters here on Sunday that they have reviewed oxygen availability in the district and as of now there was no shortage of the life saving gas. Government and private hospitals have required oxygen stocks and backup too was available for them. War room facility will come into effect from Monday and availability of beds and oxygen would be known on the Covid-19 helpline portal. After complaints of shortage of Remdesivir injection, we have commenced its audit and the medicine availability was known. Hospitals exhausting Remdesivir were made available further stocks on submission of the used vials, he said. We have demanded 50% beds from private hospitals and they would be allotted to the needy from war room after getting details of availability from the respective hospitals. Number of Covid-19 patients in the district as on Sunday were lesser than the beds available, Dr Harish Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-shortage-of-medical-grade-oxygen-belagavi-dc-981469.html
02-05-2021||National||Indian scientists flag coronavirus mutations that could 'evade immune response'||A forum of scientific advisers set up by the Indian government has told authorities about minor mutations in some samples of the coronavirus that could "possibly evade immune response" and require more study, a leader of the forum has told Reuters. However the advisers said while they were flagging the mutations, there was no reason currently to believe they were expanding or could be dangerous. Scientists are studying what led to the current surge in cases in India and particularly whether a variant first detected in the country, called B.1.617, is to blame. The World Health Organization has not declared the Indian variant a "variant of concern," as it has done for variants first detected in Britain, Brazil, and South Africa. But the WHO said on April 27 that its early modelling, based on genome sequencing, suggested that B.1.617 had a higher growth rate than other variants circulating in India. The forum of advisers, known as the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium, or INSACOG, has now found more mutations in the coronavirus that it thinks need to be tracked closely. "We are seeing some mutation coming up in some samples that could possibly evade immune responses," said Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of INSACOG and a top Indian virologist. He did not say if the mutations have been seen in the Indian variant or any other strain. "Unless you culture those viruses and test them in the lab, you can't say for sure. At this point, there is no reason to believe that they are expanding or if they can be dangerous, but we flagged it so that we keep our eye on the ball," he said. INSACOG brings together 10 national research laboratories. India reported more than 4,00,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time on Saturday. The rampaging infections have collapsed its health system in places including capital New Delhi, with shortages of medical oxygen and hospital beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-scientists-flag-coronavirus-mutations-that-could-evade-immune-response-981396.html
02-05-2021||National||Railways delivered 813 tonnes of oxygen across India since April 19: Rail Board Chairman Suneet Sharma||The Indian Railways has delivered 813 tonnes of medical oxygen across the country since April 19, Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said on Saturday. Fourteen Oxygen Expresses have already completed their journey and five more loaded trains are on the run carrying 342 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in 18 tankers. Further, six tankers for Delhi, five for Telangana, three for Uttar Pradesh, two each for Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are presently on the run, Sharma said. Haryana on Saturday received its first and second Oxygen Express trains carrying 79 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in five tankers. The third Oxygen Express train carrying 30.6 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in two tankers has already begun its journey from Angul and is on its way to Haryana. Madhya Pradesh received its second Oxygen Express carrying 70.77 tonnes of the life-saving gas to Jabalpur and Sagar from Bokaro on Friday. The third Oxygen Express to Jabalpur carrying 22.19 tonne of oxygen is on its way from Rourkela and is expected to reach Jabalpur by Saturday night, the railway board chairman said. Uttar Pradesh will receive its eighth Oxygen Express from Bokaro carrying 44.88 tonnes of oxygen in three tankers. Uttar Pradesh has received around 355 tonnes of oxygen so far and more is on its way to Lucknow. Delhi will receive 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in six tankers from Durgapur in a day, Sharma said. The first Oxygen Express for Telangana carrying 124.26 tonnes of LMO is currently on its way from Angul. "So far, Indian Railways has delivered more than 813 tonnes liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to Maharashtra (174 Tonne), Uttar Pradesh (355 Tonne), Madhya Pradesh (134.77 Tonne), Delhi (70 Tonne) and Haryana (79 Tonne). Telangana will start receiving their Oxygen Express shortly," Sharma said. He also said the Railways has 4,176 Covid care coaches ready for patients with mild symptoms of Covid-19 disease. Of the 75 coaches with 1,200 beds are in place for Delhi, 50 coaches are at Shakur Basti station and the rest at Anand Vihar. Five patients admitted in these coaches, he said. In Maharashtra's Nandurbar, 24 coaches have been deployed which are now serving 92 patients, while in Madhya Pradesh, 40 coaches in Bhopal have 30 patients and 22 coaches in Indore have six patients. The railways has also kept in readiness 30 coaches in Punjab's Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Amritsar, 21 in Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur and 10 coaches in Nagaland's Kohima.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-delivered-813-tonnes-of-oxygen-across-india-since-april-19-rail-board-chairman-suneet-sharma-981401.html
02-05-2021||National||Over 80,000 people in 18-44 age group vaccinated on May 1: Centre||The Health Ministry said 84,599 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received their first dose of coronavirus vaccine in the country on Saturday. A total of 16,48,192 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm on Saturday, the 106th day of the inoculation drive, the ministry said. As many as 9,89,700 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 6.58 lakh beneficiaries received the second dose, according to the provisional report. A total of 84,599 people in the 18-44 age group have been administered the first dose. The ministry said final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The total vaccinations across the country rose to over 15.66 crore. These include 94.28 lakh healthcare workers who have taken the first dose and 62.65 lakh people who have taken the second dose, 1.26 crore frontline workers who have received the first dose and 68.78 lakh such workers who have taken the second dose, it said. In the 45-60 age group, 5.33 crore people have taken the first dose, while over 40 lakh have been given the second dose of the jab so far. As many as 5.26 crore people aged above 60 have taken the first dose and 1.14 crore beneficiaries have taken the second dose. The phase 3 vaccination drive has come into force from May 1. The Centre has advised the states and Union territories to set up help desks with the aid of volunteer groups and NGOs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-80000-people-in-18-44-age-group-vaccinated-on-may-1-centre-981435.html
02-05-2021||National||Centre raises Delhi's daily oxygen quota to 590 MT||Amid an acute shortage of oxygen in Delhi hospitals, the Centre on Saturday raised the national capital's daily quota of the life-saving gas to 590 metric tonne from 490 MT. According to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, Delhi will get an additional 75 metric tonne of oxygen from LINDE Kalinganagar and 25 MT from JSW BPSL Jharsuguda (Odisha). With new allocation, Delhi will get 590 metric tonne of medical oxygen every day. However, the Delhi government is demanding 976 MT of oxygen from the Centre due to spiralling cases of the coronavirus in the city. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Delhi's demand is 976 MT oxygen per day. According to official record, Delhi had got 305 metric tonne of oxygen on April 25, followed by 408 MT on April 26; 398 MT on April 27; 431 MT on April 28 and 409 MT on April 29. He said if the requirement is fulfilled, his government can increase 9,000 beds in the next 24 hours. On Saturday, the Delhi High Court directed the Centre to ensure that the national capital receives its allocated share of the life-saving gas during the day and said "enough is enough", "much water has gone above the head". A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the Centre has to ensure that Delhi receives its allocated amount of oxygen "by whatever means" and warned that a failure to do so could lead to contempt action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-raises-delhis-daily-oxygen-quota-to-590-mt-981440.html
02-05-2021||National||'Every time I’m calling, someone has died': The anguish of India’s diaspora||First, there was the scramble to find her father a bed in intensive care. Then came the price gouging for an all but impossible to find therapeutic injection. And, through it all, countless hours on the phone with doctors, family and friends dealing with logistical problems. From nearly 5,000 miles and five time zones away, Anuja Vakil, 40, has been struggling for the past 12 days to help manage care for her father, Jatin Bhagat, who lies in critical condition in a hospital in Ahmadabad. She knows he has been lucky to get care at all. “When I pray to God now, it is for my dad,” Vakil said. “He has to come back.” Cases of Covid-19 have exploded in India in recent weeks, up to over 400,000 a day, surpassing all records and still rising. As they have, so, too, has the collective grief and anxiety among the huge Indian diaspora, over loved ones lost or fighting for their lives amid a health care system pushed past the brink. In WhatsApp chats, video calls, Facebook groups and forums, a global community has worried, mourned and organised. Some 17 million people from India were living outside their homeland in 2020, according to figures from the United Nations, and millions more have Indian heritage, making the diaspora the largest in the world. In the United States, some 4.8 million people were either born in India or reported Indian ancestry on the last census. They have looked on in horror as the country records more infections per day than any other since the pandemic began. For many, the pain has been accompanied by a realisation of their worst fear: That when the people they love need them the most, they can’t be there to help.   As Indians the world over have sought frantically to help sick relatives, London has emerged as an epicentre for Covid-19 relief efforts from the diaspora. Many are organising in the face of a seemingly impossible situation, pooling money to buy oxygen concentrators, connecting those in need of care with doctors and using community networks to share resources. Deliveries of aid collected by the diaspora are beginning to arrive in India, alongside government relief from Britain, the United States, Germany and Australia among others. Vakil has tried to focus on these positives. While it has been hard to be away from family, she says her local Indian community in London has proved to be a lifeline, and she speaks with a friend in New York whose own father is unwell. She tries to lift her father’s spirits with daily video calls, and his doctors are hopeful he can pull through. Her father can’t speak because of the pressure-controlled ventilation helping him breathe, but he nods in response when she speaks. She can see the small creases spread out around his eyes when she manages to make him smile. “My sister said, ‘Please come, please come.’ But she doesn’t understand the difficulty,” Vakil added. India was added to Britain’s travel “red list” last week, halting nearly all direct flights and imposing an expensive and mandatory 10-day hotel quarantine for the few citizens and residents who are allowed in. And on Friday, the United States said it would start restricting travel from India beginning this week. The restrictions, steep costs, job commitments and a fear of contracting the virus have left many unable to travel. As cases of Covid-19 continue to rise, many described painful conversations with friends and relatives at home, and a feeling of helplessness as they watched the horrors unfold half a world away. Jyoti Minocha, a writer and substitute teacher who lives in Fairfax, Virginia, worries about her mother and sister in New Delhi. She recently lost a cousin, and said she checks in with family by phone daily. “The streets are hushed, ghostlike, my sister says,” she wrote in a text message. “The only sound you hear are ambulance sirens.” “I speak to my mom almost everyday,” said Ansh Sachdeva, 23, a student at Bolton University in northwest England. “But every time I’m calling, someone has died. Someone has got Covid.” He says that on the street in New Delhi where his parents live, no house has been untouched. He traveled home in November to help care for his parents and grandfather who had contracted the virus. But now he worries that they could fall ill again, and the new travel restrictions would make it impossible for him to get there. In January, his mother had been the one worried about him returning to Britain, when a troubling second wave of the virus was taking hold there. “For them,” he said of the general perception in India earlier this year, “Covid was over.” But it wasn’t over. Many Indians abroad watched with unease as the government allowed cricket matches in packed stadiums, mass election rallies and the Kumbh Mela festival, where millions gathered in one city. Meanwhile, case levels began to rise exponentially. In Britain, home to a vibrant and diverse community of people with roots in India, the pain is palpable. In a neighbourhood shop in Harrow, a community in London’s northwest with a large Indian population, two staffers recounted losing a brother in the last week. The cultural ties between the two countries run deep, with Britain’s large Indian diaspora estimated to number over 1.5 million people — the single largest ethnic minority population in the country. For many, the loss, anxiety or grief they are experiencing as family members became ill in recent weeks are compounding what was already a difficult year, and just as Britain is emerging from lockdown and hopeful about crushing the virus. Harmeet Gill, 31, was born and raised in London, but his parents are from Punjab, and they remain extremely close with extended family there. “It’s a sort of double blow,” he said, noting that the Indian community in Britain was among the minority ethnic groups disproportionately hit by the pandemic. “We went through it here and we thought, ‘Well, at least India was protected.’ They were doing reasonably well.” But it didn’t last, and on Monday his uncle died from Covid-19. His aunt was hospitalised on Thursday. In pre-pandemic times, his family would all have traveled to India to mourn his uncle, a patriarch of a tight-knit Sikh family. “It’s just the sheer, sort of, helplessness of it,” he said, adding that along with the shock and sorrow is a growing anger about government mismanagement. “They know it didn’t need to happen the way it has happened.” Gill, who volunteers at a Sikh temple in the London neighborhood of Southall, has seen the impact of the outbreak in India ripple through his community, noting “the sheer scale of it means we all have become a bit numb to it now.” The temple has been a hub of aid throughout Britain’s outbreak, delivering thousands of meals weekly, and members are now looking for ways to help back home. Indian doctors living abroad have also been providing medical expertise and advice to dozens of friends and family members. Many wake early to go through dozens of messages asking for help, and some even provide video consultations. Rajesh Hembrom, 43, originally from Bhagalpur in Bihar, has lived and worked as a doctor in Britain since 2003. His wife is also a front-line health care worker, and when cases surged in England early last year, his elderly father and older sisters were anxious. “They were quite worried, and there was quite a degree of calm back home,” he said, “until it all erupted.” But then the dynamic shifted, and as the numbers surged family and close friends began messaging, frantically seeking help. At the moment, he is advising around 30 people by phone, he said, helping to manage their care or offering any insights that he can. Some of the people he was trying to help have died. “There are no proper help lines where they can call, so they end up clutching at straws, and they know me, so obviously they contact me,” he said. A childhood friend is being treated in a hospital in Mumbai, and family members are in touch with Hembrom daily. He fears his friend won’t make it. “We see a lot of death in our medical work,” he said. “But never have I seen so many people so close to me that are already dead or are possibly going to die. It’s almost like a war zone in some ways, without a visible enemy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/every-time-i-m-calling-someone-has-died-the-anguish-of-india-s-diaspora-981442.html
02-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Is this Modi govt's plan B to tackle Covid?||The Narendra Modi government has been critical of the media coverage of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in India. The criticism isn't just limited to the Indian media reports and a social media clampdown but has also been extended to certain international publications.  On the social media front, Facebook had blocked posts tagged #ResignModi amid raging criticism of the government's handling of the Covid-19 crisis but restored it hours later calling it a 'mistake'. Twitter had also removed or restricted access to several critical posts on orders from the government, which called it fake news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-is-this-modi-govts-plan-b-to-tackle-covid-981454.html
02-05-2021||National||Will return to India in a few days, says SII CEO Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has said he will return to India from London in a few days. Poonawalla made the announcement soon after he spoke out about the pressures he was under over the production of Covid-19 vaccines to meet the ever-increasing demand in India as the country battles through a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "Had an excellent meeting with all our partners & stakeholders in the U.K. Meanwhile, pleased to state that COVISHIELD's production is in full swing in Pune. I look forward to reviewing operations upon my return in a few days," Poonawalla said in a midnight tweet. Had an excellent meeting with all our partners & stakeholders in the U.K. Meanwhile, pleased to state that COVISHIELD’s production is in full swing in Pune. I look forward to reviewing operations upon my return in a few days. In his first comments since he was provided with 'Y' category security by the Indian government earlier this week, Poonawalla had told 'The Times' in an interview about receiving aggressive calls from some of the most powerful people in India, demanding supplies of Covishield -- the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine that the Serum Institute is producing in India. That pressure was largely behind his decision to fly into London to be with his wife and children, the 40-year-old entrepreneur had said in the interview on Saturday. "I'm staying here (London) for an extended time because I don't want to go back to that situation. Everything falls on my shoulders but I can't do it alone...I don't want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can't supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don't want to guess what they are going to do," Poonawalla had told the newspaper. According to Indian government officials, the protection to Poonawalla has been given in view of "potential threats" to him. Armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will be with him every time he travels to any part of the country, they said and added that the 'Y' security cover will entail a posse of about 4-5 armed commandos. "The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It's overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can't understand why anyone else should get it before them," Poonawalla had said. The businessman had indicated in the interview that his move to London is also linked to business plans to expand vaccine manufacturing to countries outside India, which may include the likes of the UK. "There's going to be an announcement in the next few days," he had said when asked about Britain as one of the production bases outside India. According to the newspaper, by the time the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine was approved in January this year, the Serum Institute of India (SII) had increased its annual production capacity from 1.5 to 2.5 billion doses at a cost of USD 800 million, and stockpiled 50 million doses of Covishield. The company began exporting to 68 countries, including Britain, as India seemed to have been over the worse, until the situation worsened in recent weeks. "We're really grasping for all the help we can get," Poonawalla had said in the 'Times' interview. "I don't think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad," he had said. India's daily coronavirus tally crossed the grim milestone of four lakh, while the death toll rose to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities, according to date updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. The infection tally rose to 1,91,64,969 with 4,01,993 new cases, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases stood at 32,68,710, accounting for 17.06 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate further dropped to 81.84 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-return-to-india-in-a-few-days-says-sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-981464.html
02-05-2021||National||Covishield production in full swing in Pune, says SII CEO Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has said that the production of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield is in full swing in Pune and he will review the operations once he is back in the country. Poonawalla is currently in the UK to meet his family members. "Had an excellent meeting with all our partners & stakeholders in the UK. Meanwhile, pleased to state that Covishield's production is in full swing in Pune. I look forward to reviewing operations upon my return in a few days," Poonawalla said in a tweet. Had an excellent meeting with all our partners & stakeholders in the U.K. Meanwhile, pleased to state that COVISHIELD’s production is in full swing in Pune. I look forward to reviewing operations upon my return in a few days. India rolled out the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination drive for those in the age group of 18-45 years on Saturday though the inoculation process failed to take off in some states due to shortage of vaccines. While Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir among other states and union territories launched the vaccination drive, Karnataka and Odisha made only a symbolic start to it.  Poonawalla on Saturday had spoken out about the pressures he was under over the production of Covid-19 vaccines to meet the ever-increasing demand in India as the country battles through a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. In his first comments since he was provided with Y category security by the government earlier this week, Poonawalla told The Times in an interview about receiving aggressive calls from some of the most powerful people in India, demanding supplies of Covishield -- the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine that the Serum Institute is producing in India. That pressure is largely behind his decision to fly into London to be with his wife and children, the 40-year-old entrepreneur had said. The businessman indicated in the interview that his move to London is also linked to business plans to expand vaccine manufacturing to countries outside India, which may include the likes of the UK. Last week, SII announced a cut in price of the jab it plans to sell to states to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400. The price cut came after a widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it had sold the initial doses of Covishield to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. Covishield is the most used Covid-19 vaccine in India. It along with Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is being used by the government for vaccination in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-production-in-full-swing-in-pune-says-sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-981467.html
02-05-2021||National||India reports 3,689 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours, highest so far; 3.92L new cases||India on Sunday reported 3,92,488 new Covid-19 infections and record 3,689 deaths as the nation awaits the results of crucial assembly elections in four states and one Union Territory. Sunday's cases show a dip after the country saw its worst tally on Saturday. India reported over 4 lakh Covid-19 cases on May 1, the highest rise in the world. However, India saw its highest single-day rise in the death toll. The virus has killed 2.15 lakh people in India. There are 33.49 lakh active patients while 1,59,92,271 have recovered from the deadly virus that has claimed over 32 lakh lives so far across the world. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-3689-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours-highest-so-far-392l-new-cases-981474.html
02-05-2021||National||Record 217 new cases push Arunachal's Covid-19 tally to 18,636||Arunachal Pradesh's Covid-19 tally mounted to 18,636 as the state reported its highest single-day spike of 217 new cases on Sunday, a health official said. The state's death toll remained unchanged at 59 as no fresh fatality was reported, State Surveillance Officer Dr Lobsang Jampa said. The Capital Complex region registered the highest number of new cases at 100, followed by Lower Dibang Valley (18) and Changlang (15). Arunachal Pradesh now has 1,387 active cases, he said. At least 56 more people have been cured of the disease, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 17,190, the official said. The recovery rate among the coronavirus patients stands at 92.25 per cent, while the positivity rate is 7.44 per cent. The Capital Complex region -- comprising Itanagar, Naharlagun, Nirjuli and Banderdewa areas -- has the highest number of active cases at 383, followed by Lower Dibang Valley (310) and West Kameng (108). The state has so far tested over 4.57 lakh samples for Covid-19, including 3,463 on Saturday, the official said. Meanwhile, the state government has deferred the roll-out of the Covid inoculation drive for people in the 18- 44 years age group due to some "technical" problems, he said. State Immunisation Officer Dr Dimong Padung said that 2.53 lakh people have been inoculated so far since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January. In a bid to contain the spread of the disease, the Capital Complex administration has imposed a night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am from Saturday. The state government has so far collected over Rs 3.92 lakh as a fine from people who have violated the Covid protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-217-new-cases-push-arunachals-covid-19-tally-to-18636-981490.html
02-05-2021||National||Congress leads in early trends of Damoh Assembly bypolls in Madhya Pradesh||Congress candidate Ajay Tandon was ahead of his nearest BJP rival Rahul Singh Lodhi by 700 votes after the first round of counting for the Damoh Assembly bypoll in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday, an official said. The bypoll was necessitated due to the resignation of sitting Congress MLA Rahul Lodhi, who later joined the BJP. The counting of votes began at 8 am at the government polytechnic college in Damoh in adherence to the Covid-19 protocols, as per the Election Commission's directives, Damoh Collector and Returning Officer Tarun Rathi said. So far, Tandon has bagged 2,823 votes, while Lodhi has got 2,123 votes, he said. Victory processions are not allowed, he added. About 60 per cent of the total registered voters exercised their franchise in the bypoll held on April 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leads-in-early-trends-of-damoh-assembly-bypolls-in-madhya-pradesh-981501.html
02-05-2021||National||Red-faced government says don't hoard as Congress youth wing delivers oxygen to Philippines, NZ High Commissions||A political row erupted after at least two foreign diplomatic missions in New Delhi accepted oxygen cylinders from the youth wing of the opposition Congress amid the raging second Covid-19 wave – leaving the government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party red-faced. The activists of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) led by its president B V Srinivas delivered oxygen cylinders to the Embassy of Philippines and the High Commission of New Zealand. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, however, claimed on Twitter that the Embassy of Philippines had none suffering from Covid-19 and the IYC’s delivery of oxygen cylinders to it was an “unsolicited supply” for “cheap publicity”. He also tweeted that giving away oxygen cylinders at the time of crisis was “simply appalling”. The diplomat-turned-politician took to Twitter to defend the BJP Government after the Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh retweeted the IYC leader’s tweet, which had a video of the cylinders being delivered at the Embassy of Philippines. “While I thank @IYC for its stellar efforts, as an Indian citizen I’m stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies. Is the MEA sleeping @DrSJaishankar?” posted Ramesh. Jaishankar’s post was contested by the IYC, which posted screenshots of the online communications of the Embassy of Philippines with its activists before the delivery of the cylinders. The IYC also tweeted a Facebook post by the Embassy of Philippines, which acknowledged the receipt of the two cylinders and thanked the activists of the Congress' youth wing. We got a request for an urgent requirement of Oxygen Cylinders for 2 Covid patients in Philippines Embassy The Cylinders were delivered at the embassy on a much solicited request Ever since the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hit Delhi and adjoining areas along with the rest of the country, Srinivas and his team of IYC activists have been responding to distress calls on social media from the families of the patients infected with the coronavirus, delivering either medicines and oxygen cylinders, or arranging beds at the Intensive Care Units of the hospitals. The High Commission of New Zealand in New Delhi too posted on Twitter early on Sunday, seeking help from Srinivas and the IYC to procure oxygen cylinders. “We have reached the New Zealand High Commission with oxygen cylinders. Please open the gates and save a soul on time,” Srinivas tweeted after some time. We have reached New Zealand High Commission with oxygen cylinders. He later updated that the High Commission of New Zealand had opened the gate and accepted the cylinders. Update- New Zealand high commission opened gates of the embassy and accepted cylinders. The High Commission later deleted the original tweet seeking help from the IYC, apparently after taking note of Jaishankar’s response to the tweet by Ramesh. It, however, later posted: “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.” "The Chief of Protocol and Heads of Divisions are in continuous touch with all High Commissions/Embassies and MEA is responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid. This includes facilitating their hospital treatment,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said. “Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/red-faced-government-says-dont-hoard-as-congress-youth-wing-delivers-oxygen-to-philippines-nz-high-commissions-981507.html
02-05-2021||National||Vehicle ownership transfer: Road ministry notifies changes in motor vehicle rules||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has notified certain changes in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 to facilitate the owner of a vehicle for nominating a person in the registration certificate, which would help the motor vehicle to be registered or transferred in the name of the nominee, in case of death of the owner. Now, the owner can put the name of the nominee at the time of registration of the vehicles and can also add it later through an online application. According to the notified rules, the owner of a vehicle has to submit proof of the identity of the nominee, in case the nominee is mentioned. "Where the owner of a motor vehicle dies, the person nominated by the vehicle owner in the certificate of registration or the person succeeding to the possession of the vehicle, as the case may be, may for a period of three months from the death of the owner of the motor vehicle, use the vehicle as if it has been transferred to him, Provided that such person has, within thirty days of the death of the owner, informed the registering authority of the occurrence of the death of the owner and of his own intention to use the vehicle," the notification said. It further said the nominee or person succeeding to the possession of the vehicle shall apply in Form 31 within the period of three months from the death of the owner of the motor vehicle, to the registering authority for the transfer of ownership of the vehicle in his name. For a change in nominee in case of contingencies like divorce or division of property, the owner may change the nomination with an agreed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), it added. Currently, in case of the death of a registered owner of a vehicle, the procedure of transferring the vehicle to a nominee requires complying with a raft of procedures and frequent visits to different offices. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on November 27, 2020, had proposed to amend the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 to facilitate the owner of a vehicle for nominating a person in the registration certificate. The government "has invited suggestions and comments from public and all stakeholders on the proposed amendment...," it had said. Under the proposed amendment, "an additional clause is proposed to be inserted wherein 'proof of identity of nominee, if any' to enable the owner to nominate anyone to be the legal heir of the vehicle in case of death," it had said. or transferring the vehicle to the legal heir in case no nominee has been specified by the owner, it is proposed that an additional clause may be inserted to enable the owner to nominate a nominee. In a case where the nominee is already specified, the vehicle will be transferred in his/her name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vehicle-ownership-transfer-road-ministry-notifies-changes-in-motor-vehicle-rules-981508.html
02-05-2021||National||Rajasthan Assembly Bypolls: Congress leads in two seats, BJP one||The Congress is leading in two seats and the BJP in one seat in the initial rounds of counting of votes for three assembly seats in Rajasthan. According to the Election Commission of India (ECI) statistics, BJP's Deepti Maheshwari is leading on the Rajsamand seat with 49.82 per cent of votes in her favour, whereas rival Congress' Tansukh Bohara has so far got 46.43 per cent of votes. On Sahada and Sujangarh seats, Congres’ candidates Gayatri Trivedi and Manoj Kumar are leading with 58.19 and 40.38 per cent of votes in their favour, leaving behind BJP's Ratanlal Jat (32.08) and Khemaram (25.01) on the two seats, respectively. An ECI spokesman said that 4/30 rounds in Sujangarh, 7/25 rounds in Rajsamand and 5/28 rounds in Sahada have been completed till 10 am. A total of 60.37 percent voters had exercised their franchise in the elections held on April 17 in Rajsamand, Sujangarh and Sahada assembly seats of the state||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-assembly-bypolls-congress-leads-in-two-seats-bjp-one-981520.html
02-05-2021||National||More Covid-19 aid lands in India as Canada, Brazil struggle with outbreaks||India struggled to contain one of the world's worst coronavirus outbreaks with nearly 400,000 new infections reported Sunday, as more international aid arrived in the South Asian nation to help end the crisis. Surges in Brazil and Canada also highlighted the persistent threat of the pandemic, with the Covid-19 death toll approaching 3.2 million even as many nations ramp up their vaccination drives. India expanded its vaccination programme to all adults on Saturday, but many of its states are struggling with shortages despite an export freeze for shots produced in the country. Long queues were seen at vaccination centres in cities across India on the weekend, with people desperate to be inoculated against a disease that has overwhelmed the country's healthcare system and even crematoriums and graveyards. "We are here early in the morning to get vaccinated... I left my three-year-old at home to get vaccinated," said Megha Srivastava, 35, at a private vaccination centre in the capital New Delhi. "It is a necessity now. We are seeing so many people testing positive." Social media platforms have been flooded with desperate pleas from people looking for oxygen cylinders, medicines and hospital beds as the Covid-19 wave causes widespread shortages. India reported more than 392,000 new cases and nearly 3,700 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday. The dire situation prompted many nations including the United States, Russia and Britain to dispatch emergency supplies including oxygen generators, face masks, and vaccines. Aid from France reached India on Sunday, including eight oxygen generator plants and 28 ventilators, adding to the 120 ventilators from Germany that arrived on Saturday. New Delhi, one of the hardest-hit parts of the country, extended its lockdown by a week on Saturday. Anthony Fauci, the top US pandemic advisor, said in comments published Saturday that India should go into lockdown to fight this wave. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has resisted imposing a national shutdown but many states have imposed heavy restrictions. Known global infections are approaching 152 million, and fresh waves have also shaken many countries in the Americas. Brazil, the worst-hit Latin American nation, has crossed 400,000 Covid-19 deaths -- second only to the United States, with many of its hospitals pushed to the brink of collapse. And in Canada, the epicentre is in the most populous province Ontario, where the surge has been so intense that the government sent in the military and the Red Cross to help care for critical patients. Ontario's healthcare system is nearing the breaking point, said intensive care nurse Farial Faquiry at Toronto's Humber River Hospital. "We're stretched thin," Faquiry told AFP. "We're tired and exhausted. Just exhausted." Many health professionals and caregivers are also frustrated with citizens who have not followed precautions. "I think we all feel we have been let down a little bit by society," said physician Jamie Spiegelman. Canada's vaccine rollout has also stumbled because of supply issues, unlike its southern neighbour the United States which has given at least one dose to more than half its adult population. But concerns are growing there too about the inoculation programme hitting a wall -- the people most eager to get their shots have already done so. Despite the Covid-19 threat in sharp focus because of the outbreaks in Brazil and India, populations in many parts of the world are growing weary of virus measures. Anti-restriction protesters gathered in several European countries on Saturday, including Finland, Sweden, Belgium and Germany. In Belgium, currently in a second national lockdown, police fired water cannon and tear gas on Saturday as they cleared a crowd of several hundred such protesters at a park in Brussels. There were 15 arrests and two police officers were hurt. A protest in Helsinki drew around 300 participants and resulted in about 50 arrests, Finnish police said. Stockholm saw between 500 and 600 people march against the curbs. And despite the worrying spike in Canada, tens of thousands of people marched in Montreal against virus restrictions. Some demonstrators were arrested at the start of the march, according to an AFP journalist, with signs in the crowd expressing opposition to face masks and curfews.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-covid-19-aid-lands-in-india-as-canada-brazil-struggle-with-outbreaks-981523.html
02-05-2021||National||EC orders FIR over celebratory congregations in anticipation of poll victory||As the results of the assembly polls in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry triggered celebrations on Sunday, the Election Commission (EC) ordered the local authorities to strictly enforce the ban it had imposed on the victory processions in view of the second Covid-19 wave. The EC asked chief secretaries the police chiefs in the four states as well as the Union Territory of Puducherry to lodge First Information Reports (FIRs) and initiate penal action under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and other relevant laws against the representatives and followers of the political parties for violation of the prohibition on victory celebrations. The poll-panel also ordered the state governments to place under suspension the officers in charge of the respective police stations for failure to stop victory celebrations in their respective areas. The commission also wrote to the president and general secretaries of the political parties, urging them to ask their supporters to adhere to the Covid-19 safety protocols and refrain from celebrating poll victories. The votes polled in the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, West Bengal and Puducherry were counted on Sunday. As the results started coming out, the supporters of the winning candidates and political parties started celebrating, flouting the Covid-19 safety protocols as well as the blanket ban the EC had imposed on victory rallies. The EC expressed displeasure on the failure of the certain parties to abide by the extant instructions and guidelines. The commission had banned victory rallies after declaration of poll results. It took the violations of the prohibition very seriously and again directed that all necessary actions must be taken to ensure strict compliance of its directions wherein all such activities (victory celebrations) had already been prohibited in view of the pandemic.  The counting process began at 8 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-orders-fir-over-celebratory-congregations-in-anticipation-of-poll-victory-981540.html
02-05-2021||National||Delhi court grants bail to accused due to a day's delay in reporting ‘minor's rape’ to police||A Delhi Court has granted bail to a man arrested in connection with the rape of a 14-year-old girl, noting that there was a delay of one day in reporting the matter to the police and the probe was already complete in the case. Additional Sessions Judge Raj Rani granted bail to accused Puran Singh Bisht on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000 with one surety of the like amount, on contentions that he will permanently shift 15-20 kilometres away from the place where the victim is residing. “The applicant is in judicial custody since January 27, 2021 and charge­sheet has already been filed. There is a delay of one day in reporting the matter to the police. “In view of the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, the applicant is admitted to bail on furnishing of bail bonds in a sum of Rs 20,000 with one surety in the like amount,” the judge said. Thirty-four-year-old Bisht was arrested on January 26 under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act. During the hearing on Bisht's bail application, the counsel for the accused submitted that his client and the family of the victim reside in the same building. In 2019, the father of the victim took a loan of Rs 1.20 lakh from Bisht. “Applicant had requested several times to the father of the victim to return the same but he always delayed the repayment of the loan,” Advocate Prateek Mehta, representing Bisht, told the court. According to Mehta, when the applicant demanded his money from the father of the girl on January 26, he started quarrelling and threatened him and falsely implicated the accused in the case. The counsel further said that there are material contradictions in the statements of the girl recorded during the investigation, which falsified the version of the victim. He also alluded to the statement of their landlord and submitted that she did not know anything about the incident. Advocate Mehta requested the court to grant bail to his client as the chargesheet has already been filed and trial will take a long time due to restricted functioning of the courts. “The applicant is the sole bread earner of his family and in the current situation of Covid­19, the presence of the applicant is required to take care of his family,” he pleaded the court. The counsel further submitted that the accused was ready to permanently shift away from the house, at least 15­-20 kilometres from that area where the family of girl is residing as a tenant. Additional Public Prosecutor A B Asthna opposed the bail application on the ground that there are serious allegations against the accused under the IPC and the POCSO. The judge granted the accused bail on conditions that he will not visit or reside in the vicinity of the victim. The court also directed him to not contact the victim and her family members in any manner, not intimidate or influence the prosecution witnesses or tamper with the evidence. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-accused-due-to-a-days-delay-in-reporting-minors-rape-to-police-981552.html
02-05-2021||National||Prashant Kishor to quit as poll strategist, says 'have had enough'||Prashant Kishor, the man behind the Trinamool Congress' successful campaign in Bengal, says he has "had enough" of being a poll strategist and is going to pursue something else in life. "I do not want to continue what I am doing. I have done enough. Time for me to take a break and do something else in life. I want to quit this space," said Prashant Kishor to NDTV in an interview.  On being asked if he would return to politics, he just said he does not want to continue doing what he is doing, and has contributed all that he had, including the "good, bad and the ugly." He also added that it is time that his colleagues in IPAC takeover, and that he was looking for a break to "consider doing something else." He is "neither ruling out nor ruling in" going back to politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-kishor-to-quit-as-poll-strategist-says-have-had-enough-981559.html
02-05-2021||National||Centre moves to increase oxygen beds as Covid-19 spreads||With Covid-19 cases continuing to surge, the government on Sunday said it was setting up hospitals near steel plants and oil refineries to ensure steady supply of oxygen to such facilities and explore steps to convert nitrogen plants to produce oxygen. In successive review meetings on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was also weighing-in on suggestions to utilise the services of final year MBBS and nursing student in Covid-19 management and giving them opportunities in government sector or financial incentive to them. In a bid to ensure oxygen supply to new hospitals, government is setting up five such facilities next to steel factories and refineries that produce gaseous oxygen which could be tapped for medical use. “It is expected that around 10,000 oxygenated beds can be made available in a short period of time by making temporary hospitals near such plants,” a PMO statement said adding that state governments were being encouraged to set up such facilities. Madhya Pradesh has already started building a 1,000-bed hospital near the oil refinery in Bina. Besides, the prime minister was also briefed about efforts to convert existing nitrogen plants to produce oxygen. In the nitrogen plants, carbon molecular sieve (CMS) is used whereas zeolite molecular sieve (ZMS) is required for producing oxygen, a PMO statement said. It added that by replacing CMS with ZMS and carrying out a few other changes including oxygen analyser, control panel system and flow valves, existing nitrogen plants can be modified to produce oxygen.  “On deliberation with industries, so far 14 such industries have been identified where conversion of plants is under progress. Further 37 nitrogen plants have been also identified with the help of industry associations,” it said. A nitrogen plant modified for the production of oxygen can be either shifted to a nearby hospital or, in case it is not feasible to shift the plant, it can be used for on-site production of oxygen, which can be transported to the hospital through specialized vessels or cylinders, the statement said. India reported 3,689 deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning which pushed the pushed the death toll to 2,15,542. The country also added 3,92,488 new cases of Covid-19 during the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-moves-to-increase-oxygen-beds-as-covid-19-spreads-981580.html
02-05-2021||National||India recording 50% of world’s new Covid cases, deaths: OMAG||As the second Covid-19 wave continues to ravage the country, India is recording 50 per cent of the global new cases and 30 per cent of deaths, a new analysis has revealed. “On 1 May, India recorded 3,92,562 cases out of the day’s addition of 7,95,819 globally. India also recorded the highest daily deaths at 3,688, out of 12,882 globally, with 30% in global share,” according to a data analysis done by Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), an umbrella organisation of professional medical associations of post-graduate doctors. However, despite this, India is ranked 114 in cumulative recorded cases per million population and 117 in cumulative deaths per million, among 220 countries globally, said Dr Ishwar Gilada, Secretary General, OMAG. Pan-India, the highest number of deaths per million population was reported in Dehradun on May 1, at 41 per million, against the national average of just 2 per million. Though Maharashtra has been number one all along in number of cases, it is 7th ranking state/UT in number of cases per million population and Goa, Delhi, Ladakh, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Puducherry are ahead of it. However, in per million cumulative deaths, Maharashtra is at rank three nationally. In per million Covid cases, top five districts in India are Nagpur, Pune, Gurugram, Bengaluru and Leh. Surprisingly, Delhi is at 13th rank and Mumbai is at 15th rank. In per million Covid deaths, top five districts in India are Nagpur, Mumbai, Pune, Dehradun and Yanam. Delhi is at 6th, Kolkata at 7th, Bengaluru at 12th, and Chennai at 15th rank. Upward jumps of Dehradun, Yanam, Kolkata and Chennai are due to elections. The states with the highest speed with which the Covid daily numbers have grown as compared to 10th March are: Bihar (313 times), UP (250 times), Assam (157 times), Uttarakhand (152 times), Odisha (150 times). Maharashtra’s daily share increased by 4.6 times, from 13,659 cases reported on 10th March to 63,282 cases on 1 May. Several states have jumped up by 25 to 100 times in the same period. In addition to B1.617 and B1.618, a new variant N440K, first isolated from Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh, has been found to be at least 10 times more infectious, according to studies at Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad. “More so, this strain is found in 5 to 9% of new Covid patients from AP, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Maharashtra between January to April 2021. That explains high numbers in these four states,” Dr Gilada said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-recording-50-of-world-s-new-covid-cases-deaths-omag-981581.html
02-05-2021||National||France delivers 28 tonnes of medical supplies to India to aid Covid-19 fight||France on Sunday delivered to India 28 tonnes of ready-to-use medical supplies including eight large oxygen plants as part of the first phase of its solidarity mission to the country which has been grappling with record coronavirus cases. The French embassy said each of the eight plants can continuously supply oxygen to a 250-bed hospital round-the-clock for a dozen years and that they produce medical oxygen from ambient air. "The oxygen plants will be delivered to 8 Indian hospitals, 6 in Delhi, one in Haryana, and one in Telangana, based on needs as identified by the Indian authorities," the French embassy said in a statement on Saturday. A special cargo flight brought the supplies to Delhi from France. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said more supplies will come soon from France and that both countries stand together in this fight against the pandemic. The embassy said the medical supplies were worth more than Rs 17 crore. "We stand by India in these difficult times, just as India has always stood by France. In Spring 2020, when French hospitals were facing acute shortages, India provided life-saving help through the export of critical medical drugs," Lenain said. "The French people have not forgotten. India has, in fact, been at the forefront of international cooperation against the pandemic, including through sharing its massive vaccine production capacity with the countries most in need," he said. The French supplies also comprised 28 ventilators and 200 electric syringe pumps to be distributed to several hospitals to enhance their ICU capacities. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said the assistance by France is a testament to the strategic partnership between the two countries. "A testament to India-France strategic partnership & friendship! 28 tonnes of medical equipment including 8 hospital-level oxygen generators and other medical supplies arrives from France. Deeply appreciate the support from France. Will bolster our oxygen capacities," he tweeted. Separately, Belgium also sent 9000 vials of Remdesivir to India on Sunday. The US on Saturday night sent to India a third flight that brought over 1000 oxygen cylinders, regulators and other medical equipment. Two American military aircraft on Friday brought to India large amounts of emergency medical supplies which included 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators, 210 pulse oximeters, 17 large oxygen cylinders, 8,84,000 Abbott rapid diagnostic test kits and 84,000 N-95 face masks. As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, several countries around the world are sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries that have announced assistance to India include the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius. Some of the countries have already delivered the supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/france-delivers-28-tonnes-of-medical-supplies-to-india-to-aid-covid-19-fight-981583.html
02-05-2021||National||Rajasthan Bypolls: Ashok Gehlot congratulates Congress candidates; results awaited||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday congratulated Indian National Congress (INC) candidates Gayatri Devi and Manoj Meghwal while they led in the counting for the Sahada and Sujangarh assembly seats in the bypolls.  Though the official announcement was yet to be made by the Election Commission of India (ECI) as counting of votes is underway, Gehlot took to Twitter to congratulate the candidates. "Heartfelt congratulations and best wishes to Congress candidate Gayatri Devi from Sahada (Bhilwara) and Manoj Meghwal from Sujangarh (Churu). The Rajsamand by-election was also fought unitedly and the BJP's victory margin here has been quite normal," he tweeted. "People of the region have given more strength to the Congress government and have paved a way for development. I thank the voters for their blessings and support to the Congress candidates. I also congratulate party workers and leaders," Gehlot added.  Bypolls to Sujangarh, Sahada and Rajsamand assembly seats were held on April 17. The counting of votes for the bypolls to three assembly seats in the state started on Sunday morning. The results are expected by the evening. Meanwhile, the chief minister announced to not celebrate his birthday on May 3 in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.  "We are all aware of the situation of Covid-19 in the country. The entire state is going through a difficult phase due to the increasing pace of coronavirus infection. I have decided not to celebrate birthday on May 3 due to the outbreak of the global pandemic," Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-bypolls-ashok-gehlot-congratulates-congress-candidates-results-awaited-981586.html
02-05-2021||National||UK sends 1,000 more ventilators to India||The UK said Sunday it was sending an extra 1,000 oxygen ventilators to Covid-struck India, as a group of doctors staged their own intervention by offering long-distance telemedicine from Britain. Britain has already sent 495 oxygen concentrators and 200 ventilators to India as the country grapples with a devastating surge in coronavirus cases, and is shipping three larger production units, dubbed oxygen factories. "We're going to be sending out another package of 1,000 ventilators, very shortly," Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab told BBC television. Raab is set to meet India's External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday on the margins of G7 talks this week in London. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is also due to hold a virtual meeting with Indian counterpart Narendra Modi, after cancelling a trip to New Delhi in light of the Covid crisis. Britain will do everything it can in India's "hour of need", Raab said, although the government says it has no coronavirus vaccines to spare at this time. Britain is home to a large Indian diaspora, which has mobilised with fundraising appeals to help supply oxygen and protective equipment to hospitals in India. Members of the British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO) have meanwhile started to hold remote consultations with patients requiring non-urgent care in India, to ease the load on hard-pressed medics there. "We are trying to do as much as we can in the form of fundraising to send equipment in the form of oxygen concentrators, creating capacity for ICU (intensive card) beds, BAPIO secretary Parag Singhal told Sky News. "So that's one stream of work, but we are also trying to offer help to our exhausted colleagues in India -- doctors are overstretched, they're working too hard," the professor said. As well as phone and online consultations, BAPIO doctors are analysing the results of routine tests conducted in Indian hospitals, he said. Some 250 volunteers from Britain have signed up to the telemedicine initiative, and the group is aiming to get 1,000 in all, working in partnership with hospitals and smaller clinics especially in more remote parts of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-sends-1000-more-ventilators-to-india-981589.html
02-05-2021||National||Centre may incentivise medical, nursing students for joining Covid-19 duty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed various measures to augment human resources for effective management of the Covid-19 situation and possible steps discussed include incentivising students and pass-outs of medical and nursing courses to join the pandemic duty, sources said. The final details are likely to be announced on Monday, they added. "Decisions may include delaying NEET and incentivizing MBBS pass-outs studying for it to join the Covid-19 duty. The decisions may also include utilising services of final-year MBBS and nursing students," a government source added. The medical personnel doing the Covid-19 duty may be given preference in the government recruitment and financial incentives as well, the source said. The review meeting took place amid reports of healthcare personnel feeling overwhelmed in some parts of the country due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases, with testing facilities also being under a strain. In an earlier review meeting with Modi, institutions like Army had highlighted that they had opened temporary hospitals and their medical staff is also treating civilians wherever they can.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-may-incentivise-medical-nursing-students-for-joining-covid-19-duty-981591.html
02-05-2021||National||Taiwan delivers medical supplies to India amid Covid-19 surge||Taiwan on Sunday delivered to India 150 oxygen concentrators and 500 oxygen cylinders to assist the country in its fight against a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The Taipei Economic and Cultural Center (TECC) said more batches of medical equipment and supplies will be airlifted to India soon. "To express strong friendship with India in its fight against a new wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Taiwan is delivering critical medical supplies to India. The first batch of 150 oxygen concentrators and 500 oxygen cylinders have arrived in New Delhi on Sunday," the TECC said. The TECC is Taiwan's representative office in India. "On behalf of the government of Taiwan, the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center in India wishes to reaffirm the friendly bilateral relations between Taiwan and India," it said in a statement. "Taiwan's deployment of medical supplies is testament to the close collaboration and partnership across multiple agencies on both sides. It also reflects the robust relief efforts and contributions made by the government and people of Taiwan to bring humanitarian relief to India," it said. India does not have formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan, but both sides have trade and people-to-people ties. China claims Taiwan as part of its territory. Taiwan's aid to India came amid reports of violations of Taiwan's airspace by Chinese military jets. "While the contribution is modest, we hope that it will bring comfort and relief to the patients in need and ease the burden on the healthcare workers who are working tirelessly to fight the pandemic," the TECC said. It said President Tsai Ing-wen on April 27 conveyed solidarity with India and expressed deep concern about the country's situation. "As India logged a record-breaking daily surge of coronavirus infection for consecutive days, Tsai said that Taiwan 'stand with India' during this difficult time while offering to provide help," the TECC said. Meanwhile, Uzbekistan too supplied 100 oxygen concentrators as well as remdesivir and other medicines to India. As India battles a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, several countries around the world are sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries that have announced assistance to India include the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius. Some of the countries have already delivered the supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taiwan-delivers-medical-supplies-to-india-amid-covid-19-surge-981595.html
02-05-2021||National||Government appoints Rabi Sankar as next RBI deputy governor||The government has appointed RBI Executive Director T Rabi Sankar as the fourth deputy governor of the central bank. Sankar fills the vacancy created by the retirement of BP Kanungo on April 2, after completing one-year extension. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Saturday cleared his appointment for a three-year tenure or till he superannuates, whichever is earlier. The other three deputy governors are Michael D Patra, who heads the all-important monetary policy department; Mukesh Kumar Jain, the commercial banker-turned-central banker; and Rajeshwar Rao. Sankar's portfolio may include the departments headed by Kanungo, which included fintech, information technology, payments system and risk monitoring. He had joined the central bank as a research officer in September 1990. Sankar has a Master's degree in science and statistics from the Banaras Hindu University and a diploma in development planning from the Institute of Economic Growth, according to a Linkedin post. Last year, Sankar was appointed as the chairman of the Indian Financial Technology and Allied Services, an RBI subsidiary. Before that, he also worked with the International Monetary Fund on bond markets development for the government and also with the central bank of Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-appoints-rabi-sankar-as-next-rbi-deputy-governor-981603.html
02-05-2021||National||Retiring SSC officers in Armed Forces Medical Services to get extension till December: Lt Gen Kanitkar||Around 200 Short Service Commission (SSC) officers with the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS), due for retirement over the next seven months, will get an extension till December 31 in view of the Covid-19 situation in the country, a senior Army officer said on Sunday. Lt Gen (Dr) Madhuri Kanitkar, who is part of the medical team under the Chief of Defence Staff, said they will be deployed for Covid-19 management programme initiated by the armed forces. "Short Service Commission officers of the AFMS who are retiring in the next seven months will be given a unilateral extension. So, we have around 200 such medical officers, who were to retire, we will continue to have their services. "So, we are holding back these medical officers who would have otherwise left us," Lt Gen Kanitkar, the Deputy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff (Medical) under the Chief of Defence Staff, told PTI here. The orders for implementation of this plan are expected soon as the proposal is in advance stages of approval, said Lt Gen Kanitkar, the third women officer to have reached to the level of three-star general in the armed forces. The other two were Punita Arora, who worked with the army and later shifted to the Navy, and Air Marshall Padma Bandopadhyay. The SSC medical officers are granted commission in the armed forces for a tenure of five years which is extendable by another 5 years for those who are willing to continue subject to laid down eligibility criteria. Lt Gen Kanitkar feels that the present Covid-19 crisis has taken every country back to the drawing board and rework their plans according to the age-old saying 'health is wealth'. "I think we need to ramp up basic primary health infrastructure. In this kind of pandemic even countries with the best of the infrastructures collapsed. If we look that way, we have performed much better during the first wave of the pandemic," she said. Among the host of services launched by the armed forces include starting a website 'SeHAT' (Services eHealth Assistance and Teleconsultation) to provide assistance to the families of armed forces as well as ex-service personnel. Having served during the Kargil war in 1999, when she was posted to the Northern Command, Lt Gen Kanitkar feels that today the doctors are frontline workers while soldiers are helping the medical fraternity in fighting the pandemic. In addition, those retired from AFMS have been advised to help in their respective localities and the local army commanders can be their facilitator. "Already senior doctors including a retired Director General of Armed Forces Medical Services have started providing teleconsultation to needy as well as to the ex-servicemen," she said. State government hospitals would be provided with Nursing Assistants, who have retired from the service, she said. "Some of the SSC medical officers, who have recently retired from the armed forces, may also be roped in on a voluntary basis and used for Covid-19 management," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retiring-ssc-officers-in-armed-forces-medical-services-to-get-extension-till-december-lt-gen-kanitkar-981605.html
02-05-2021||National||India’s Covid-19 crisis shakes Modi’s image of strength||His Covid-19 task force didn’t meet for months. His health minister assured the public in March that India had reached the pandemic’s “endgame.” A few weeks before that, Prime Minister Narendra Modi boasted to global leaders that his nation had triumphed over the coronavirus. India “saved humanity from a big disaster by containing corona effectively,” Modi told a virtual gathering at the World Economic Forum in late January, three tricolor Indian flags displayed in the background. Now, a second wave has made India the worst-hit country in the world. New infections have reached about 4,00,000 a day. Vaccines are running short. Hospitals are swamped. Lifesaving oxygen is running out. Each day, cremation grounds burn thousands of bodies, sending up never-ending plumes of ash that are turning the skies gray over some of India’s biggest cities. India’s stark reversal, from declaring victory to suffering its gravest emergency in decades, has forced a national reckoning, with Modi at its centre. Experts around the world once marveled at how the country seemed to have escaped the worst of the pandemic, entertaining explanations about the relative youth and health of the population that Modi and his government embraced, if not encouraged. Even now, Modi’s supporters say that India has been hit by a global phenomenon and that more time is needed to trace the causes of the second wave. But independent health experts and political analysts say that Modi’s overconfidence and his domineering leadership style bear a huge share of the responsibility. Critics say his administration was determined to cast an image of India as back on track and open for business despite lingering risks. At one point, officials dismissed warnings by scientists that India’s population remained vulnerable and had not achieved “herd immunity,” as some in his administration were suggesting, said people familiar with those conversations. The growing distress across India has tarnished Modi’s aura of political invulnerability, which he won by steamrolling the opposition and leveraging his personal charisma to become India’s most powerful politician in decades. Opposition leaders are on the attack, and his central hold on power has increasingly made him the target of scathing criticism online. With parliamentary elections three years away and no signs of defections from his government, Modi’s power seems secure. His government has stepped up efforts to get supplies to desperate patients and broadened eligibility for scarce vaccines to more age groups. Still, analysts say that his dominance means that more people will hold him personally responsible for the sickness and death exploding across the country. “The bulk of the blame lies in Modi’s governance style, where top ministers are chosen for loyalty rather than expertise, where secrecy and image management is privileged over transparency,” said Asim Ali, a research scholar at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi. “In such a governance framework,” he added, “when Modi drops the ball, as he did on Covid, there can be disastrous consequences.” At various points in recent months, officials made decisions that have come back to haunt India. Although India is a vaccine powerhouse, producing vaccines to protect the world, it didn’t purchase enough doses to protect itself. Instead, while vaccination rates remained low at home, New Delhi exported more than 60 million shots to bolster its standing on the world stage. Even as infections rose, Modi let big groups gather to help his ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and burnish its Hindu nationalist credentials. His government allowed a Hindu festival with millions of worshippers to take place. He campaigned in state elections without a mask at rallies of thousands of maskless supporters. Modi’s party, known as the BJP, and the government declined to answer specific questions but listed actions the government has taken, including Modi holding more than a dozen meetings in April with air force officers, pharmaceutical executives and many others. In a statement, the government said it “maintained a steady pace of coordination and consultation to prepare an adequate response.” It added that the administration in February had “advised states to maintain strict vigil” and “not let their guard down.” Any Indian leader would have faced challenges. Hundreds of millions of poor people live cheek by jowl, making them easy targets for a highly contagious virus. India has long neglected public health, spending less than $100 per capita per year, the World Bank says, less than many developing nations — a problem that predates Modi. On Saturday, the country reported over 3,98,000 new virus infections and more than 3,500 deaths. Evidence suggests the official numbers vastly understate the toll. The country’s biggest city, Mumbai, halted all vaccinations because it essentially ran out. Analysts say Modi performed much better during the first wave. A longtime politician with humble roots and a penchant for dramatic moves, Modi, 70, embraced masks and social distancing from the earliest days. On March 24, 2020, when India had fewer than 600 total reported infections, Modi ordered his country into one of the strictest lockdowns in the world at four hours’ notice. Most people dutifully stayed indoors. When Modi asked citizens to stand on their balconies and bang pots and pans in solidarity with health care workers, millions did just that. Experts credit that lockdown, though flawed, with slowing the spread. But the restrictions were economically devastating, putting tens of millions out of work and imperiling many of Modi’s grandest ambitions, including turning India into a global power. He became fearful of locking down again. After he eased many restrictions, infections rose, reaching almost 1,00,000 per day in September, but the health care system held. By the beginning of 2021, when infections had ebbed and the economy began to stagger to life, Modi and his team made a concerted effort to signal that India was back. Many Indians shed their masks. They returned to markets and socialised. Even more restrictions were lifted. Covid-19 centers set up during the first wave were dismantled. His party’s leadership declared in February that India had “defeated Covid under the able, sensitive, committed and visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.” In early March, Harsh Vardhan, India’s health minister, proclaimed India was “in the endgame of the Covid-19 pandemic.” Those who weren’t so sure were sidelined. India’s Covid-19 task force, which includes around 20 health professionals, had been meeting at least twice a month. But between Jan. 11 and April 15, the task force did not meet at all, according to three people with knowledge of their deliberations. Two said that the government simply believed the threat had passed. Some scientists grew concerned with the official line that India, a nation of 1.4 billion, was approaching herd immunity, or the point at which enough people in the population are immune — either through vaccinations or through earlier infection — that the virus can no longer spread easily. V.K. Paul, head of the Covid-19 task force, said in January that “most of our highly populated districts and cities have had their run of the pandemic.” The concerned scientists pushed back, according to the three people. Serological studies didn’t necessarily back up the government's claims, they said. Two people familiar with the research said the government cherry-picked results that suggested a move toward herd immunity. The vaccination program lost steam as complacency set in. The Modi administration began exporting Indian-made vaccines to gain favor with neighbors who might be tempted to take vaccines from China, New Delhi’s regional rival. The government approved only two vaccines for use, both made in India, touting the country’s self-sufficiency. Less than 2% of the population has received two doses. Rajeev Chandrasekhar, a spokesperson for the BJP, said there were no shortages when the government exported vaccines and that “the government proactively has expanded production and procurement from alternate sources.” As vaccinations sputtered, Modi hit the campaign trail. Several states were holding elections, and he focused specifically on West Bengal, a state controlled by an opposition party. Until mid-April, Modi and Amit Shah, the home minister, campaigned relentlessly, drawing crowds of thousands, many not wearing masks and packed closely together. Results of the vote are expected Sunday. Although health experts warned of risks, Modi, an energetic campaigner, seemed to draw strength from the rallies. He told one in mid-April, as India topped 2,00,000 new daily infections, how happy he was to “see only people and people and nothing else.” Labs in West Bengal are reporting a positivity rate of 50%, meaning half the people tested have been infected. Other states holding elections are seeing spikes. Although several factors are at play, and new, more dangerous virus variants might also be involved, many people blame the elections. In a recent hearing, a judge told a lawyer for India’s election commission that “your officers should be booked on murder charges.” In another court hearing in Delhi, after a lawyer representing the local government complained that Modi’s administration was not doing enough to help with the acute oxygen shortage, the country’s solicitor general responded, “Let’s try and not be a crybaby.” Modi is likely to hold on to power, thanks to weak opposition and his ability to fire up his Hindu nationalist base. Even his image has changed; Modi has lost the baseball cap and chic sunglasses he wore a year ago and grown his hair and beard long, reminiscent for some of a Hindu sage. “He’s just a unique political animal,” said Milan Vaishnav, director of the South Asia program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “He has this charisma, an allure, a magnetism, a very compelling personal story, and he has enormous personal credibility with the average voter.”Even now, Vaishnav added, “people like Modi, and they will find ways to justify it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-crisis-shakes-modi-s-image-of-strength-981609.html
02-05-2021||National||China deletes social media posts mocking Covid-hit India after backlash||A social media post by China’s top law enforcement body juxtaposing the country’s successful launch of a module into space with grim cremation pyres in India was deleted after it sparked online criticism in China. Photos of the Tianhe module launch and its fuel burn-off were compared with what appeared to be a mass outdoor cremation in India, and captioned “China lighting a fire versus India lighting a fire.” The post on Saturday by the Communist Party’s Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission on its official Sina Weibo account was accompanied by a hashtag noting that new Covid-19 cases in Indian had surpassed 400,000 a day. Later that day, it could not longer be found. Many Chinese social media users expressed shock and anger at the insensitivity of the post. Official social media accounts should “hold high the banner of humanitarianism at this time, show sympathy for India, and firmly place Chinese society on a moral high ground,” Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of Communist Party-backed Global Times newspaper, wrote on Weibo commenting on the deleted post. Hu said such methods were not an appropriate way for official social media accounts to gain traffic. The Chinese foreign ministry could not be immediately reached for comment during a holiday period. Ties between China and India have been rocky in recent months. A border dispute that killed dozens last year and hurt economic ties between the two nations has fanned nationalistic sentiment in both countries. Tensions remain despite ongoing high-level talks, with India most recently urging early disengagement from all friction points along the border. That didn’t prevent President Xi Jinping from sending a message of condolence to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and offering to provide assistance to help the South Asian country deal with a fierce surge in Covid-19 cases. Another deleted post that first appeared Friday compared China’s “fire god mountain” -- the name of the emergency hospital complex built in Wuhan -- with a photo of a mass cremation in India on the official Weibo account of China’s Ministry of Public Security. It too was criticized, with social media users saying it was “morally problematic.” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said Friday that the Red Cross Society of China, local governments, non-governmental organizations and Chinese enterprises are “trying their best to collect the anti-epidemic supplies urgently needed by India, and deliver them to the Indian people as soon as possible.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-deletes-social-media-posts-mocking-covid-hit-india-after-backlash-981620.html
02-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: BJP loses to regional satraps||In your evening news brief, the results of the five Assembly elections today have been an interesting watch, with the BJP losing to the TMC in West Bengal but has retained Assam; Prashant Kishor says he has "had enough" of being a poll strategist and Israel has temporarily barred its citizens from travelling to India and six other countries.  Here is the top news of May 2, 2021: The results of the five Assembly elections today have been an interesting watch, with the BJP losing to the TMC in West Bengal but has retained Assam. In the southern states, Tamil Nadu has been an easy win for the DMK and in neighbouring Kerala, Pinrayi Vijayan has created history by bringing the CPM-Led LDF to power once again. As of 6:00 PM, the figures stood at. There has been a delay in the results owing to the pandemic-related restrictions. West Bengal:  TMC+: 251 BJP: 74 Samyukta Morcha: 2 Others: 1 Tamil Nadu: DMK+: 153AIADMK+: 80 Others: 1 Kerala: LDF: 99UDF: 41 Assam: BJP+: 74 INC+: 51 Others: 1 Puducherry:  NDA: 11 INC+: 6 Others: 3 Prashant Kishor, the man behind the Trinamool Congress' successful campaign in Bengal, says he has "had enough" of being a poll strategist and is going to pursue something else in life. On being asked if he would return to politics, he just said he does not want to continue doing what he is doing, and has contributed all that he had, including the "good, bad and the ugly." Israel has temporarily barred its citizens from travelling to India and six other countries, citing high Covid-19 infection rates there. A joint press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office and the Health Ministry on Friday said that Israelis will not be allowed to travel to Ukraine, Brazil, Ethiopia, South Africa, India, Mexico and Turkey. This regulation will come into force on May 3 and will remain in place until May 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bjp-loses-to-regional-satraps-981634.html
02-05-2021||National||Delhi HC urges 'iron-hand' approach with black marketeers, hoarders of Covid essentials||The Delhi High Court on Sunday asked the authorities to ensure that none of the medicines or equipment required for treatment of Covid-19 was sold above the maximum retail price, saying black marketeers and hoarders would be dealt with an iron hand. "The people who are hoarding medicines and equipment should be booked and it should be brought to the notice of the court. Contempt action will be taken against them," a bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said, "People who trade in miseries during this crisis should know that even if God forgives them, the government will not." The High Court, which took up the matter on Sunday, directed the Delhi government and Delhi police Commissioner to give wide publicity to helpline numbers to check Covid malpractices. Delhi government, led by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, said helpline numbers have been issued to enable citizens alert on instances of overcharging of ambulances, and medicines, selling fake drugs and black marketing of oxygen cylinders. During the hearing, the court stressed again that the Centre had to ensure supply of assured quota of 490 MT of oxygen to Delhi hospitals, by arranging the tankers. "Delhi is on a different constitutional footing. Delhi government is also not an industrial state. How will it get tankers? It can only use its good offices to approach industries," the bench said. The court's remark came after Mehta contended that the Delhi government should augment its efforts to procure tankers for supply while blaming the unavailability to "systemic failure". Mehta, for his part, also emphasised on the judicious use of oxygen, a contention which was strongly opposed by Mehra. "There is no point in allegations and counter-allegations. We are dealing with the lives of hundreds of people," the bench pointed out. The court fixed May 5 for hearing an application by the Centre to recall May 1 order for contempt action against the officers on failing to supply 490 MT oxygen to Delhi. The court on Saturday expressed its anguish, saying water had gone above the head and enough is enough as it was pointed out 12 patients died due to lack of oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-urges-iron-hand-approach-with-black-marketeers-hoarders-of-covid-essentials-981637.html
02-05-2021||National||In touch with foreign embassies & responding to their medical demands, says Ministry of External Affairs||The Ministry of External Affairs on Sunday said it is in continuous touch with all foreign embassies in India and responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid-19. MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the response to medical demands of the embassies included facilitating treatment in hospital even as he urged all not to hoard essential supplies including oxygen. Earlier, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar hit out at Congress leader Jairam Ramesh after he said on Twitter that the youth wing of the Congress was attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies and wondered whether the MEA was "sleeping". Ramesh also shared a video posted on Twitter by Indian Youth Congress national president Srinivas B V that showed a mini pickup van entering the embassy of the Philippines in Delhi, carrying oxygen cylinders. "MEA checked with the Philippines Embassy. This was an unsolicited supply as they had no Covid cases. Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling," Jaishankar tweeted. "Jairamji, MEA never sleeps; our people know across the world. MEA also never fakes; we know who does," he said in another tweet. Jairamji, MEA never sleeps; our people know across the world. MEA also never fakes; we know who does. Srinivas tweeted the video with a caption "#SOSIYC members at Embassy of the Philippines in New Delhi." In his comments, Ramesh complimented the Indian Youth Congress. "While I thank @IYC for its stellar efforts, as an Indian citizen I'm stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies. Is the MEA sleeping  @DrSJaishankar?," he tweeted. In his statement, Bagchi said the MEA is responding to the medical demands by the foreign missions. "The chief of protocol and heads of divisions are in continuous touch with all high commissions/embassies and MEA is responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid. This includes facilitating their hospital treatment," he said. "Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen," Bagchi said, responding to media queries. Hospitals across the national capital are reeling under a severe shortage of medical oxygen due to the massive surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-touch-with-foreign-embassies-responding-to-their-medical-demands-says-ministry-of-external-affairs-981639.html
02-05-2021||National||Indian Army cancels all physical meetings due to Covid-19 pandemic||The Indian Army on Sunday said it has reduced attendance in its offices and cancelled all physical conferences and meetings till the end of this month in order to contain the spread of Covid-19. India is struggling with the second wave of the coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of oxygen and beds. The Indian Army said on Twitter it has issued fresh instructions -- which will remain in effect till May 31 -- to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection and maintain force preservation. "The measures include reduced attendance in offices of all headquarters(HQs)/establishments including Army HQ, cancellation of all physical conferences/meetings, deferment of all moves on postings, temporary duties and courses," it noted. All operational moves, movement of personnel executing relief operations, medical management and those engaged in essential services will continue as before with strict Covid-19 precautions, it said. A record 3,689 daily Covid-19 fatalities pushed India's death toll to 2,15,542, while the infection count reached 1,95,57,457 with 3,92,488 more people being confirmed positive for the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The number of active cases has crossed the 33-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-cancels-all-physical-meetings-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-981649.html
02-05-2021||National||After poll results, 13 opposition leaders demand free Covid-19 vaccination drive||Within minutes of the declaration of assembly poll results, 13 opposition parties on Sunday issued a joint statement urging the Modi government to launch a free mass vaccination drive across the country and ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to all hospitals in the Covid-19 fight. “In times of the uncontrollable surge of the pandemic across our country, we call upon the Central government to focus all attention in ensuring the uninterrupted flow of Oxygen supplies to all hospitals and health centres across the country,” said the statement by Congress President Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and ten others. The other signatories were Shiv Sena supremo Uddhav Thackeray, Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee and JMM chief Hemant Soren, National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah, BSP supremo Mayawati and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, DMK chief M K Stalin, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, CPI leader D Raja and CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury. “We call upon the Central government to immediately launch a free mass vaccination programme across the country,” they said. The opposition leaders asked the Modi government to utilise the budgetary allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for the vaccination programme. The joint statement can be seen as a formation of a pressure group on national issues such as the ongoing pandemic in an attempt to influence central policies and actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-poll-results-13-opposition-leaders-demand-free-covid-19-vaccination-drive-981660.html
02-05-2021||National||Delhi: Covid-19 vaccination for 18-45 age group to begin from Monday||The third and the largest phase of vaccination, under which beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group will be given jabs against coronavirus, will begin here on Monday. Around 90 lakh people in this category will be eligible for the jabs. Five vaccination booths each have been set up at 77 schools for the inoculation exercise, an official said on Sunday. The government set up vaccination centres at schools to accommodate a high number of beneficiaries, he said. At present, jabs are being given to those aged above 45 at around 500 centres in the national capital. Pre-registration will be mandatory for beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group and there will be no walk-ins for this category for now, the official said. Three big private hospital chains – Apollo, Fortis and Max – have already started vaccinating people in the 18-45 age group at limited centres from Saturday. The Delhi government has placed orders for 1.34 crore vaccine doses with manufactures which will be delivered over the next three months. Of these, 67 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine are being procured from Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Officials had earlier said the first tranche of three lakh doses would reach Delhi in the first week of May. Around 1.5 crore people are targeted to be vaccinated in Delhi, of which 32 lakh have received at least one dose so far, they said. The Delhi government is taking the help of the voters' list to ascertain the number of eligible beneficiaries. According to it, there are around 60 lakh people aged above 45 years. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Thursday said a plan has been formulated to vaccinate all adults against coronavirus within the next three months. He had said everybody aged above 18 would be administered COVID-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi. A government official had told PTI that inoculation of the 18-45 age group is likely to have a moderate start and will be ramped up gradually. Vaccine will be delivered to the city government in phases. Private hospitals will have to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers, he had said. The Centre will continue to provide vaccine for those aged above 45 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-covid-19-vaccination-for-18-45-age-group-to-begin-from-monday-981662.html
02-05-2021||National||Covid victim's son alleges hospital staff demanding bribe for handing over body||The son of an 80-year-old woman alleged on Sunday that the staff of a government hospital in Aligarh was not handing over her body and demanding Rs 8,000 for it. A visibly shattered Shankar told media on Sunday that his mother had succumbed to coronavirus at the Deen Dayal Hospital on Friday. Shankar alleged that since then, the hospital staff were dilly-dallying on the matter. They warned him not to visit as it was a Covid facility and would rudely turn him down whenever he approached the hospital authorities, according to Shankar. On Sunday, one of the hospital staff told him to pay Rs 8,000 if he wanted to secure his mother's mortal remains, Shankar said. No member of the hospital administration was willing to comment on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-victims-son-alleges-hospital-staff-demanding-bribe-for-handing-over-body-981672.html
02-05-2021||National||YSRCP retains Tirupati Lok Sabha seat with a better majority||The ruling YSRCP has retained the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat with a majority of 2.7 lakh votes. Party candidate Maddila Gurumurthy has pulled 6,26,108 votes, while his nearest rival TDP's Panbaka Lakshmi pulled 35,4516 votes out of the over 11 lakh valid votes. The BJP-JanaSena combine candidate and former chief secretary of Karnataka K Ratna Prabha came third with 57,080 votes. The ruling party in Andhra Pradesh had won the seat in the 2019 general elections with a 2.28 lakh majority and has reportedly targeted a majority of over five lakh votes this time. YSRCP's Lok Sabha tally remains the same, at 22 MPs. The SC reserved Lok Sabha constituency, spread over Chittoor and Nellore districts, went for bypolls following the death of sitting YSRCP MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao in September. The election day – April 17 – was marred by several alleged incidents of counterfeit voting. Leaders of TDP, BJP and the Congress, including their contestants, had brought several instances of bogus voting at various polling booths to the notice of the public and social media with video evidence. Accusing the ruling YSRCP of resorting to large-scale fake voting, impersonation and other malpractices, the TDP, BJP-Janasena had written to the Election Commission of India, demanding re-polling. After the results were declared on Sunday, TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu accused the YSRCP leaders of “misuse of government machinery and repression of democracy with their atrocities.”   YSRCP Tirupati Lok Sabha MP-elect A political novice, Gurumurthy was best known as the personal physiotherapist of party chief Jaganmohan Reddy during his 3648-km “Praja Sankalpa Yatra” which traversed Andhra Pradesh ahead of the 2019 Assembly and general elections. Jagan picking Gurumurthy, instead of deceased MP Rao's son Kalyan Chakravarthy, as YSRCP's candidate is seen as a big reward for his personal service commitment and party loyalty. During the election campaign, BJP leaders, including party state in-charge Sunil Deodhar, stated Gurumurthy is ineligible to contest from the SC reserved seat alleging that he is a converted Christian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ysrcp-retains-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat-with-a-better-majority-981677.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees highest daily toll with 412 Covid-19 deaths||The national capital recorded the highest 412 fatalities due to Covid-19 in a day and over 25,000 new cases of the infection, authorities said on Saturday. According to the Delhi government's health bulletin, the positivity rate stood at 31.61 per cent. As many as 79,780 tests for detection of Covid-19 were conducted in a day of which 63,271 were RT-PCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests. Over 45,000 beneficiaries have been administered vaccination jabs in a day in Delhi. The national capital has so far reported 11,74,552 cases, out of which 10,61,246 patients have either recovered, discharged or migrated out. The city currently has 96,747 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-highest-daily-toll-with-412-covid-19-deaths-981433.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Some private hospitals start Covid-19 vaccination for 18-44 years; CM says drive to begin in Delhi on May 3||Some private hospital chains commenced Covid-19 immunisation drive for the 18-44 age group at limited centres in the country on Saturday, while Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that inoculation of people in that age group in the national capital will begin from Monday. Kejriwal said 4.5 lakh vaccine doses have been received by the city government and urged people not to queue up outside the vaccination centres, saying walk-ins are not allowed yet. He visited a vaccination centre at Saraswati Vihar for a "symbolic launch" of the drive. The Delhi government has placed orders for 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech respectively which would be supplied in three months. Apollo Hospitals sources said the drive commenced at its centres in Hyderabad and Kolkata, but not in Delhi. According to them, immunisation for the 18-44 age group at its hospital in Delhi is likely to begin either by Monday or Tuesday when vaccines are likely to arrive. Sources said that the private vaccination centres were not being shown on the CoWIN app for registration. Max Healthcare said that the inoculation drive began at "select hospitals in the network in the NCR of Delhi". According to a statement, "Presently, vaccines will be available at Max Healthcare facilities at Panchsheel Park, Patparganj, Shalimar Bagh, Rajinder Place (BLK-Max Hospital), Noida and Vaishali in the NCR." However, the vaccination exercise could not begin at Fortis Healthcare on Saturday since the stock arrived only in the evening, sources said, adding inoculation would begin from Sunday. Fortis Healthcare, in a statement, had said people in the 18-44 age group will be administered Covaxin for Rs 1,250, which will include the cost of vaccine and administration charges, at its "centres across north India". Aakash Healthcare, Dwarka, said the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group that was supposed to start from Saturday has been put on hold till further notice due to a shortage in vaccine supply. "We will inform the people registered with us shortly for further process," it said. India rolled out the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination drive for those in the 18-45 age group on Saturday though the inoculation process failed to take off in some states due to a shortage of vaccines. While Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir among other states and union territories launched the vaccination drive, Karnataka and Odisha made only a symbolic start to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-private-hospitals-start-covid-19-vaccination-for-18-44-years-cm-says-drive-to-begin-in-delhi-on-may-3-981444.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Thunderstorms with rain expected in Delhi||The national capital on Sunday recorded the minimum temperature at 24.8 degrees Celsius, with the meteorological department forecasting thunderstorms with rain later in the day. The maximum temperature is expected to settle around 40 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 46 per cent. The minimum and maximum temperature recorded on Saturday was 28.2 degrees Celsius and 41.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.f||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thunderstorms-with-rain-expected-in-delhi-981497.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||‘Lives at risk, major tragedy may occur': 2 Delhi hospitals ring oxygen alarm bells||At least two hospitals in Delhi sent out desperate SOS calls to authorities on Sunday to replenish their dwindling oxygen stocks as smaller facilities continued to battle an acute shortage of the live-saving gas amid spiralling coronavirus cases. Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital in Maviya Sunday sounded an alarm about their depleting stocks around afternoon, saying 50 people, including four newborns, were "at risk". An official of the hospital said in the afternoon there are around 80 patients, including those suffering from Covid-19, at the hospital. It also has 15 newborns, he said. "There are 50 people, including four newborns, on oxygen support. They are at risk," he said. The hospital does not have a liquid oxygen storage tank and depends on oxygen cylinders from a private vendor. "It has become a daily fire-fight in the absence of a continuous supply. We require around 125 oxygen cylinders a day," the official said. The hospital also took to Twitter seeking help from authorities. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha tweeted in reply: “We have arranged five D Type oxygen cylinders for Rainbow Children's Hospital, from our Rajghat Response Point. The Govt’s oxygen reserves are extremely limited due to reduced oxygen supply to Delhi, but we are doing everything possible to avert any untoward incident.” Dr Deepali Gupta from Triton Hospital in Kalkaji said they have been struggling to arrange oxygen for their neonatal intensive care unit. “We have been scrambling for oxygen for over a week. A major tragedy may occur if a continuous supply is not ensured soon,” she said. AAP leader Chadha also said the government has issued 5 D-type cylinders to the hospital from Rajghat Response Point. “Hospital officials are on their way to collect it. Sincerely hope that oxygen supply chains of hospitals get restored quickly for this fire-fighting is unsustainable,” he tweeted. On Saturday, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, had died at south Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen for around 80 minutes in the afternoon. The tragic incident occurred in less than two weeks of twenty coronavirus patients dying at Jaipur Golden Hospital and 25 at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital amid oxygen crises in the national capital. Several hospitals in Delhi continue to grapple with a shortage of oxygen, as coronavirus cases continue to spike every passing day. The Delhi government has been demanding 976 metric tonnes of oxygen from the Centre against the existing allotted 490 MT quota. On Friday, the city administration received just 312 MT, an official said. According to official data, Delhi had got 305 metric tonnes of oxygen on April 25, followed by 408 MT on April 26, 398 MT on April 27, 431MT on April 28 and 409 MT on April 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lives-at-risk-major-tragedy-may-occur-2-delhi-hospitals-ring-oxygen-alarm-bells-981500.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC allows BJP leader to amend plea, place fresh documents in challenge to Satyendra Jain election||The Delhi High Court has allowed BJP leader S C Vats to make amendments in his petition challenging the election of Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain to the legislative assembly for allegedly indulging in "corrupt practices". Vats lost to Jain in the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections from Shakur Basti constituency here. The court has also permitted Vats to place on record certain additional documents and asked Jain to file his reply to the amended petition within four weeks and listed the matter for hearing on July 19. "From the amendments as proposed to be brought, it is evident that the petitioner (Vats) has not introduced any new fact and is only adding particulars to the existing facts. Further, the respondents (Jain, returning officer and chief election officer) are yet to file their reply to the election petition and hence the amendments are sought at the preliminary stage itself. "Consequently, this court deems it fit to permit amendments to the petition as also filing of the additional documents," Justice Mukta Gupta said in an order passed on April 8, and made available now. Vats, in his plea through advocate Sahil Ahuja, had sought to make amendments to the plea regarding some typographical errors, inadvertent omission and explanatory facts which could not be stated in the original election petition. He said the documents include the details of WhatsApp groups and snapshots of Facebook account and Twitter web pages which are relevant for the adjudication of issues involved in the election petition. However, certain proposed amendments were opposed by senior advocate Sudhir Nandrajog, who represented Jain, on the ground that new facts have been added in these paragraphs and it amounts to improvements in material facts, which is not permissible under the law in an election petition. Vats has filed a petition challenging Jain's election in which the court had earlier issued notice and sought responses of the AAP leader, Returning Officer, Chief Election Officer and three other candidates who had contested for the same constituency. The petition, which was filed in August 2020, has sought that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader's election be declared null and void, and a re-election conducted. It has alleged that Jain "bribe" voters of his constituency with "gifts" such as cameras, benches, air-conditioners and computers, to some societies there and therefore, prevented them from exercising their right to vote in a free and fair manner. "The facts set out would clearly demonstrate that the respondent no.1 (Jain) has violated the purity of the election process and democracy which are both basic features of the Constitution. "Consequently, the respondent no.1 is also liable to be disqualified from contesting the elections for such period as specified in the Representation of People Act," the plea has said. On the plea to preserve records of election, the high court had earlier refused to pass an order for maintaining status quo at this stage, saying the petitioner has already approached the court so late. The plea has also claimed that Jain did not disclose his actual expenses incurred during the election campaign and exceeded the cap on poll expenditures. The petition has further sought that during pendency of the matter, Jain be prevented from attending the legislative assembly and drawing emoluments or any other payments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-allows-bjp-leader-to-amend-plea-place-fresh-documents-in-challenge-to-satyendra-jain-election-981527.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Jharkhand: JMM candidate leads by 4,076 votes in Madhupur assembly bypoll||JMM leader and minister Hafeezul Hasan Ansari is leading by 4,076 votes over his nearest rival Ganga Narayan Singh of the BJP in the bye-election to the Madhupur assembly constituency, an Election Commission official said. Ansari polled 34,314 votes while his rival BJP candidate has to his credit 30,238 votes after the seventh round of counting, an EC spokesperson said. The bypoll in Madhupur in Deoghar district, which took place on April 17, was necessitated by the death of former minister Haji Hussain Ansari, father of the JMM nominee, on October 3 last year. Four Independent candidates - Ashok Kumar Thakur, Rajendra Kumar, Uttam Kumar Yadav and Kishan Kumar Bathwal - have polled 817, 739, 496 and 299 votes, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-jmm-candidate-leads-by-4076-votes-in-madhupur-assembly-bypoll-981536.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana orders 7-day lockdown from May 3 to curb spread of Covid-19||Haryana government on Sunday ordered a 7-day long complete lockdown in the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus, Home Minister Anil Vij announced on Twitter.  3 मई दिन सोमवार से 7 दिन के लिए सारे हरियाणा में पूर्ण लॉक डाउन घोषित । The lockdown will be imposed beginning May 3, he said. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-orders-7-day-lockdown-from-may-3-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-981556.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Crisis Management Group formed to tackle Covid-19 situation in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has constituted a five-member Crisis Management Group (CMG) to monitor the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the Union Territory to take preventive and mitigating measures accordingly. J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had passed directions for setting up of the CMG last evening in view of a surge in infections. An official spokesman said the CMG will be headed by Chief Secretary, BVR Subrahmanyam, and will have four senior officers as members. The group shall “meet daily, and more often if necessary to review the rapidly evolving Covid-19 in terms of cases, testing rates, positivity, mortality, recovery, hospital occupancy and other parameters." It has also been tasked to review the oxygen and medicine requirement and availability at all health institutions. The CMG will also take “immediate measures for preventing the spread, controlling the infection and managing the availability of resources”. Besides, it will also monitor the Covid-29 vaccine rollout and “fine-tune vaccination strategies to ensure speedy and complete coverage at the earliest”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crisis-management-group-formed-to-tackle-covid-19-situation-in-jk-981567.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain's father succumbs to Covid-19||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has lost his father to Covid-19, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday. "Our health minister Satyendra Jain lost his father today to COVID,” he said, terming it "very very sad". Our health minister Satyendra Jain lost his father today to COVID. V v sad. Satyendra himself has been working tirelessly round the clock for the people of Delhi. God bless his soul and my heartfelt condolences to the family. "Satyendra himself has been working tirelessly round the clock for the people of Delhi. God bless his soul and my heartfelt condolences to the family," Kejriwal added in his tweet. Jain was also infected with the virus last June and he recovered. The national capital recorded its highest 412 Covid-19 fatalities in a day and 25,219 new instances of the infection with a case positivity rate of 31.61 per cent on Saturday, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jains-father-succumbs-to-covid-19-981572.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, 12 others booked for violating Section 144 in Haryana||The Haryana Police has registered a case against Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait and 12 others, who held a 'maha panchayat' in a village here, for allegedly violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPc, officials said on Sunday. Tikait and some other BKU leaders addressed the 'kisan mazdoor maha panchayat' in Dhurali village near Ambala Cantonment on Saturday. Ratan Maan Singh, Baldev Singh and Jasmer Saini are among the other 12 farmer leaders who have been booked by the police. In view of a massive surge in coronavirus cases, the district magistrate had imposed Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more persons. The police said Assistant Sub-Inspector Chandi Singh had warned the BKU leaders not to hold the 'maha panchayat' as Section 144 was enforced in the district. "However, BKU leaders went ahead and organised the event,” a senior police official said. Based on a complaint of the assistant sub-inspector, a case was registered against Tikait and 12 other farmer leaders. "They violated the orders under Section 144 as well as the orders duly promulgated by the public servant (district magistrate) under Section 188 of the IPC. The other provisions of IPC added in the FIR include Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life),” the police official said. Addressing the 'maha panchayat', Tikait, who is the national spokesperson of BKU, reiterated that the agitation against the Centre's new farm laws will continue till the time these legislations are repealed. He asked the farmers to prepare themselves for a long battle. The BKU leader also hit out at the government over its handling of the Covid crisis, saying various hospitals across the country are grappling with a severe shortage of medical oxygen. Talking to the media later, Tikait said during the event, farmers were told that they should take all the steps to protect themselves from the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-12-others-booked-for-violating-section-144-in-haryana-981573.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi University defers final year exams due to Covid-19||Delhi University has decided to defer final year examinations amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city, officials said on Sunday. The final year and final semester exams were supposed to begin from May 15 but will now begin from June 1. They will be in online mode and held in the open book format. "We held a meeting on Saturday with all the heads of the departments and deans. The meeting was chaired by the vice-chancellor. It was decided that the exams be postponed to June 1," D S Rawat, Dean of Examinations, DU, said. Rawat said that the decision on exams for intermediate semesters will be taken later. Teachers and students have been demanding the deferment of exams and even cancellation. The Delhi University Teachers' Association had written to acting vice-chancellor Professor PC Joshi over the issue. "... the University must take a sensitive view of the situation that students and teachers find themselves in - no one is in a position to write or conduct examinations at this moment. "Hence, we request you to consider cancelling examinations for all students and decide upon alternative means to evaluate students. Deadlines for submission of internal assessment must be extended," they had said in a letter dated April 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-defers-final-year-exams-due-to-covid-19-981585.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Photography at crematorium made punishable offence in Yogi Adityanath's home town of Gorakhpur||Close on the heels of the municipal authorities erecting a temporary wall around the main crematorium in the state capital of Lucknow, allegedly to hide the mounting death figures, the administration in Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's home town of Gorakhpur also put up signboards at the crematorium stating that photography and videography were "punishable offence". "The bodies are being cremated in accordance with Hindu rituals. Kindly don't click pictures or make videos, it is a punishable offence," the banners, put up by the Gorakhpur Municipal Corporation, said. The administration, however, removed the banners after a hue and cry on social media after the pictures of the signboards went viral, sources said. Sources said that the decision to put up the signboards was aimed at hiding the mounting death toll from Covid infections. Barely a few days back, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation had also erected temporary walls around the main crematorium in the town and had barred 'unauthorised' people from entering the place after disturbing videos of scores of burning pyres went viral on social media. The opposition leaders had sharply reacted to the decision saying that the state government was trying to hide the number of deaths from Covid. Lucknow and Gorakhpur were among the worst-affected districts in UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/photography-at-crematorium-made-punishable-offence-in-yogi-adityanaths-home-town-of-gorakhpur-981606.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 cases, deaths continue to surge in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir continued to witness a significant uptick in Covid-19 cases, with the Union Territory (UT) reporting 3,571 fresh cases on Sunday to take the case tally to 183486. As many as 40 deaths pushed the death toll to 2,370. With just 1,453 recoveries, the number of active cases has increased to 32,421. The total recoveries stand at 1,48,695, with the recovery rate decreasing sharply in the last two weeks. Covid infections are witnessing an upsurge and in the last six days J&K recorded nearly 21,000 cases. The UT witnessed in excess of 3,000 Covid cases for the 6th day in a row. On Saturday J&K had recorded its worst-ever death toll of 47 and 3832 Covid-19 cases in a single day. As Srinagar district continues to report over 1,000 cases daily for the last one week, the administration on Sunday declared it as Red zone while the rest of the 19 districts of the UT were declared as Orange zones. The categorisation was made during a review meeting of the State Executive Committee of the Department of Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction chaired by Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam. Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people continued to remain imposed across the UT in the wake of the 84-hour lockdown announced by the government on Thursday evening. The government on Saturday announced the extension of the lockdown in four districts - Jammu and three others in the valley - till Thursday morning. Educational institutions in J&K shall also remain closed till May 31 in view of the prevailing Covid-19 surge, the government said on Sunday. In a new set of guidelines issued in this regard, the State Executive Committee of the J&K’s Department of Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction this afternoon, the government ordered closure of schools, tuition centres, colleges, universities and technical educational institutions in the union territory in view of the surge in infections. The teaching staff has been asked to continue imparting online classes to the students from home while the courses requiring practical or research work have been exempted from the restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-deaths-continue-to-surge-in-jammu-and-kashmir-981646.html
02-05-2021||North and Central||Not more than 2 to be allowed in cars, negative Covid test report must for entering Punjab||The Punjab government on Monday announced not more than two persons can travel in a car, 50 per cent staff strength at government offices and a negative coronavirus test report must for those entering the state as part of added curbs amid rising Covid-19 cases and fatalities. These restrictions, in addition to the earlier ones, will remain in effect till May 15, according to the Punjab Home Department's directive to all deputy commissioners and district police chiefs. Punjab is among the worst-hit states in the second wave of the pandemic. On Saturday, it registered 7,041 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest in a day, bringing the infection count to 3,77,990, while 138 more fatalities took the toll to 9,160. Anybody arriving in Punjab by air, rail or road must have a negative Covid report which is not more than 72-hour old or produces vaccination certificate, at least of one dose, over two weeks old. All four-wheeler passenger vehicles, including cars and taxis, will not be allowed to seat more than two passengers in the state. However, vehicles carrying patients to hospitals will be exempted, according to the directions. It also stated that pillion riding on scooters and motorcycles will not be allowed except for those belonging to the same family and living in the same house. All shops selling non-essential items will remain shut. Those dealing in medicines and essential items like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, dairy and poultry products like eggs, meat, mobile repair will be allowed. All government offices, as well as banks, will work at 50 per cent strength other than those where officials are involved in Covid management, according to the new directives, which also stated that deputy commissioners are authorised to draft services of any official for Covid management and related duties. No gathering of more than 10 people, including for weddings, cremations and funerals, will be allowed. Villages will hold vigil to ensure orders related to night and weekend curfews are complied with. Religious places will be closed at 6 pm every day and there must be no overcrowding. There will also be RT-PCR testing of street vendors and social distancing must be maintained in vegetable markets, according to the directives of the state home department. An appeal would also be made to farmer unions and religious leaders not to hold gatherings and restrict the number of protestors. With a ban on social, cultural, sports and other gatherings already in place, there will also be a complete ban on government functions, such as inaugurations, foundation stone laying ceremonies unless permission of the deputy commissioner has been obtained. The state government has already imposed a night curfew from 6 pm till 5 am and weekend lockdown from 6 pm on Fridays till 5 am on Mondays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-more-than-2-to-be-allowed-in-cars-negative-covid-test-report-must-for-entering-punjab-981654.html
02-05-2021||Opinion||The paradox of centralised federalism||One of the defining features of the gross mismanagement of the second wave of Covid-19 by the Indian government has been the flawed centralisation and decentralisation of efforts. Somehow, against all odds, the Union Government has both centralised and decentralised badly, botching the fight against the pandemic and leaving India’s citizens gasping for oxygen amid the cruelty of Covid-19. Going back to 2020, when the disease was limited to a few cities, the Centre imposed a nationwide lockdown that caused immense misery and destroyed the livelihoods of millions, apart from ending up spreading the disease to different parts of the country as panicked migrant workers left. Instead of helping local efforts to manage the outbreaks, the Union Government centralised everything, costing lakhs of lives. Now the same mistakes are being repeated, this time in the context of vaccines. The sensible route would have been to centralise the procurement of vaccines, distribute them to states according to population and let them figure out local distribution and prioritisation based on supplies and local situation. Instead, the Centre has a muddled procurement process that seems to change every week, with prices that change every other day and vaccine supplies that run out every day. This confused and confounding approach has cost lives and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. The sad part of this really is that this was eminently foreseeable. In fact this precise issue, in the exact context of an epidemic and public health, was discussed in the Constituent Assembly. In the debate which happened on 5th November, 1948, after the Draft Constitution was first placed before the Assembly, an interesting and vigorous debate took place on larger questions of federalism and centralisation. Some members felt that the Centre was not powerful enough and others that it was far too powerful under the Constitution. In the specific context of public health, Frank Antony and T T Krishnamachari were among those who believed that public health as a subject should be the domain of the Centre since diseases know no boundaries, or at least shared between the Centre and the states. Reading through the speeches which call for a strong Centre, it is not hard to miss the underlying subtext - partition. However, members also remembered the flaws of such overt centralisation under the Government of India Act, 1935. In specific, the post of the Governor and its use to control Provincial Legislatures which had elected Indian representation. This tension — to seek a strong Centre to preserve the Union but also liberate the states to make their own policy choices — is one that comes through the discussions many a time.  This tension ensured that the Indian constitution cannot be ever fit into a strict mould of “federal” or “unitary”. Even the term “quasi-federal” used by some academics in this context does not accurately describe it. Academics and scholars have expended much ink in trying to fit the Constitution into preconceived ideas of federalism but the genius of the text evades such simple classification. The Constitution tries to draw a careful balance between ensuring a strong central government which can manage national needs and giving states enough leeway in coming up with their own policies, catering to local needs. The larger point is this: “centralisation” and “decentralisation” are not ends in themselves. They cannot become definitive mantras for governance. The Constitution itself came in at a time when a strong Centre was needed to address the needs of a poor, diverse and divided nation. As India became more stable and state capacity improved, the trend was to decentralise and let local concerns be handled locally. The story of Indian governance can be told entirely through the constant tension between centralising and decentralising tendencies. That said, a twisted notion of a “strong central government” has gotten us to this mess. The belief that Delhi knows best and is the only repository of “national interest” has been shown up to be a gigantic lie. It’s time for the Centre to show some humility in the matter, set aside institutional ego and learn to listen. The lives of millions depend upon it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-paradox-of-centralised-federalism-981404.html
02-05-2021||Opinion||Science and its expression of discontent||The term ‘paradigm shift’ has become so ubiquitous in writing and conversation that some tend to view it as a cliche to be shunned. But that would be doing it an injustice, given its antecedents. A paradigm is a way of seeing the world and the current state of knowledge the only guide to what the unknown might be like. Therefore, a change to a whole new paradigm is necessarily discontinuous with the old. The term ‘paradigm shift’ was first used, from the perspective of the progress of science, to describe a revolutionary change in scientific development. One man advanced this idea, and single-handedly changed the world view on the history, philosophy, and sociology of science. Thomas Samuel Kuhn, is without doubt, the most influential philosopher of science of the twentieth century, and his 1962 book The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (The Structure), one of the most cited academic books. The central idea of this extraordinarily influential book is simple: The development of science is discontinuous, alternating between ‘normal’ and ‘revolutionary’ phases. The revolutionary phases are more than merely periods of accelerated progress, but differ qualitatively from the previous science. In normal periods, science is driven by a ‘paradigm’ posing problems for scientists to resolve, or puzzles to solve, as Kuhn described it, much to the annoyance of some scientists; and providing the tools, methods and standards for their solution. A crisis in science arises when the paradigm fails to solve particularly persistent questions called anomalies; and it is such crises that trigger scientific revolutions. Revolutionary science is therefore not cumulative in that scientific revolutions involve a revision of existing scientific beliefs or practices. Kuhn’s contribution to the philosophy of science marked a radical departure from the past and most of Kuhn’s critics, notably Karl Popper, failed to appreciate the emphasis he placed upon the idea of a paradigm as an exemplar or model of problem-solving. Born in 1922, Kuhn studied physics at Harvard, graduating in 1943 and completed his PhD in physics in 1949. It was just happenstance that he soon switched to the history of science, and thereafter to the philosophy of science, the serendipitous result of being commissioned to teach a class in science for undergraduates in the humanities at Harvard. The Structure first aroused interest among social scientists, although it did in due course create the interest among philosophers that Kuhn had intended, and before long, among a much wider academic and general audience. Kuhn’s insight — that one can understand scientific development only if one understands the intellectual frameworks within which scientists work — is what animates this thought-provoking book.  What set the cat amongst the pigeons in the scientific community was Kuhn’s idea of ‘incommensurability’ — that theories from differing periods cannot be compared — as a natural corollary to his scientific revolution thesis. In sum, it contested the ‘standing on the shoulders of giants’ metaphor that prevailed at the time. Assessing Kuhn’s significance presents a conundrum. Unquestionably he was one of the most influential philosophers of science of the twentieth century. It is as if he himself brought about a revolution but did not provide the replacement paradigm. One ought to read The Structure, if only for one reason: it transforms our understanding of the scientific method, and in particular the sociology of scientific knowledge. Far from introducing irrationality into the discourse on Science, Kuhn was departing from what was the need for an imagined pure rationality; and presenting an original idea: in essence, the view that science, rather than progressing towards a goal, progresses away from poorer paradigms to better ones. The Structure serves as a powerful counterweight to the human quest for certainty. To paraphrase Kuhn, we may have to relinquish the notion, explicit or implicit, that changes of paradigm carry scientists and those who learn from them, closer to the truth. The things that science discovers exist independently of our conceptions of them. Merely because we invent words and their meanings, does not mean we invent the world. Kuhn provides a powerful insight to enable us to engage with the specificity of the past without its foreshadowing of the present. This remarkable book is a profound reminder of the need for epistemic humility to replace epistemic rhetoric. We might pride ourselves as ostensibly rational beings, but can easily fool ourselves into thinking we know more than we really do. Add this masterwork to your must-read list. In the unending human quest for knowledge, the study of science as we know it will remain Kuhn’s enduring legacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/science-and-its-expression-of-discontent-981405.html
02-05-2021||Opinion||Story of Kusha and conservation challenges||A handsome 29-year-old tusker has been separated from his doting companion and restrained in heavy chains, his incessant tears and moaning making no impact on his captors. This is the story of Kusha, a wild elephant in the custody of Karnataka forest department, who is now all set to be released back to the forests, after a public outcry. The jumbo was caught in Kodagu a few years ago, following complaints of him repeatedly raiding farm lands and destroying crops. However, last year he broke free from his shackles at the Dubare elephant camp where he was confined, and escaped into the wild in search of a mate. While it is common for tamed pachyderms to stray into the forest and return once their urges are satiated, Kusha, who found a beautiful partner decided to stay back. The forest department launched a massive hunt and even succeeded in sighting him on a couple of occasions, but each time the tusker gave them the slip. By now, having been in the woods for over a year, he had forgotten the commands of his mahout who beseeched him to return, and to make matters worse, the female elephant frustrated every attempt to capture her partner. Finally, in April, the department succeeded in separating the two and recapturing Kusha. The sobbing elephant has since been held in a kraal (a wooden enclosure) attracting the attention of environmentalists and animal lovers who have strongly condemned this cruelty. Now, following the intervention of Maneka Gandhi, MP, Karnataka Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali has ordered that he be radio-collared and released to his natural habitat, where hopefully, he will soon trace his lady love. But the bigger question is why wild animals stray into human territory ever so often. The most convenient explanation is, encroachment of forest area, but that is not exactly the answer. With a healthy increase in the population of elephants which are concentrated in certain parts of the state, the forests have exceeded their ecological carrying capacity. During summer, elephants abandon both the forests as well as their traditional corridors in search of food and water. And once accustomed to a diet of jackfruit and ragi which are available aplenty, they not only frequently visit farms and plantations, but also make them their home for extended periods, leading to conflicts with human beings. The same holds good for tigers. Nagarahole forest, with a population of 125 tigers, which translates to a density of one tiger per about 12 sq km, is said to have reached its carrying capacity. Tigers normally need a territory of 20 km, which they fiercely defend. Thus, as the population increases, the older and weaker big cats are edged out of the forest, forcing them to take shelter and mark new territory in neighbouring estates or villages. Recently, a tiger had to be put down in Kodagu after it killed four people and several heads of cattle. Many experts suggest that the only solution is to translocate these animals to less populated forests, but some others opine that tranquilising, transporting and introducing them to alien areas could cause immense trauma. Considering how touchy the issue is, neither the government nor environmentalists are ready to bell the cat and often take the easy escape route by blaming encroachment of forests, without addressing the real problem. But what they fail to understand is that unless some rational decisions are taken, a situation will arise where, with conflicts increasing, people living in the periphery of forests will take the law into their own hands to protect themselves, thereby negating all the hard-earned gains of conservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/story-of-kusha-and-conservation-challenges-981406.html
02-05-2021||Opinion||Yes, that’s myself I’m talking to but I’m not crazy||It’s a challenge for me to even string sentences together to write this column. India is hurting and people are experiencing devastating, irreparable losses. There’s an overwhelming sense of anger, anxiousness, and helplessness. What can I possibly say that’s worth reading at a time like this? There are already enough opinions about the current situation and what has caused it. Yet, to write about anything unrelated seems frivolous and irrelevant. Amid the isolation and uncertainty, I find I’m talking to myself way more often than usual. Instead of the incessant background chatter from the annoying little voice in my head, it’s a conscious conversation. I’m inclined to be my own harshest critic but now I’m trying to encourage and support myself. “It’s hard today, I know, but let’s get through this together,” I say. “It’s okay to feel like this, let’s express it.” (Meltdown sometimes follows). “What do you need right now?” “Shall we go out to the terrace and get some sun?” “You’re doing so well today, I’m proud of you.” This self-talk has become even more important as I repetitively process distressing new developments and readjust my expectations. The emotions can be overwhelming, and I make it worse by focusing on things I shouldn’t and then giving myself insomnia. Afterwards, I end up apologising to myself. “I’m really sorry I did that to you and you’re so tired,” I console my body, while feeling slightly deranged. While this could indeed be deemed a sign of deteriorating mental health, more likely it’s actually keeping me sane. There’s fascinating research to support my “madness”. According to cell biologist and epigenetics expert Bruce Lipton Ph.D., author of The Biology of Belief, our thoughts affect every cell in our body. The cells listen and respond to emotion, and our beliefs influence the expression of our genes. Therefore, it’s essential to show ourselves love and compassion, especially if we’re suffering or fearful. Engaging in positive, reassuring conversations with our body will encourage it to cooperate and overcome whatever we’re facing. It will also enable us to tap into its wisdom and let it communicate how it’s feeling. A friend of mine recently had the virus and consulted four different doctors. However, they all recommended different treatment. Understandably confused about what course of action to take, he ultimately decided to listen to his body. What was it telling him? Fever was his only symptom, and the investigative tests came back satisfactory. He realised there was no need for aggressive treatment, and recovered well with minimal medications. My brief brush with the virus recently, after my husband had it, was different but also influenced by the signals from my body. Slight tightening and pain in my chest, and the fact that I’ve had pneumonia in the past, warned me to increase my prophylactic medication and add the antibiotic my doctor recommended to stop it progressing. I did, and it resolved. While our body regularly speaks to us to convey what it requires, the problem is we frequently ignore it. During times of stress, we disconnect as a way of coping but this is when our body wants us to be present with it the most. Research indicates that when we’re upset, it’s most effective to chat with ourselves in the third person. Addressing ourselves by name creates detachment from our emotions, so we can reason better and be more objective. Rather than thinking of ourselves as racked with guilt or grief, we may view ourselves as a vulnerable friend who deserves care and attention. It’s difficult, but as I was once told, the only person who can really support you in the way you need is yourself. It’s true. No matter what changes, the one person who will always be there on my side with me is me. We are all going through tough times, it’s crucial to treat ourselves kindly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/yes-that-s-myself-i-m-talking-to-but-i-m-not-crazy-981407.html
02-05-2021||Opinion||Bar for governance too low, pace too slow||India's population is well known, as is the vaccine requirement. Depending on the number of vaccinations administered each month, we'll get to 80% coverage of the population by some date. At the current pace, that date is well into the summer of 2022. Even with increased capacity for production at Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, we won't make a significant dent at the current pace of vaccination. At full stretch, SII can produce about 100 million doses of Covishield a month, and it's not clear if all of that will be for domestic consumption, since SII has export obligations linked to its license. Bharat Biotech can produce 15 million doses of Covaxin a month, tops. What we need is other manufacturers and other vaccines also coming into the supply chain, soon. The critical word is 'soon'. The trouble with the way we've organised government is that nothing can be done quickly, even in an emergency. The whole system is designed to do things slowly, with almost anyone able to say no to something, and almost no one empowered to say yes. Slow vaccination has two large risks. One, it gives the virus time to mutate, maybe even to the point where the vaccines that now exist don't work. That's why the rest of the world is airlifting aid to us - to put a stop to a risk that could come to them too later. Not because of any great diplomacy on our part. The second big hit will be on the economy. Other countries are looking ahead, hoping to recover from the pandemic through renewed economic activity. Being unable to keep up with them will hurt India's global competitiveness in several sectors. This is a bane of our development - things that should be done first and quickly are all done slowly, in some random order. And the things that need to be done slowly with thought and deliberation are all done in a headlong rush of political power, often in stealth. The result - we end up with neither the benefit of well-thought-out interventions nor any gains from nimbly doing some useful things to get started. Instead, we're forced to keep doing whatever seems 'necessary' at each stage, telling ourselves that we have no choice but to do just that. Why is our governance too slow? In large part, this is because we don't have meaningful district governance. In large countries, between state and local governments, it is common to have an elected district layer too. We don't. Instead, we go from an overbearing and low-capacity state government to small town councils and panchayats that have virtually no power in most states. In this scenario, the states are stretched to respond to all problems, everywhere. At the same time, local city councils and panchayats cannot see beyond the end of their streets. Between the two, the taluk and district-scale view of things, and the necessary response, is simply left blank. Without district governments, the reflexive response of the states is to do the same things everywhere. The Centre sets its own example of this through its sponsored schemes, which are trying the same things in Bihar and Bengaluru. When we hit a pandemic, a procurement agency in Delhi puts out a tender to buy oxygen for district hospitals. And the guys in the district who actually need the oxygen are told to wait until this happens. We cannot have a government structure in which the PM reviews oxygen supply and the states build toilets in small towns. Those are not bad things to do, but those are someone else's jobs. In many cases, those are the jobs of layers of government that don't exist at all. The quickest fix is to expand the zilla parishads to include urban voters too. If rural voters need that tier of elected representation, so do urban voters. Integrated and elected district governments can respond to regional problems and promote regional opportunities much better than either the states or the local bodies can. Along with devolved budgets and taxation, this could enable different parts of the country to set new examples for both governance and accelerated development. The irony and hypocrisy of this gaping hole in governance is that in some large states, like Karnataka, for decades, state politicians have promised to distribute development beyond the capital and a few other places. The right way to do that has always been obvious - empower those other places do it themselves. And they will drive development much faster. As if 'slow' isn't bad enough, we have another problem - the threshold for our definition of success is too low. We are quick to declare victory in development races after only the first few steps, as if running the rest of the steps and getting to the finish line is only a formality. The bar for governance is too low in our quest for development. And the way we go about even this is too slow. That's why the coronavirus overran us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bar-for-governance-too-low-pace-too-slow-981408.html
02-05-2021||Opinion||BJP loses battle with regional satraps yet again, Congress fails to make a mark||In the election results from four states and a union territory, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) looks set to hold on to Assam. But results from other states have buttressed the trend of the BJP performing poorly when faced with a strong regional party, and that several regions farthest from Delhi still refuse to come under the thrall of the Hindutva party. The trends are also a jolt to the Congress. The Congress, the BJP’s principal opponent nationally, has failed to take advantage of anti-incumbency against the BJP government in Assam and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala. The Congress is also on the verge of losing its government in Puducherry. These results could trigger another round of recriminations within the Congress. The losses suffered by the Congress could enthuse the ‘group of 23’ leaders to question the leadership of Rahul Gandhi. The trend of the BJP underwhelming in the Assembly elections despite its success in the Lok Sabha polls continues. The BJP has secured a majority of its own in only two of the 23 Assembly polls that have taken place since February 2018 – in Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh. Currently, it is leading in Assam but is failing short of the majority mark on its own. The results, particularly in Bengal and Kerala, have also underscored the importance of efficient rollout of social welfare schemes and the vindication of the template that the Aam Aadmi Party employed in Delhi in February 2020 Assembly polls. The AAP ensured robust social welfare schemes, particularly schemes that focused on women, and kept away from getting sucked into countering the BJP’s overt polarization on religious lines. Just as AAP met the BJP’s slogan of ‘Jai Sri Ram’ with the chant of ‘Jai Bajrang Bali’ in Delhi, Mamata Banerjee in Bengal took to reciting the ‘Chandi Path’ and that she was a daughter of a ‘Brahmin household’. The LDF in Kerala and Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress have also focused on rollout of social welfare schemes, and on transferring benefits to women. Surveys have suggested Trinamool's increase in voteshares have significantly to do with support from women. Mid-1980s redux? The situation now is somewhat similar to what it was nearly four decades ago, and fertile for the re-emergence of a new political formation. At the beginning of 1985, the Congress with over 400 Lok Sabha seats, and with a second successive Lok Sabha win, walked the Indian political scene like a leviathan. However, the Congress did not rule large parts of India. Three of the four southern states, barring Kerala, were ruled by anti-Congress parties. In 1985, the Congress also lost border states of Assam and Punjab. West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mamata Banerjee, the only woman chief minister in the country and now a rare leader to have won three successive elections, has proposed a conclave of opposition leaders. Vijayawada Conclave Similar exercises in the past seem to have inspired the proposal, including the one 38 years back under the blazing summer sun in Vijayawada. In May 1983, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief NT Rama Rao hosted 24 opposition leaders of 14 political parties to stitch an alliance against the Indira Gandhi-led Congress for the Lok Sabha polls, which were 18-months away. The Vijayawada conclave was the first time 14 ideologically disparate non-Congress political parties — including the communist parties and BJP — got together at one place and issued a joint statement. In March 1983, Karnataka Chief Minister Ramakrishna Hegde had called a meeting of his southern counterparts to ostensibly discuss federalism. The rise of the regional parties in the national politics can also be traced to the events of 1983. The process had culminated into the formation of the National Front government at the Centre in 1989, and continued with the formation of the United Front government in 1996 to 1998. The question of leadership Banerjee’s proposal comes in somewhat similar circumstances. She has flagged erosion of the powers of the states, and found support from regional parties. Several regional leaders have congratulated Banerjee for her resounding win, including Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Nationalist Congress Party’s Sharad Pawar and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal. Any federal front would face two obvious challenges – evolving a programmatic coherence between ideologically disparate opposition parties, and the question of a leader. This is where Pawar’s role would be key as the opposition prepares for the forthcoming Assembly polls by February 2022 in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. The BJP is set to face a tough election in UP because of the mishandling of the coronavirus spread, and would struggle to find its feet in Punjab after the protests on the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-loses-battle-with-regional-satraps-yet-again-congress-fails-to-make-a-mark-981596.html
02-05-2021||South||Telangana bypolls: TRS leads in early trends in Nagarjuna Sagar||The ruling TRS party candidate Nomula Bhagat on Sunday established a lead in early trends in the Nagarajuna Sagar bypoll held on April 17. Bhagat is leading by 2,118 votes over his nearest Congress rival K Jana Reddy after the second round of vote- counting, according to the Election Commission. The bypoll was necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah in December last year. The BJP has put up P Ravi Kumar as its candidate. The Congress candidate Jana Reddy had served as Leader of Opposition in the previous Legislative Assembly. He lost from the same constituency in the 2018 Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-bypolls-trs-leads-in-early-trends-in-nagarjuna-sagar-981486.html
02-05-2021||South||Telangana logs 7,430 new Covid-19 cases, 56 fatalities as death toll rises to 2,368||Telangana reported 7,430 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to over 4.50 lakh while the toll rose to 2,368 with 56 more casualties. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 1,546, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (533) and Rangareddy (475), a government bulletin said on Sunday providing details as of 8 PM on May 1. The total number of cumulative cases in the state stood at 4,50,790 while with 5,567 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,67,727. The state has 80,695 active cases and nearly 76 thousand samples were tested on Saturday. Cumulatively, over 1.30 crore samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was over 3.50 lakh, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.52 per cent, while it was 1.1 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 81.5 per cent, while it was 81.7 per cent in the country. The state has 202 active micro containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-logs-7430-new-covid-19-cases-56-fatalities-as-death-toll-rises-to-2368-981487.html
02-05-2021||South||YSR Congress leads in bypolls to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat||The ruling YSR Congress has established a clear lead of over 14,000 votes after the first round of counting in the by-election to the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency. YSRC candidate M Gurumurthy polled 28,547 votes while the TDP's Panabaka Lakshmi secured 14,451 in the first round, according to the Election Commission on Sunday. BJP nominee K Ratna Prabha, a retired IAS officer, managed 2,300 votes while the Congress' Chinta Mohan got 375. Bye-election for the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, held on April 17, was necessitated by the death of the YSRC's Balli Durgaprasad in September 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysr-congress-leads-in-bypolls-to-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat-981499.html
02-05-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh government postpones Intermediate examinations due to rising Covid-19 cases||The Jaganmohan Reddy government which is facing criticism and a court case over its resolve to conduct exams, Sunday decided to postpone the intermediate final examinations which were scheduled to commence on May 5. The decision came on a day when the state reported a record-high 23,920 new Covid-19 cases and the active case figure stood at 1.43 lakh. The YSRCP government has stated that the intermediate exam schedule is now deferred, taking the Andhra Pradesh High Court's recommendations and the Covid-19 case spike into consideration. Reviewing various petitions seeking the cancellation of the school examinations because of the severity of the coronavirus case spread in the state, the high court had on Friday asked the government to reconsider its decision to go ahead with 10th and intermediate examinations amid the Covid-19 second wave. “The examinations were scheduled to start from May 5, but due to the spike in Covid-19 cases across the state, the High Court had suggested reconsidering the decision. (So,) the government had postponed the examinations. The new dates for conducting inter-examinations will be announced as soon as the pandemic eases,” AP education minister Adimulapu Suresh said on Sunday. Chief Minister Reddy had earlier reiterated his government's resolve to conduct the tenth and intermediate exams “for the benefit of students.” “States not conducting exams are only giving pass marks to the students. How can our students get admission in good colleges with such marks? What about their 50-year future with such marks?” the CM questioned last week, responding to criticism from the opposition parties and other quarters. Reddy said that the Centre has left the decision to conduct exams with the states and that Kerala has already completed the 10th exams. “We had decided to conduct examinations, as both Class X and Intermediate grades play a vital role in students' careers,” Adimulapu said. While the intermediate (+2) exams were slated to begin from 5 May, class 10 exams were planned to be held from June 7 to 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-postpones-intermediate-examinations-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases-981628.html
02-05-2021||South||Land grab charges: KCR drops Eatala from his council of ministers||Telangana's former health minister Eatala Rajender was dropped from the K Chandrasekhar Rao's cabinet on Sunday. A day earlier, Eatala, a senior minister, was stripped of his health and family welfare portfolio following allegations of land grabbing of about 100 acres by the minister and his associates in Medak. The health and family welfare department now lies with CM Rao. “On the advice of the Chief Minister, the Governor of Telangana has dropped Eatala Rajender, minister, from the council of ministers with immediate effect,” a statement from the Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan's office said. The latest move came after a probe report on the land grab charges was submitted to the state chief secretary by the Medak district collector. The document reportedly confirms that government assigned lands for the poor form part of the area allegedly encroached at Atchampet for a hatcheries unit of the minister. Etela is one of the senior TRS leaders and was closely associated with KCR, as the CM is popularly known, since the inception of the party in 2001. However, the equation has soured between the two for some time now and the minister had on few occasions made comments seen as in defiance of the party leadership. On Friday, CM Rao ordered two probes - one by the Medak district administration and the other by the vigilance DGP Purnachandra Rao - “to find out the truth in the allegations of land encroachments at Achampet in Masaipet mandal of Medak district. The investigation is based on the complaints of a few weaker section farmers from Masaipet that the minister's men had, over the past few months, illegally captured their government assigned lands. Former Medak district administrators told the media that the minister had put pressure on them to regularize the lands. Responding to the developments, Etela said that the allegation and actions are part of a planned conspiracy against him. Stating that he has not committed any transgressions in the land matter, Etela had said he is ready for a sitting judge probe too. A leader from the OBC Mudiraj community, Etela has been an MLA since 2004. He presently represents the Huzurabad assembly constituency. Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay has demanded CM Rao to take action against other TRS ministers, legislators too facing land grab and corruption charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/land-grab-charges-kcr-drops-eatala-from-his-council-of-ministers-981717.html
02-05-2021||State||Create more oxygen beds: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa tells private sector||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday held a meeting with top guns from the private healthcare sector, looking to add more oxygen beds to the government's kitty to deal with the Covid-19 crisis that has led to an enormous shortage of beds and oxygen in the state. Yediyurappa, who chaired the meeting, is said to have favoured a proposal in which the government will provide financial aid to private medical colleges to retrofit their beds with oxygen supply.  “Karnataka has 40 private medical colleges and 12 of them are in Bengaluru. Assuming that every college has 100 beds in its teaching hospital, then the government is looking at creating at least 4,000 oxygenated beds to treat Covid-19 patients, with 1,200 of them in Bengaluru,” a senior officer, who attended the meeting, said.  This figure will increase if beds in college hostels are also oxygenated, a proposal which was also discussed in the meeting.  According to sources, Yediyurappa is keen on leveraging infrastructure available in the private sector to ramp up the availability of oxygenated beds, a dire need in the current scenario.  “We have oxygenated most of the beds on the government side. There are many non-oxygenated beds in private medical colleges,” the official pointed out. “A proposal was made in the meeting to give each institution Rs 3 crore to oxygenate the beds.” Confirming this, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said in a statement that giving financial aid to private medical colleges for setting up oxygen generation plants was discussed. Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who set up the meeting, told DH that the government is looking at "5,000 oxygen beds”. “It’ll be their manpower and infrastructure. Whatever we build will be temporary. So, this will be a good collaboration. It can be done within a month,” he said. “By then, the oxygen situation will ease. When that happens, we want to have enough oxygenated beds.” The meeting was attended by Narayana Health chairperson Dr Devi Shetty, Manipal Hospital's chairperson Dr Sudarshan Ballal, Fortis Hospital's cardiovascular science chief Dr Vivek Jawali, Ramaiah Group of Institutions chairperson M R Jayaram among others.  To address the manpower shortage, it was decided to award ‘grace marks’ to final-year medical and nursing students who will be roped in for Covid-19 duty. Final-year students of pharmacy, physiotherapy, ayush, dental and hospital management will be used for pandemic work as well.  The government also agreed to examine the possibility of allowing foreign-educated doctors to register with the Karnataka Medical Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/create-more-oxygen-beds-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-tells-private-sector-981415.html
02-05-2021||State||Karnataka bye-elections: BJP leading in Belgaum, Basavakalya; Congress in Maski||The ruling BJP is leading in the bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency and Basavakalya Assembly segment whereas Congress is leading in Maski. Mangala Suresh Angadi, the BJP candidate, is leading against Congress candidate Satish Jarkiholi in the Belgaum constituency by margin of around 12,000 votes. In Basavakalya, BJP's Sharanu Salagar is leading by about 4,400 votes against Mala B Narayan Rao, whereas Maski Congress candidate Basanagouda Turuvihal is ahead of BJP candidate Prathapagouda Patil by almost 8,000 votes. The bypolls to Belgaum and Basavakalyan took place following the death of the sitting public representatives Suresh Angadi (BJP) and B Narayan Rao (Congress) due to Covid-19. Maski seat fell vacant due to the disqualification of Congress MLA Prathapagouda Patil. Patil was among the Congress MLAs who had resigned from the Assembly in 2019. He was disqualified and later joined the BJP to contest the bypoll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bye-elections-bjp-leading-in-belgaum-basavakalya-congress-in-maski-981518.html
02-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Counting underway for bypolls to 1 Lok Sabha and 2 Assembly seats in Karnataka||Counting is underway for the bypolls to one Lok Sabha seat and two Assembly segments. The voting took place for Belgaum Lok Sabha, and Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies on April 17. There were 30 candidates in the fray -- 10 in Belgaum, 12 in Basavakalyan and eight in Maski. According to the Chief Electoral Officer, the counting started at 8 AM under tight vigil. Policemen were deployed to ensure Covid-19 protocol is strictly followed and no law and order situation arises. The police have banned political processions or celebrations in groups in view of the rising virus cases. According to officials, the counting for Belgaum LS bypoll is taking place at Rani Parvati Devi College in Tilakwadi of Belagavi, SRPS PU College at Raichur for Maski Assembly segment and B Y Bhoomaraddi College in Bidar for the Basavakalyan constituency. The Election Commission has made it mandatory for the returning officers, counting agents, poll personnel, policemen and journalists in the counting centres to have a negative RT-PCR report to ensure no one contracts Covid-19. The Commission has also banned congregation of party workers outside the counting centres. The bypolls to Belgaum and Basavakalyan took place following the death of sitting public representatives Suresh Angadi (BJP) and B Narayan Rao (Congress) due to Covid, while Maski seat fell vacant due to the disqualification of Congress MLA Prathapagouda Patil. Patil was among Congress MLAs who had resigned from the Assembly in 2019, was disqualified and later joined the BJP later to contest the bypoll on the party ticket. The contest in Belgaum and Maski is mainly between Congress and the BJP. In Belgaum, the BJP has fielded Suresh Angadi's widow Mangala Suresh Angadi against Congress Karnataka working president Satish Jarkiholi, the Yamkanmardi MLA. In Maski, BJP's Pratapagouda Patil was in a direct fight against Basanagouda Turvihal of Congress. JD(S) contested only in Basavakalyan, fielding Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri while the Congress nominee was Rao's wife Mallamma and Sharanu Salagar was chosen by the BJP. The victory or defeat would not have any bearing on the stability of the BJP government which has a majority of 118 seats, excluding Speaker's, in the House of 224 members. A win would, however, increase Yediyurappa's hold on the party as well as the government, and silence his critics within the party, who want him removed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/counting-underway-for-bypolls-to-1-lok-sabha-and-2-assembly-seats-in-karnataka-981475.html
02-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa carries out minor cabinet rejig, assigns districts to six ministers||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday effected a minor rejig in the cabinet by assigning district responsibility to six ministers. The exercise is seen as one to ensure smooth Covid management in the districts. As per the notification issued by the government, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who holds the Public Works portfolio, will be in charge of Belagavi. He was the district in charge minister of Bagalkote and Kalaburagi. As Belagavi in charge minister, he will replacing Ramesh Jarkiholi, who had to step down as minister owing to the alleged sex-for-job scandal on March 3. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti will be in charge of Bagalkote district whereas Mining and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani will look after Kalaburagi district. Forest, Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali will be in charge of Bidar district, which was previously held by Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan. Urban Development Minister and Sugar M T B Nagaraj has been made in charge minister of Kolar district. Previously H Nagesh was the in charge minister, who was dropped from the cabinet ahead of cabinet expansion and rejig in January. Fisheries and Port Minister S Angara will be in charge of Chikkamagaluru district. The district did not have any in charge minister previously||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-carries-out-minor-cabinet-rejig-assigns-districts-to-six-ministers-981568.html
02-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Bypolls: BJP wins two out of three, but gets spooked by Congress||The BJP won two out of three bypolls in Karnataka, results of which were announced on Sunday, with the victories expected to help Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa consolidate his position and fend off attempts to replace him. In the Belgaum Lok Sabha bypoll, the saffron party managed to evade a major embarrassment by winning the cliffhanger contest against the Congress, where the victory margin was just 5,240 votes.  Another consolation for the BJP was its victory in the Basavakalyan Assembly bypoll, though the party lost the Maski seat to the Congress, which won comfortably.  BJP’s Belgaum candidate Mangala Angadi, late Union minister Suresh Angadi’s wife, broke into tears when her win against Congress’ working president Satish Jarkiholi was finally confirmed after several rounds of counting, in a contest that went down to the wire.   Compared with Suresh’s 2019 victory that had a margin of 3.91 lakh votes, the narrow bypoll win is humbling for the BJP. “But a win is a win, be it by 30 votes or 10,000,” Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who helmed the BJP’s poll campaign in Belgaum, said.  Apparently, there was a split in the BJP’s share of votes that resulted in the close fight.  Satish, who put up a tough fight, is known to be loyal to Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah, whose position is now expected to be bolstered.  In Basavakalyan, BJP’s Sharanu Salagar won by 20,000 votes. Here, the BJP managed to keep its votes from splitting even as one of its own leaders rebelled and contested as an independent. The win is a boost for the BJP as the seat was held by the Congress. The sympathy wave for Congress’ Mala, wife of late MLA B Narayan Rao, did not work.  But the loss in Maski is a setback to Yediyurappa. BJP’s Pratapgouda Patil, a disqualified MLA, lost against Congress’ Basanagouda Turvihal by 30,000 votes, with anti-incumbency being cited as the reason for the former's defeat. Patil, earlier with the Congress, was one of the 17 MLAs who defected and helped the BJP come to power. Yediyurappa will now have to look for other ways to placate Patil, who hoped to become a minister.  Also, BJP vice-president and Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra was in charge of the party’s campaign in Maski, and the loss will give ammunition to his haters within the party.   Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar hailed the results. “People's confidence in the Congress party is increasing everyday and anti-incumbency against this non-performing BJP government is rising,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypolls-bjp-wins-two-out-of-three-but-gets-spooked-by-congress-981645.html
02-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 37,733 fresh Covid cases, 217 deaths||Karnataka's Covid-19 tally crossed the 16 lakh mark on Sunday following 37,733 fresh infections while 217 more deaths took the toll to 16,011, the health department said. According to a health bulletin, the state's Covid tally stood at 16,01,865 whereas there are 4,21,436 active cases. As many as 11,64,398 people were discharged cumulatively including 21,149 on Sunday in the state. Bengaluru urban district accounted for 21,199 fresh cases and 64 deaths.The city has so far reported 7,97,292 infections and 6,601 deaths. There were 2,81,767 active cases. According to the bulletin, 2,750 infections were reported in Mysuru, 1,302 in Tumakuru, 1156 in Ballari, 996 in Dakshina Kannada, 792 in Hassan, 741 in Dharwad, 691 in Bagalkote, 653 in Mandya and 620 in Shivamogga. Bidar, Koppal, and Uttara Kannada were among the districts, which reported over 500 cases. Other than Bengaluru, 18 deaths were reported in Ballari, 15 in Chamarajanagar, 13 in Tumakuru, 12 in Shivamogga, 11 in Hassan, eight each in Ramanagara and Mysuru, seven each in Uttara Kannada and Kalaburagi and six in Bidar. Deaths were reported in other districts as well. There were 1,58,365 tests done on Sunday including 1,45,941 using the RT PCR and other methods, taking the total tests done so far to 2.59 crore, the department added. As of Sunday, 98 lakh inoculations were conducted in the state comprising the first and second doses of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-37733-fresh-covid-cases-217-deaths-981692.html
02-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pralhad Joshi blames division of votes for thin victory margin of BJP in Belagavi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said low turn-out of voters and division of votes resulted in a thin margin of victory of BJP’s candidate Mangala Angadi in the by-polls to the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he said the party’s traditional Maratha votes were ‘eaten up’ by MSE. The party will ensure that in future the Maratha votes do not get divided. He said voters of Belagavi have not deserted them in such keenly contested polls. This victory is proof of the trust people of Belagavi have in BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said they were expecting Mangala Angadi, wife of late Union minister Suresh Angadi, to win the seat with at least a margin of 60,000 votes. Joshi said by-polls are never an indicator of future general elections. These results will not have any impact on future elections. Party will have a detailed discussion on the poll results in the State and nation. He said Mangala will decide on the development works of the Belagavi constituency and as Union minister will extend all possible help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pralhad-joshi-blames-division-of-votes-for-thin-victory-margin-of-bjp-in-belagavi-981707.html
02-05-2021||West||Bengal, UP in Maha's `places of sensitive origin' list||The Maharashtra Government has declared West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh as "places of sensitive origin" in view of the surge in coronavirus cases in these two states. People travelling to Maharashtra from these two states will now have to carry negative RT-PCR test reports. These two states will be considered "places of sensitive origin" till the time the Covid-19 pandemic stays notified as a `disaster', said the order passed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte. The decision was taken to contain the spread of the virus and to stop the influx of other Covid-19 variants into Maharashtra, it said. The state government had placed Kerala, Goa, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and NCR and Uttarakhand on this list on April 18. Travellers arriving from these states must carry negative RT-PCR test report for coronavirus. The Railways is needed to share the data of travellers alighting at various stations in the state with the local disaster management units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bengal-up-in-mahas-places-of-sensitive-origin-list-981432.html
02-05-2021||West||5 injured in fire caused by gas leak in Maharashtra's Thane||Four members of a family and a mechanic were injured in a fire caused by LPG cylinder leakage at a house in Maharashtra's Thane district, an official said on Sunday. The incident took place around 9.30 pm on Saturday in the flat located on the seventh floor of a building in Badlapur township here, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. The family members noticed gas leakage from the nozzle of the LPG cylinder and called a mechanic to plug it, he said. While the mechanic was attending to the fault, the gas leakage caused a fire and an explosion in the house, the official said. "A couple, their two children and the mechanic received burn injuries. They have been admitted to a local hospital," he said. After being alerted, local firemen rushed to the spot and doused the blaze within an hour, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-injured-in-fire-caused-by-gas-leak-in-maharashtras-thane-981478.html
02-05-2021||West||2,869 new Covid-19 cases, 53 more deaths reported in Maharashtra's Thane||Thane has reported 2,869 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 4,70,050, an official said on Sunday. Besides these new cases recorded on Saturday, the virus also claimed the lives of 53 more people, pushing the deathtoll in the district to 7,643, he said. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Thane stood at 1.62 per cent, he added. Details of recovered patients and active cases were not provided by the district administration. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count has gone up to 87,132, while the death toll has reached 1,578, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2869-new-covid-19-cases-53-more-deaths-reported-in-maharashtras-thane-981479.html
02-05-2021||West||Gujarat: BJP leads in early trends of Morva Hadaf Assembly bypoll||BJP's Nimisha Suthar gained a lead over her nearest Congress rival Suresh Katara in the bypoll to Morva Hadaf Assembly seat in Gujarat's Panchmahal district, as per initial trends of the counting on Sunday. The bypoll, held on April 17, was necessitated after Independent MLA Bhupendrasinh Khant was disqualified in May 2019 for submitting an invalid caste certificate. He eventually lost an appeal in the Gujarat High Court on the issue. Khant died due to health issues in January this year. The constituency is reserved for Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates. Out of 15,391 votes counted in the first four rounds, Suthar bagged 11,240 votes, while Katara was trailing with 3,547 votes, as per the Election Commission's website. Independent candidate Sushilaben Maida has so far got 243 votes, it said. Suthar is a former MLA of the BJP from the same constituency. The counting of votes is underway at a college in Morva Hadaf by following all Covid-19 protocols, including social distancing and proper sanitisation, officials said. Poll agents earlier underwent RT-PCR tests for Covid- 19, as per the EC's guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-leads-in-early-trends-of-morva-hadaf-assembly-bypoll-981528.html
02-05-2021||West||Increase allocation of Remdesivir to Maharashtra: Bombay HC tells Centre||The Bombay High Court here on Sunday asked the Central government to increase the supply of Remdesivir injections to Maharashtra observing the current reduction in the allocation of the crucial drug is not consistent with the number of active Covid-19 cases as of May 1. In a special hearing, the bench of Justices SB Shukre and Avinash Gharote heard a bunch of petitions on the shortage of medical oxygen and Remdesivir, which is in high demand for treating Covid-19 patients. The bench said the high court came to know about the reduction in the allocation of Remdesivir to Maharashtra from May 1 to May 9. "For the earlier period of ten days, the allocation was 4,30,000 vials, and the same for the next 10 days is 3,74,500. This means a reduction of 60,500 vials of Remdesivir for Maharashtra," the judges said. The bench observed that such a reduction in the allocation of Remdesivir vials to Maharashtra is not consistent with the number of active cases in the state. "On April 30, the number of active cases in Maharashtra was 6,72,000 while the same is 6,64,000 as of May 1, which means active cases reduced hardly by about 1.2 per cent, whereas the reduction in the allocation of vials to Maharashtra for the aforesaid period is by 14.5 per cent. "This mismatch needs to be reconsidered and removed by the Central government," the bench said. The high court also said that the Additional Solicitor General of India Ulhas Aurangabadkar would take instructions from the Union government on this issue and apprise the bench. In the same vein, the bench asked the Centre to reconsider its decision regarding the state-wise allocation of Remdesivir for the aforesaid period of ten days (from May 1 to 9) and increase the quota for Maharashtra to make it consistent with the reduced number of active cases. Maharashtra FDA Commissioner Parimal Singh submitted in the HC that they will issue new orders ensuring that the districts affected by Remdesivir shortage will get the supply and the backlog is cleared. Singh told the HC the FDA will meet representatives of pharma companies and ensure they follow the directions at the district level. The bench directed that no pharmaceutical company, which is duty-bound to supply Remdesivir vials as per the Centre's orders dated April 24 and May 1 to different states and Maharashtra, shall supply the drug to private purchasers unless the daily quota of the supply allocated to each of these companies is fulfilled. "Only after that and in case of any remaining balance of Remdesivir vials, the pharma company concerned shall supply the vials to private purchasers till the fulfilment of orders received by them," the bench said. The bench directed the health secretary of Maharashtra and state FDA commissioner to ensure that these directions are followed by pharmaceutical companies concerned. The HC also directed the pharma firms to send their daily production figures to the state FDA commissioner and also upload them on respective websites. The bench warned of strict legal action for violation of its orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/increase-allocation-of-remdesivir-to-maharashtra-bombay-hc-tells-centre-981619.html
02-05-2021||West||Goa lockdown to end on Monday; new Covid restrictions for eight more days||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that Covid-19 related restrictions will continue to be in place for eight more days, after the ongoing four-day lockdown ends on Monday (May 3). In his address to the state on Sunday, Sawant announced the new restrictions, which represent minor tweaks to the restrictions already in place during the lockdown, which started on Thursday last week. "There will be no lockdown henceforth. In view of the increase in the mortality rate, Covid-19 restrictions will be strictly followed," the Chief Minister said in his address.Among the new set of restrictions, restaurants will be allowed to function at 50 per cent capacity, but will only be allowed to open from 7 am to 7 pm. Restaurant kitchens will however be allowed to open till late. Stores selling essential goods will also be allowed to open from 7 am to 7 pm. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic and cultural functions and events have been banned in the fresh set of restrictions, while only 50 persons will be permitted during a wedding ceremony. Casinos, bars, sports complexes, cinema halls, spa and massage centres malls will also be closed as part of the fresh restriction list. Government offices will be allowed to function at 50 per cent capacity. Section 144 CrPC will continue to be in force till May 10. "The restrictions should be strictly followed. Violators will be prosecuted under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act," the Chief Minister said."Covid restrictions should be followed by all. Life is important. If norms are not followed, strict action will follow. We want to reduce Covid deaths and cases in the state," Sawant also said. Goa witnessed a record 54 deaths in 24 hours on Saturday, while the state currently has 23,884 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-lockdown-to-end-on-monday-new-covid-restrictions-for-eight-more-days-981629.html
02-05-2021||West||Overworked doctors under pressure to treat VIP patients at Goa Covid-19 hospitals: Doctors Association||The pressure on already overworked doctors to treat VIP patients with special preference and the lack of oxygen and oxygen beds are some of the concerns raised by government resident doctors working at designated Covid-19 facilities in the state. In a letter to the dean of the Goa Medical College, the state government's apex health facility, the Doctors' Association said that there was a mismatch between announcements made by "higher authorities" related to the Covid-19 infrastructure and the current situation. "Residents in Covid-19 casualty who are managing more than 30 new patients at a time are told to see these 'VIP' patients on a preferential basis and get them admitted fast, even if many times, they don’t require admission," the letter to the dean said. "The other critical patients who have been waiting for two to three hours then fight with us." Despite public assurances from both Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, Goa's Covid-19 health facilities are running short of oxygen supplies, according to the letter written by the Association. "The oxygen supply in various Covid-19 wards is not even close to sufficient. The central oxygen flow delivers very low flow oxygen at times and that is inadequate to keep NIVs and ventilators working effectively," the letter said. Patients at Goa's hospitals have died from the lack of oxygen, the association said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/overworked-doctors-under-pressure-to-treat-vip-patients-at-goa-covid-19-hospitals-doctors-association-981678.html
02-05-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 death toll crosses 70,000-mark, daily cases drop below 60,000-mark||Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra crossed the 70,000-mark on Sunday. In the last 24 hours, 56,647 cases and 669 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 47,22,401 and 70,284. The total cases has dropped below the 60,000-mark after a fortnight. The total active cases in the state now stands at 6,68,353. During the day, 51,356 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 39,81,658.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-70000-mark-daily-cases-drop-below-60000-mark-981681.html
