03-05-2021||First Edit||Assembly poll results will impact national politics||The results of the elections to four of the five assemblies over the last two months were largely not unexpected, and only one of them had defied firm predictions. The outcome of that unpredictable contest in West Bengal turned out to be most stunning and remarkable, with the Trinamool Congress led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee fighting off the stiff challenge posed by the BJP, and coming out on top, though she herself lost her seat. It was expected that the BJP would retain power in Assam, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) would secure a second term in Kerala, the DMK-led alliance would topple the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu and there would be a regime change in Puducherry. All these possibilities have materialised with varying margins of victory and defeat. The elections were held in two extremities of the country which are on the margins of national politics. The politics and the electoral considerations in the North-East and the East and in the deep South are also different from each other. But the outcome will have a bearing on national politics, and may set directions for politics and governance in the near future.  Though the election in every state is important to that state, from a national point of view the present round of assembly elections was much about West Bengal. The results from West Bengal are most important because of the outreach the BJP made in that state which it considered to be the frontier to cross after its domination of the northern, central and western parts of the country. The campaign was especially important for the party because it is a big state and has had a political tradition very different from the one that it is used to. The Trinamool Congress government was thought to be vulnerable on many counts because it was in power for 10 years with no great record in crucial areas of governance and development. Corruption was a major issue. Because the Congress and the Left, which are the main opposition parties, were in a state of decline and could not make use of the opportunity, the BJP thought it could fill the vacuum, and it did. It won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 election. Since the state has a large Muslim population and many Bangladeshi immigrants it was good ground for its brand of politics. It also invested heavily in the campaign, splurging huge political and financial resources, with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all top leaders storming through the state for weeks. Even after all this Mamata Banerjee was able to secure a sparkling victory, and has improved her seats and vote share. All credit should go to her for fighting vehemently against many odds to protect her political territory. Whatever the BJP gained was at the expense of the Congress and the Left, which have been decimated in the state.   In Assam where the BJP has come back to power, the Opposition, which is mainly the Congress in alliance with the AIADUF, a party that represents the Muslims mainly in the southern parts of the state, has lost further ground. The BJP government was not able to act on its promise of protecting the Assamese identity by identifying and deporting immigrants. But the party was largely undented, as it has a strong local leadership and its government has a reasonably good record. The Congress did not have an identifiable leadership after the death of Tarun Gogoi, and it could not present a credible challenge by way of policies. In Tamil Nadu, it was expected that the DMK-led alliance which includes the Congress and the Left patties would come back to power after 10 years of rule by the AIADMK. This was the first assembly election to be held in the state after the death of M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalitha. The AIADMK government under Edappadi K Palaniswami was put together after the death of Jayalalitha and it survived on the support of the Central government. The BJP has been keen to make an entry into Tamil Nadu which has been dominated by Dravidian politics. But the DMK under MK Stalin has won a decisive victory and is poised to come to power, though the AIADMK has been able to hold itself together.  But in neighbouring Puducherry, the NDA comprising the NR Congress, the BJP and the AIADMK is set to form the government.  In Kerala, it was expected that the LDF government of Pinarayi Vijayan would come back to power, defeating the Congress-led UDF, though the state had for decades voted out incumbent governments, alternating between the two alliances every five years. The LDF government’s record of governance stood it in good stead, and its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and successive natural disasters like the 2018 floods seems to have earned it popular goodwill and helped it to improve its position. The UDF did not have a clear and identifiable leadership and its main constituent, the Congress, has weakened over the years.  The results of the elections will have an impact on politics at the national level. The Congress’ failure to improve its position in Assam and in Kerala will further weaken it at the national level. It can lead to more questions about the Gandhi family’s leadership of the party. Mamata Banerjee’s stature will rise and she may be considered as the leader best equipped to challenge the BJP, leading a proposed federal front. It will not go unnoticed that the BJP has hardly won a state assembly election in recent years and Narendra Modi’s charisma has not worked at the state level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/assembly-poll-results-will-impact-national-politics-981769.html
03-05-2021||In Perspective||End of an era: Indonesian submarine tragedy||The Indonesian Navy recently lost a submarine that sank off the coast of Bali which was found split into three pieces on the seabed, killing all the 53 sailors on board. The submarine KRI Nanggala 402 disappeared after it requested permission to dive during a live torpedo firing drill. The ill-fated Nanggala, like all submarines in peacetime, trains for war as effectively as possible, in the knowledge that this will contribute to its prevention. The KRI Nanggala 402 was a Cakra class submarine of Type 209/1300 attack submarines developed by Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft of Germany that were bought and commissioned by the Indonesian Navy in the 1980s. In 2012, the 44-year-old Nanggala underwent a midlife refit to extend its serviceability for a few more years.  Submarines have pressure hulls, which withstand the hydrostatic pressure at the depth at which the submarine is designed to operate. Each submarine hull is designed to withstand the pressure up to a certain depth beyond which it would simply crush due to the hydrostatic force at that depth. For this reason, every submarine has a diving depth. Generally, the thickness of the hull and the type of material decide the maximum crushing depth of the submarine. Similarly, in the case of the Indonesian submarine, it was suspected to have a power failure which resulted in the failure of some control system and therefore, may have lost control and sunk beyond its crushing depth. It is highly impractical for a submarine to be designed to withstand a pressure of up to 730 metres of water. This was what would have led to the submarine hull being broken into three pieces as preliminary findings indicate. The underwater environment is a dangerous one and therefore submarines face many perils of the deep. Even a small fire or gas leak inside a submerged submarine can have catastrophic consequences. A collision with another vessel or grounding may be much more serious. Very few submarines have been fitted with escape pods, but if sailors are trapped in a sunken submarine there are other ways of getting them out safely. Locks allow submariners to escape by first climbing through an inner door or hatch and sealing it tightly behind themselves. They then partially flood the small volume before the outer hatch swings open, but this two-door system means they do not need to flood the entire boat. Some navies have special mini-submarines small enough to fit aboard an airplane. These can be quickly flown to a sunken submarine and used to rescue the crew.  Several of the 40-odd countries which operate submarines including France, Israel, India and China have had their share of losses due to underwater accidents. However, given the sizes of the US and Russian submarine fleets and the intensity of their underwater operations, these two countries have suffered the most tragedies. In August 2000, the Russian nuclear-powered submarine K-141 Kursk vanished in the Barents Sea. Russian authorities later determined that the vessel sank after a torpedo on board unexpectedly exploded. The first blast then triggered the explosion of several other warheads.  In April 1963, the USS Thresher, an atomic submarine, sank in the Atlantic Ocean, killing its entire crew of 129 sailors and civilians when the submarine unexpectedly plunged to the seabed roughly 300 miles off the coast of New England. In between these two losses, several nations have suffered severe underwater tragedies. The Nanggala is similar to the Shishumar class submarines of the Indian Navy and is from the same German manufacturer. The Indian Navy commissioned its first submarine INS Kalvari in December 1967 and initially, the INS Nistar served as a submarine rescue vessel since 1971. Thereafter from 1989, the INS Nireekshak functioned as a diving support vessel and as an interim submarine rescue vessel. Only in December 2018, the Indian Navy inducted two Deep Submergence Rescue Vessels to tackle the challenges of its underwater fleet. In the case of the Nanggala, regional naval cooperation was possible due to the initiative of the International Submarine Escape and Rescue Liaison Office (ISMERLO) efforts. The ISMERLO is an organisation that aims to facilitate an international response for a distressed submarine and to improve the ability to respond to calls for assistance through its coordination role. Though ISMERLO is a NATO organisation, it supports all submarine operating nations with a humanitarian objective to save lives at sea. It issued an alert to coordinate the rescue of the disabled Indonesian submarine and the Indian, Singaporean and Malaysian navies swung into action to contribute their mite. The Indian and Singaporean navies deployed their underwater rescue vehicles to get visual confirmation of the wreckage. (The writer is Secretary, Institute of Contemporary Studies Bengaluru and a former Professor of International Relations and Strategic Studies, Christ Deemed to be University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/end-of-an-era-indonesian-submarine-tragedy-981771.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Body of Covid-19 victim kept for public viewing in Mysuru||Despite the cases of Covid-19 going out of control and many people losing lives, it appears that a section of citizens is not bothered about the infection. The family members and friends of a deceased, who died of Covid-19, kept the body for public viewing at NR police limits in the city. The body was kept in a church, according to the police.  The police, who rushed to the spot on learning about the incident, visited the spot and registered cases under National Disaster Management Act and Infectious Diseases Control and Prevention Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/body-of-covid-19-victim-kept-for-public-viewing-in-mysuru-981871.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru police shut down vegetable market at MG Road as people flout Covid-19 norms||The Mysuru police have closed the vegetable market at MG Road as people failed to follow the Covid-19 norms. A large number of people, including farmers and consumers, used to gather there for business. Farmers used to sell their products directly to the consumers in the market. As people continue to violate the norms, the police were forced to close it down. However, push-cart vendors are allowed to conduct business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-police-shut-down-vegetable-market-at-mg-road-as-people-flout-covid-19-norms-981880.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru administration takes strict measures to curb Covid-19 spread||The Mysuru district administration and police have intensified measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. Despite the lockdown, cases of Covid-19 are increasing in the district. While the vegetable markets have been closed, the police have taken strict measures to check the unnecessary movement of the people. The police are imposing a fine and seizing vehicles in case of unnecessary movements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-administration-takes-strict-measures-to-curb-covid-19-spread-981882.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar MP V Sreenivas Prasad demands compensation to kin of patients who died of oxygen shortage||Expressing shock over the death of 24 patients due to a shortage of oxygen, Chamarajanagar MP V Sreenivas Prasad urged the government to provide compensation to the kin of the deceased. Speaking to reporters about the tragedy, Sreenivas Prasad said that he had spoken to Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi on the Covid-19 situation on Sunday night and was assured that everything was under control. But, I was not told about oxygen shortage and I am also not aware of the communication between the DC and Mysuru & Kodagu MP Prathap Simha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-mp-v-sreenivas-prasad-demands-compensation-to-kin-of-patients-who-died-of-oxygen-shortage-981903.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heart-wrenching scenes witnessed at district hospital||Medical staff, nurses offering teary farewell, a woman breaking down by looking at her husband’s mortal remains, family members shedding tears were the heart-wrenching situation outside Chamarajanagar district hospital where 24 Covid-19 patients allegedly died due to shortage of oxygen. A young woman, who married two months back, broke down after she learnt about his husband Surendra’s death. “Give my husband back. My husband was killed. Who will take care of me,” she was pleading, crying. Surendra had talk to her wife through video call on Sunday evening and had said, he is doing good and will return home in two days. However, as the news of several people’s death due to lack of oxygen was reported, the woman and other family members reached the hospital at 6 am. But, Surendra was not on his bed. A nurse telephoned the family members at 7.30 am and informed that Surendra breathed last at 5 am. Dinesh and his wife, who had come from Mallinathapura, remain stunned as the couple heard about the death of 30-year-old Ajay, Dinesh’s brother in-law. Ajay was admitted to the hospital on Sunday evening and he died at 6 am on Monday. He is survived by two-year-old son and wife. Like them, hundreds of people were seen crying, blaming ministers, the officials and the government. Despite lockdown, a large number of people started gathering in front of the hospital from 8 pm on Sunday. A man said that he witnessed at least four people dying without oxygen. A few were seen pleading for oxygen. Even nurses were shedding tears, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heart-wrenching-scenes-witnessed-at-district-hospital-981988.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Shortage of oxygen was not considered seriously’||Though the Covid Hospital in Chamarajanagar was facing oxygen shortage repeatedly, the district administration had not taken the issue seriously, complain a section of the people. There are instances when oxygen cylinders were brought in a hurry from Mysuru or from nearby hospitals to treat patients. The district daministration, Health department and the officials were confident that the 6,000-litre capacity plant was sufficient to meet the oxygen demands for a week. Besides, they relied on the oxygen cylinders in stock. But, as the demand for oxygen increased, the plant went dry in one-and-a-half day, leaving the hospital to depend on cylinders again, members of the families of a few patients said. As there was no supply of cylinders from Mysuru to Basavarajendra Hospital in Mariyala, around 10 patients were admitted to the district hospital. A few doctors alleged that no action was taken, even though oxygen shortage was brought to the notice of the district administration, by private hospitals. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi held a meeting with the doctors and the officials on Sunday evening. Once, they learnt that the cylinders were not reaching by 9 pm, they started arranging for it, said sources. KPCC working president R Dhruvanarayana raised doubts about the shortage of oxygen during his interaction with the doctors recently and brought it to the notice of the DC, said a few doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shortage-of-oxygen-was-not-considered-seriously-981990.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vegetable vendors, farmers, oppose restriction on markets||Vegetable vendors, farmers and customers are criticising the state government and the officials for closing down the vegetable market on MG Road in Mysuru on Monday. The officials and the police asked the vendors not to do business at the market, following the revised order of the government. The order allows pushcart vendors from 6 am up to 6 pm. Thus, the market was closed, claimed a vendor. As many as 400 farmers from neighbouring villages sell vegetables directly to consumers at affordable prices. As Covid-19 norms were violated in the market, the officials ordered closure of the market on Monday. Chandrappa, a farmer, said that the authorities should take measures to ensure that the rules are followed. “We agree that Covid norms were violated. But, who should take care of it?” he asked. Shivanna said, "The government has allowed only pushcarts, but, is it possible for all of us to get pushcarts? The authorities must make arrangements. The vendors should be allowed to do business on alternate days." Sharadamma, a customer, said that the officials and the government have no sense. “Instead of taking measures, they are playing with the lives of the people. The government must stick to one rule, instead of changing it often. The government allowed wine shops to do business. But, restricted essentials. The government is unnecessarily harassing common and poor people," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vegetable-vendors-farmers-oppose-restriction-on-markets-981991.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Staff sent 250 oxygen cylinders to Ch’nagar, claims MP||At a time when there are allegations that the Mysuru district administration failed to supply necessary oxygen to the neighbouring Chamarajanagar district, the officials denied it and claimed that 250 oxygen cylinders were sent to Chamarajanagar till Sunday mid-night. In a communication released by the district administration, it is mentioned that until at 12.30 am, on Monday, the district administration has sent 250 cylinders. "As per the demand of Chamarajanagar district administration, we have sent the cylinders on humanity grounds, without delay. The matter is documented," said an officer. While 210 cylinders were sent from Southern Gas, 40 were sent from the district hospital, the communication states. Besides, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said, "145 cylinders were sent to Chamarajanagar from Mysuru, from Sunday night to Monday morning. It is unfortunate that many people have lost their lives due to the lapses in management. Chamarajanagar district administration should have been more cautious." “As soon as we received the information, we sent oxygen cylinders. I tried to contact Chamarajanagar DC. But, he was unavailable. He contacted me at 11.30 pm and we sent cylinders as required. 15 cylinders were sent mid-night itself," the MP said. The MP said, “Mysuru had faced a similar situation, two days back. But, we managed it as District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar took immediate measures. We have an agency in Mysuru. We do not produce it here." "The respective district in-charge minister must take measures and bring such incidents to the notice of the government," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/staff-sent-250-oxygen-cylinders-to-ch-nagar-claims-mp-981992.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||DC’s negligence claimed lives in Chamarajanagar, charges MLC||JD(S) MLC Marithibbegowda on Monday alleged that Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri is responsible for the death of 24 people in Chamarajanagar, due to shortage of oxygen.  The MLC said that the government must suspend the DC and conduct a judicial inquiry.  “Sindhuri had denied oxygen cylinders to Chamarajanagar on May 2 and the matter came to my notice at 11 am. Soon, I approached Karnataka Covid-19 Nodal officers Gunjan Krishna and Nischith. I explained the situation in Chamarajanagar and asked them to direct the DC to send Oxygen to Chamarajanagar. But, the officers claimed that the DC did not consider their direction. Even Chamarajanagar In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar expressed displeasure against Sindhuri,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-s-negligence-claimed-lives-in-chamarajanagar-charges-mlc-981993.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Once lauded for Covid management, Ch’nagar fails miserably during second wave||Chamarajanagar, the district which earned laurels from Union Health Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan for Covid management during the first wave, has again attracted the attention of the country as 24 Covid patients died, allegedly due to oxygen shortage. A pall of gloom descended at the district hospital in Chamarajanagar, with the kin of the deceased grieving. There was a flash protest, by the people, condemning the negligence of the hospital authorities, seeking compensation to the kin of the deceased. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi and Superintendent of Police Divya Sara Thomas rushed to the hospital and held discussions with the authorities on Monday morning. MLA C Puttarangashetty was also present. According to the officials, the crisis hit during the wee hours of Monday, when the hospital ran out of oxygen. “They were supposed to get oxygen from Mysuru by 9 pm on Sunday. But, as the oxygen could not be transported on time, due to various reasons, a few patients died,” officials said. The hospital was able to manage the oxygen supply till 8.30 pm. Later, they managed the situation with the available oxygen cylinders at 12 midnight, after which the oxygen dried up. However, Kodagu MP Pratap Simha interacted with Chamarajanagar Mysuru authorities and sent 50 cylinders, which reached by 2.30 pm. The situation returned to normalcy after 3 pm, it is said. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi explained that there is a need for 300 cylinders every day. “The hospital was depending on Mysuru for its oxygen supply. As the supply could not be done on time, there was a shortage. The district Covid hospital reported 23 deaths in 24 hours from Sunday morning. All deaths are not due to oxygen shortage. There will be a clarity after the death audit,” he said. Meanwhile, AICC former president Rahul Gandhi tweeted, offering condolences to the family members of the deceased, saying: “Died or killed? My heartfelt condolences to their families. How much more suffering before the ‘System’ wakes up?” Many Congress leaders took to the social media, criticising the district administration and the state government. There is also a demand for the resignation of Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivas Prasad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/once-lauded-for-covid-management-ch-nagar-fails-miserably-during-second-wave-981994.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Personal jibe by MLA against Mysuru DC draws flak||Even as the statements of KR Nagar JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh against Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, over the past few months, are getting personal, his ‘model’ jibe has drawn flak from a section of citizens, including activists. Mahesh has been commenting against the DC, since she took charge in Mysuru, on September 29, 2020. Then, he said, “The state government has transferred an officer belonging to a Scheduled Caste community (referring to B Sharath), for a woman officer from Andhra Pradesh, who is running the state.” On October 1, he had said in a press meet, that the Mysuru Deputy Commissioner’s post is a gift to Rohini Sindhuri to help Andhra Pradesh government and alleged irregularities in the construction of Karnataka choultries in Tirupati. Again on November 28, Mahesh, in a press meet, challenged the DC, to plunge into politics and contest elections. When the DC planned to hold ‘Spandana’, a grievance redressal programme in taluks, a couple of MLAs, including Mahesh, alleged that she was violating the protocol, by not inviting them. On January 12, during a meeting of Public Accounts Committee of the Legislature, to which Mahesh is Chairman, he asked her to remove the mask and speak, as she was not audible. She said, “We are not supposed to remove the mask in the wake of the Covid protocols”. Then, she sought permission to leave the meeting, as there was no topic from the departments related to the DC. On April 28, he said, “Serving the people is not like getting publicity, by changing a car tyre,” referring to a video of the DC trying to change the tyre of her car, that had gone viral on the social media. In a press meet on May 2, he alleged that the district administration has failed to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and said, “We need role model officers, like previous DCs Abhiram G Sankar and C Shikha and not a ‘model’.” D H Tanuja, an eco-activist, said, “The situation between the first and second wave is completely different. The second wave has engulfed the whole country, not just Mysuru. MLA Mahesh targetting the DC is meaningless. She is a beautiful woman and one cannot hold her responsible for it. On the work front, she is doing her best. It is such a sexist remark. Politicians should help the administration and not bring their morale down.” “To check the spread of the pandemic, all of us should behave as responsible citizens, everyone including public, administration and politicians, instead of blaming others,” she said. M Indira, Economics professor, University of Mysore, said, “First of all, it is a sexiest comment. There is no necessity to talk about models. She is certainly a role model for girls and women to be independent. Her videos of changing a car tyre shows that she has no gender bias, dispelling stereotypes. Comparison with earlier DC Abhiram’s response, to the earlier situation, is not correct. Those times were different and the government’s response was also different.” “The second wave of the Covid pandemic was unprecedented. Besides, our health systems are weak. I think what she is doing, under prevailing circumstances, is correct. She is not disturbed by these comments and is doing her best,” she said. However, Lubna Tarannum, an entrepreneur, said, “Mahesh’s is a general statement. One should not worry about it so much. This is generation gap. We also have faced this. Even models like Sushmita Sen are role models.” N Usharani, ICSSR Senior Professor Fellow at University of Mysore, said, “Modeling is a respectable profession and a source of livelihood. We should not cast aspersions on such a profession.” “In the era of ‘#Blacklives matter’, people’s representatives should enable us to change our perception about the profession, rather than demeaning it. In recent days, even acid victims have walked the ramp, earning respectability. We need to change our attitude towards women. Comparison lets down women badly,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/personal-jibe-by-mla-against-mysuru-dc-draws-flak-981996.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||I'll touch your feet: Video of breathing difficulty patient's relative weeping for bed goes viral||A video clip of relatives of a patient weeping for not getting a bed in any hospital has gone viral. The patient, who hails from Bhimanal village in Kamalapur taluk of Kalaburagi district is suffering from breathing difficulties. After checking all the hospitals in the city, they finally landed at the GIMS hospital. In the video clip, the younger brother of the patient is heard saying "My brother is suffering from a breathing problem. There are no beds in all the hospitals of the city. I will touch your feet. Please save my brother's life," he pleaded. Another patient was made to sit on a wheelchair in front of the GIMS hospital as his family members were making a bid to rejuvenate him by blowing air with the help of a hand kerchief. As the number of Covid cases is increasing drastically in the district, most of the hospitals have no beds with oxygen support. As a result, hundreds of patients are struggling for beds every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ill-touch-your-feet-video-of-breathing-difficulty-patients-relative-weeping-for-bed-goes-viral-982001.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chitradurga AC grievously injured in road mishap||Assistant Commissioner of Chitradurga sub-division V Prasanna has suffered grievous injuries after a two-wheeler hit him on Turuvanuru road on Monday morning. According to the police, the accident occurred when the officer and his wife were out on a morning walk. A two-wheeler rammed Prasanna from behind near the railway bridge. The impact of the crash was such that the officer fell down and sustained serious head injuries. The assistant commissioner was rushed to Basaveshwara Medical College hospital, where he was administered first aid and shifted to a hospital in Bengaluru for further treatment. The Badawane police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chitradurga-ac-grievously-injured-in-road-mishap-982007.html
03-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi to get oxygen concentrators: Nirani||The government will procure oxygen concentrators to meet oxygen shortage for Covid patients in the district, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani has said. Nirani is also Kalaburagi district in-charge minister. Speaking at a press meet on Monday, he stated that concentrators weighing five kg and 10 kg are available in the market at a price of Rs 35,000 to Rs 1.38 lakh. "We have quotations from various companies. The district administration has planned to utilise them for Covid patients and even after the Covid-19 subsides, such machines will be given to the government hospitals of the district," he said. A mobile app is being developed to give information on bed availability at the district level. This information will be updated every one hour. Nodal officers will be appointed to give details on Covid, he said. There is no shortage of funds to battle Covid-19, Nirani added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-to-get-oxygen-concentrators-nirani-982026.html
03-05-2021||Main Article||Reality of forest fires||There are many misconceptions about fires in India’s deciduous forests. Bizarre theories range from fires occurring naturally when dry bamboo culms rub against each other to it being the impact of climate change and warming. Social academics with minimal understanding of ground realities attribute it to colonial mindsets and poor implementation of the Forest Rights Act. Some ecologists surmise that accumulation of biomass due to suppression of forest fires is the underlying reason and have suggested controlled burning as a solution. The zero fire policy of the Ministry of Environment is also under debate. Before getting into the demerits of the reasons flagged, we need to understand the prevailing ground realities. First, it is vital that we make a clear distinction between forest fires that occasionally occur and annual fires that repeatedly ravage the same areas. A proper analysis of satellite data and management records reveals that a large percentage of fires that occur in deciduous forests are recurring annual fires in the same areas caused deliberately due to arson or negligence including lack of preventive measures. They are triggered mostly by encroachers, cattle graziers, minor forest produce collectors, or disgruntled elements trying to settle scores with the Forest Department. Fires also occur when the staff burns fire lines in windy conditions, or due to insufficient staff and/or supervision, or sometimes due to internal differences between staff and field officers. Only those who are involved in long-term site-based conservation programmes and who understand the operational strategies of how reserves are managed will know these realities.  Just like the military adage ‘The more you sweat in peace, the less you bleed in war’, three key strategies—prevention, preparedness, and perpetual vigilance—will substantially reduce the risk to both personnel and forests. These do not call for ‘hi-tech’ solutions like deployment of choppers, etc. but the sincere implementation of time-tested operating procedures developed by experienced forest officers. Prevention strategies include timely action against known culprits based on intelligence and information, equitable hiring of unemployed youth in forest settlements to act as fire watchers and initiating community outreach programmes. Clearing and maintenance of fire lines, which are linear paths that cut through large blocks of forests to contain the fire, is also an important measure. A proper fire line tracing will act as an effective fire break. Preparedness to tackle any eventuality is the next important step. All vehicles, wireless sets, and other equipment must be serviced and kept ready. Interior patrolling roads/paths must be cleared to facilitate quick movement. Identification of potential ‘hot spots’ based on intelligence is important to initiate quick action.  Perpetual vigilance would include intensive patrolling along borders to prevent intrusions. Continuous 24-hour monitoring must be ensured with expert fire spotters at observation posts equipped with wireless sets to communicate with quick reaction teams that can rush to the spot. Important case studies  Non-removal of flowered and dry bamboo and accumulation of biomass are cited as a major aggravating factor. However, two excellent case studies are worth mentioning. In 1999, the Director of Bhadra Tiger Reserve and his staff superbly handled the fire situation when bamboo had gregariously flowered. By ensuring that there was not even one single incident of fire, they effectively demonstrated that dried bamboo on its own is not a fire hazard. This also showed the key ecological role that dried bamboo plays in protecting the regenerating culms. Between 2013 and 2016, two rangers leading from the front effectively controlled fire in the dry forests in Nagarahole Reserve. This established that robust fire protection measures implemented under effective leadership are the key. These on-ground learnings clearly counter the naive theories of academics who are advocating controlled burning. It would be relevant to mention that such a dangerous experiment of ‘early burning’ was tried in Bandipur in the late 90s which had negative consequences and had to be stopped.  Another analysis based on ten years of satellite data on forest fires by the National Remote Sensing Agency (NRSA) in collaboration with the Forest department showed that two specific ranges in Nagarahole National Park had been ravaged. And when the field of visibility from the nine fire watchtowers was juxtaposed with the fire-affected areas, it revealed that the most affected areas were not visible from any watchtower. Though this was pointed out in 2013, to date no action has been initiated to establish fire watchtowers at appropriate locations.  In order to ensure focus on fire prevention and preparedness, a complete moratorium on lucrative civil works is absolutely essential since it eats into the precious resources and time of frontline staff. It is also the case that such largely unnecessary but ‘lucrative’ civil works and related activities reach a crescendo during the fire season since it is co-terminus with the financial year-end. Surely, no one would want the generous budget allocations to lapse? Post-fire season audits must include a thorough analysis of accurate satellite data on forest fires in every range in order to fix accountability if negligence and lapses are established. Without accountability and deterrent action, our forests will continue to go up in smoke. Concerted efforts to prosecute identified offenders must be initiated after the fire season in order to establish deterrence. Fighting forest fires is an extremely difficult job and requires years of learning and field exposure. The current, sordid system of transfers not based on proper analysis of officers’ skills and domain experience poses a huge challenge. It is, therefore, necessary for the government to address this in order to ensure that sufficient trained and skilled officers/personnel from various ranks are identified and posted to high-priority reserves, not only to prevent forest fires but also to ensure wildlife protection.  (The author is a trustee of Wildlife First and has served on the National Board for Wildlife)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/reality-of-forest-fires-981772.html
03-05-2021||National||Ban gatherings of over 10 people: Lancet Task Force||A complete ban on gathering of over 10 people, a decentralised but coordinated approach to targeted containment and an efficient public leadership to make decisions are some of the measures suggested by experts if India has to emerge from the Covid-19 second wave. The Lancet Covid-19 Commission India Task Force, comprising eminent experts from a cross section of the government, academia, research and policy sectors, pitched for food banks, cash transfers and building social safety nets to help the poor and marginalised. It also said the prime minister should constitute and convene a Covid war-room comprising chief ministers, chief secretaries of all high burden states and leadership of all parties daily to jointly evaluate the situation. Noting that the reproductive rate of the virus was 1.44 (as on April 25), the task force has given a list of 11 recommendations, starting with preparing medical services based on projections of demand in the coming days, especially the rise in cases of severity. It suggested setting up oxygen generating plants on hospital premises and suspending elective procedures and restricting OPD. The task force said that vaccination should align with the containment strategy by focusing on hotspots and medium risk. "For low risk areas, as long as there are supply constraints, we recommend prioritising vulnerable populations (above 45 years or with comorbidities) before expanding to the general population," it said. All gatherings, including family, of over 10 persons have to be banned for "as long as necessary" to bring the disease to an end, it said, but allowed for relaxations in low-risk areas. To a question, a member of the task force Dr Giridhar Babu, who is also part of the state's Technical Advisory Committee, said it was too early to tell whether the present curfew was enough for a hotspot like Bengaluru. "The effect of curfew is yet to show. Such measures will help if people are not moving around. If you lift the lockdown without putting in place subsequent measures to contain the spread of the disease, we will be back to square one," he said. "If the health system is able to cater to all cases, then there is no need for lockdown. If it isn't, then there is no other option," he said. The Task Force stressed the need to ramp up testing and urged the use of antigen test with double sampling instead of depending on RT-PCR method alone. It also called for a decentralisation of contact tracing and isolation using community-based organisations like resident welfare associations.  In what seems like a warning against the contradictory statements given by different ministers, the recommendation said building trust with the public through transparent, clear and consistent messaging was vital. A source said the confusion caused by the lack of coordination between different departments, which reached a high point in March, was one of the main reasons for the system's failure to handle the situation as the developments left officials in confusion. "The government should allow one person to do the job and put political considerations aside in this juncture," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-gatherings-of-over-10-people-lancet-task-force-981756.html
03-05-2021||National||SC raps Centre over differential vaccine pricing||The Supreme Court has directed the central government to revisit its Covid-19 initiatives and protocols, including availability of oxygen, procurement and pricing of vaccines and essential drugs. A bench presided over by D Y Chandrachud put the Union government in the dock over differential pricing of vaccine for the Centre and states, saying the current policy would “result in a detriment to the right to public health". “All vaccines, whether in the quantity of 50% purchased by the central government or the remaining 50%, are to be used for vaccinating citizens. The end use is the same,” the bench said in its 64-page order. Compelling states to negotiate with manufacturers on the grounds of promoting competition will result in a serious detriment to those in the age group of 18 to 44 years, who will be vaccinated by state governments, the court said. It also gave the Centre a deadline of May 3 midnight to ensure that the deficit in supply of oxygen to Delhi hospitals is rectified. It directed for creating buffer stocks of oxygen for emergency purposes and decentralising their location for easy access in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country. Terming the Covid situation in Delhi “heart-rending”, the top court also directed the central government to ensure the national capital gets the increased demand of 700 tonnes of medical oxygen per day before Monday midnight. Releasing its directions suo motu, the bench gave the Union government two weeks' time to formulate a national policy on admissions to hospitals to be followed by all state governments. "Till the formulation of such a policy, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in any state/UT for lack of local residential proof of that state/UT or even in the absence of identity proof," the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said. The court posted the matter for consideration on May 10. As declared on April 30, the court told the Centre and state governments to notify that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking or delivering help on any platform will attract a coercive exercise of its jurisdiction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-raps-centre-over-differential-vaccine-pricing-981761.html
03-05-2021||National||PM Modi to hold virtual summit with British counterpart Boris Johnson on May 4||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual summit with his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Tuesday during which they will unveil a 10-year roadmap to further broadbase bilateral ties. Making an announcement about the summit, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said it will be an important opportunity to elevate the multi-faceted strategic ties and enhance cooperation on regional and global issues of mutual interest. "A comprehensive roadmap 2030 will be launched during the summit, which will pave the way for further expanding and deepening India-UK cooperation over the next decade across five key areas," the MEA said. It said the five areas are: people-to-people relationship, trade and prosperity, defence and security, climate action and healthcare. Johnson was to visit India late last month. But days before the visit, he called it off in view of the coronavirus pandemic. "India and UK enjoy a Strategic Partnership since 2004. It has been marked by regular high-level exchanges and growing convergences in diverse areas," the MEA said. "The summit will be an important opportunity to elevate our multi-faceted strategic ties and enhance cooperation on regional and global issues of mutual interest," it said in a statement. The MEA said both the leaders will also discuss Covid-19 cooperation and the global efforts to fight the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-hold-virtual-summit-with-british-counterpart-boris-johnson-on-may-4-981778.html
03-05-2021||National||IUML wins Malappuram Lok Sabha bypoll in Kerala||IUML leader Abdussamad Samadani won the bypoll to the Malappuram Lok Sabha seat on Sunday by defeating V P Sanu of the CPI(M) with a margin of 1.15 lakh votes. The by-election to Malappuram, a stronghold of the Indian Union Muslim League, was necessitated following the resignation of party general secretary P K Kunhalikutty from the Lok Sabha to contest in the Assembly polls. The IUML is a key constituent of the Congress-led UDF in Kerala. Kunhalikutty had won the seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in a record margin of more than 2.6 lakh votes. He had defeated Sanu in the 2019 polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iuml-wins-malappuram-lok-sabha-bypoll-in-kerala-981779.html
03-05-2021||National||Delhi records 407 Covid-19 deaths; positivity rate below 30% for 1st time since April 19||The national capital reported 407 Covid-19 fatalities and 20,394 cases with a positivity rate of 28.33 per cent on Sunday, the lowest since April 19, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. This is the second day on the trot that the capital has recorded over 400 fatalities due to the deadly virus.  The positivity rate was above 30 per cent in the last 13 days.  Delhi had reported a positivity rate of 31.6 per cent on Saturday, 32.7 per cent on Friday, 32.8 per cent on Thursday, 31.8 per cent on Wednesday, 32.7 per cent on Tuesday, and 35 per cent on Monday.  On April 22 , a positivity rate of 36.2 per cent, the highest so far, was recorded. The city had witnessed 412 deaths on Saturday, the highest so far; 375 on Friday, 395 on Thursday, 368 on Wednesday; 381 on Tuesday, 380 on Monday, 350 on Sunday, and 357 on Saturday last week, according to government data. Delhi had recorded 25,219 cases on Saturday, 27,047 on Friday, 24,235 on Thursday, 25,986 on Wednesday, 24,149 on Tuesday, 20,201 on Monday, 22,933 on Sunday, and 24,103 last Saturday. The city has so far recorded 11,94,946 cases, of which over 10.85 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 16,966, the bulletin said. A total of 71,997 tests, including 17,510 rapid-antigen tests, were conducted in a day. The city currently has 92,290 active cases, it added. A significant number of 24,444 patients recovered from the virus during the period. Out of the 21,483 COVID beds in various hospitals of the city, only 1,347 are vacant. A total of 50,742 patients are recovering in home isolation, the bulletin said. According to it, 49,633 vaccine doses were administered in a day and included 28,775 who received the first dose and 20,858 who got the second dose. The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 42098 from 39,556 the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-records-407-covid-19-deaths-positivity-rate-below-30-for-1st-time-since-april-19-981781.html
03-05-2021||National||MP bypoll: Cong retains Damoh as the party turncoat bites dust||The Congress on Sunday retained the Damoh Assembly seat with the party candidate Ajay Tandon defeating his former colleague and nearest BJP rival Rahul Singh Lodhi by a margin of 17,097 votes, an official said. Tandon (57) polled 74,832 votes while Lodhi (36) bagged 57,735 votes, Damoh Collector and Returning Officer Tarun Rathi said. The bypoll was necessitated due to the resignation of Lodhi as the sitting MLA of the Congress. He later joined the BJP. In the first round itself, Tandon took a lead of 700 votes over Lodhi and the gap increased in subsequent rounds. Tandon had lost elections twice to former MP minister Jayant Malaiya (73) from the Damoh assembly constituency. Tandon's campaign remained focused on addressing small meetings, especially in villages, and meeting people. MP Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath visited Damoh for canvassing only twice. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had visited this constituency only once for electioneering. The result indicates that Congress succeeded in projecting Lodhi as a deserter. Congress contested the bypoll on the "Bikau and Tikau" slogan. "We told the Damoh electorate that if they want a 'Tikau' (durable) leader, they should vote for Tandon as Lodhi is 'Bikau' (salable)," MP Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta said. From the BJP's camp, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan,Union minister Prahlad Patel, BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, Madhya Pradesh BJP president VD Sharmaand almost all the ministers campaigned in Damoh for Lodhi. The BJP harped on the development plank. CM Chouhan had even laid the foundation stone of a government medical college in Damoh before the poll code came into force. Powerful BJP leader Jayant Malaiya, whom Lodhi had defeated last time as the Congress candidate, kept himself away from electioneering. Besides, Lodhi's entry in the BJP had not gone down well with local cadres in Damoh. Madhya Pradesh BJP chief spokesman Deepak Vijaywargiya said the party leaders will introspect the defeat. "I want to thank the people of Damoh. The message is clear that 'politics of deals won't work'," elated Kamal Nath told reporters. "Congratulations to Ajay Tandon ji We did not win but have learnt a lot," Union Minister Prahlad Patel tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-bypoll-cong-retains-damoh-as-the-party-turncoat-bites-dust-981783.html
03-05-2021||National||Praise for Mamata for leading TMC to victory, applauds for Vijayan, Stalin for wins||Congratulations poured in for Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the TMC's big victory in the West Bengal assembly polls, even as she lost her battle with her protege Suvendu Adhikari in the Nandigram seat. Leaders across party lines hailed her as a "fighter" who led the TMC to victory against the might of the BJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi who fought a bitter battle with Banerjee on the field congratulated her and ensured the Centre's support. "Congratulations to Mamata Didi for @AITCofficial's win in West Bengal. The Centre will continue to extend all possible support to the West Bengal Government to fulfil people's aspirations and also to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic," Modi tweeted. He also congratulated the other winners and wished them luck. Congratulatory messages from opposition leaders poured in for Banerjee, M K Stalin and Pinarayi Vijayan -- the three leaders opposed to the saffron party. From NCP Chief Sharad Pawar to SP chief Akhilesh Yadav to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, all of them hailed the fight that the leaders fought. Pawar described Banerjee's victory as "stupendous". "Let us continue our work towards the welfare of people and tackling the pandemic collectively," Pawar tweeted. He also congratulated Vijayan for his consecutive wins and said Stalin's victory was a well-deserved one. "Congratulations @MamataOfficial didi for landslide victory. What a fight! Congratulations to the people of WB," tweeted Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Banerjee who has been unshakable in her support for Kejriwal, referring to him as her younger brother, received applause for the "fight" she put up. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi congratulated Stalin and said people voted for change. "People of Tamil Nadu have voted for change and we will, under your leadership, prove to be a confident step in that direction. Best wishes," he said. Hailing Banerjee on the Trinamool Congress' performance in Bengal, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said her victory was over the "forces of communalism and intolerance". "The BJP has met its match in Bengal, and lost," he tweeted. CPI leader D Raja acknowledged Banerjee as a fighter and said her victory was a "slap" on the face of the BJP. "The BJP's campaign was aggressive and negative and they stooped to such lows without thinking of the sentiments of the people just for electoral gains," Raja said. "Mamata fought back and everybody knows that she is a fighter. One may not agree with her politics, but cannot deny that she is a fighter and that's what she showed. "This victory is a huge slap on BJP's face that despite all its might and manipulations, they couldn't make it," Raja said. This is apparent in some of the congratulatory statements made by opposition leaders. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav congratulated the people of the state for being "conscious" and hailed the efforts of workers and the "combative" chief minister in defeating the "politics of hate" of the BJP. Yadav also hailed Stalin for his "remarkable" victory. The Shiv Sena, which shares power in Maharashtra with the NCP and Congress, came out showering praise on the Bengal leader. "Mamata Banerjee has sent out a clear message -- that Modi Ji and Amit Shah Ji are not invincible. They can also be defeated," Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut told reporters. BJP leaders like Rajnath Singh and Nirmala Sitharaman also congratulated the trio. "Congratulations to the Chief Minister of West Bengal, @MamataOfficial Didi on her party's victory in West Bengal assembly elections. My best wishes to her for her next tenure," Singh said, lauding Vijayan for his party's victory in the state assembly polls. Union Finance Minister Sitharaman also congratulated Banerjee in a tweet and said, "Good wishes for your next tenure." She also congratulated Vijayan and conveyed her wishes in Tamil to DMK supremo Stalin for his party's victory in Tamil Nadu assembly poll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/praise-for-mamata-for-leading-tmc-to-victory-applauds-for-vijayan-stalin-for-wins-981789.html
03-05-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 cases cross 33 lakh; Haryana, Odisha too impose lockdown||The deadly Covid wave claimed a record 3,689 more lives and active cases crossed the 33-lakh mark in India as Haryana and Odisha joined several other states that have been forced to reimpose lockdown or similar curbs in a desperate bid to check the surge amid a grievous shortage of hospital beds, medicines and oxygen for patients. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed various measures to augment human resources for effective management of the Covid-19 situation and possible steps discussed include incentivising students and pass-outs of medical and nursing courses to join the pandemic duty, sources said. International assistance continued to pour in with France, Taiwan, Uzbekistan and Belgium delivering medical supplies, including oxygen plants and medicines. Leaders of 13 opposition parties urged the Centre to launch a free mass vaccination drive across the country. In a joint statement, they also called upon the Centre to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to all hospitals and health centres as they manage the staggering patient load. The signatories include Congress president Sonia Gandhi, JDS leader and former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee. A total of 86,023 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid vaccine across 11 states on May 1 when the phase 3 commenced, the Union Health Ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 15.68 crore. The infection count climbed to 1,95,57,457 with 3,92,488 more people being confirmed positive for the disease. States like Tamil Nadu and West Bengal recorded their highest daily rise in cases on Sunday. "From May 3, there will be a 7-day long lockdown in the entire state," Haryana's Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said in a tweet on Sunday. Earlier, a weekend curfew was enforced in nine districts on Friday. In a video message, Odisha Chief Secretary SC Mahapatra said a 14-day lockdown will be imposed in the entire state from May 5 till May 19. "Even though nobody wanted this strict enforcement, the government has imposed lockdown to protect people and their lives from the pandemic," Mahapatra said. The state registered 8,015 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 4,62,622, while 14 fresh fatalities raised the toll to 2,068, health department official said. The situation remained grim in the national capital where Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had extended the ongoing lockdown, which was to conclude at 5 AM on May 3, by another week. Despite the courts stepping in and assurances by Delhi government and the Centre on the oxygen crisis, some hospitals said it has become a "daily fire-fight" for them to arrange continuous supply of medical oxygen. On Sunday afternoon, the second 'Oxygen Express' for Delhi arrived here on with 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen and a third such train has begun its journey for the national capital from Angul in Odisha, the railway ministry said. However, during the day, some hospitals sent out desperate SOS calls to authorities to replenish their dwindling stocks. Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital in Malviya Nagar sounded an alarm about their depleting stocks around noon, saying 50 people, including four newborns, were "at risk". "It has become a daily fire-fight in the absence of a continuous supply. We require around 125 oxygen cylinders a day," an official said. Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka appealed to government authorities to shift patients to other facilities “so that they can be saved”. Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research also took to social media seeking help from authorities. It could not be ascertained if the facility received a refill. The Delhi government has been demanding 976 metric tonnes of oxygen from the Centre. On Saturday, the Central government raised the city's daily oxygen quota to 590 MT from 490 MT. At a high-level review meeting on the Covid-19 situation here, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba expressed anguish over issues related to availability of oxygen and asked the Delhi government to make every effort to lift their allocated oxygen by using all means. Lt Governor Anil Baijal directed top officers of the Delhi government to prepare a detailed action plan to address the shortage of the life-saving gas. . The city recorded 407 Covid-19 deaths and over 20,000 cases with positivity rate of 28.33 per cent. A number of other states have imposed strict curbs, weekend shutdowns, partial lockdowns and night curfews including the worst-hit Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Kerala. Normal life remained affected in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday with the imposition of the 84-hour lockdown from Thursday-Friday. The UT on Saturday recorded its biggest single-day spike of 3,832 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 1,79,915, while a record 47 fatalities in the 24-hour-period raised the pandemic toll to 2,330, officials said. Jharkhand and Rajasthan extended their lockdown last week, while Karnataka imposed a lockdown from the night of April 27 till May 12. The southern state has over four lakh active cases. In Goa, the government said Covid-19-induced restrictions will remain in force in Goa till May 10 during which various commercial establishments will remain closed while political and social gatherings will be banned Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said,"The lockdown in the state will be lifted tomorrow 6 am onwards but the Covid-19 related restrictions will continue to be in force for a week to ensure that the spread of the virus is controlled." As of May 1, Goa's case tally stood at 93,355 while the death toll is 1,222, as per a health official. The Mizoram government had on Saturday announced an eight-day lockdown in Aizawl and other district headquarters town from May 3. The state had reported 112 Covid-19 cases, taking the state's tally to 6,131. The state currently has 1,131 active Covid-19 cases. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday morning, the active cases have increased to 33,49,644, comprising 17.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.77 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 59,92,271, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.10 per cent, the data stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-cross-33-lakh-haryana-odisha-too-impose-lockdown-981799.html
03-05-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Sorry, EC can't talk for obvious reasons'||Even before the courts made their observations, there has been criticism of the EC’s conduct from various quarters including the media, observers of the election scene, persons who were in the past associated with the election machinery and political parties other than the BJP. Such criticism had pointed out deficiencies in the ECI’s conduct of elections, its questionable decisions and acts of commission and omission which were seen to have favoured the BJP. The decision to hold the elections in eight phases in West Bengal and in three phases in Assam was seen as a step to enable Prime Minister Narendra Modi to campaign for an extended period and to help the BJP. The EC also did nothing to stop or to limit the big rallies which would have contributed to the fast spread of the pandemic. West Bengal’s Covid cases increased 40 times after the first phase elections. The number of cases increased in other states also during the campaign period. The proposal to hold virtual rallies was hardly implemented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-sorry-ec-cant-talk-for-obvious-reasons-981804.html
03-05-2021||National||S Jaishankar on four-day visit to London from May 3||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will begin a four-day visit to London from Monday primarily to attend a meeting of foreign ministers of Group of Seven (G7) rich nations. India has been invited to the meeting as a guest country. "The external affairs minister will be visiting London from May 3-6 to participate in the G7 foreign ministers meeting, at which India has been invited as a guest country. He will thereafter undertake a bilateral visit to the UK," the Ministry of External Affairs said. The G7 member countries are Britain, the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan. The meeting from May 3 to 5 is expected to discuss ways to deal with the coronavirus pandemic besides several other pressing issues facing the world. It will be the first in-person meeting of G7 foreign ministers in over two years. The last G7 foreign ministers meeting took place in April 2019 at Dinard and Saint-Malo in France. As chair of G7, the UK has invited India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa, and the Secretary-General of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to join parts of this year's G7 foreign ministers' meeting as guests, according to British Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO). It said the meeting will discuss Covid-19, climate change and other key issues. "It will also draw on broader experience with guest delegates from the Indo-Pacific region," the FCDO said on Twitter. In London, Jaishankar is expected to hold talks with British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab as part of the bilateral leg of the visit. Raab visited India in December during which both sides resolved to boost strategic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. He had told reporters in India that the UK's Indo-Pacific "tilt" is aimed at grasping the opportunities as well as to manage "challenges and the pressures" arising out of China's actions. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson last month called off his planned visit to India due to the coronavirus situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-on-four-day-visit-to-london-from-may-3-981805.html
03-05-2021||National||Billionaire businessman Vinod Khosla pledges $10 million for oxygen supplies to Indian hospitals||Indian-American billionaire businessman Vinod Khosla pledged 410 million for the supply of medical oxygen to hospitals in India. This is in continuation with the Sun Microsystems co-founder’s efforts to fund hospitals for oxygen supplies amid a surge in Covid cases in the country. Taking to Twitter on Sunday, he said there was a need to save lives as further delay may end up in more deaths. "For @GiveIndia this isn't enough. They've received requests for 20,000 oxygen concentrators, 15,000 cylinders, 500 ICU beds, 100 ventilators, 10,000-beds Covid centres with requests coming from non-profits & hospitals all across India every day. We need to do a lot more urgently,” Khosla said. "The Khosla Family is adding USD 10 million to @GiveIndia to it's previous commitment as a match and hoping others will join in this urgent need," Khosla said. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 new coronavirus cases being reported daily and hospitals in several states reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/billionaire-businessman-vinod-khosla-pledges-10-million-for-oxygen-supplies-to-indian-hospitals-981806.html
03-05-2021||National||India's Covid-19 tally nears 2-crore mark with over 3.6L new cases||The daily Covid-19 cases in India showed a slight dip with 3,68,147 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, taking the total tally of cases to 1,99,25,604, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 2,18,959 with 3,417 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. While the country recorded 4,01,993 new cases on May 1, it had registered 3,92,488 fresh cases on May 2. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,13,642 comprising 17.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 81.77 per cent.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 62,93,003, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 29,16,47,037 samples have been tested up to May 2 with 15,04,698 samples being tested on Sunday.  The 3,417 new fatalities include 669 from Maharashtra, 407 from Delhi, 288 from Uttar Pradesh, 217 from Karnataka, 199  from Chhattisgarh, 159  from Rajasthan, 157 from Punjab, 153 each from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, 145 from Haryana and 115 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,18,959 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 70,284 from Maharashtra, 16,966 from Delhi, 16,011 from Karnataka, 14,346 from Tamil Nadu, 13,162 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,539 from West Bengal, 9,317 from Punjab and 9,009 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-nears-2-crore-mark-with-over-36l-new-cases-981820.html
03-05-2021||National||Social media 'Godsend' in India; Covid-19 SOS calls get answered||Rajni Gill woke up with a slight fever in mid-April, the first warning that she had Covid-19. Within a few days, she was breathless and nearly unconscious in a hospital. Desperate to arrange plasma treatment for Gill, a gynaecologist in the city of Noida, her family called doctors, friends, anyone they thought could help. Then her sister posted a plea on Facebook: “I am looking for a plasma donor for my sister who is hospitalised in Noida. She is B positive and is 43.” The message quickly amplified on Twitter, flashed across the phone of Srinivas B.V., an opposition politician in nearby Delhi, who was just then securing plasma for a college student. He deputized a volunteer donor to rush to the blood bank for Gill. “The administration and systems have collapsed,” Srinivas said. “I have never seen so many people dying at the same time.” “Mine and my team’s work may be a drop in the ocean — but a drop nevertheless,” he said. With India’s health care system overwhelmed by India’s unprecedented Covid surge, which is bringing more than 400,000 new cases and thousands of deaths each day, desperate relatives and friends of the infected have resorted to sending SOS messages on social media. And many of those calls are being answered. Some people need medical oxygen, which is nearly impossible to find in Delhi, the capital. Others are hunting for medicine that goes for high prices on the black market, or for ventilators that are exceedingly rare. The pleas are reaching tech-savvy engineers, lawyers, nongovernmental organisation workers, politicians, doctors and even tuk-tuk drivers, who have mobilized online to help the sick, some of them hundreds of miles away. Collectively, they have formed grassroots networks that are stepping in where state and national governments have failed. It is a role that Srinivas, 38, has played before in times of crisis. As the president of the opposition Indian National Congress party’s youth league, he has provided support after earthquakes and floods. He has worked to get textbooks to underprivileged children and medicine to people who couldn’t afford it. Early last year, when the pandemic first struck and India locked down, Srinivas galvanized young volunteers across the country who distributed food for stranded migrants, along with more than 10 million masks. He now heads a team of 1,000 people, including 100 in Delhi, the centre of the current outbreak. “I have grown up on Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals,” said Srinivas, who aspired to be a cricket player before entering politics. “I cannot believe it that I am out here today, trying to help so many people.” The cries for help on Twitter and Facebook started spreading “like wildfire” in early April, Srinivas said. He created the hashtag #SOSIYC so people could connect to his organization, the Indian Youth Congress. His team advertises for plasma donors online, and 5,000 have signed up. He also enlists psychologists to counsel donors about the four-hour procedure. India’s loose online aid networks rely on tools and techniques commonly used in marketing and other forms of messaging on social media. Families tag people with large followings or specialised skills who might be able to amplify their messages, while volunteer organisers use keywords to filter the flood of requests. Abhishek Murarka, who works in finance in Mumbai, decided he needed to do more than retweet messages. He started searching for the terms “verified,” “confirmed” and “available” on Twitter to track down specific leads on Covid supplies. He has since posted an 84-second video explaining his techniques so that others can use them. Hundreds of miles away, Praveen Mishra, 20, who runs a startup in the southern city of Bangalore, studied Murarka’s video and applied his own filters to search for beds, oxygen and medicine. He was able to get a particular medicine to a patient in Delhi after confirming that it was available in Hyderabad. “Initially I felt very scared, that there are too many cases and that I will not be able to help at all,” Mishra said. “Now I am calling 20 leads per day and verifying their needs.” Some people are tapping into resources around the world. Nikhil Jois, a technology executive in Bangalore, and his own team vetted charity organizations that supplied oxygen, food and sanitary napkins. He whittled his list down to just over a dozen organisations, some of which could accept international donations. His team then asked several companies in India to link to the list. And he began emailing executives, investors and bestselling authors in the United States, asking them to give. “The most beautiful part of social media is that you trust strangers,” Jois said. That, of course, is not always a good idea. Dubious accounts offer shoddy or exorbitantly priced goods to desperate people, and leads on supplies can quickly evaporate. And trolls will always inflict hate on the vulnerable. But with India in crisis and travel not a safe option, social media has been the only way for some people to find help. Aditya Jain, who is in Delhi, recently put out a plea that went viral on Twitter. He felt helpless as his elderly aunt and uncle, about 130 miles away in Agra, struggled during the strict lockdown there. His aunt suffers from a spinal disease, and his uncle, a diabetic, needs weekly dialysis. Unable to go out, they were eating just one meal a day. They couldn’t care for themselves, and at times they couldn’t make it to the bathroom. Through LinkedIn, he found an organisation that caters to seniors. He filled out a form, providing their information. The next morning, volunteers showed up at their doorstep with breakfast and adult diapers. “Social media is like a godsend for us,” said an emotional Jain, who has lost one of his other relatives to Covid. Even foreign diplomats in Delhi have reached out to his organisation for help. On Sunday, the New Zealand High Commission tagged the Indian Youth Congress on Twitter in an appeal for oxygen cylinders. Since the group is part of the political opposition, that got a lot of attention, given the intense criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the pandemic. (The commission said its appeal had been “misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.”)  Srinivas’ volunteers use direct messaging to collect data on people needing help, then classify them by risk profile. They work with people on the ground to arrange beds and plasma donations for the most serious cases. Others are put in touch with doctors who can provide remote consultations. Often, the system’s deficiencies are too great to overcome. Mahua Ray Chaudhuri frantically tagged Srinivas looking for oxygen for her sick father. His team found some, but that wasn’t enough: No ICU beds were available. “At least I could get him oxygen, and he died breathing,” Chaudhuri said by telephone, breaking down. “This help from strangers on Twitter was like a balm for our disturbed minds and souls.” But Srinivas’ team was able to get plasma for Gill, the gynaecologist, just in time. She is now recuperating in a hospital on the outskirts of Delhi. She recently called Srinivas to thank him. “Though I have never met her, it was a humbling experience hearing her voice,” he said. “I am so relieved she made it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/social-media-godsend-in-india-covid-19-sos-calls-get-answered-981826.html
03-05-2021||National||Media should be able to report everything, SC tells EC||The Supreme Court on Monday observed that reporting by the media on the unfolding of the judicial process in constitutional courts brought accountability among judges and fostered citizens' confidence in the judicial process. "We cannot expect the media not to report dialogues. Oral observations are as important as orders. Unfolding of process of judicial thinking is equally of interest to the public," said a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah. The top court told the Election Commission to take the Madras High Court's comment — for slapping murder charges against its officials for failing to ensure adherence to Covid protocol during the poll process — in the right spirit and as a bitter pill. The court, however, agreed that the comment was quite strong but must have been made out of anguish and frustration. It reserved the order on a petition by the polling panel against the oral comments by the Madras High Court. The bench assured the EC that the top court would try to balance the situation but it cannot ask the High Court judges not to make comments beyond the pleadings. Sometimes, judges say certain things in larger public interest, the court said. "The observations by the judges are momentary while what leaves its footprints on sands of time is the written order," the bench said. The court termed far-fetched the contention by senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, on behalf of the Election Commission, that media should not report oral observations which did not form part of the final order. The poll watchdog faced a lot flak for failing to limit huge gatherings at public rallies during the second wave of Covid-19. Dwivedi said the EC was hurt by the High Court's "unwarranted and disparaging" remarks made on April 26. Reporting by the media had damaged its reputation built over the years, it had said. "We cannot say the media cannot report contents of the discussions in a court of law. This is of equal public interest...it is on same pedestal as the final order. The unfolding of debate in the court is equally important and media has a duty to report. It's not only our judgements that are significant," Justice Chandrachud said. The bench said media reporting brought a sense of accountability and it showed that judges were dispensing their duties fully. The bench also apparently did not agree to a plea by the EC that it was a constitutional body and another constitutional body (High Court) should not make adverse comment upon it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-should-be-able-to-report-everything-sc-tells-ec-981840.html
03-05-2021||National||CII calls for strongest national steps, curbs on economic activity amid Covid-19 surge||Industry body CII has urged the government to take "strongest" national steps including curtailing economic activity to contain the spike in Covid-19 cases in the country. CII President Uday Kotak has asked for highest-level response measures to address the rising wave of Covid-19 cases, as currently safeguarding lives is key to cut the transmission links. "The healthcare infrastructure and supply build-up are being undertaken on an emergency basis by the governments at the centre and states, but will take time. "At this critical juncture when the toll of lives is rising, CII urges the strongest national steps including curtailing economic activity to reduce suffering," the President has said in a statement. The chamber said that the current pace of daily caseloads, the requirement for hospital beds and ICU beds, oxygen, and medicines will continue to escalate. "Healthcare and frontline workers are giving their best efforts to tackle the influx of patients, but it may not be possible to manage escalating caseloads with the present medical talent availability. We must heed expert advice on this subject – from India and abroad. Highest response measures are needed to break the chain of contagion and also use the time to rapidly build up capacity," Kotak added. CII also suggested certain measures such as deployment of armed forces and central security forces for logistics, infrastructure and personnel; security at hospitals for medical personnel; tapping manpower sources such as retired medical personnel, doctors and nurses; and distribution of vaccination supplies to states according to well-defined criteria. "Nursing and medical students who have finished GNM/BSC training and who are awaiting exams can be roped in and this can be counted for future requirements/credits after one year of Covid ICU work," CII suggested. Further, it asked for scaling up RT-PCR testing to double the current daily numbers both in urban and rural India. The daily Covid-19 cases in India showed a slight dip with 3,68,147 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, taking the total tally of cases to 1,99,25,604, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cii-calls-for-strongest-national-steps-curbs-on-economic-activity-amid-covid-19-surge-981873.html
03-05-2021||National||PIL in High Court seeks Remdesivir makers be allowed to sell it in domestic market||The Delhi High Court Monday asked the Centre and various pharma majors to respond to a PIL seeking that all drug firms making Remdesivir, used in Covid-19 treatment, be allowed to sell it in the domestic market. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Health Ministry, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, Director General of Foreign Trade and various pharma companies, like Cipla, Zydus and Cadila, seeking their stand on the plea which claims only a handful of such firms are allowed to sell the medicine in the domestic market. The remaining companies were involved in manufacturing the drug for export, petitioner Dincur Bajaj said, adding that since export of Remdesivir has been banned by the Centre, the companies which were producing it for export be permitted to manufacture and sell it in the domestic market. Bajaj, who is a lawyer and the Joint Secretary of the Delhi High Court Bar Association, has claimed that there are more than 25 companies in India which manufacture the medicine, but only six to eight of them are permitted to sell it in the domestic market and the rest were producing it for exports alone. The plea, filed through advocate Amit Saxena and Imran Ali, has said, "It is pertinent to mention that the scarcity of Remdesivir is causing its extensive black-marketing and the black marketers are charging prices up to Rs 1,00,000 per vial, due to its non-availability."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-high-court-seeks-remdesivir-makers-be-allowed-to-sell-it-in-domestic-market-981879.html
03-05-2021||National||Disband present EC, probe actions of its members, says Anand Sharma ||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Monday demanded that the present Election Commission be disbanded and the action of its members probed as it has allegedly betrayed the trust of voters. He also demanded that a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court should decide on the composition and qualifying criteria for the appointment of CEC and EC's. The former union minister's remarks came a day after results of assembly elections in five states came out. Sharma said the recent elections and the conduct of the Election Commission has raised serious concerns.  "The present Election Commission should be disbanded and actions of its members probed. The EC has disgraced itself and voters trust betrayed," Sharma said in a statement. "A Constitution bench of the Supreme Court should decide on the composition, qualifying criteria for the appointment of CEC and EC's and firm guidelines for the conduct of free and fair elections as per the Constitution," he said. The senior Congress leader charged that the Commission violated its Constitutional mandate under Article 324 to conduct free and fair polls.  "Blatantly partisan, its actions in Bengal were shocking and condemnable. There have been instances where it acted as a willing accomplice of the BJP," he alleged. Sharma said by allowing unrestricted mass rallies, it is guilty of violating Covid-19 protocols and must be made accountable for fuelling the surge and sufferings of our people.  "Cosmetic restriction for the last phase after the fire had spread, fooled no one but insulted the wisdom of citizens," he said. A number of political parties including the TMC and its leader Mamata Banerjee have pointed fingers at the EC. The Madras High Court had recently observed that EC officials concerned should probably be tried on murder charges for their failure to ensure adherence to Covid-19 protocols during the election process in four states and a Union Territory. The polls body has moved the Supreme Court against these remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disband-present-ec-probe-actions-of-its-members-says-anand-sharma-981881.html
03-05-2021||National||Supreme Court directs Centre to prepare buffer stock of oxygen for use in emergencies||The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency purposes in collaboration with states and decentralise the location of the stocks so that it is immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted. A three-judge bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said the emergency stocks shall be created within the next four days and replenished on a day-to-day basis, in addition to the existing allocation of medical oxygen supply to the states. "We direct the central government in collaboration with the states to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen to be used for emergency purposes to ensure supply lines continue to function even in unforeseen circumstances. The location of the emergency stocks shall be decentralised so as to be immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted to any hospital for any reason," the bench said. "The emergency stocks shall be created within the next four days. The replenishment of the emergency stocks will also be monitored on a real-time basis through the virtual control room in active consultation with each state/UT. This is in addition to the day to day allocations," it added. Noting that the situation on the ground in Delhi is heart-rending, the top court also directed the Centre to ensure that the deficit in the supply of oxygen to the national capital is rectified before May 3 midnight. It said lives of citizens cannot be put in jeopardy in the battle of shifting responsibility of supply of oxygen. "The protection of the lives of citizens is paramount in times of a national crisis and the responsibility falls on both the central government and the GNCTD to cooperate with each other to ensure that all possible measures are taken to resolve the situation," the bench also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat said. On the issue of treatment in hospitals, the top court directed the Centre to formulate within two weeks a national policy on admissions to hospitals in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. "Till the formulation of such a policy by the central government, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in any state/UT for lack of local residential proof of that state/UT or even in the absence of identity proof," the bench said. It also directed the Centre and the state governments to notify that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking help on any platform will attract coercive action. "The central government and state governments shall notify all chief secretaries, directors-general of police, commissioners of police that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking/delivering help on any platform will attract a coercive exercise of jurisdiction by this court. "The registrar (judicial) is also directed to place a copy of this order before all district magistrates in the country," it said in an order uploaded on the SC website late on Sunday night. The top court also directed the Centre to revisit its initiatives and protocols, including the availability of oxygen, availability and pricing of vaccines, and availability of essential drugs at affordable prices. It asked senior advocates Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora, appointed as amicus curiae, to collate and compile these suggestions submitted by various parties. The matter is listed for the next hearing on May 10. The directions were passed in a suo motu case for ensuring essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench has taken up issues such as the projected demand for oxygen in the country at present and in the near future, how the government intends to allocate it to "critically affected" states and its monitoring mechanism to ensure supply. The Supreme Court had earlier made clear that any attempt to clamp down on the free flow of information on social media, including a call for help from people, would be treated as contempt of the court. "There should be free flow of information; we should hear voices of citizens. This is a national crisis. There should not be any presumption that the grievances raised on the Internet are always false. Let a strong message be sent to all the DGPs that there should not be any kind of clampdown," the bench had said while reserving its order on April 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-directs-centre-to-prepare-buffer-stock-of-oxygen-for-use-in-emergencies-981883.html
03-05-2021||National||Medical interns to be deployed for Covid-19 duties||Seeking to augment human resources deployed in fighting Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved a number of measures, including postponing the NEET-PG for at least four months to make a large number of qualified doctors available for pandemic duty and pressing into service medical interns. The PMO said in a statement on Monday that the services of final year MBBS students can also be utilised for providing services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation under the faculty's supervision. Medical interns will work under the supervision of their faculty. This will reduce the workload on the existing doctors engaged in Covid duty and boost the efforts of triaging, it said. It added that B.Sc. or GNM qualified nurses may be utilised in full-time Covid nursing duties under the supervision of senior doctors and nurses. Those providing services in Covid management will be given priority in forthcoming regular government recruitments after they complete a minimum of 100 days of duty, the PMO said. The medical students and professionals to be engaged in Covid related work will be suitably vaccinated, it said. All such professionals who sign up for minimum 100 days of duty and complete it successfully will also be given the Prime Minister’s Distinguished Covid National Service Samman from the government of India. They will also be covered under the government's insurance scheme for health workers engaged in fighting Covid-19. The statement said the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for Post-Graduation (NEET-PG) will be postponed for at least four months, and the exam will not be held before August 31||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-interns-to-be-deployed-for-covid-19-duties-981886.html
03-05-2021||National||Centre defers NEET-PG to allow doctors to report for Covid-19 duty||Facing a shortage of doctors, the government on Monday postponed the NEET-PG exams by four months so that a large number of doctors preparing for post-graduate courses could be available for Covid-19 duties. At a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was also decided to deploy final year MBBS and nursing students for Covid-19 duties and offer them incentives of government employees if they work for 100 days at Covid facilities. It was also decided to allow final year PG students to continue as residents until fresh batches of postgraduate students join. “A decision was taken to postpone the NEET-PG exam for at least four months and the exam will not be held before August 31, 2021,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said, adding that the students would get at least one month's time to prepare for the exam. The Centre has also written to state governments and UT administrations in this regard with a suggestion to fill vacant posts of doctors, nurses and allied healthcare professionals through contractual appointments. Medical interns will be deployed in Covid-19 management duties under the supervision of their faculty, while final year MBBS students can be utilised for providing services such as teleconsultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation by and under the supervision of the faculty. Services of qualified nurses could be utilised in full-time Covid-19 nursing duties under the supervision of Senior Doctors and Nurses. “The individuals providing services in Covid-19 management will be given priority in forthcoming regular Government recruitments after they complete a minimum of 100 days of Covid-19 duty,” the PMO statement said. Renowned cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty had flagged medical manpower as the next big challenge in Covid management and suggested deploying final year MBBS and nursing students on Covid-19 duty. The medical students/professionals sought to be engaged in Covid related work will be suitably vaccinated and also be covered under the Insurance Scheme of Government for health workers engaged in fighting the pandemic. “All such professionals who sign up for a minimum of 100 days of Covid-19 duty and complete it successfully will also be given the Prime Minister’s Distinguished Covid National Service Samman from the Government of India,” the PMO statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-defers-neet-pg-to-allow-doctors-to-report-for-covid-19-duty-981887.html
03-05-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee declares journalists as Covid-19 warriors||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee declared all journalists as Covid-19 warriors on Monday, as she addressed the press a day after being re-elected as Chief Minister of West Bengal a third time. The TMC leader, even when addressing the media and party workers after trends showed a landslide victory, emphasised on fighting Covid-19 first and celebrating election victory only afterwards. More details to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-declares-journalists-as-covid-19-warriors-981890.html
03-05-2021||National||Centre rubbishes Poonawalla's claims that no additional Covid-19 vaccine doses were ordered||The Centre on Monday opposed media reports that claimed the Centre did not place orders for the Serum Institute's Covid-19 vaccine Covishield amid a tussle between Adar Poonawalla's company and the government. Poonawalla, who is now in London after facing threats over vaccine shortages across the country, said it was the government and not the company that was responsible for this. Retaliating against Poonawalla's claim, the Ministry of Health said, " It is clarified that 100% advance of Rs 1732.50 cr was released to Serum Institute of India (SII) on 28.04.2021 for 11 crore doses of Covishield vaccine during May, June and July, and was received by them on 28.04.2021. As on date, against the last order of 10 crore doses for supplies of Covishield vaccine, 8.744 crore doses have been delivered till 03.05.2021... Hence to say that fresh orders have not been placed by Government of India is not correct." The release by the Health Ministry called the claim baseless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-rubbishes-poonawallas-claims-that-no-additional-covid-19-vaccine-doses-were-ordered-981893.html
03-05-2021||National||Expert urges national stay-at-home order as India sees a surge in Covid-19 cases||India reported more than 300,000 new coronavirus infections for a 12th straight day on Monday to take its overall number of cases to just shy of 20 million, as scientists predicted a peak in the pandemic in the coming days. With 368,147 new cases over the past 24 hours, India's total infections stand at 19.93 million, while total fatalities rose by 3,417 to 218,959, according to health ministry data. Medical experts say actual numbers across the country of 1.35 billion may be five to 10 times higher than the official tally. The health ministry offered a glimmer of hope, reporting that positive cases relative to the number of tests conducted fell on Monday for the first time since at least April 15. India's coronavirus cases may peak between May 3-5, according to a mathematical model from a team of scientists advising the government, a few days earlier than a previous estimate as the virus has spread faster than expected. Hospitals have filled to capacity, medical oxygen supplies have run short and morgues and crematoriums have been swamped as the country deals with the surge in cases. At least 11 states and union territories have imposed some form of restrictions on movement to try and stem infections, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is reluctant to announce a national lockdown, concerned about the economic impact. "In my opinion, only a national stay at home order and declaring a medical emergency will help to address the current healthcare needs," Bhramar Mukherjee, an epidemiologist with the University of Michigan said on Twitter. "The # of active cases is accumulating, not just the daily new cases. Even the reported numbers state there are around 3.5M active cases." CRISIS TESTS PM MODI The spike in infections is India's biggest crisis since Prime Minister Narendra Modi took office in 2014. He has been criticised for not taking steps earlier to curb the spread and for letting millions of largely unmasked people attend religious festivals and crowded political rallies in five states during March and April. A forum of scientific advisers set up by the government warned Indian officials in early March of a new and more contagious variant of the coronavirus taking hold in the country, five scientists who are part of the forum told Reuters. Despite the warning, four of the scientists said the federal government did not seek to impose major restrictions to stop the spread of the virus. It remains to be seen how his handling of the crisis might affect Modi or his party politically. The next general election is due in 2024. Modi's party was defeated in India's West Bengal state in results declared on Sunday, although it won in the neighbouring state of Assam. Leaders of 13 opposition parties signed a letter on Sunday urging Modi to immediately launch free national vaccination and to prioritise oxygen supply to hospitals and health centres. Several states have postponed widening a vaccination drive for adults that was to start on Saturday due to a lack of vaccines. Despite being the world's biggest producer of vaccines, India does not have enough for itself. Only about 9% of the population has had a dose. India has struggled to increase capacity beyond 80 million doses a month due to lack of raw materials and a fire at the Serum Institute, which makes the AstraZeneca vaccine. Pfizer Inc is in talks with the Indian government seeking an "expedited approval pathway" for its Covid-19 vaccine, its CEO Albert Bourla said on LinkedIn on Monday, announcing a donation of medicines worth more than $70 million. India said last month its drugs regulator will decide on emergency-use applications for foreign Covid-19 vaccines, including Pfizer, within three working days from application. International aid has been pouring into India in response to the crisis. Britain will send another 1,000 ventilators to India, the government said on Sunday. Prime ministers Boris Johnson and Modi are scheduled to talk on Tuesday. The Indian Covid-19 variant has now reached at least 17 countries including Britain, Switzerland and Iran, leading several governments to close their borders to people travelling from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-urges-national-stay-at-home-order-as-india-sees-a-surge-in-covid-19-cases-981907.html
03-05-2021||National||Consider lockdown to curb second Covid-19 wave: SC to Centre and state govts||The Supreme Court has asked the Union and state governments to consider imposing a ban on mass gatherings and super-spreader events, as well as bring about a lockdown, to curb the spread of the coronavirus "in the interest of public welfare". A three-judge bench, presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, made the suggestion in light of the continuing surge of infections in the country. The court asked the Centre and state governments to put on record by May 10 the efforts taken to curb the spread of the virus and the measures that they plan on taking in the near future. The order comes at a time when several state governments have imposed curbs, including curfew on movement of the public, at a local level. In a detailed order in the suo motu matter, released on Sunday evening, the bench clarified, "We are cognisant of the socio-economic impact of a lockdown, specifically on the marginalised communities. Thus, in case the measure of a lockdown is imposed, arrangements must be made beforehand to cater to the needs of these communities." The court, which asked the Centre to revisit its policy on procurement of essentials drugs, oxygen and vaccination, also favoured taking care of healthcare professionals -- not just limited to doctors, but also nurses, hospital staff, ambulance drivers, sanitation workers and crematorium workers for their dedicated efforts in currently tackling the pandemic. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, noted that the Centre has extended for one year the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme of Rs 50 lakh to help about 22 lakh healthcare professionals. The court directed the central government to inform how many claims are pending under the scheme, and the timeline to settle them. It noted that till date, only 287 claims have been settled, including from the families of 168 doctors who died after contracting Covid-19 while treating patients. The court also asked the central government to provide other facilities such as food, rest during intervals, transportation, non-deduction of salary, overtime allowance in both public and private hospitals. A separate helpline for doctors and healthcare professionals was also needed to ensure the nation truly acknowledges their effort and creates incentives for them".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-lockdown-to-curb-second-covid-19-wave-sc-to-centre-and-state-govts-981913.html
03-05-2021||National||Centre buys 35.1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines for Rs 5,974.50 crore||The Centre has procured 18.6 crore Covid-19 vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- at a cost of Rs 3,375.75 crore while it is in the process of buying another 16.5 crore doses at a cost of Rs 2,598.75 crore, according to an RTI. Altogether, this would come to 35.1 crore doses worth Rs 5,974.50 crore, the Ministry of Health and Family said in response to queries filed by Commodore Lokesh Batra (retired). Initially, the Covid-19 Vaccination Administration Cell (CVAC) in the Ministry said in the response submitted on May 2 that the government bought 5.6 crore doses of Covishield from Serum Institute of India at a cost of Rs 210, including GST, per dose using the PM-CARES fund. Similarly, another one crore doses of Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech International Ltd, was bought at a cost of Rs 309.75, including GST, per dose. For these 6.6 crore doses, the government spent Rs 1,485 crore from PM-CARES. However, the RTI reply showed that, at present , the government has procured both the Covid-19 vaccines through the Union Budget at the unit cost of Rs 157.50, including GST. Ten crore Covishield and two crore Covaxin were bought under this scheme for which the government spent Rs 1,880 crore. "Further, the Government of India through Union Budget is procuring the Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield 11 crore doses and Covaxin 5.5 crore doses) at the unit cost of Rs 157.50, including taxes (Rs 150 + 5% GST)," the RTI response stated. The procurement and vaccination of Covid-19 vaccine is an ongoing process, it added. Separately, the Ministry rejected reports which claimed that the Centre has not placed any fresh order for Covid-19 vaccines and the last time it did was in March 2021 for 100 million doses of Covishield and 20 million doses of Covaxin.   It said 100% advance of Rs 1732.50 crore (after TDS Rs 1699.50 crore) was released to Serum Institute of India (SII) on April 28 for 11 crore doses of Covishield during May, June and July. As on date, against the last order of 10 crore doses for supplies of Covishield vaccine, 8.744 crore doses have been delivered till May 3. Additionally, 100% advance of Rs 787.50 crore (after TDS Rs. 772.50 crore) was released on April 28 to Bharat Biotech India Ltd for five crore Covaxin doses during May, June and July. As of date, the last order of two crore doses for supplies of Covaxin vaccine, 0.8813 crore doses have been delivered till May 3. It also said the Centre has provided more 16.54 crore vaccine doses to states free of cost. More than 78 lakh doses are still available with the states to be administered. In addition , more than 56 lakh doses will be received by the states in the next three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-buys-351-crore-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-for-rs-597450-crore-981923.html
03-05-2021||National||Ten states account for over 73% of new Covid-19 cases||Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi are among 10 states that account for 73.78 per cent of the new 3,68,147 Covid-19 cases registered in a day, while the daily positivity rate has increased to 21.19 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 56,647. It is followed by Karnataka with  37,733 while Kerala reported 31,959 new cases, the ministry said. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan are the other states on the list of 10. India's total active caseload has reached 34,13,642 and now comprises 17.13 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 63,998 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a day. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Bihar and Haryana cumulatively account for 81.46 per cent of India's total active cases. "The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.10 per cent and is continuously declining,"the ministry said. Besides, 3,417 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.  Ten states account for 74.54 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (669) followed by Delhi (407) and Uttar Pradesh with 288 daily deaths. The number of Covid-19 tests conducted across the country has crossed 29.16 crore today. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,62,93,003  with 3,00,732 recoveries being reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 73.49 per cent of the new recoveries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-states-account-for-over-73-of-new-covid-19-cases-981934.html
03-05-2021||National||No space for 'vaccine nationalism', says Nirmala Sitharaman||Stressing that there cannot be any vaccine nationalism, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharam on Monday urged nations to share technologies on Covid-19 vaccines amid the pandemic. She also pitched for examining Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement in the light of the coronavirus pandemic. "Countries will have to be open about sharing vaccine-based technologies. The TRIPS agreement will have to be looked at in the context of the pandemic. There cannot be any more vaccine nationalism, countries will have to be flexible about it," she said at the annual meet of the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The TRIPS agreement is a legal pact between all the member nations of the World Trade Organization (WTO). It establishes minimum standards for regulation by national governments of different forms of intellectual property as applied to nationals of other WTO member nations. The agreement has been in force from January 1995. Participating in a virtual seminar, Sitharaman said there is a need to have a global multilateral approach to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Post pandemic, she said, "the future as I said, will have to be based on principles of openness, transparency, fairness, sustainability and inclusiveness". As regards global climate action, she said, India is committed to all the Paris agreement-based commitments and it is well on a course to fulfill all those commitments. About efforts of the government to keep the wheels of economy running during the pandemic, Sitharaman said the government extended financial assistance to various sectors. Observing that MSMEs are the backbone of the economy, she said the government has extended financial assistance in terms of Rs 3 lakh crore loan guarantee to help them amid the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-space-for-vaccine-nationalism-says-nirmala-sitharaman-981944.html
03-05-2021||National||From The Newsroom: SC asks Centre, states to mull lockdown as Covid-19 second wave worsens||In your evening news brief, Supreme Court tells Centre, states to consider lockdown to curb the second Covid-19 wave; medical interns to be deployed for Covid-19 duties; and 24 Covid-19 patients die after a Chamarajanagar hospital runs out of oxygen.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 3, 2021:   The Supreme Court has asked the Union and state governments to consider imposing a ban on mass gatherings and super-spreader events, as well as bring about a lockdown, to curb the spread of the coronavirus "in the interest of public welfare". A three-judge bench, presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, made the suggestion in light of the continuing surge of infections in the country. The court asked the Centre and state governments to put on record by May 10 the efforts taken to curb the spread of the virus and the measures that they plan on taking in the near future. The order comes at a time when several state governments have imposed curbs, including curfew on movement of the public, at a local level.   Seeking to augment human resources deployed in fighting Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved a number of measures, including postponing the NEET-PG for at least four months to make a large number of qualified doctors available for pandemic duty and pressing into service medical interns. The PMO said in a statement on Monday that the services of final year MBBS students can also be utilised for providing services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation under the faculty's supervision. Medical interns will work under the supervision of their faculty.   In a tragic turn of events, a total of 24 patients died in Chamarajanagar district, 175 kilometres from Bengaluru, on Sunday, after hospitals ran out of oxygen. Officials said that 23 patients died at the district Covid Hospital and one at a private hospital. According to the district administration, as many as 12 patients died due to lack of oxygen, while others died of co-morbid conditions. However, locals alleged that the authorities were fabricating the number of deaths. They claimed that even non-Covid patients had to face oxygen shortage, resulting in deaths.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sc-asks-centre-states-to-mull-lockdown-as-covid-19-second-wave-worsens-981945.html
03-05-2021||National||State authorities don't have power under disaster law to regulate private schools' fees: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday held that state authorities do not have any power under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to order reduction in fees of private unaided schools. The top court, however, said private school management, engaged in doing charitable activity of imparting education, is expected to be responsive and alive to the pandemic situation and take necessary remedial measures to mitigate the hardship suffered by students and their parents. Maintaining that 2005 law was no panacea for all the ills, the court, at the same time, reminded the schools that demanding fees even in respect of facilities not availed of would be nothing short of indulging in profiteering and commercialisation. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari allowed Rajasthan's private schools to collect fees with just 15 per cent deduction for unutilised facilities in the academic year of 2020-21, severely marred by Covid-19 pandemic, in a judgement having bearing across the country. "We have consciously limited the quantum of deduction from annual school fees to 15 per cent, though the school management had mentioned about its willingness to provide 25 per cent scholarship to deserving students," the bench said. The court pointed out it had already compelled the school management by its interim order to collect annual school fees for the academic year 2020¬21 as was fixed for 2019-20, though some of the schools could have legitimately asked for increase of at least 10 per cent. Several private school managements questioned validity of state authorities' order to defer collection of fees and reduction of tuition fees to 70 per cent by schools affiliated with the CBSE and 60  per cent from the schools recognised by Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, in view of reduction of syllabus due to aftermath of lockdown from March 2020. The court, however, noted the school management must have saved overheads and recurring cost on various items such as petrol, diesel, electricity, maintenance, and water charges, due to lockdown. It asked school management to reschedule payment of school fee in such a way that not even a single student is left out or denied opportunity of pursuing education, "so as to effectuate the adage 'live and let live'." The top court's decision allowing duction of 15 per cent in fees in lieu of unutilised facilities by the students during the academic year 2020-¬21 came as a big relief to 36,000 private unaided schools, including 220 minority private unaided schools in Rajasthan. After hearing senior advocates Devadatt Kamat, and Manish Singhvi and advocate Nishanth Patil on behalf of Rajasthan, the court upheld the validity of provisions of the state's Schools (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2016, allowing formation of a committee with parents for fixation of fees. Following the Covid-19 actuated lockdown in March, 2020, various states governments directed the private schools to provide concessions to parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-authorities-dont-have-power-under-disaster-law-to-regulate-private-schools-fees-sc-981947.html
03-05-2021||National||India’s Covid-19 surge leaves another seven million people jobless||India’s unemployment rate rose to a four-month high of nearly 8% in April, and the outlook remains weak with state administrations extending lockdowns to curb a record surge in virus cases. Unemployment increased to 7.97% from 6.5% in March, with more than seven million jobs lost last month, according to data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt., a private research firm. “There is a fall in the jobs available. This could be due to the lockdowns,” CMIE Managing Director Mahesh Vyas said by telephone. “Since the virus is still quite intense and we are stressed on the medical health-services front, it’s likely that the situation will remain tense in May as well.” Daily Covid-19 deaths in India hit a record 3,689 Sunday. The number of new cases slowed slightly Monday after India on Saturday became the first country to register more than 400,000 daily cases. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who announced a strict lockdown in March 2020 that resulted in millions of lost jobs and a record contraction in economic output, now is urging states to use such measures only as a last resort. Local administrations have been forced to extend curbs as the nation’s creaky health infrastructure can’t cope with the flood of virus cases, jeopardizing a nascent economic recovery. The weak employment outlook is a risk for India’s chances of reaching double-digit economic growth this year. Many economists already have lowered their projections, while several are warning of possible reductions if provincial curbs are extended further. Barclays Bank Plc on Monday lowered its forecast by one percentage point to 10%, as “there is growing uncertainty around the number of cases and fatalities,” economist Rahul Bajoria wrote in a research note. “Slowing vaccinations are also hurting India’s recovery prospects.” Double Whammy The rise in unemployment comes amid a backlash against government handling of the world’s worst Covid-19 outbreak. Modi’s party lost an election in a key state, while foreign envoys are joining Indians on social media clamouring for help with few medical supplies available. A separate survey Monday by IHS Markit showed the manufacturing sector was still losing jobs in April, though the rate of contraction was the weakest in the current 13-month sequence of job shedding. The CMIE data -- which economists track closely in the absence of real-time employment data from the government -- show joblessness is more acute in urban areas as labourers return to their villages. The labour-force participation rate, which includes the number of people with jobs and those seeking work, declined to just below 40% in April. “It’s a double whammy for the economy,” Vyas said. “Some people get disappointed and leave the labour market. The problem is the inability of the Indian economy to generate sufficient jobs for people who want them, so incomes are falling.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-surge-leaves-another-seven-million-people-jobless-981955.html
03-05-2021||National||IPL fever alongside funerals of Covid-19 victims sparks anger||As plumes of smoke rose from cremation grounds, where bodies were arriving faster than they could be burned, teams of professional cricket players squared off under the lights of a cavernous stadium named for India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi. The jarring scenes unfolded on Thursday in Ahmedabad, located in Modi’s home state of Gujarat and a hot spot in India’s spiraling coronavirus outbreak, which is claiming an average of nearly 3,000 lives a day nationwide. For decades, cricket and its charismatic stars have commanded exalted status in India, where the once-genteel colonial game attracts its biggest and most passionate fan base. Now, public anger is growing at the sport’s marquee international product, the Indian Premier League, which is playing matches in a “bio-bubble” without spectators that has drawn criticism for diverting resources from the country’s wider coronavirus fight. “There is a lack of empathy for dead bodies lying in crematoriums surrounding your stadium,” said Rahul Verma, a lawyer and die-hard cricket fan who said he had been a devoted follower of the cricket league since it started in 2008. “This game, a gentleman’s game, never was so grotesque.” India set another global record on Friday with nearly 383,000 new infections, the health ministry reported, pushing the global coronavirus case count to more than 150 million. In India, with one in five tests coming back positive, experts fear the true toll is much higher. As the US Air Force delivered the first shipments of oxygen cylinders, test kits, masks and other emergency supplies promised to India by the Biden administration, several Indian states said they could not fulfill the government’s directive to expand vaccinations to all adults beginning Saturday because they lacked vaccine doses. As hospitals face shortages of intensive-care beds, relatives of the sick broadcast desperate pleas on social media for oxygen, medicine and other scarce supplies. Many Indians say they do not know if they are infected with the coronavirus because overwhelmed labs have stopped processing tests. But one group that seems unaffected is the wealthy and powerful Board of Control for Cricket in India, the regulatory body that oversees the Indian Premier League, which was modeled on soccer’s Premier League in England and features players from around the world. The board has kept ambulances fitted with mobile intensive-care beds on standby outside stadiums where matches are being played in case a player falls sick. It is testing players every two days and has created a travel bubble between stadiums in the six states hosting matches, including dedicated airport check-in counters for cricketers. Meanwhile, some Indians say they cannot cross state lines to find hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. Hemang Amin, the board’s chief operating officer, said in a letter released this week that the health and safety of players and staff members were “of paramount importance,” and added that the matches, which conclude on May 30, were a needed distraction in a difficult time. “When you all walk out onto the field, you are bringing hope to millions of people who have tuned in,” he wrote. But the league’s safety protocols have only highlighted the gap between its star players — who have said little publicly in the face of criticism — and the rest of the country. “That ambulance outside that stadium could have saved at least ten lives a day,” said Ishan Singh, a cricket fan in Delhi. “These players are thieves. Given a chance, they will rob wood from the cremations and sell it in the market.” The New Indian Express, a daily newspaper, said in an editorial this week that it would suspend coverage of the cricket league until “a semblance of normalcy is restored” in the country. “This is commercialism gone crass,” the newspaper wrote. “The problem is not with the game but its timing.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ipl-fever-alongside-funerals-of-covid-19-victims-sparks-anger-981959.html
03-05-2021||National||Some states showing very early signs of plateauing in daily new Covid-19 cases: Centre||As India continued to add more than 3.5 lakh Covid-19 cases every day, the government on Monday said it had picked up early signs of plateauing of infections and deaths and cautioned against lowering the guard in dealing with the pandemic. India crossed the two-crore mark of Covid-19 cases on Monday with 80 lakh patients reporting positive for the infectious disease since March 27. On Monday morning, India added 3.68 lakh new cases of Covid-19, fewer than 4.01 lakh new infections that was reported on May 1. The health ministry said 13 states, including Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Punjab, were showing early signs of plateauing and urged citizens to continue following Covid appropriate behaviour to sustain the nascent gains. “However, these are very early signals and it is too early to analyse the situation. We have to continue efforts of containment at district and state level so that we can preserve these gains and reduce cases further,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, told reporters. Agarwal said Durg, Gariyaband, Raipur, Rajnandgaon districts in Chhattisgarh; Chhindwara, Guna, Shajapur in Madhya Pradesh, Leh in Ladakh; Nirmal in Telangana were showing signs of decline in cases in the last 15 days. Twelve districts of Maharashtra too were showing signs of a decline in the last fortnight. At the same time, Agarwal said there were 12 states – Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu – where active cases were more than one lakh, which was a “worrying” trend. He said 22 states had a case positivity rate of more than 15 per cent and Andaman and Nicobar, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Odisha, Pudcherry, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura and West Bengal were showing an increasing trend in daily cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-states-showing-very-early-signs-of-plateauing-in-daily-new-covid-19-cases-centre-981961.html
03-05-2021||National||No shortage of oxygen in the country, use it judiciously, says Centre||The Centre on Monday said medical oxygen being given to Covid-19 patients, especially in hospitals, should be used "judiciously" and claimed that there was no "shortage" of the life-giving gas in the country. At a routine briefing on steps taken by the government to battle the Covid-19 crisis, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) Piyush Goyal told reporters that multiple efforts were being undertaken to enhance production and quickly transport oxygen to the hospitals and patients. "It is very important for all the hospitals that they ensure judicious use of oxygen as per the guidelines issued in this context by the Union Health Ministry. Many efforts are being undertaken in this context and we are getting positive results also." "We need to continuously monitor this so that very judicious use of oxygen is undertaken," Goyal said. He appealed to the citizens to not get "jittery about the lack of oxygen in the country." "Oxygen is available in adequate quantity in the country and efforts are being made to transport it to hospitals in the shortest possible time." "If we undertake this battle together, I have no doubt that we will be victorious," the officer said. Goyal was speaking to reporters in the presence of Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal and AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria. The country is grappling with a raging second wave of the pandemic with lakhs of patients and their family members anxiously scouring for oxygen beds in hospitals, cylinders, medicines and other medical facilities. Goyal also sought the support of citizens in ensuring that no "hoarding or black marketing" of oxygen cylinders takes place so that these are made available to patients who are gasping for breath due to the coronavirus infection. The officer said the production of medical oxygen has increased in the country as he cited data to say that while on August 1 last year, the total production was 5,700 metric tonnes, it is 9,000 metric tonnes now. "This is 125 per cent of daily production capacity (of medical oxygen)," he said. He reiterated that despite increase in the demand of medical oxygen for patients due to the rapid surge of Covid-19 infections, the country had "adequate" oxygen and the government was also importing it from abroad for future needs. The officer said both traditional and non-traditional avenues are being explored and enhanced for production of liquid oxygen. He said a group of senior officials from the Centre, various states, Union Territories, manufacturers and other stakeholders were making a daily assessment of the oxygen demand in the country and oxygen is being allocated to states as part of a "dynamic process" being undertaken everyday. Goyal said the oxygen demand of no state was being "ignored" and the Centre has deployed Indian Air Force (IAF) heavy-lift aircrafts to transport empty oxygen tankers and the railways to ferry filled oxygen tanks from the place of production to their destinations. He said major medical oxygen production facilities are based in the eastern part of the country while the maximum demand at present is in the central and northern region. The additional secretary said as the demand for cryogenic oxygen tankers and containers is increasing, directions have been given to covert Nitrogen and Argon tankers for oxygen carrying vessels. Fifty per cent target has been achieved and more is being done in this direction, he said. "We are also importing such tankers by either purchasing or hiring them," he said. The officer said the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has developed a system through which trucks carrying oxygen cylinders which are plying on the road can be tracked on a real-time basis. "These tankers are now GPS-tagged and there is colour-coding system that also tells you whether they are moving, stationary, taking an unauthorised stop or getting diverted from the stipulated route," he said. Goyal said multiple "virtual groups' of officers from the Centre and state are monitoring every aspect of oxygen production, transport and distribution in the country and a "virtual control room" is also working round-the-clock to resolve issues immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-shortage-of-oxygen-in-the-country-use-it-judiciously-says-centre-981962.html
03-05-2021||National||Centre's biggest order of SII's Covishield covers just 4% of population||By P R Sanjai The Narendra Modi-led government hasn’t placed an order larger than 110 million doses from the biggest local maker since sales started in December, according to a person familiar with the matter — enough for just 4 per cent of its population of 1.4 billion people. The lack of a larger central stockpile, coupled with a devastating second wave in the country — daily new cases surged over 4,00,000 on Saturday — is now making local state governments scramble and compete with one another in placing orders with manufacturers after the federal government turned over the responsibility of procuring vaccines to them last month. Serum Institute of India Ltd., the world’s largest vaccine maker and the country’s main supplier of Covid-19 shots, is racing to keep up with states’ orders but its production facilities can produce only 60 to 70 million doses a month and can ramp up to 100 million by July, said the person who declined to be identified as the information is private. India, with the world’s fastest-growing coronavirus outbreak, is seeing its health care system collapse as it runs short of everything from hospital beds to oxygen cylinders. Though the nation is one of the world’s biggest vaccine makers, supply locally has run dry amid an expansion of access to everyone aged 18 and above, leading to a game of pass-the-buck among manufacturers and government officials. Menacing threats Tensions have escalated to the point that Serum’s flamboyant chairman, Adar Poonawalla, fled to London partly to escape menacing threats from people desperate to get vaccines, he said in an interview to the UK’s The Times over the weekend. The country is likely to face shortages of Covid-19 vaccines through July, Poonawalla told the Financial Times in an interview Sunday, as Serum ramps up capacity. “Everybody really felt that India had started to turn the tide on the pandemic,” Poonawalla told the UK-based news daily. “There were no orders, we did not think we needed to make more than 1 billion doses a year.” A spokesperson for Serum declined to comment on its Covid vaccine order book. The devolution of responsibility to state governments to procure urgent medical supplies resembles what former US President Donald Trump’s administration did last year when the world’s biggest economy faced an explosive outbreak: states were forced to bid against one another for crucial equipment like ventilators and masks. Prolonging misery The sluggishness in vaccine procurement risks prolonging the misery in the world’s second-worst hit nation that is seeing its Covid-related death toll rise to unprecedented levels, overwhelming hospitals and crematoriums alike. Vaccines can prevent severe infections that cause hospitalisation and deaths, thus alleviating the pressure on the health-care system. Opening the vaccination program for everyone above the age of 18 years — without a stockpile in place — has exacerbated the shortages, with many state governments stopping inoculation citing the vaccine shortage. Online registrations opened late last month only for servers to crash as tens of thousands of Indians tried to get a spot. Serum is licensed to manufacture Covid shots from AstraZeneca Plc. and Novavax Inc. Of the two, Indian government has approved only AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine for use. Bharat Biotech International Ltd.’s Covaxin is also approved in India, as is Russia’s Sputnik V. Serum Institute was “maligned by politicians and critics over the vaccine shortages,” Poonawalla said in the FT report, pointing out that the government, not the company, was responsible for policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-biggest-order-of-siis-covishield-covers-just-4-of-population-981968.html
03-05-2021||National||India-UK close to signing migration and mobility partnership, says report||India and the UK are close to signing a “migration and mobility partnership”, which could see thousands more Indian students enrol at UK universities in exchange for illegal Indian migrants being sent back, according to a UK media report on Monday. The partnership forms part of a wider set of agreements in the pipeline during the visit of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, invited by his UK counterpart Dominic Raab as a guest at the multilateral G7 Foreign and Development Ministers meeting this week. A bilateral meeting between Raab and Jaishankar is scheduled for Thursday at Chevening in Kent, south-east England. “London and New Delhi are on the cusp of signing a ‘migration and mobility partnership’, which is part of a wider move towards bolstering relations that aims at securing a mini trade deal later this year,” a report in The Daily Telegraph claims. “Government insiders say the talks are still live and final details are yet to be ironed out, but the deal represents an important step on two key sticking points that have hampered bilateral relations in recent years. There are hopes that the agreement could be clinched as early as this week, when Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, India’s foreign minister, is in London for multilateral talks with the G7, hosted by Dominic Raab,” it notes. The issue of illegal Indian migrants in the UK has long been on the agenda of bilateral negotiations, with both sides failing to agree on the numbers in question. While the UK maintains around 100,000 Indians are illegally living in the country, India has questioned the veracity of those numbers in the past because that figure is believed to also cover nationals from other parts of the Indian subcontinent. The two sides were close to signing an agreement on the issue in 2018 before it fell through over this ambiguity. Under the current Boris Johnson led administration, a post-Brexit Indo-Pacific tilt of the UK has been linked with potential agreements across several previously sticky areas – including easing the route for student visas for Indians wanting to study at UK universities and easier access to legal services in India for British companies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a virtual summit with his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Tuesday, when both leaders are to sign off on Roadmap 2030, a blueprint expected to pave the way for a free trade agreement (FTA) in the future. “A comprehensive Roadmap 2030 will be launched during the Summit, which will pave the way for further expanding and deepening India-UK cooperation over the next decade across five key areas, namely people-to-people relationship, trade and prosperity, defence and security, climate action and healthcare,” the Indian High Commission in London said in a statement. “India and UK enjoy a Strategic Partnership since 2004. It has been marked by regular high-level exchanges and growing convergences in diverse areas. The summit will be an important opportunity to elevate our multi-faceted strategic ties and enhance cooperation on regional and global issues of mutual interest. Both leaders will also discuss Covid-19 cooperation and the global efforts to fight the pandemic,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-close-to-signing-migration-and-mobility-partnership-says-report-981973.html
03-05-2021||National||Overuse of CT-scan raises risk of cancer: AIIMS Director||A top government health advisor on Monday cautioned against overuse of CT-scan for diagnosis of Covid-19 saying excessive use could cause cancer. “There have been studies which show that around 30-40 per cent of people who are asymptomatic but are Covid positive and got a CT scan done, also had patches but ended without any treatment,” AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria told reporters. He said there was no advantage of doing a CT-scan if a patient had mild symptoms and suggested getting a chest X-ray done instead. “One CT-scan is equivalent to almost 300-400 chest X-rays and it increases the risk of getting cancer in young people,” Guleria said adding that there were data from the International Atomic Energy Agency to support this. He said in case of mild infection, under home isolation, with no problem or decline in saturation, there is no use of a CT-scan as some patches will appear. Guleria said biomarkers like CRP, D-Dimer, LDH, Ferritin were also not of any use in case of mild symptoms and normal saturation levels as it only leads to panic reactions. “All these biomarkers are acute phase reactants, which means if there is any kind of inflammation in the body these markers will soar. If you get acne or zit, injury, infection in your teeth then also these biomarkers will increase because it is your body's inflammatory response. So, it fails to accurately show if the viral disease has increased,” the AIIMS Director said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/overuse-of-ct-scan-raises-risk-of-cancer-aiims-director-981975.html
03-05-2021||National||Government asks centrally-funded institutions to postpone all offline exams scheduled in May||The Centre on Monday asked all centrally-funded institutions to postpone offline exams scheduled in May in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic in the country. In a letter to the heads of centrally-funded institutions such as IITs, NITs, IIITs and central varsities, Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare asked to postpone all offline examinations scheduled this month. “The online examinations, etc may however continue,” Khare said in the letter adding that the ministry would review the decision on offline exams in the first week of June. He also advised the institutions to provide any assistance to anyone in need to come out of distress at the earliest. “All Institutions have to encourage eligible persons to go for vaccination and ensure that everyone follows Covid-19 appropriate behavior to remain safe,” Khare said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-asks-centrally-funded-institutions-to-postpone-all-offline-exams-scheduled-in-may-981987.html
03-05-2021||National||EU announces additional medical supplies to India by several member nations||The European Union on Monday announced additional emergency medical support by its member countries, including Denmark, Spain and Netherlands, to India to help it deal with a severe wave of coronavirus infections. Under the additional package, Denmark is sending to India 53 ventilators, while Spain is supplying 119 oxygen concentrators and 145 ventilators. The EU said the medical supplies from the Netherlands included 100 oxygen concentrators, 30,000 vials of antiviral drug, Remdesivir, and 449 ventilators. Fresh supplies from Germany will comprise 15,000 vials antiviral drugs, 516 ventilators and one oxygen generator, the EU said in a statement. "I am proud to say EU member states are providing substantial help part of a Team Europe effort to show our solidarity with India at this very difficult time, offering critical oxygen, ventilators and antiviral drugs to our Indian friends," said EU's Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management Janez Lenarcic. "Collective action is the only solution if we want to win our fight against the pandemic," he said. The EU member nations which have announced support or already sent medical supplies to India are Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Portugal, Sweden, France, Italy, Austria and Finland. The EU countries are sending medical assistance to India under the 27-nation grouping's Civil Protection Mechanism. As part of its Civil Protection Mechanism, the EU plays a central role in coordinating its responses to emergencies in Europe and beyond. India has been reeling under a devastating wave of coronavirus infections and hospitals across the country are facing acute shortage of beds, medical oxygen and other supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eu-announces-additional-medical-supplies-to-india-by-several-member-nations-982012.html
03-05-2021||National||PM Modi thanks EU chief for help in India's Covid-19 fight||With medical aid coming in from Italy, France, Germany and other nations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to the European Union’s leader Ursula von der Leyen and thanked her for the support received from the members of the 27-nation-bloc to deal with the second Covid-19 wave in India. The Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission exchanged views on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in India as well as in the EU member nations. They also discussed India’s ongoing efforts to contain the second wave. Modi expressed his appreciation of the EU and its member states for mobilising quick support for India’s fight against Covid-19. “Spoke to President of the EU Commission @vonderleyen and thanked EU for support and assistance to India’s COVID response,” the Prime Minister posted on Twitter. Modi will hold a virtual meeting with the EU leaders on May 8. He and Ursula von der Leyen discussed the forthcoming meeting and expressed hope that it would provide new momentum to India-EU strategic partnership, the Ministry of External Affairs said after the phone call. “The EU stands by India, as I told Prime Minister @narendramodi today. More aid – oxygen cylinders, ventilators, medication - is channelled to Flag of India from Czechia, Denmark, Spain, Netherlands and Germany via the Flag of European UnionCivil Protection Mechanism,” Ursula von der Leyen posted on Twitter. “This is global solidarity in action.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-thanks-eu-chief-for-help-in-indias-covid-19-fight-982014.html
03-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: 24 patients dead after hospitals in Karnataka district run out of oxygen||We take it for granted, don't we? We take a deep breath. Air enters our lungs and oxygen from the air moves from our lungs to our blood. We never think about that oxygen. As Covid-19 infects the lungs and induces a shortage of oxygen in the body, patients are shifted into oxygen therapy or put on ventilators in critical cases. That medical oxygen saves lives and somehow right now, the people who need it across the nation are not getting it.  There's another shortage we're hearing a lot about - vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-24-patients-dead-after-hospitals-in-karnataka-district-run-out-of-oxygen-982015.html
03-05-2021||National||Indian Youth Congress offers to help Afghan refugees in Delhi||The Congress’s youth wing on Monday again responded to a call for help from a foreign diplomatic mission in New Delhi, a day after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) government frowned upon its delivery of the oxygen cylinders for the Covid-19 patients at the High Commission of New Zealand and Embassy of Philippines in the national capital. The Indian Youth Congress responded to a tweet by Kabul’s envoy to New Delhi, Farid Mamundzay, who sought humanitarian and medical aid for Afghan refugees living in Delhi, where the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc. The Embassy of Afghanistan apparently took note of the way External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar reacted to the acceptance of the IYC’s oxygen cylinders by the two other foreign diplomatic missions in New Delhi. Mamundzay did not directly respond to the offer of help from Srinivas. He, however, responded to another tweet and provided the phone number of an organization coordinating delivery of medical and humanitarian aid to Afghan refugees in Delhi. “Afghan refugees living in New Delhi are among one of the worst affected groups in India due to the recent covid (Covid-19) surge. Life was already a struggle for many of the 20,000 Afghans and pandemic has made their survival even more precarious,” Mamundzay posted on Twitter. He also informed that the Embassy of Afghanistan had taken a number of initiatives to support them with medical and humanitarian supplies. “Any assistance, particularly medical help with this community would be greatly appreciated. I thank all those agencies & (and) individuals for their assistance, mostly medical over the past week. Together we will overcome this!” added Mamundzay. The tweet from Afghanistan’s ambassador to India received a response from B V Srinivas, the president of the IYC. “Mr Ambassador, We are happy to help our Afghani brothers & (and) sisters here in India. Kindly DM further details about medical & (and) other assistance needed in New Delhi.” Ever since the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hit Delhi and adjoining areas along with the rest of the country, Srinivas and his team of the IYC activists have been responding to distress calls on social media from the families of the patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, delivering either medicines or oxygen cylinders or arranging beds at the Intensive Care Units of the hospitals. The IYC activists delivered oxygen cylinders to the Embassy of the Philippines and the High Commission of New Zealand earlier. With PM Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi drawing flak from opposition parties for failure to deal with the scarcity of oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the fact that the foreign diplomatic missions took help from the opposition party’s youth wing left the ruling BJP red-faced. Jaishankar tweeted that the supply of oxygen by the IYC to the Embassy of Philippines was “unsolicited” and aimed at “cheap publicity”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-youth-congress-offers-to-help-afghan-refugees-in-delhi-982025.html
03-05-2021||National||Helping states in Covid-19 management: Navy chief tells PM||Indian Navy has reached out to state administrations and offered help in terms of hospital beds, transportation and conduct of vaccination drives, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Singh said beds have been earmarked in various Naval hospitals for use of civilians in various cities. He also informed the Prime Minister that medical personnel in the Navy have been re-deployed at various hospitals in the country to manage Covid duties. Naval Personnel were being provided Battle Field Nursing Assistant Training to augment medical personnel deployed in Covid hospitals. The Navy chief said that the Navy was helping increase oxygen availability and replenish Covid related supplies in Lakshadweep as well as Andaman & Nicobar islands. He also apprised the Prime Minister that the Indian Navy was transporting oxygen containers as well as other supplies from Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait and Singapore to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/helping-states-in-covid-19-management-navy-chief-tells-pm-982041.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 negative report must for air travellers to UP; roadways buses only to ply within state||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced that buses of the Uttar Pradesh State Roadways Transport Corporation will ply only within the state for the next 15 days, while a negative Covid-19 test report has been made mandatory for those travelling to UP by air. Chairing a high-level meeting virtually, Adityanath directed the officials that a statewide campaign be run in the rural areas, after the panchayat elections are over, to screen the people infected with Covid-19. The campaign will run for five days, the UP government said in a statement issued here. "People with suspected symptoms should undergo rapid antigen test. Quarantine centres should be established in the panchayat bhavans or schools or any other public building," the statement said. Directives were also issued to give special attention to high-risk people during screening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-negative-report-must-for-air-travellers-to-up-roadways-buses-only-to-ply-within-state-981796.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand bypolls: BJP retains Salt assembly seat||The BJP on Sunday retained the Salt assembly constituency in Uttarakhand with Mahesh Jeena defeating Congress' Ganga Pancholi by 4,697 votes in a bypoll to the seat.  Snatching an early lead over his nearest rival, Jeena maintained it consistently up to the end of counting, garnering 21,874 votes against Pancholi's 17,177, the Election Commission said quoting the returning officer of Almora.  The BJP's win is significant as it was the first election contested after Tirath Singh Rawat took over in March as the chief minister of the state. Bypoll to the seat, which fell vacant after the death of Surendra Singh Jeena due to COVID-19 late last year, was held on April 17. Mahesh Jeena, the elder brother of Surendra Singh Jeena, was fielded by the BJP from the seat in the hope of making the most of sympathy votes.  Congress chose to rely on Pancholi as she had given a tough fight to the BJP on the seat in the 2017 assembly polls.  The strategy of fielding close kin of sitting MLAs in bypolls caused by their sudden demise has always worked for the BJP. It worked when Prakash Pant's wife Chandra won her husband's Pithoragarh seat in 2019 and Magan Lal Shah's wife Munni Devi Shah won the Tharali seat in 2018.   Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat and state BJP president Madan Kaushik congratulated Jeena on his victory.  Wishing him a successful term as an MLA, they hoped he will accomplish the unfinished task of his younger brother.  The chief minister said the Salt bypoll victory reflects people's growing confidence in the BJP and reiterated that all promises made to the people of the constituency will be fulfilled .  Celebrating Jeena's win  at the party office here state BJP president Kaushik said by voting the party to victory people have given a clear message that they are in favour of uninterrupted development of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-bypolls-bjp-retains-salt-assembly-seat-981810.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccination for people aged 18 years and above begins in Delhi||The third and largest phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people in the 18-45 age group began here Monday morning. Around 90 lakh people are eligible for the jabs under this category in Delhi. Five vaccination booths each have been set up at 77 schools for the exercise, an official said. The government set up the vaccination centres at schools to accommodate a large number of beneficiaries, he added. Till now, vaccines were being given to those aged above 45 at around 500 centres in the national capital. Pre-registration is mandatory for vaccination in the 18-45 age group, and there will be no walk-ins under this category, for now, the official said. Three big private hospital chains – Apollo, Fortis and Max – have already started vaccinating people in the 18-45 age group at limited centres from Saturday. The Delhi government has placed orders for 1.34 crore vaccine doses, which will be delivered over the next three months. Of these, 67 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine are being procured from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Officials had earlier said the first tranche of three lakh doses would reach Delhi in the first week of May. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Thursday said a plan has been formulated to vaccinate all adults against the coronavirus within the next three months. He had said that everybody aged above 18 would be administered Covid-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccination-for-people-aged-18-years-and-above-begins-in-delhi-981838.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 curfew extended by two days in Uttar Pradesh||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, the Uttar Pradesh government on Monday decided to increase the duration of the weekend lockdown by 48 hours to cover Tuesday and Wednesday also. "The corona curfew from Friday 8 pm to Tuesday 7 am has been extended for 48 hours. Now it will continue till May 6 till 7 am," Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal told PTI. All shops and establishments will now remain closed till Thursday 7 am. This arrangement is for this week only, he said adding that decision has been taken for breaking the chain of coronavirus. During this period, all essential services will be allowed and vaccination drive will continue, a senior official said, but refused to term it as a "lockdown", preferring "closure" instead On April 29, the state government had announced that weekend lockdowns will now cover Mondays too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-curfew-extended-by-two-days-in-uttar-pradesh-981853.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Pakistan violates new ceasefire pact for first time||In first violation of February ceasefire pact, Pakistani troops resorted to shelling and firing on Indian border posts along international border in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. Officials said that around 6.00 am, Pakistan Rangers targeted Border Security Forces (BSF) patrolling party along the IB in Ramgarh sector of Samba district. BSF officials said they retaliated in a effective manner and gave befitting response to Pakistani aggression. Earlier, on February 24 this year, in an unexpected move, both India and Pakistan announced that there Army on both sides will strictly abide by the ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control and the IB and also address “each other's” core issues as well as concerns. The re-commitment to the 2003 ceasefire came at a time when tensions were slowly ebbing at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), where India and China had been involved in a  stand-off for almost nine months. According to official figures last year there were 5,133 instances of ceasefire violations along LoC with 46 fatalities on Indian side||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-new-ceasefire-pact-for-first-time-981854.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||2020 Delhi riots 'reminiscent of carnage during days of partition', says Delhi court||A court here has called the 2020 Delhi riots the 'reminiscent of carnage during the days of partition', while rejecting the anticipatory bail petition of a man accused of attacking a boy during the widespread violence, merely because he belonged to a different community. Fearing arrest, Siraj Ahmad Khan had moved the court to seek anticipatory bail in the matter, claiming that he was being falsely implicated and had nothing to do with the alleged offence.       Dismissing his pre-arrest bail plea, Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav noted that the allegations against him were “grave in nature” and that his presence was necessary to unearth the conspiracy involved in planning, instigating and fanning the flames of communal conflagration.  Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi in February last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.  “It is common knowledge that the dreary day(s) of February 24/25, 2020 saw parts of North-East Delhi gripped by a communal frenzy, reminiscent of carnage during the days of partition,” the judge remarked, in his April 29 order.  "Soon, the riots spread like wildfire across the smoke-grey skyline of Capital, engulfing new areas and snuffing out more and more innocent lives," he added.  In the present matter, a young boy namely Raman was brutally attacked by the riotous mob on February 25 merely on the ground that he belonged to a different community, the judge said.   “From the reply filed by investigating officer in the matter, it is clearly apparent that applicant is clearly seen/visible in the CCTV footage dated February 25, 2020 carrying a spear (bhaala) in his hands and his two sons namely Arman and Aman, who are also accused in the instant matter are still absconding,” the judge said. Siraj Ahmad Khan has been absconding in the matter right from the day his role cropped up in the matter and was declared proclaimed offender by the district court in December, last year.   The court further noted that the factum that various co-accused have been enlarged on bail by the court will not water down the conduct of applicant which he displayed in the matter by absconding right from the day when his name cropped up in the matter.  “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality and the conduct exhibited by applicant during the course of investigation, I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of anticipatory bail to the applicant,” the judge said. During the course of hearing, Advocate Shadab Khan, representing Siraj, told the court that the accused had been falsely implicated in the case merely on the basis of disclosure statements of co-accused persons, no specific role has been assigned to him and has nothing to do with the alleged offence.       He argued that the officials of New Usmanpur Police Station had been threatening his family members to arrest him in the matter and visited his house several times, that too in odd hours.  The counsel said that investigation in the matter was complete and the charge sheet had been filed. He told the court that Siraj would not abscond or tamper with the prosecution witnesses and was ready to join further investigation in the matter as and when called.  Opposing the anticipatory bail, Special Public Prosecutor Saleem Ahmed apprised the court that complainant Raman was brutally attacked with “swords and dandas” by the riotous mob consisting of about 15-20 hooligans on February 25, as a result of which he sustained severe injuries on his head, back and feet.  “The common object of the accused persons was to cause maximum damage to the persons and property(ies) of other community,” he told the court, asking it to reject the anticipatory bail petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2020-delhi-riots-reminiscent-of-carnage-during-days-of-partition-says-delhi-court-981884.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh BJP looks at insiders, conspiracies after Damoh bypoll loss||Union Minister and senior Madhya Pradesh BJP leader Prahlad Patel on Monday hinted at "conspiracies" on the part of insiders for the party's defeat in the Damoh bypoll, the result of which was declared a day earlier. The Congress' Ajay Tandon defeated the BJP's Rahul Lodhi by a margin of 17,097 votes, the bypoll having been necessitated after the latter left the Congress and joined the BJP late last year. The Damoh bypoll result gives clear indications of future challenges, conspiracies and improvements in the system and workers will find solutions through diligence and without being malicious, Patel, the local Lok Sabha MP, said in a tweet on Monday. While former state minister Jayant Malaiya, who was BJP MLA for several terms from the area earlier, stayed away from the bypoll campaign, sources said there were several local leaders in the party who were upset with Lodhi joining it. Lodhi, incidentally, had defeated Malaiya in the 2018 Assembly, though the former at the time was in the Congress. MP Home minister Narottam Mishra on Monday said that "we lost Damoh due to our own Jaichands". It is a common reference for an insider who betrays, the term coming from the role played by Jaichand who back- stabbed Prithviraj Chauhan in the latter's fight against invader Muhammad Ghori in the 12th century.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjp-looks-at-insiders-conspiracies-after-damoh-bypoll-loss-981888.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh declares journalists as 'frontline workers'||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Madhya Pradesh on Monday declared media professionals accredited with the state government as 'frontline workers'. While making the announcement, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said journalists were risking their lives while doing their duty during this "dangerous period of Covid-19 pandemic". "Therefore, we have decided to declare all accredited journalists as frontline workers in Madhya Pradesh. They will be taken care of," Chouhan said in a video statement posted on the Twitter handle of the Chief Minister's Office. Around 4,000 journalists are currently accredited with the state government, according to a public relations department official. The official said the state government was yet to decide on other modalities regarding this announcement. Madhya Pradesh reported 12,662 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, which took its infection tally to 5,88,368, while 94 deaths pushed the fatality count to 5,812, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-declares-journalists-as-frontline-workers-981889.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||UP panchayat polls: Kin of several political leaders taste defeat in Ballia||Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly and senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chowdhury's son, Ranjit Chowdhury, lost the election for the seat of a district panchayat member here, officials said. Kin of several other political leaders too tasted defeat in the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh. Over three lakh candidates were declared elected unopposed by the state poll body, shortly before the counting began on Sunday. Ranjit Chowdhury had contested from Ward-16 here, but he came third, the officials said. Similarly, BJP MLA Dhananjay Kanaujia's mother, Surya Kumari Devi, contested for a kshetra panchayat member seat from Ward-19 but lost. Former BJP MP Harinarain Rajbhar's son, Atal Rajbhar, and SP leader and former minister Sharda Nand Anchal's grandson, Vinay Prakash Anchal, lost from wards 24 and 27, respectively, as district panchayat member candidates. Similarly, BJP MP Neeraj Shekhar's relative, Alok Singh, lost as a Siyar kshetra panchayat member candidate, but BSP leader Ambika Chowdhury's son, Anand Chowdhury, won a district panchayat member seat from Ward-44. The courting for the panchayat polls started on May 2 and is continuing at various places. In a statement on Sunday, the State Election Commission (SEC) said over 1.12 lakh people have emerged victorious for the post of members of village panchayats, 16,510 have won the post of Pradhan of the village panchayat, while 35,812 candidates have claimed victory on the post of members of kshetra panchayats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-panchayat-polls-kin-of-several-political-leaders-taste-defeat-in-ballia-981910.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||UP Panchayat polls: Miss India runner-up Deeksha Singh loses; BJP, SP in close fight||Considered to be a prelude to the next year's assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) were locked in a close contest in the Panchayat polls followed by BSP and Congress, according to initial trends.  Though the counting of votes was continuing and was likely to be completed late on Monday, according to the sources in the State Election Commission (SEC), BJP backed candidates were leading in 228 Zila Panchayat seats while the SP supported nominees were ahead on 200 seats. Congress and BSP nominees were leading 68 and 52 seats respectively, sources said. According to the initial reports, the kin of several senior leaders from BJP, SP and other mainstream parties have lost. The picture would be clear only by Tuesday. Miss India runner-up Deeksha Singh, who had taken a plunge into the Panchayat polls and was a contestant from one of the wards under Buxa block in the Jaunpur district, had to bite the dust. She finished a distant third. BJP backed Nagina Singh emerged as the winner. Besides the BJP, SP, Congress and BSP, Aam Admi Party (AAP) and AIMIM (All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen) have also put up their candidates in the Panchayat polls. Polling was held for over seven lakh posts of village Panchayat members and a little more than 58 thousand posts of village pradhans besides 3051 posts of Zila Panchayat members last week. The results of the polls assumed greater significance as they come barely nine months before the next assembly polls in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-panchayat-polls-miss-india-runner-up-deeksha-singh-loses-bjp-sp-in-close-fight-981922.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||With the BJP cornered, Nitish can now breathe easy||Barely a month after he settled in as Bihar chief minister for a third consecutive term, Nitish Kumar suffered a severe jolt from his muscle-flexing ally, the BJP. Six out of seven JD(U) MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh switched allegiances and joined the BJP in the North-Eastern state. The 'coalition dharma' was violated on Christmas Eve. Nitish, who was then the National President of the JD(U), was about to address the national executive council meeting of his party. He looked shocked and dismayed about the development but chose not to lodge a protest with the top BJP leadership. Instead, he chose to bide his time as this was the third jolt he had received since the November 2020 Bihar Assembly polls results. The first shock came when he was told by the saffron camp in clear terms that he could not select his favourite lieutenant Sushil Kumar Modi as his deputy (a post that Modi held since 2005, barring a short span). Instead, the BJP anointed two lesser-known individuals as the two deputy chief ministers. No one outside Bihar knew who they were (and many have still not heard about them). The second shock was in the election of the Assembly Speaker. Ever since he became the chief minister in November 2005, Nitish had ensured that the Speaker’s post remained with the JD(U). And this continued from 2005 until 2020 (even when a dominant Lalu Prasad was an ally). However, this was no longer the case. The BJP insisted on having their man as the presiding officer of the Vidhan Sabha. A weakened Nitish was left with no option - he had to sign on the dotted line. Deep within, Nitish probably disliked this big-brotherly approach of the BJP who had decided to arm-twist their ruling alliance partner, the JD(U). A third setback was when the BJP bagged the lion’s share of plum portfolios. Then, there was the recent criticism from Bihar BJP chief Dr Sanjay Jaiswal who questioned Nitish’s decision to impose a night curfew and said he wondered how a curfew from 9 pm to 5 am would help to check Covid-19 in the state. It’s not often that someone questions Nitish on governance or administrative matters. However, with the main ally putting the Bihar chief minister on the backfoot, Nitish had to depute his aides Lallan Singh (Lok Sabha MP) and former Union Minister Upendra Kushwaha to castigate the Bihar BJP chief. Eventually, both sides decided to wait for the Bengal Assembly results before attacking each other again. "Now that the BJP has been cornered in Bengal, the saffron camp won’t dare to offend Nitish, at least for the time being,” said noted political scientist Ajay Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-the-bjp-cornered-nitish-can-now-breathe-easy-981957.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Two Delhi civic bodies okay use of cow dung for cremation as Covid-19 deaths surge||Amid a surge in the number of Covid-19 fatalities and a shortage of wood, two civic bodies in the national capital have given a nod to the use of cow dung and stubble mixture for the cremation of bodies. North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor, Jai Prakash said cow sheds under NDMC's jurisdiction have been asked to install machines that will convert cow dung into dung cakes. The money for these machines may be allocated under the CSR funds, he said. The decision has been taken in view of the rising number of deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A circular said North Delhi Municipal Corporation had approved a resolution for using fuel manufactured from cultivation refuse and cow dung (parali fuelcakes/bricks/upla) in the supplementation to fuel wood for cremation of dead bodies in various cremation grounds under its jurisdiction. "The Public Health Department has been getting suggestion through various public representatives and members of Deliberative Wing for use of fuel manufactured from cultivation refuse that will reduce the consumption of wood resulting into lesser cutting of trees and finally will protect environment. "Further, promotion of use of Parali will motivate the farmers to not burn it and instead sell it to cremation ground," the circular said. The north civic body will seek the help of NGOs, Self-help groups, and other social organisations producing fuel manufactured from cultivation refuse and cow dung to make this fuel available at cremation grounds under the jurisdiction of North DMC in lieu of supplementation to fuel wood at no profit no loss basis, it said. East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) mayor Nirmal Jain also said they have approved the proposal seven-eight days ago. With municipal-run crematoriums facing a shortage of wood for funeral pyres in the face of surging Covid-19 fatalities, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash had on April 28 urged Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to direct the forest department to ensure smooth supply of firewood to these facilities. The national capital reported 407 Covid-19 fatalities and 20,394 cases with a positivity rate of 28.33 per cent on Sunday, the lowest since April 19, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The city has so far recorded 11,94,946 cases, of which over 10.85 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 16,966, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-delhi-civic-bodies-okay-use-of-cow-dung-for-cremation-as-covid-19-deaths-surge-981974.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir records highest-ever 51 daily Covid-19 deaths, 3,733 fresh cases||Jammu and Kashmir reported 51 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day toll since the start of pandemic last year, while as many as 3,733 persons tested positive for the viral infection on Monday.  According to the daily media bulletin, among the fresh positive cases,1,294 were from Jammu division, while 2.439 from Kashmir, taking the total tally to 1,87,219. Regarding the deaths, the bulletin said 35 were reported from Jammu division and 16 from Kashmir, taking the overall toll to 2,421 — 981 in Jammu and 1,440 in the valley.  There are 34567 active positive cases — 12,323 in Jammu and 22,244 in Kashmir even as 1536 more Covid-19 positive patients have recovered in the last 24-hours. On Saturday, J&K had recorded 47 deaths and 3832 positive cases. As Srinagar district continues to report over 1000 positive cases daily for the last 8-days, the administration has declared it as Red zone while rest of the 19 districts of the Union territory have been declared as Orange zones.  Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people continues to remain imposed in most parts of the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-records-highest-ever-51-daily-covid-19-deaths-3733-fresh-cases-981981.html
03-05-2021||North and Central||Sought Army's help for setting up Covid-19 facility, Delhi government tells High Court||The Delhi government on Monday told the High Court it has written to the Defence Minister seeking help from the Indian Army for setting up hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients in the national capital. A letter has been written by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodiya to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, senior advocate Rahul Mehra submitted before a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli. The Delhi government told the Centre that it would be grateful if armed forces could run medical facilities for Covid-19 patients with 10,000 beds and also requested the armed forces to provide cryogenic tankers for oxygen supply to the national capital, Mehra said. "State govt has written to Centre regarding calling in the Army for help. You have to revert..can you take instructions," the bench asked Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, who sought time for the purpose. The court had earlier asked the Delhi government to consider a suggestion by senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal, for taking the services of armed forces in the given situation. Meanwhile, a separate bench led by Chief Justice D N Patel sought a response from the Delhi government to a plea for capping the price of the High-Resolution Computerised Tomography (HRCT) test undertaken by patients having Covid-19 symptoms. The PIL by advocate Shivleen Pasricha pointed out that the HRCT was a highly recommended test to determine the presence and severity of the infection in the lungs. However, the price for HRCT in Delhi was somewhere between Rs 5000 to Rs 6500, and its regulation has become the need of an hour as the right to health is a fundamental right. In a related development, the court dismissed a PIL for curbing negativity spread through reporting mass deaths and sufferings of people during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sought-armys-help-for-setting-up-covid-19-facility-delhi-government-tells-high-court-981986.html
03-05-2021||Oasis||Dissipating the 'darkness of a fallacy'||It was a nocturnal-eve bash at neighbour’s house during a previous Naval posting of ours. Looked like our well-heeled host, wallowed in walloping wealth, going by the way their winsome abode was wonderfully decked up with. Things like shimmering statuettes, fetching furniture, funky mirrors, fabulous lampshades, captivating carpets, candle-stands, chandeliers, all bespoke of bountiful affluence.   Just then a gaggle of giggly women and gabbling gentlemen stepped in, to sit bang beside us. And, to gush about their latest grand acquisitions. It looked like they all had embarked on an ‘impression creating’ mission, with each one trying to outshine the other. While the first one was speaking of the spanking-new swanky flat that he had secured; the second had geared up for a grandiose description of a gorgeous-looking vehicle he had got, days ago.   Now, call it an impression-creating spiel, or image-enhancing gimmick, the third, wasn’t the one, to remain all clammed up. He began giving out a graphic account of his a great many jaunts on foreign soils. To which, the fourth began dishing out details of delectable cuisines at dozens of five-stars hotels, doggedly patronized by him!  I began wondering. Are these prattles of procuring grand mansions, glitzy vehicles, globe-gallivanting, gobbling up food in grandeur-replete hotels… are all true image-enhancers? If so then, what about one’s polished/refined behaviour and manners, with a kind/helping heart to boot? Doesn’t this incredibly enhance one’s image?  Also, one’s plaudit-worthy, lofty moral values, principles and ideologies? And, one’s humility/modesty, which exponentially aggrandizes one’s image? Not to discount, the irreprehensible honesty, sincerity/integrity in whatever one does, which can ramp up one’s image, multi-fold? Aren’t all these things the true image-enhancers?  I still remember, having beheld the bedazzling sight on the boundary wall, of our host’s building, with rows of beautifully coruscating flames of burning oil-wicks, from brass-lamps, dissipating the darkness around. If only, it could dissipate the darkness of ‘fallacy’ in people out there – the fallacy that ‘the more the materialistic possessions; the greater is its power, to enhance one’s social image’!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/dissipating-the-darkness-of-a-fallacy-981774.html
03-05-2021||Opinion||Is America a racist country?||By Charles M. Blow, Last Sunday, Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina added himself to the long list of Republicans who have denied the existence of systemic racism in this country. Graham said on “Fox New Sunday” that “our systems are not racist. America’s not a racist country.” Graham argued that the country can’t be racist because both Barack Obama and Kamala Harris had been elected and somehow, their overcoming racial hurdles proves the absence of racial hurdles. His view seems to be that the exceptions somehow negated the rule. In the rebuttal to President Joe Biden’s address to a joint session of Congress, the other senator from South Carolina, Tim Scott, the lone Black Republican in the Senate, parroted Graham and became an apologist for these denials of racism, saying too that the country wasn’t racist. He argued that people are “making money and gaining power by pretending we haven’t made any progress at all, by doubling down on the divisions we’ve worked so hard to heal.” Scott’s argument seems to leave open the possibility that America may have been a racist country but that it has matured out of it, that it has graduated into egalitarianism. I personally don’t make much of Scott’s ability to reason. This is the same man who said in March that “woke supremacy,” whatever that is, “is as bad as white supremacy.” There is no world in which recent efforts at enlightenment can be equated to enslavement, lynching and mass incarceration. None. It seems to me that the disingenuousness on the question of racism is largely a question of language. The question turns on another question: “What, to you, is America?” Is America the people who now inhabit the land, divorced from its systems and its history? Or, is the meaning of America inclusive of those systems and history? When people say that America is a racist country, they don’t necessarily mean that all or even most Americans are consciously racist. However, it is important to remember that nearly half the country just voted for a full-on racist in Donald Trump, and they did so by either denying his racism, becoming apologists for it, or applauding it. What do you call a country thus composed? Historically, however, there is no question that the country was founded by racists and white supremacists, and that much of the early wealth of this country was built on the backs of enslaved Africans, and much of the early expansion came at the expense of the massacre of the land’s Indigenous people and broken treaties with them. Eight of the first 10 presidents personally enslaved Africans. In 1856, the chief justice of the Supreme Court wrote on the Dred Scott case, in an infamous ruling that would be issued in 1857, that Black people “had for more than a century before been regarded as beings of an inferior order, and altogether unfit to associate with the white race, either in social or political relations; and so far inferior, that they had no rights which the white man was bound to respect.” The country went on to fight a Civil War over whether some states could maintain slavery as they wished. Even some of the people arguing for, and fighting for, an end to slavery had expressed their white supremacist beliefs. Abraham Lincoln said during his famous debates against Stephen A. Douglas in 1858 that among white people and Black ones “there must be the position of superior and inferior, and I, as much as any other man, am in favour of the superior position being assigned to the white man.” Some will concede the historical point and insist on the progress point, arguing that was then and this is now, that racism simply doesn’t exist now as it did then. I would agree. American racism has evolved and became less blunt, but it has not become less effective. The knife has simply been sharpened. Now systems do the work that once required the overt actions of masses of individual racists. So, what does it mean for a system to be racist? Does the appellation depend on the system in question being openly, explicitly racist from top to bottom, or simply that there is some degree of measurable bias embedded in those systems? I assert the latter. America is not the same country it was, but neither is it the country it purports to be. On some level, this is a tension between American idealism and American realism, between an aspiration and a current condition. And the precise way we phrase the statement makes all the difference: America’s systems — like its criminal justice, education and medical systems — have a pro-white/anti-black bias, and an extraordinary portion of America denies or defends those biases. As Mark Twain once put it: “The difference between the almost right word and the right word is really a large matter. ’Tis the difference between the lightning bug and the lightning.” Being imprecise or undecided with our language on this subject contributes to the murkiness — and to the myth that the question of whether America is racist is difficult to answer and therefore the subject of genuine debate among honest intellectuals. Saying that America is racist is not a radical statement. If that requires a longer explanation or definition, so be it. The fact, in the end, is not altered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-america-a-racist-country-981836.html
03-05-2021||Panorama||Fierce foes, Iran and Saudi Arabia secretly explore defusing tensions||In a prime-time television interview four years ago, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia dismissed the idea that his kingdom could somehow find an accommodation with its archrival, Iran. “How do we communicate?” he asked. “The mutual points that we can agree on with this regime are almost nonexistent.” Now, Prince Mohammed is finding those points as he embarks on a diplomatic effort to defuse tensions between the two regional powers that have underpinned conflicts across the Middle East. Last month, the chief of Saudi intelligence began secret talks with a senior Iranian security official in Baghdad to discuss several areas of contention, including the war in Yemen and Iranian-backed militias in Iraq, Iraqi and Iranian officials said. And in a television interview this past week, Prince Mohammed cast the kingdom’s view of Iran in a new light, saying that his country objected to “certain negative behaviors” but hoped to “build a good and positive relationship with Iran that would benefit all parties.” While concrete signs of a new understanding between Saudi Arabia and Iran have yet to emerge and could take a long time, if they happen at all, even a cooling of tempers between the adversaries could echo in countries where their rivalry fuels political feuds and armed conflicts, including Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Yemen. “With negotiations and a constructive outlook, the two important countries in the region and the Islamic world can put their differences behind them and enter a new phase of cooperation and tolerance to bring stability and peace to the region,” Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, Saeed Khatibzadeh, said at a press briefing on Thursday in response to Prince Mohammed’s remarks. The talks in Baghdad began against the backdrop of a wider reshuffling of relations in the Middle East as the region adjusts to changes in style and policy from President Trump to President Biden, changes that appear to have made Saudi Arabia more amenable to regional diplomacy. While Mr. Trump closely allied himself with Gulf nations such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates and pursued a policy of “maximum pressure” aimed at squeezing concessions from Iran, Mr. Biden has cooled the United States’ relationship with Saudi Arabia and resumed diplomacy aimed at restoring the international agreement to limit Iran’s nuclear program. Mr. Biden harshly criticized Saudi Arabia’s human rights record during the presidential election campaign and vowed to reassess the American relationship with the kingdom. Once in office, he ordered the release of an intelligence assessment that found Prince Mohammed had likely ordered the killing of the dissident Saudi writer Jamal Khashoggi, although he declined to sanction the prince directly. Last month, the White House said it would suspend sales of offensive weapons to Saudi Arabia in an effort to withdraw American support for Saudi Arabia’s catastrophic war in Yemen. Saudi Arabia appears to have shifted its behavior to match the new tone. As the new administration came in, Saudi Arabia released a number of high-profile prisoners and ended the four-year blockade it and other Arab countries had imposed on Qatar, another close United States partner that also maintains ties with Iran. This past week, the Saudi king invited Qatar’s emir to visit Saudi Arabia, a powerful gesture of reconciliation. Neither Iran nor Saudi Arabia, however, have publicly acknowledged the talks. Saudi officials have even publicly denied them. Their existence was confirmed privately by Iraqi and Iranian officials. Analysts say the recent changes in U.S. administrations, on top of a longer-term reduction in Washington’s focus on the Middle East that has the Saudis questioning America’s commitment to its defense, have weakened Saudi Arabia’s hand, forcing it to take a less bellicose approach toward Iran. “America is disengaging from the Middle East, drawing down troops and focusing on Asia, and having a balance of power between Saudi Arabia and Iran will make this exit easier,” said Ali Qholizadeh, a political analyst in Iran. “Iran is seizing this strategic opportunity.” The two countries’ leaders claim legitimacy from rival branches of Islam — the Saudi royal family from the Wahhabi school of Sunni Islam, and Iran’s mullahs from Shiite Islam. Along the Sunni-Shiite divide, they exert influence far beyond their own borders. They have long competed for influence across the Middle East, and the kingdom accuses Iran of using proxies to fight wars and weaken Arab states, destabilizing the region. Iran sees Saudi Arabia a key player in efforts by the United States and Israel to dominate the region and destabilize Iran. The talks in Baghdad, hosted by Iraq’s prime minister, Mustafa al-Kadhimi, on April 9, began to address some of these issues. Iraqi and Iranian officials said the discussions touched on the activities of Iranian-backed militias in Iraq and the war in Yemen, where a coalition of Arab states led by Saudi Arabia is fighting a war against Iran-backed Houthis. The talks, first reported by The Financial Times, brought together senior Saudi and Iranian security officials, according to two Iraqi officials, an Iranian official and an Iranian government adviser, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to provide the information to the news media. The Iranian government adviser said the talks included Khalid al-Homeidan, the Saudi intelligence chief, and Saeed Iravani, the deputy secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council. The officials said the countries had agreed to hold further talks in Baghdad in May, possibly between ambassadors. Asked to comment, the Saudi government issued a statement saying it would “pursue any opportunity to promote peace and stability in the region,” provided that Iran “shows goodwill” and “ceases its malign activities.” Each side is likely to make big requests of the other. Iranian officials and analysts said that Iran wants to resolve the Yemen conflict, ensuring that the Houthis have a power-sharing role in the government. Iran also wants Saudi Arabia to back off its pressure campaign to remove Iran’s proxies in Iraq and Syria, stop lobbying for sanctions against Iran and not normalize ties with Israel as several other Arab countries have done. The Saudis want to find a way to end the Yemen war and curb the provocations of the Iran-backed militias in Iraq that have attacked Saudi targets and launched drones against the kingdom from Iraq, according to Sajad Jiyad, a Baghdad-based fellow at the Century Foundation, an independent research group. Eventually, the two sides could discuss restoring diplomatic relations, which ended in 2016 after Saudi Arabia executed a prominent Shiite cleric and Iranians protesting the execution stormed two Saudi diplomatic missions in Iran. Yasmine Farouk, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace who studies Saudi Arabia, said she expected the first priority to be reaching some sort of regional security arrangement like the two countries had in the past. “They would have to do that before they could get to the point of talking about dividing up their influence around the region,” she said. The mere decision to talk directly with Iran signaled a change in Saudi policy, she said, given that the Saudis had previously refused to discuss Yemen with Iran since they saw Iran’s involvement there as illegitimate. “Now they are becoming more realist and mature and they feel that talking with the Iranians will be more beneficial than just saying they need to leave Yemen,” she said. Prince Mohammed adopted a hard line on Iran after his father, King Salman, ascended the Saudi throne in 2015 and delegated tremendous power to his favorite son. “We are a primary target for the Iranian regime,” Prince Mohammed said in a television interview in 2017, arguing that Iran’s revolutionary ideology made negotiating with its leaders impossible. “We won’t wait for the battle to be in Saudi Arabia. Instead, we’ll work so that the battle is for them in Iran.” His tone was markedly different this past week. Even though he did not acknowledge the talks with Iran, he described it as “a neighboring country” that Saudi Arabia wanted “to prosper and grow.” “We have Saudi interests in Iran, and they have Iranian interests in Saudi Arabia, which are to drive prosperity and growth in the region and the entire world,” he said in an interview broadcast Tuesday on Saudi state television.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/fierce-foes-iran-and-saudi-arabia-secretly-explore-defusing-tensions-981770.html
03-05-2021||Panorama||The genesis of poking one's political nose into police force||The Maharashtra police-politician squabble is now being legally processed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) under the orders of the Bombay High Court. Hence this analysis is not on that specific issue but on a larger subject of police-politician relations affecting the general public. While one should summarily reject the notion that an elected politician has no role to play in overseeing the working of police, it is also true that propriety demands that politicians should not interfere in the inner working of the police department unless it is in connection with correcting any grave misdemeanour in the department or for guidance in its working towards the greater public good. The second report of the Dharma Vira National Police Commission (1979) had observed that the manner in which political control has been exercised over police in India through ‘threats of transfer and suspension’ has led to ‘gross abuses, resulting in erosion of rule of law and loss of police credibility as a professional organisation’. The Commission recommended that the superintendence of the state government over police should be limited to ensure that police performance was in strict accordance with the law by laying down broad policies. “There should, however, be no instructions in regard to actual operations in the field.” This policy was more or less strictly followed by successive governments in Maharashtra where I served the state police till 1976. I remember an occasion in 1974 when the late V P Naik, the then chief minister, discussed with the Commissioner of Police, in my presence, complaints from a powerful Congress MLA against a police inspector of an important police station in Central Bombay. I was the head of the Bombay Special Branch, in which capacity I used to meet the CM every day. The CM “suggested” to the commissioner that the police inspector may be transferred. The commissioner, who had already checked the MLA’s complaints and found the charges to be not correct, opposed the transfer. The CM did not press the matter any further. The inspector was not transferred. Things changed drastically a decade later due to various reasons. In 1987, the Maharashtra government brought in a legislation to amend Section 4 of the Bombay Police Act 1951 to bring “control, direction and supervision” of the police directly under the State Home Department. Section 6 detailing powers of the police chief was made so weak that he/she had to depend upon the Home Department even for regular work. In other words, the Director-General of Police (DGP) was made a mere figurehead. A comparison with, say, Tamil Nadu, is interesting. Under Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu District Police Act 1859, duly amended, vests the “superintendence” of police with the state government, but confers “administration of the police” to the DGP through Section 5. As a result, the Maharashtra Home Department started controlling even police inspectors’ postings, which run into thousands. Till the 1980s, the DGP had the power to transfer all inspectors within the state, the Deputy Inspectors General (DIGs) within the “range” and the Superintendent of Police (SP) within the district. The DGP had to seek the permission of the state government only for transfers of Deputy Superintendents of Police (DySP) outside the districts as they were considered "senior" appointments. The result of this was the total weakening of functional independence of police officers at different levels. This was due to police officers manning police stations looking to politicians, who had the ‘right kind of approach’ to the Home Department to get them choice postings. This trend affected even Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, some of whom managed to continue in comfortable urban postings without doing a single rural or tribal district. As a result, discipline within the force collapsed, affecting police accountability towards the public. During 2008-2009, I was a part of the two-member 'High-Level Enquiry Committee' appointed by the Government of Maharashtra to enquire into the police response to the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. We found that some inspector-level officers in Mumbai were taking certain decisions without even consulting their superior officers because of their political clout. As a result, senior officers came to know of these decisions much later, affecting police efficacy. The public is the worst victim. The arrogance of certain Station House Officers (SHO) in the rank of inspectors in urban centres has no bounds. A few years ago, a close relative had to seek police help for the verification of her passport. She was treated well by the lower staff who completed the procedure speedily. When she expressed her happiness with their work, they requested her to convey it personally to the boss and SHO. She entered the room after knocking on the inspector’s door. The reception she faced was quite unexpected. He shouted at her for entering his room and asked her to get out. A former home minister in Maharashtra started a practice in 2011 of personally perusing the case papers of crimes recorded in Mumbai city. This was after journalist Jyotirmoy Dey’s sensational murder on June 11, 2011, by a gangster. Thirteen zonal deputy commissioners and their investigating staff had to be present at the Secretariat by turn daily and wait for hours for the minister’s review of crime detection, thereby wasting hundreds of man-hours instead of being available to the public. This is the basic malady affecting the police not only in Maharashtra but also in other states. Although we compare ourselves with 'Scotland Yard' we have never followed the London Metropolitan Police’s motto of 'Policing by Consent' laid down by Sir Robert Peel in 1829. The general motivation and intent of 'Policing by Consent' is that the British Police derived its authority from the Crown, the law and the consent and cooperation of people. This cannot be achieved unless the police force is given functional independence and the politician engages in only a broadly supervisory role. (The writer is a former Special Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-genesis-of-poking-ones-political-nose-into-police-force-981776.html
03-05-2021||Right in the Middle||The pied piper of Hamelin||The building owner, a Marwari realtor had planned the flats for ‘bachelors.’ Since Sapna was a ‘bachelor’ in his perception of things, it enabled her to rent flat. Other female bachelors like her had also found their way to the condominium with their laptops and their Honda Activa bikes. These bachelors were from IT companies. The girls were wedded to their companies. Oracle, Annamalai, Odyssey, Forum, Apollo, Hercules,— the list went on and on. And they spent most of the day and sometimes part of the night too with their proxy ’husbands.’ Actually, it was not the companies but the laptops the girls were wedded to. Once back home they carried on their love affair where they had left off. The Marwari owner himself lived in a palatial bungalow next door, with his extended family. He kept a sharp eye on the goings-on next door.  During the pandemic, everything got upended. Masks appeared on everyone’s face which made it difficult to recognize neighbours and friends. The Marwari of course went into hiding with his large family. He was wondering of course about his tenants, worried about their behaviour as the bachelors used to linger for hours on the pavement in the evenings. Now there was a virus demanding a new normal but the bachelors seemed to behave as if nothing had changed. They welcomed working from home as it cut off travel time, gave them more space. Some had left for their home towns in the north, carrying their laptops and ipods which made the landlord climb the wall.  The new normal was an excellent alternative. Working from home meant less tension and more family, as also, me time. A couple of them had lost their jobs and had to resort to change in careers. Lizzie went way out to set up a tailoring outfit to produce masks and she did well too, barring some initial glitches. Sarita joined her Mom to expand their food service to include north Indian meals. Oh what a life! The world seemed to have turned topsy-turvy all of a sudden. Novels were no longer read as Covid-19 news had people glued to the screen until at last they tired of it all and stopped ‘onning’ the TV.  Some read in the present situation the story of the Pied Piper of Hamelin and the marauding rats. Everyone asked when the Piper would arrive to rid the world of Covid-19. And he did come in the form of the vaccine. The moral: When the time came for the Piper to collect the costs, there was haggling over the price which left everyone talking endlessly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-pied-piper-of-hamelin-981775.html
03-05-2021||South||Multiple challenges, including Covid-19, await Stalin administration||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government led by M K Stalin will have no honeymoon period as it has to get to work from the word go. The new government has multitude of issues to deal with like controlling the spread of Covid-19, ramping up vaccination drive, attending to poor fiscal health of the state, and fulfilling a slew of promises made in the election manifesto. No doubt, the DMK was waiting to come to power to break its 10-year-long hibernation, but the second wave of Covid-19 will give no room for the new dispensation to settle down. Political challenges Additionally, the DMK may have to handle consequences that arise out of the reopening of the oxygen plants inside the Sterlite Copper factory in Thoothukudi that was shut in 2018 for “flouting environmental concerns and established rules.” Also, it has to rein in its leaders and cadres who were accused of land grabbing and high-handedness during the party's 2006-2011 tenure. “Stalin has promised clean and transparent administration, and should ensure that there is no interference either from members of his family or other extraneous party pressure in his administration,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. The new administration will have to continue wooing global companies to set their shops in Tamil Nadu, and build on the electric vehicle and electronics and hardware policies released by the outgoing AIADMK administration. The state continues to be one of the favourite destinations for Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). The fight against Covid-19 Keeping Covid-19 cases under check, swinging into action to keep the medical infrastructure ready for any third wave and accelerating the vaccination drive would be the biggest challenges for the new dispensation. The state added over 20,000 cases on Sunday and hospital beds, including those created during the pandemic, are filling up fast. With the Centre playing the hard ball with states on transferring GST dues and other funds, the Tamil Nadu government would be hard-pressed for financial resources more so with increasing number of Covid-19 cases and states being asked to take the burden of vaccinating people between 18-44 years of age. “Handling the pandemic is going to be a huge challenge, as the situation is unlikely to improve for the next six months at least. The new government will have to mop up enough resources to augment hospital beds, oxygen, and other critical infrastructure. The biggest challenge is to convince people to get vaccinated,” Dr J Amalorpavanathan, the man behind Tamil Nadu's robust organ donation system, told DH. Attending to the "bad" fiscal health While in Opposition, the DMK had consistently attacked the AIADMK for “spending recklessly” and leaving the finances in a “dire state.” The state government's debts that stood at Rs 1.30 lakh crore in 2011 when the DMK handed over the baton to AIADMK has now gone up to Rs 4.85 lakh crore, and the amount would go further up if interest payments and liabilities of state-level public sector undertakings (SPSUs) are taken into account. Besides the additional spending on the health sector, DMK will also have to find resources to implement its election promises like one-time assistance of Rs 4,000 to those affected by Covid-19 lockdown, reducing the prices of diesel, and petrol, and Rs 100 subsidy to each cylinder. Prof. R. Srinivasan, Department of Econometrics, University of Madras said one has to accept the fact that the state is not collecting enough revenue, and it has to spend only from available resources. He said the new government should think about “specific interventions for specific groups of people instead of handing out assistance universally.” “States can blame the Centre for not releasing the transfers but that is a political game that can go on and on. The issue here is how much you can spend? Salary, subsidies, and transfers are 150 percent of the state's tax revenue which means all are committed expenses. If this is the case, what is the scope for any discretionary spending thereafter? We have got to spend very carefully whatever little we got to spend. It has to be prudently done,” Srinivasan told DH.   'State's in-built economic dynamism'  Acknowledging that the state's finances are in a “bad situation,” Prof M Vijayabaskar of the Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS) said things are not looking quite good on the fiscal front and blamed the outgoing AIADMK Government of spending “unnecessarily” when the state is already fiscally stretched. However, he said Tamil Nadu can offset a part of this disadvantage due to its in-built economic dynamism. “In terms of investments, TN is next only to Maharashtra, and in terms of growth also, the state has done well. If this is the sign of things to come, you can partly offset the setback. This is not available to some of the other states. But this is still going to burden, especially, with the declining share of transfers from Centre,” Prof Vijayabaskar, also co-author of Dravidian Model: Interpreting the Political Economy of Tamil Nadu, told DH. Handling the pandemic and assistance to the needy On Covid-19, Prof. Srinivasan said the government should opt for “out-of-the-box” solutions by identifying people who need help during any lockdown, which seems inevitable now, that may be imposed instead of crediting money into everyone's account irrespective of their economic status. “Here the whole discussion in the system is let us do it for all. When you universalise, obviously you are spreading your limited resources thinly over everyone. Whereas, the people who need it in a larger quantity get it very little, and people who don’t need it also get some amount of money. The end result is a real impact that is required on specific people is not seen,” he said. Prof. Srinivasan said it was time that governments thought about specific interventions for specific groups of people, and arranged that their income is supported in one way or the other. “Trying to please everyone but nobody will be pleased, because there are people who need more than what is given. People who don't need money are also getting it. We are disproportionately spending the money. So the effectiveness of public spending is so low that it makes little impact in improving the livelihood of the people.” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/multiple-challenges-including-covid-19-await-stalin-administration-981733.html
03-05-2021||South||Kerala Congress (B) chairman R Balakrishna Pillai passes away||R Balakrishna Pillai, former minister and one of the founders of the Kerala Congress in 1964, died at a private hospital in his hometown of Kottarakkara on Monday due to age-related ailments, his family said. He was 86. Pillai was cremated with full state honours on the premises of his residence Valakom near Kottarakkara in the evening. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, BJP state president K Surendran, NSS general secretary G Sukuaran Nair and Syro Malabar Church head Cardinal George Alencherry condoled the death of the veteran leader. Born in a wealthy family in Kottarakkara, Pillai entered politics during his student days. He was a member of the Students Federation before joining the Congress. He was a member of the AICC from 1958 to 1964. Having been elected to the Assembly in 1960 from the Pathanapuram seat at the age of 25, Pillai quit the Congress in 1964 and formed the Kerala Congress along with senior leader K M George. Pillai was the founder-general secretary of the Kerala Congress which has a continuing trend of splitting, merging, and splitting again in the state's politics. He won the election from his home constituency of Kottarakara in 1965, but was defeated in the next two polls in 1967 and 1970. Pillai was elected to the Lok Sabha in 1971 from the Mavelikara constituency. He formed the Kerala Congress (B) in 1977 due to his differences with another Kerala Congress stalwart K M Mani after the death of K M George. The Kerala Congress (B) was a constituent of the CPI (M)-led LDF on formation. Pillai, who was one of the architects of the United Democratic Front (UDF), was elected to the Assembly in various terms from Kottarakkara till he was defeated in 2006. He was a minister for several years in various ministries headed by C Achutha Menon, K Karunakaran, E K Nayanar, and A K Antony. He was also a member of the Board of Directors of the Nair Service Society (NSS). Pillai's over six-decade-long political career saw many ups and downs. He had to resign from the ministry for his speech in the 1980s in which he had called for an agitation on the lines of the militancy in Punjab against the central government for ignoring Kerala's developmental needs. He was the first minister in Kerala who was sentenced to jail for corruption. The Supreme Court had in February 2011 sentenced Pillai and two others to one-year imprisonment for allegedly abusing their positions in the award of a contract for the Idamalayar hydroelectric power project during his tenure as power minister from 1982-1985 in the K Karunakaran ministry. He left the Congress-led UDF in 2018. He had been serving as the chairman of the Kerala State Welfare Corporation for Forward Communities, with cabinet rank. Pillai is survived by three children. His son Ganesh Kumar, who is also a former minister, was re-elected to the Kerala Assembly as an LDF candidate from his family bastion Pathanapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-b-chairman-r-balakrishna-pillai-passes-away-981833.html
03-05-2021||South||Palaniswami resigns after AIADMK fails to secure majority in Tamil Nadu polls||Outgoing Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami resigned on Monday after his party, AIADMK, failed to secure a majority in the Tamil Nadu Assembly Polls. Sources told DH that he sent his resignation to Governor Banwarilal Purohit from his home town Salem. Ending its decade long stint in the opposition, even relegated to the third spot in the House in 2011, M K Stalin-led DMK made a spirited comeback to the ruling saddle to unseat its rival AIADMK on Sunday. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/palaniswami-resigns-after-aiadmk-fails-to-secure-majority-in-tamil-nadu-polls-981835.html
03-05-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh to impose partial curfew from Wednesday to battle Covid-19 outbreak||A partial curfew from 12 noon to 6 am will be imposed in Andhra Pradesh from Wednesday for two weeks to curb coronavirus that has been on a virulent spread. At a high-level review meeting on the prevailing situation here on Monday, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy announced this decision, official sources said. Shops would be allowed to open daily from 6 am to 12 noon, with prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC in force. Thereafter, only emergency services would be allowed as curfew would be clamped till 6 AM. For the past few days, the night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am is in force in the state to contain Covid-19. But with the number of cases growing in record numbers daily, the Chief Minister decided to impose further restrictions to break the chain, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-impose-partial-curfew-from-wednesday-to-battle-covid-19-outbreak-981891.html
03-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: Palaniswami greets DMK chief M K Stalin||AIADMK top leader and outgoing Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday greeted DMK president M K Stalin who is set to assume office as the next Chief Minister, with the latter acknowledging that the role of opposition was key in democracy. "I convey my best wishes to Thiru M K Stalin who is going to assume office as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu," Palaniswami said on his Twitter handle. A graceful statement that is to the point -- accepting people's verdict, and thanking voters. Thanking Palaniswami, Stalin said the AIADMK leader's "advice and cooperation" was required to make a better Tamil Nadu. "Democracy is about ruling and opposition parties being together. Let us uphold such a democracy," Stalin added. The DMK has won 126 seats and is leading in seven segments and its ally Congress has bagged 18. Other allies, the CPI and CPI(M) have won two seats each and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi four.  The AIADMK has won 64 constituencies and is leading in two while its ally the PMK won five. Another partner BJP has won four seats. Tamil Nadu Assembly is 234-member strong and 118 is the simple majority mark. Also, Palaniswami greeted Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on their win. "My hearty congratulations to Thiru @vijayanpinarayi for victory in state Assembly elections and for your continuance as chief minister of Kerala, my best wishes." "Congratulations Selvi Mamata Banerjee for your grand victory and my best wishes for your next tenure."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-palaniswami-greets-dmk-chief-m-k-stalin-981894.html
03-05-2021||South||8 Covid patients dead at Andhra govt hospital, kin allege oxygen shortage||Eight Covid-19 patients died at the Hindupur government hospital on Monday allegedly due to the interruption in their oxygen supply. Relatives of the deceased have blamed the staff, citing negligence in ensuring quick restoration of the O2 supply with the cylinders stored at the district hospital for such contingencies. According to Jagannath Singh, Anantapuram District Forest Officer delegated as the oxygen monitoring officer, a 6-KL capacity liquid oxygen tank at the hospital was found to be left with only about 2 KL on Sunday. “We have kept about 140 oxygen cylinders on standby there. When the tank got exhausted at about 6 am today, the cylinders were brought in and adjusted to the patients' bed oxygen supply. All this was done within five minutes. The allegations of oxygen shortage are not true,” Singh told DH. The eight deaths occurred in the early hours of Monday. Maintaining that the deaths are not connected to O2 supply, the official said that the condition of the patients was already bad with their SpO2 levels at 50-60 per cent. The district administration has also refuted the charges of staff negligence and stated that “the doctors and other medical staff at the Hindupur hospital are operating properly”. Opposition TDP's general secretary Nara Lokesh has equated the eight deaths as “government murders” and held CM Jaganmohan Reddy responsible. “Jagan is playing with people's lives. A probe should be ordered on the Hindupur hospital incident and action should be taken on those responsible. Government should aid the families of the deceased,” Lokesh said in a series of tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/8-covid-patients-dead-at-andhra-govt-hospital-kin-allege-oxygen-shortage-982017.html
03-05-2021||South||Partial lockdown to begin in Kerala on May 4 as Covid-19 cases continue to rise||A partial lockdown will be in place in Kerala from Tuesday as the Covid-19 surge in the state continues. The test positivity rate in Kerala reached 27.01 percent on Monday and the number of active cases increased to 3.45 lakh.   Only essential services and some sectors like agriculture and construction will be allowed to function. Presently, the partial lockdown has been announced till next Sunday. The situation will be reviewed afterwards and the partial lockdown may be extended. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that stringent measures like shut down of districts witnessing a steep increase in cases might be required. However, a total lockdown in the state would be implemented only as a last resort, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/partial-lockdown-to-begin-in-kerala-on-may-4-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-982023.html
03-05-2021||South||TRS sweeps mini-municipal polls in Telangana||A day after retaining the Nagarjuna Sagar Assembly seat, the ruling TRS has won two corporations and five municipalities that went to polls on Friday. With the total dominance in the “mini-municipal polls,” the TRS will now rule the Warangal, Khammam municipal corporations and Siddipet, Nakrekal, Achampet, Jedcherla, and Kothur municipalities. The back-to-back electoral successes offer a big relief to the TRS supremo K Chandrasekhar Rao after the Dubbaka assembly bye-poll and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation election debacles in November and December, respectively, last year. Following the announcement of the results, Chief Minister Rao thanked the voters for the victory where the TRS won 74 per cent of the total wards in the seven civic bodies. “By electing the TRS in 181 seats, friendly CPI party in three, and in total 184 seats of the 248 wards, people have proved that the TRS party is unvanquished in the state,” Rao said. BJP's dismal performance The Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll and the civic poll results show that the BJP, which stunned the TRS with its performance in Dubbaka and GHMC, was not able to expand its influence elsewhere in the state. While the Congress gave a tough fight to the TRS in the Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll, the BJP finished third, managing to garner only four per cent of the total votes.  The Congress party has won more number of wards than the BJP in the civic polls. The BJP has also lost one of the wards it had won in the December GHMC polls to the Congress. The Lingojiguda ward of GHMC went to bypolls as the elected BJP councilor had died. While the TRS has kept away from the contest following the local BJP leadership's request, the Congress sprung a surprise by defeating the BJP candidate and improving its GHMC tally to three councilors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-sweeps-mini-municipal-polls-in-telangana-982043.html
03-05-2021||State||Over 1,000 KSRP men go from flab to fit in two months||A novel exercise regime to keep the Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) fit in the time of pandemic has yielded surprising results in just two months. KSRP head ADGP Alok Kumar launched a special weight reduction programme after losing 51 of his men to non-Covid ailments and seven to Covid-19. With a deadline of April 30, over 1,000 KSRP personnel — obese and diagnosed with non-communicable diseases and comorbid conditions — were put on a rigorous training regime over a period of two and a half months. The target was to shed 10 kg for those below 40 years, 5 kg for those between 40 and 50 years, and 2.5 kg for personnel above 50 years. All of them came out with 100% results. Interestingly, to make the men serious about the task, officials linked their promotion to fitness, which yielded better results. “As we began to lose our men during the first wave, we did an introspective audit of death and health analysis of all the 14 battalions and two training schools. Out of the 14,000-strong force, over 1,000 were found to be overweight, obese and diagnosed with noncommunicable diseases and comorbidities linked to unhealthy lifestyle and alcoholism. We set a target of April 30 with a motto 'Reform and Perform or Perish',” Alok Kumar told DH. He said there was reluctance among the personnel initially, as a few found it hard and complained. "But most of them fell in line and took it as a challenge. Now it has become a daily routine,” he added. Providing the required support to shed flab, special training sessions were conducted for different battalions every morning, including running, rigorous drill, yoga, cycling and other activities. Their eating habits, health and weight were monitored constantly. “In the first quarter of this year, we have achieved a 40% reduction in the number of deaths among our men. Also, over 98% of the staff are vaccinated against Covid-19,” Alok Kumar said. With zero tolerance towards alcoholism, chronic alcoholic personnel were admitted to a de-addiction centre. In Bengaluru alone, 30 were undergoing treatment and 10 people in other districts. “A total of 55 men have successfully been treated in the last six months. However, eight found it difficult to quit alcohol and they were given VRS. Another 330 were found to be medium alcoholics and stern messages have been given out to them. If they cannot reform, we cannot allow them to continue in our units,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-1000-ksrp-men-go-from-flab-to-fit-in-two-months-981762.html
03-05-2021||State||2 patients die of oxygen shortage in Kalaburagi hospital||Two Covid-19 patients allegedly died of oxygen shortage at a private hospital on Monday. Anand Hospital manager Anand said a man and a woman breathed their last as they could not get the required oxygen on time. A total of 32 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-patients-die-of-oxygen-shortage-in-kalaburagi-hospital-982019.html
03-05-2021||State||Chamarajanagar: Pall of gloom descends on hospital||A pall of gloom descended on the District Covid Hospital in the city after the alleged death of 24 Covid due to oxygen shortage, on Monday morning. Hundreds of people, who lost their near and dear ones, were seen crying. Some were blaming officials, ministers, and the government while a few were seen pleading for oxygen. There was also flash protest by the people condemning the alleged negligence of the hospital authorities and seeking compensation to the families of the deceased. The scene outside the hospital was heart-wrenching. A woman, who had married two months ago, was crying and pleading, "Give my husband back. My husband was killed. Who will take care of me?" A large number of people gathered on the hospital premises though the lockdown-like rules were in force. The medical personnel and nurses were seen bidding a teary farewell to the Covid victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chamarajanagar-pall-of-gloom-descends-on-hospital-982020.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||24 Covid-19 patients dead after Chamarajanagar hospitals run out of oxygen||In a tragic turn of events, a total of 24 patients died in Chamarajanagar district, 175 kilometres from Bengaluru, on Sunday, after hospitals ran out of oxygen. Officials said that 23 patients died at the district Covid-19 hospital and one at a private hospital. According to the district administration, as many as 12 patients died due to lack of oxygen, while others died of co-morbid conditions. However, locals alleged that the authorities were fabricating the number of deaths. They claimed that even non-Covid-19 patients had to face oxygen shortage, resulting in deaths. Dr M R Ravi, Deputy Commissioner, Chamarajanagar said, “A total of 24 deaths have happened between Sunday morning and Monday morning. While 23 have died in the district hosptial, one person has died at a private facility. We cannot say that all patients have died due to lack of oxygen.” Doctors at the district hospital confirmed that 12 deaths were due to a shortage of oxygen while others succumbed to various co-morbid conditions. Unfortunately, the oxygen plant at the hospital had also run short of oxygen by the night of Sunday, according to sources at the hospital. The 6,000-litre capacity oxygen plant on the hospital premises can sustain the oxygen needs for 1.5 days, and they ran out on Sunday evening.     Relatives and family members of the deceased patients gathered in large numbers outside the Chamarajanagar hospital and blamed the officials for the mess. Videos and photographs of hospital attendants tending to Covid patients by waving towels and hand-held fans in the middle of the night went viral on social media. Most of the deceased belonged to the 30-40 age group and a few of them were married only a couple of months ago, sources at the district hospital told DH. S Suresh Kumar, District in-charge minister told media persons in Bengaluru that he had visited the district 2-3 days ago and reviewed the situation. “Every life is precious and any death brings us intense grief. We have sought a report on the deaths and the audit report is likely to come by today afternoon. We will initiate action against whoever is responsible for this,” Suresh Kumar said. The minister also pointed that in most of the cases people were coming to the hospital at the last stage. District officials said that the oxygen supply that was due from the neighbouring Mysuru district was not received on time which led to the disaster. However, the Mysuru district administration clarified that a total of 250 oxygen cylinders were sent to Chamarajanagar by Sunday midnight and there was no delay from the Mysuru district administration.   “The oxygen liquid was due for supply from Ballari to Chamarajanagar. We do not know whether that has reached the district. As per SOS request from the Chamarajanagar district administration, we supplied the required oxygen. The Mysore Southern Gas has supplied 210 cylinders and the Mysuru District hospital dispatched 40 cylinders on Sunday midnight to Chamarajanagar,” the statement from Mysuru district administration said. A tanker carrying medical oxygen from Ballari, reached Chamarajanagar on Monday afternoon. The district Covid hospital has a total of 24 ventilators, 53 ICU beds and 55 oxygenated beds and all beds have been occupied at Chamarajanagar. In the meantime, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has asked health minister Dr Sudhakar to immediately visit the district and take stock of the situation. The Chief Minister has also summoned an emergency meeting on Tuesday evening in the backdrop of the incident and the severe short supply of oxygen across Karnataka. Congress demands explanation National Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted the news and criticised the government's handling of the situation. Died or Killed? My heartfelt condolences to their families. This is murder by designed negligence of Yediyurappa Govt ! Health Minister must resign. 
 Congress Karnataka chief D K Shivakumar said the government is only interested in publicity and does not take any responsibility. "The chief minister and ministers are not able to handle it (administration). So, after the Congress Legislative Party meeting today, I will meet the Chief Secretary and ask him to present the truth before the people of the state," Shivakumar told reporters, reacting to the Chamarajanagar incident. Criminal negligence has led to these 24 deaths in Karnataka. Is there no accountability?||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/24-covid-19-patients-dead-after-chamarajanagar-hospitals-run-out-of-oxygen-981829.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress attacks BJP govt over 24 deaths in Chamarajanagar hospital due to oxygen shortage||The Congress mounted an attack on the ruling BJP in Karnataka following the death of 24 people in the Chamarajanagar Government District Hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage in 24 hours since Sunday morning. "Died or Killed? My heartfelt condolences to their families. How much more suffering before the 'system' wakes up?" Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Died or Killed? My heartfelt condolences to their families. The All India Congress Committee general secretary and Karnataka in charge, Randeep Singh Surjewala demanded the arrest of the Health Minister. "This is murder by designed negligence of Yediyurappa Govt ! The Health Minister must resign. Will CM Yediyurappa ji own moral responsibility for the deaths?" Surjewala tweeted. This is murder by designed negligence of Yediyurappa Govt ! Health Minister must resign. Congress Karnataka chief D K Shivakumar said the government is only interested in publicity and does not take any responsibility. "The chief minister and ministers are not able to handle it (administration). So, after the Congress Legislative Party meeting today, I will meet the Chief Secretary and ask him to present the truth before the people of the state," Shivakumar told reporters, reacting to the Chamarajanagar incident. Criminal negligence has led to these 24 deaths in Karnataka. Is there no accountability?||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-attacks-bjp-govt-over-24-deaths-in-chamarajanagar-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-981870.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||IAS officer to probe deaths in Chamarajanagar hospital||The death of 23 patients at the district hospital between 9 am on May 2 and 7 am on May 3 was "of extreme concern and the government has taken the issue seriously,” an order said.  Kalasad, the KSRTC managing director, has been named as the investigating officer. The order was issued by N Manjunatha Prasad, Member-Secretary, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority. Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he issued directions to Director General of Police Praveen Sood for a comprehensive report on the incident. A total of 24 deaths occurred between Sunday morning and Monday morning. While 23 died in the district hospital, one person succumbed at a private facility - all of them allegedly due to lack of oxygen.  However, the Chamarajanagar district administration has attributed 12 deaths to oxygen shortage, maintaining that the remaining deaths were due to various comorbidities of the patients. The Opposition Congress has attacked the state government with party president D K Shivakumar accusing it of “criminal negligence”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ias-officer-to-probe-deaths-in-chamarajanagar-hospital-981876.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka DCM Ashwath Narayan to head new Covid Task Force||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan has been named as chairperson of the Covid-19 Task Force, which has been reconstituted amid the raging pandemic. The state-level Covid-19 Task Force will have Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, Information & Public Relations Minister CC Patil and Health & Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar as members, according to a government order. The task force is authorized to review Covid-19 containment and management measures, besides creating awareness among citizens. The ministerial task force was first constituted in March 2020 when the pandemic was in its initial stages in Karnataka. The task force was headed by the then Health Minister B Sriramulu, Sudhakar, Narayan, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the then Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar. Apparently, the task force became inactive after Sriramulu was divested of the health portfolio that was given to Sudhakar in October 2020. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa was authorized to reconstitute the task force. Deputy Chief Minister and Public Works Minister Govind Karjol was appointed as head of the task force. Now, Narayan will replace him. The chief secretary, additional chief secretary (health) and principal secretary (medical education) will assist the task force, the government order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-dcm-ashwath-narayan-to-head-new-covid-task-force-981878.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||‘My mother is serious’: Congress MLA Kusuma Shivalli weeps in video meet||Senior Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar were in for a rude shock at a video conference Monday when Kundgol MLA Kusuma Shivalli started weeping over her mother’s precarious health condition due to Covid-19. “My mother isn’t well...she’s serious. What do I do? I’m tense,” Kusuma said in a video call with all the party’s legislators on Karnataka’s Covid-19 situation. “Now, what do you want me to do?” To this, Shivakumar, the party president, urged her to stay strong and instil confidence in her constituents. “See what KIMS (Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences) needs...let people know that you’re showing concern,” he advised. That’s when Kusuma revealed that her mother was denied admission in KIMS. “They asked us to get out. They showed neglect when I took my mother there,” she said, crying uncontrollably, as other legislators tried to calm her down. Shivakumar pointed out that the current KIMS director Ramalingappa Antaratani was appointed because her husband, the late CS Shivalli (former Kundgol MLA), wanted him there. Siddaramaiah got Ramalingappa on the phone and asked him to admit the MLA’s mother immediately. About two hours later, Siddaramaiah called up Kusuma to check and found that an ambulance had come to ferry her mother. “Her mother has coronavirus. Being a sitting MLA, KIMS Hubli didn’t give her a bed,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. “If MLAs face this, what’ll happen to poor people? She was weeping in the video conference. The situation is horrible.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/my-mother-is-serious-congress-mla-kusuma-shivalli-weeps-in-video-meet-981969.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 44,438 new Covid-19 cases, 239 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 44,438 Covid-19 cases and 239 related deaths, taking the total caseload and fatalities to 16.46 lakh and 16,250 respectively. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 22,112 infections. The day also saw 20,901 patients getting discharged. Cumulatively, 16,46,303 positive cases have so far been reported in Karnataka, which includes 1,85,299 recoveries. Active cases stood at 4,44,734. With 2,685 fresh infections Mysuru followed Bengaluru Urban. Tumakuru reported 2,361 cases,  Hassan (1,673) Hassan while it was 1,367 in Mandya. Of the 239 deaths reported on Monday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 115, while 19 were from Chamarajanagar, 14 in Mysuru, 14 each in Ballari and Hassan, eight in Tumakuru, seven in Shivamogga and five each in Bagalkote, Chikkaballapura and Kalaburagi. A total of 2.61 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,49,090 tests were done on Monday. The number of those who are vaccinated now stands at 98.78 lakh. Apart from 20 earlier cases of B.1.617  infection reported on April 27 from Bengaluru and Kalaburagi, 42 more such cases were detected in the state taking the total to 62. Nodal officer for genetic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka did not respond to DH’s queries as to the  districts from where samples came from to the lab at Nimhans.  Eleven districts reported over 500 cases each. Among the 239 deaths reported on Monday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 115, while 19 were from Chamarajanagar, 14 in Mysuru, 14 each in Ballari and Hassan, eight in Tumakuru, seven in Shivamogga and five each in Bagalkote, Chikkaballapura and Kalaburagi. A total of 2.61 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,49,090 tests have been done on Monday, the bulletin said. The number of those who had taken the first and second doses of the Covid-19 vaccine now stood at 98.78 lakh, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-44438-new-covid-19-cases-239-deaths-981995.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 3 deaths in Chamarajanagar due to oxygen shortage, says Sudhakar||Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar and District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar rushed to Chamarajanagar from Bengaluru, after learning about the death of the patients allegedly due to oxygen shortage at the Covid Hospital on Monday. Addressing media persons later, Sudhakar said, according to primary reports of the district administration, health department, and the hospital authorities, only three deaths were due to oxygen shortage. However, a death audit will be conducted, after which there will be clarity, he said. Sudhakar said around 123 patients were in the hospital. While 14 of them were on ventilator support, 36 patients were under Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV), 58 patients under High flow Oxygen treatment, and 29 under normal Oxygen treatment, the minister said. According to the information available, 14 people died of Covid, from 7 am on Sunday to 12 midnight. Three deaths were reported between 12 midnight and 3 am while seven deaths were from 3 am to 7 am on Monday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed to conduct a comprehensive probe into the issue. "The state government has appointed an IAS officer and KSRTC managing director Shivayogi Kalasad to probe the incident and submit a report in three days.  Hence, I will not give more details. There was no information about Oxygen going dry till 12 midnight. The government will not spare anybody if they are found erring," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-3-deaths-in-chamarajanagar-due-to-oxygen-shortage-says-sudhakar-981998.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Wasn't informed about oxygen shortage, says Chamarajanagar MP||Expressing shock over the death of 24 patients due to shortage of oxygen, Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivas Prasad has urged the government to provide compensation to the relatives of the deceased. Speaking to reporters, Prasad said he had spoken to Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi on Sunday night and was told that everything was under control. "I was not informed about the oxygen shortage in the District Hospital. Besides, I am not aware of the communication between the DC and Kodagu MP Prathap Simha," he said. "Due to the spread of the Covid second wave, I have not visited Chamarajanagar district. But, I am getting all necessary reports," he said. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) secretary Varuna Mahesh demanded the resignation of Prasad. In a press release, Mahesh alleged the total negligence of MP Prasad in taking necessary steps, that resulted in the death of patients due to oxygen shortage, in Chamarajanagar hospital. "The number of Covid patients is on a rise in Chamarajanagar district. Besides, the number of deaths is also alarming. The MP has not conducted any meeting regarding Covid. He has not assessed the measures taken by the district administration and health department. He could have joined hands with the district administration to overcome the shortage of oxygen cylinders. He has displayed total negligence. He should resign immediately," Mahesh demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wasnt-informed-about-oxygen-shortage-says-chamarajanagar-mp-981999.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC issues fresh Covid-19 norms for courts in districts with more than 10k active cases||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday issued fresh guidelines on the functioning of courts in districts having more than 10,000 active Covid-19 cases. The entry of advocates, litigants, party in person, visitors and advocate-clerks has been prohibited from Monday to the court premises in five districts, including Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts. The restrictions will be applicable to the court premises in Bengaluru Urban (City Civil Court, Small Causes Courts, CMM Courts and Family Courts) Mysuru,  Tumakuru, Ballari and Bengaluru Rural courts, located in the City Civil Court Complex. The notification comes following a direction by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, pursuant to a decision taken by the SOP committee. As per the notification, cases of vacation court should be filed only through e-filing and the cases will be heard only through video conferencing. The restrictions include that all bail applications/petitions should be filed through e-filing only. Only in cases of remand where the accused has to be produced physically, the physical appearance of the advocate is permitted||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-issues-fresh-covid-19-norms-for-courts-in-districts-with-more-than-10k-active-cases-982002.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Provide sanitary napkin to school girls under Shuchi scheme, HC tells Karnataka govt||The High Court has directed the state government to implement the Shuchi Scheme, which includes providing sanitary napkins to adolescent girls in schools. The sanitary napkins were not procured during 2019-20 and 2020-21 owing to financial constraints. A division bench, headed by Justice B V Nagarathna, passed this interim direction asking the government to file a status report by May 31. The bench was dealing with a PIL filed in 2018. Shuchi Scheme is for adolescent school girls in the age group of 10-19 years, to provide them separate toilets and sanitary napkins in schools. The government submitted that procurement of sanitary napkins for 17.06 lakh identified eligible school girls, will be made within 90 days from the date of administrative approval. The government said if the schools are closed, distribution will be made through a community-based door-to-door method. “We reiterate that plan of action under Shuchi Scheme shall be implemented by the State Government for adolescent girls as the same is an aid to the empowerment of such adolescent girls, particularly residing in rural and remote places, travelling from villages to the taluk or district headquarters for their education. They should not miss attendance in the school on certain days of the month on account of lack of effective hygiene products being available to them on certain days of the month,” the benchsaid. The petitioners said the report, filed before the court in August 2019 by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) in association with the National Law School of India University, had pointed out certain lacunae in school infrastructure. Out of 889 schools referred to in the report only 63 per cent of schools had separate toilets for girls, of which only 82 per cent were functional.  The report also stated that the total requirement of sanitary napkins in the state is 2.04 crore per annum.   In a previous hearing, the bench had stated that the implementation of the Shuchi Scheme, in its true letter and spirit, not only empowers the girl child but also ensures protection of rights under Article 21A of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/provide-sanitary-napkin-to-school-girls-under-shuchi-scheme-hc-tells-karnataka-govt-982003.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Are minority voters your slaves, HDK asks Siddaramaiah||Irked by Congress leader Siddaramaiah's statement on the JD(S) cashing in on minority votes in Basavakalyan, former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy lashed out at CLP leader for "insulting" minority voters.  In the wake of the bypoll results in Basavakalyan where Congress candidate Mala Narayan Rao lost, Siddaramaiah had stated that the Congress lost considerable votes as the JD(S) had fielded a Muslim candidate Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri.  Offended by this, JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy alleged that Siddaramaiah had never groomed any minority leader. "I am unable to understand whether Siddaramaiah has issues with the minority community or has a problem with JD(S). You have never groomed any minority leader. You have claimed that the JD(S) has taken away Congress votes in Basavakalyan. Isn't this an insult to the voter? Are minority voters your slaves?" he charged. He further alleged that Siddaramaiah had tried to sabotage the prospects of his own party candidate in Maski and was working against the interests of his own party. Siddaramaiah is dreaming of becoming the chief minister again. He must stop working against the interests of his party, Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/are-minority-voters-your-slaves-hdk-asks-siddaramaiah-982005.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Ashwath Narayan to head new Covid Task Force||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan has been named the chairperson of the Covid-19 Task Force, reconstituted amid the raging pandemic.  The state-level Covid-19 Task Force will have Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, Information and Public Relations Minister C C Patil and Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar as members, according to a government order. The task force is authorised to review Covid-19 containment and management measures, besides creating awareness among citizens.  It was first constituted in March 2020 when the pandemic was in its initial stages in Karnataka. The task force was headed by the then Health Minister B Sriramulu, Sudhakar, Ashwath Narayan, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the then Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar.  Apparently, the task force became inactive after Sriramulu was divested of the health portfolio that was given to Sudhakar in October 2020. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was authorised to reconstitute the task force. Deputy Chief Minister and Public Works Minister Govind Karjol was appointed as head of the task force. Now, Ashwath Narayan will replace him.  The chief secretary, additional chief secretary (health) and principal secretary (medical education) will assist the task force, the government order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ashwath-narayan-to-head-new-covid-task-force-982006.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid Covid-19 surge, Karnataka govt mulls postponement of II PU exams||With just a couple of weeks left for the final examination of II PUC (Class 12), the state government is mulling to postpone it keeping in mind a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases. The annual examinations are scheduled to be held from May 24.  Taking into consideration the reports by several doctors and members of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19, who have cautioned the government about possible worsening of the pandemic situation by mid-May, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education is seriously considering postponing the exams. Confirming the move, a senior official from the department told DH that they have been considering deferring exams keeping in mind the safety of students. “It (postponing exams is 90 per cent confirmed... An official decision will be announced in a couple of days after consulting the minister,” the officer said. Incidentally, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar had called for a meeting in this regard with the department officials on Monday to discuss the issue. However, with the tragic turn of events in Chamarajanagar, where Suresh Kumar is a guardian minister, the minister had to leave for the district and the meeting was called off, according to sources in the Education department.  The department was also ready to dispatch draft admission tickets to the colleges. However, with the minister calling for a meeting, the process was stalled, according to officials.  In the meantime, the department is also flooded with requests from parents’ groups urging it to postpone the exams. It can be recalled that the department has already deferred the practical examination last week. As many as seven lakh students will be appearing for the exams across Karnataka besides thousands of teaching and non-teaching staff who will be deployed on exam duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-covid-19-surge-karnataka-govt-mulls-postponement-of-ii-pu-exams-982008.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chamarajanagar deaths unpardonable tragedy: C T Ravi||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi demanded strict action against those responsible for the deaths at Chamarajanagar district hospital. “It is clear that those responsible were not alert about the situation in the Hospital,” he said, ruing that such incidents, which has occurred in Maharashtra, Delhi and other states, was now being reported in Karnataka. Such deaths in hospitals due to oxygen shortage should have been a warning bell for the state. “It is saddening that 24 lives were lost. It is an unpardonable tragedy,” he said. Commenting on the results of the recently concluded bypolls to one Parliamentary and two Assembly constituencies in Karnataka, he said that the results were a warning by the voters to the party. “We struggled to retain Belgaum. Maski was not a honorable defeat,” he said. The party will have to pay a heavy price in the state if we do not introspect the cause for our loss in the elections, Ravi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chamarajanagar-deaths-unpardonable-tragedy-c-t-ravi-982009.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No oxygen bottling units in nine districts of Karnataka||A startling fact that emerged out of the Chamarajanagar tragedy is the absence of an oxygen bottling plant in several districts. As many as nine districts of Karnataka - Gadag, Chikkaballapur, Chitradurga, Bidar, Yadgir, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Mandya and Udupi rely on neighbouring districts for oxygen in the absence of a dedicated plant.   This increased dependency on neighbouring districts has led to uncertainty in supply as logistical issues like distance, time, condition of oxygen tankers and breakdowns have affected the timely delivery of oxygen.  Chitradurga, for example, relies on oxygen supply on Davangere. Chitradurga DHO Dr Palaksha C L, told DH, "We have a storage capacity of 6,200 litres at the district hospital. Even then we need oxygen refilling every alternate day from Southern Gases in Davangere. We've got 60 jumbo cylinders and another 90 donated by NGOs." Surprisingly, Yadgir district hospital gets 2,500 litres of oxygen all the way from Chennai. The oxygen is transported from Praxair company in Chennai to Ballari and then to Yadgir, said district health officer Dr Indumati Kamshetty. "The entire district needs 5,000 litres per day. While private hospitals get it from the Kalaburagi district, we get it twice a week from Chennai via Ballari. We do not have the luxury of waiting till some hours of oxygen is left so we get a refill when there's a buffer stock of two to three days as it takes days to travel and reach here," she said. Mandya District Health Officer Dr Manche Gowda said they rely on Mysuru for the supply. While Mandya Medical College has a 13 kilolitres capacity, Adichunchanagiri Institute of Medical Sciences has another 13 kilolitres, Sanjo Hospital has two kilolitres storage. "We get a refill three to four times a day if there's a requirement. While the government hospitals alone require 350 jumbo cylinders, we need 500 per day," Gowda said. Karnataka's oxygen allocation has been increased from 802 metric tonnes per day to 865 metric tonnes per day. But the state requires 1,471 tonnes of oxygen. A total of 675 metric tonnes of oxygen out of 815 produced in the state go to the consumers in the state, the rest 140 tonnes are sent to other states. Karnataka also procures 130 tonnes from other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-oxygen-bottling-units-in-nine-districts-of-karnataka-982013.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to publish details of hospitals' oxygen supply daily||In the wake of the Chamarajanagar tragedy, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with oxygen manufacturers even as the government said on Monday that each district will publish details of the quantity supplied and distributed to hospitals everyday. This came following the death of two dozen patients in Chamarajanagar allegedly for want of oxygen supply.  According to an order, all oxygen-refilling agencies in a district and the BBMP will from now on furnish details of oxygen to DCs and BBMP respectively. They will have to give a detailed account of how much oxygen they received from suppliers and how much was supplied to hospitals and other establishments. The DCs and the BBMP commissioner will have to put the information on the oxygen supply available in the public domain. Also, the district officials will have to nominate a tahsildar-level official to camp at each refilling station to oversee the medical oxygen supply and to ensure that the supply to hospitals is smooth.  The additional DCs and one special commissioner in BBMP will be the oxygen nodal officer and ensure that these rules are followed, an order in this regard stated.  As per procedure, the oxygen manufacturers supply medical oxygen to approved suppliers, who in turn supply it to authorised refillers in a district. These refillers then supply the oxygen to hospitals.  Meanwhile, in the CM's meeting with the medical oxygen industry representatives, several measures were proposed to ensure that the oxygen supply is faster and is used in an efficient manner. Reducing the time taken to refill the oxygen tankers, providing a green corridor for faster movement of oxygen tankers, directing the toll gates to avoid unnecessary delay, converting nitrogen and argon tankers available for supplying oxygen, and making use of services of LPG tanker drivers in case of emergency, were among the measures proposed.  The chief minister also directed the oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to resolve any issues in the supply chain by directly flagging them with the officials concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-publish-details-of-hospitals-oxygen-supply-daily-982018.html
03-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chamarajanagar: Congress demands judicial probe, asks BSY, Sudhakar to resign||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday demanded a judicial inquiry into the death of two dozen patients in Chamarajanagar, even as he asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Health Minister K Sudhakar and district in-charge S Suresh Kumar to resign.  “The death of 24 people is murder by the government,” Siddaramaiah said. “Owning moral responsibility, the CM, the health minister and the district in-charge minister should resign. Also, the government should give Rs 25 lakh to the families of each of the deceased,” he said. “The Chamarajanagar district hospital has 180 beds of which 120 are oxygen beds. There are 20 ventilators. The Covid-19 patients need 350 oxygen cylinders daily that are supplied from Mysuru. The oxygen problem started on Friday, but the government didn’t wake up. The deputy commissioners of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar should have coordinated with each other,” he said.  Later in the day, a delegation led by Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar met Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar to discuss the pandemic situation, especially oxygen supply and availability of beds.  “The oxygen demand is 1,750 tonnes. The Centre has allocated 850 tonnes to the state, which is almost 50%,” Shivakumar said after meeting Kumar.  “The government has sufficient space in state-run hospitals to increase the number of beds. I’ve offered my hostel for a 500-bed facility. But the government isn’t adding beds because of the shortage of oxygen,” he said.  KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy said he had petitioned the Karnataka State Human Rights Commission on the Chamarajanagar incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chamarajanagar-congress-demands-judicial-probe-asks-bsy-sudhakar-to-resign-982021.html
03-05-2021||West||Maharashtra’s power generator to ramp up oxygen production||As India grapples with a severe shortage of medical oxygen, Maharashtra’s energy company Mahagenco has decided to ramp up production. Accordingly, rapid steps are being taken to supplement the oxygen supply to the severely affected coronavirus victims from the ozonation plants of Mahagenco’s Khaparkheda, Koradi, Paras and Parli power plants. “... Maharashtra is getting enough power in case of emergencies because Mahagenco is achieving sustainable power generation during the challenging times of coronavirus pandemic, but that is not all….the power plants are working hard to supply oxygen to the nearby government hospitals,” state Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut said. Mahagenco CMD Sanjay Khandare and his team are working round-the-clock to ramp up medical oxygen production for supplies to hospitals. In the first phase, Mahagenco’s new Parli power station immediately set up an oxygen plant at Swami Ramanand Tirtha Rural Hospital in Ambejogai with a capacity of 288 jumbo cylinders per day and 95.2 per cent purity. With the commissioning of the plant on 27 April, Covid-19 affected patients in the Parli-Beed area have got a major relief. A similar plant with a capacity of 84 cubic meters per hour is also being set up at Parbhani Zilla Parishad covid Hospital and will be operational next week. The second phase will now relocate the existing ozonation plant at Khaparkheda and Paras power stations to the nearest government hospital premises to achieve oxygen generation. Oxygen supply will be achieved by Khaparkheda Power Station at a capacity of 42 cubic meters per hour and by Paras Power Station at a capacity of 50 cubic meters per hour. Mahagenco has started the process to complete the construction of this oxygen plant within the next one to one and a half months. The third phase of the plan will be to set up refilling/bottling plants at power plants at Koradi (Nagpur), Paras (Akola) and Parli (Beed). This phase will be realised by immediately importing/supplying the latest technology compressors, filters and other essential machinery from abroad. The process of erection and safe maintenance repairs is underway for the coming year. From this stage 1,002 jumbo cylinders per day will be rolled out through Koradi power station, 128 cylinders through Paras power station, Parli power will produce 216 cylinders of oxygen. However, all these processes will be completed and adequate time will be required for the operation of the oxygen plant in the power plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-s-power-generator-to-ramp-up-oxygen-production-981822.html
03-05-2021||West||India must know the truth about threats to SII CEO Adar Poonawalla: Maharashtra minister||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla’s claims of receiving threats seem to be becoming an important issue in Maharashtra. The SII facilities are located in Pune in Maharashtra. Minister of State for Home and Shiv Sena leader Shambhuraj Desai said Poonawalla must send a written complaint, so that the government can take action accordingly. “The country and every citizen would like to know the truth behind the interview given by Poonawalla in London. He says that if he speaks the truth, he will be killed. Let the country know the truth,” said state’s Housing Minister and senior NCP leader Jitendra Awhad. Meanwhile, state Congress President Nana Patole said Poonawalla should not worry about threats. “He should concentrate on vaccine production, we will take care of security…he already has been provided Y+ category security,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-must-know-the-truth-about-threats-to-sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-maharashtra-minister-981875.html
03-05-2021||West||Maharashtra club asked to shut golf course after video of Anil Ambani taking a stroll goes viral||Civic authorities at the popular hill station Mahabaleshwar have asked a private club to shut down its golf course ground after a video of industrialist Anil Ambani taking a walk there went viral on social media. Ambani who is in Mahabaleshwar along with his wife Tina and children was seen taking an evening walk at the golf course recently despite the lockdown-like restrictions in the state not allowing any such activity, sources said. The notice issued by Mahabaleshwar Council chief officer Pallavi Patil warned of action under the Disaster Management Act, Indian Penal Code, and Epidemic Diseases Act if the establishment does not bar people from coming there for morning or evening walks during the ongoing restrictions. "A video of Anil Ambani along with some family members taking a walk at the ground went viral on social media. After verifying the video, we slapped a notice on The Club, which owns the ground, instructing them to bar the entry of people coming for morning and evening walks," Patil said. The ground has been closed and the entry of people has been barred after the notice was issued, she said. The 11-hole golf course from the British era, set amidst a deep and evergreen forest is a serene spot amid the hustle and bustle of the iconic hill station, a resident said. An official said the Ambanis arrived in Mahabaleshwar much before the recent coronavirus-induced restrictions came into force and have been living in a bungalow here. Located about 120 km southwest of Pune and 280 km from Mumbai, Mahabaleshwar is a vast plateau bound by valleys on all sides. It is the source of the Krishna river that flows across Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Known for its captivating beauty, Mahabaleshwar boasts of a calm breeze at all times, vantage points offering stunning views of hills and valleys and plenty of strawberries to gorge on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-club-asked-to-shut-golf-course-after-video-of-anil-ambani-taking-a-stroll-goes-viral-981921.html
03-05-2021||West||As Pramod Sawant's lockdown ends, local satraps launch their own Covid-19 lockdowns in Goa||The Goa government's lockdown may have ended on Monday morning, but with no respite from the Covid-19 surge, the state's legislators and even village panchayats have willy-nilly launched a string of lockdowns, with jurisdictions ranging from small village panchayats to large municipal areas, including markets. The series of lockdowns announced over the last 24 hours by both opposition and ruling MLAs and individual village panchayats could be viewed as an embarrassment for Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who has specifically ruled out any lockdowns in the future, after the four-day lockdown ended on Monday morning. Leader of Opposition and Congress MLA Digambar Kamat has imposed a lockdown of the Margao municipal area in South Goa, the state's second-biggest market place, in view of the rising Covid-19 count, saying each one has to take care of oneself in the midst of the Covid-19 infection blitz. "My responsibility as MLA of Margao constituency is to ensure the safety of Madgaonkars. I had urged for extension of lockdown in Goa but the government refused. My humble request to  Madgaonkars is to go for voluntary lockdown for a week from tomorrow to help in our fight against Covid," Kamat has maintained. Local merchants have expressed support to the former Chief Minister's call. In the trading town of Mapusa in North Goa, BJP MLA Joshua De Souza also called for a voluntary shut down of the Mapusa market, a popular landmark in the state. "I have a responsibility towards the people of Mapusa and their best interests is my utmost priority. The government has enforced restrictions till May 10 and we should now do our bit towards a voluntary lockdown in light of the rising covid cases," he said. Hours before Chief Minister Pramod Sawant imposed the statewide four-day lockdown last Thursday, three villages Calangute, Candolim and Arpora had already downed their shutters after local MLA and Goa's Ports Minister Michael Lobo, announced a 10-day lockdown, in wake of rising Covid-19 numbers. Two villages near Panaji, Salvador do Mundo and Penha de Franca have also announced a lockdown due to the Covid-19 spike. "The world is going through precarious times right now. As a response to the rising cases in Porvorim, the villages of Salvador Do Mundo and Penha De Franca have voluntarily opted for a 15-day lockdown. I urge each one of you to co-operate with us to contain the spread and come together so that we can come out of this crisis stronger," local opposition legislator Rohan Khaunte said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-pramod-sawants-lockdown-ends-local-satraps-launch-their-own-covid-19-lockdowns-in-goa-981971.html
03-05-2021||West||Mumbai daily Covid-19 cases drop below 3,000-mark||Mumbai's single-day Covid-19 cases dropped below the 3,000-mark on Wednesday, but so have the number of tests being conducted. During the last 24 hours, Mumbai reported 2,624 cases and 78 deaths while the larger Mumbai metropolitan region recorded 6,680 cases and 195 deaths. During the day, Maharashtra reported 48,621 cases and 567 deaths taking the progressive total to 47,71,022 and 70,8451, respectively. However, as the Mumbai cases came down, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to increase the testing. Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that the city’s highest single-day testing from March 2020 till February 10, 2021 — when the second wave hit Mumbai — was 24,500. “However, immediately thereafter, our testing was more than doubled and touched 56,000 tests on a single day in April 2021. Our average daily testing in the month of April was nearly 44,000 per day,” he said. Chahal pointed out that the testing figures have fallen in the last few days from 50,000-plus to 38,000 day before and 28,000 on Sunday. “It’s likely to fall further during weekends. Our aggressive testing policy has resulted in reduction of positivity rate. This might have reduced the natural demand for home collection of swabs by our citizens in the last few days. We need to increase the testing to 40,000 per day, at least, if not more,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-below-3000-mark-981983.html
