04-05-2021||Comment||Healthy reading habits||An average middle-class urban adult—consciously, subconsciously, and unconsciously via TV, radio, social media, smartphones, and other devices—is estimated to consume over 34 gigabytes of data every day. This equivalent of 1 lakh words of “chop block” content sabotages deep work, deep learning and deep thinking. It is the biggest challenge for schools, colleges, teachers, parents, and employers in the next decade. Being mindful about what and how we read is the best antidote to this tsunami crowding out the space for human reflection, ingenuity, and empathy. This needs action by schools, parents, and policymakers. Neuroscience, psychology, and pedagogy research have made considerable progress in understanding our brain, mind, and behaviour. Professor Cal Newport of Georgetown warns that the hive mind distracts from the deep work of rethinking and reshaping your patterns of thought. MIT Professor Sinan Aral’s new book The Hype Machine warns about the adverse effects of social media on society, politics, and children. Psychologist Sherry Turkle suggests that shifting the question from ‘What is technology doing for us?’ to ‘What is technology doing to us?” surfaces the unintended consequences of digital devices and encourages a recentering of intimate, relational face-to-face dialogue and deeper reflection to deal with the ‘empathy gap’. The most actionable advice comes from neuroscientist ‘reading warrior’ Maryanne Wolf. Dr Wolf’s work reminds us of Greek dramatist Menander’s 2300-year-old aphorism ‘Those who can read, see twice as well”. Reading is about three critical skills: fluency, comprehension, and critical thinking, which are connected by two underlying abilities, literacy and reflection. “We were never born to read” is the basis of Dr Wolf’s research into the complex process that humans evolved for the neuronal connections needed for decoding sounds, symbols and then constructing words, sentences, and meaning. Reading requires individual tuning in each human brain and Dr Wolf’s research suggests the importance of re-conceptualising the first 2,000 days in homes and preschools (when reading circuits are laid down) and the second 2,000 days from kindergarten to fifth grade (when children learn to read and start reading to learn). Wolf also suggests that digital access is not digital literacy and our young also need to evolve a “biliterate brain with distinctly different modes of reading”, to become “expert code switchers”, able to move among media and from light reading to deep analysis and back again the way bilingual people switch between languages. Let’s look at what three stakeholders can do. The teaching of reading has to become multi-modal (reading can be physical or digital, and these form different pathways and outcomes), multimedia (reading is not only alphabet-based, but also acoustic or reading aloud, and tactile or sensory across forms like film, art, etc), multicultural (interactions, expressions, and meaning assigned differ across cultures and this knowledge is fundamental to the formation of intellectual, social and emotional experience and key to creativity in global learning and workplaces) and multilingual. NEP2020 recognises reading as critical to reform because children learn to read, so they can read to learn, and those left behind by Grade 3 in this critical milestone, stay behind. Covid-19 has created reading losses with online learning, as demonstrated by the 2020 Stanford CREDO. The development of reading in English, Hindi, Kannada, or any other language needs the support of aligned standards, sequenced curriculum, staged and varied resources, and renewed teaching approaches. Schools must start with assessing reading skills at all levels and change routines, resources, and training. It takes a village to bring up a child but change begins at home. Thoughtful interventions can include, creating reading maps for children (and adults) that feed and build knowledge preferences, embracing some extrinsic motivation (for example, healthy reading challenges that balance global reading with Indian literature), and building home libraries that have diverse, multicultural, multilingual books. Safe spaces Maryanne Wolf advises us to build and revisit shelves of books that made us who we are; if we find this absent in our lives, we need to ask ourselves whether we want it present at least in our children’s lives, for books hold a world that they can travel and explore at their fingertips. Tagore agreed with education reformer John Dewey’s wisdom “we don’t learn from experience, we learn from reflecting on experience”. We must create time for discussions and debates that value readers while building relationships and safe spaces for discussions, especially during Covid-19.  We must speed up implementing NEP2020, and in the meanwhile free up government and private schools that demonstrate excellence on its metrics, expand public libraries and fill them with great global literature. We must support programmes and resources needed to develop reading skills and recognise children’s writers and literacy teachers as a public good. We must also regulate technology better. Dr Aral suggests that only policy can put society in control of the ‘hype loop’ which is “the cyclical interplay of the machine and human intelligence that determines what we focus on and how information and knowledge are distributed” shifting control to the human agency loop. Facebook owns Whatsapp and Instagram. Google owns Youtube. While for some countries Facebook is the internet, the US is now wondering how to deal with technology monopolies without killing innovation. India needs our own debate around privacy, data integrity, interoperability and competition. Our parents had 35-year careers in one job and place. We face 45-year careers across a few jobs, places, and professions. Our children will have 60 years of many careers in many places and in many professions that don’t exist today. The only thing that can prepare them for this new world of work, organisation and skills is lifelong learning. And deep reading is a habit that can build it. Deep reading isn’t doomed but without mindful choices, the future looks shallower, riskier, and unhealthier. (The writer is Head of Neev Academy and Co-founder, Neev litfest)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/healthy-reading-habits-982058.html
04-05-2021||First Edit||Where deaths are mere statistics||The death of at least 24 Covid-19 patients within 24 hours, many of them due to lack of oxygen at the Chamarajanagar government hospital in Karnataka is not just shocking, but also exposes the perils of the absence of a strong leadership in the state to tackle the pandemic. Karnataka’s fight against Covid-19 has faced many pitfalls right from the start with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa failing to rein in his warring ministers during the initial days and then his inability along with that of Health Minister K Sudhakar to evolve a strategy to counter the second wave, though experts had sounded the warning bells long ago. Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner N R Ravi insists that the deaths were not linked to non-availability of oxygen and that the deceased had comorbidities. But the fact remains that all the dead were on oxygen support and it is unlikely that they would all succumb together to their comorbidities in a span of 24 hours. District in-charge minister S Suresh Kumar has now ordered a “death audit” to ascertain the actual cause of demise, but what is the point of locking the stables after the horses have bolted? The health minister who clearly does not understand the gravity of the situation and has been accused by his own partymen of adopting a casual approach towards the pandemic, has repeatedly assured that there is no scarcity of medical oxygen in the state. But the ground realities are completely different. While two patients died due to lack of oxygen in Kalaburagi recently—local MLA Priyank Kharge puts it at eight—social media is full of horror stories about the difficulties faced by hospitals and the common man to procure oxygen cylinders and concentrators.  In October last, six Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants were sanctioned to Karnataka under PM Cares, but not one of them is operational as yet. While neighbouring Kerala exports surplus oxygen to other states, it is baffling that Karnataka has still not got its basics right, be is hospital or ICU beds, Covid Care Centres, vital medicines or vaccines.  What happened in Chamarajanagar is not only revolting but is a crime against humanity that should not go unpunished. Though we have so far conveniently blamed all drawbacks on systemic failure and allowed the real culprits to go scot-free, it is now time to fix accountability and crack the whip. Recently, the health minister of Jordan resigned after some patients died due to oxygen outage. Unfortunately, we in India are not made up of such high moral fibre. Here, deaths are only statistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/where-deaths-are-mere-statistics-982057.html
04-05-2021||In Perspective||New ways of grieving, mourning||There is probably no person left in India who has not lost a family member, colleague or a friend in the last two months. Over time, all that we do is leave an Om Shanti or a RIP message on a social media platform and move on, till those words seem to have lost their meaning and significance. Grief has become disenfranchised and nothing has prepared us for this form of grief where goodbyes are fleeting, there are no traditional mourning rituals, no closure and no remembrances. Just as we have dealt with one loss, another one happens and then another, till the mind unable to fathom this enormity of emotions, becomes numb. Mourning has always been a community affair with different religions having their own unique ways of handling loss, bereavement and grief. One common theme in all ways of mourning, be it religious or non-religious, is of bringing family and friends together to honour and remember the bereaved person, to finding continuity between life, death and beyond and being able to start the journey towards the acceptance of loss. The sharing of memories by different people, the awareness that the person’s life was meaningful and touched all those who came in contact with them helps in reminiscing and celebrating the lost person in the presence of others. The lighting of the lamp, laying of flowers and wreaths, sprinkling of mud on the grave and the prayer meeting are symbols of respect and dignity. Grief resolution processes encompass the physical, social and psychological dimensions of individual loss as well as a connection to spiritual beliefs, family networks, and cultural practices. While death itself usually cannot be predicted, the cultural and religious rituals associated with it have always been familiar and comforting. With Covid-19, all that has been lost. In its place, is an isolating and dehumanising experience without family and friends being around. Many people have had to deal with multiple losses, while for most, there have been no final closures or goodbyes and the utter helplessness of not being able to give their loved one a dignified death. A wife mentioned how she had to carry the wood to light her husband’s pyre in the heat of Delhi summer all by herself as there were only two others with her. A daughter mentioned that being tested positive for infection, her father’s cremation was performed by strangers while her brother and she were in isolation. Then there is guilt at not being able to do enough, anger at the system, at the virus and at the unfairness of it all. We can’t even say – Why Me any longer. It is – Why Us or Why This? Here lies the connection between individual grief and collective grief. As a country we are handling the enormous burden of collective grief without any new methods or solutions to collective mourning. Group memorials How can we mourn together, with each other, in solidarity? Should there be private memorials or group memorials for the departed? Could we create Covid memorial gardens and plant a sapling in the departed soul’s name, or have a day to remember all those who lost their lives to this horrific pandemic? Should there be a national mourning? With social distancing as a new lifestyle now, in-person group mournings may be impossible. Should we consider innovative ways of mourning using online and virtual ways? There can be mourning by Whatsapp groups or Zoom or whatever method. The rudalis and shyapas can also be held online. Social media will become the social support and replace in-person social gatherings for the purpose of mourning and many other group activities. Families are calling up priests on a Whatsapp call to complete the last rites, handling of the ashes and funeral functions. Death related ritualistic feasting can also be thought of by food delivery methods. Religious leaders can suggest more alternatives. Other methods of expressing collective grief without people gathering is through `eulogy websites’ – one could light a virtual lamp, shower flowers, lay a wreath, light a virtual agarbatti, or leave a message or any other words of solace and peace. Youngsters and children could write a letter to their parents or grandparents on these websites. The rituals surrounding death can be performed by newer ways that are feasible. Nothing stops everything. The role of health professionals, including mental health professionals, and counsellors is to acknowledge the limitations of the current situation, which may even become, a permanent feature. Like new ways of working and living in the new normal, one should explore new ways of grieving and mourning. Viktor Frankl, psychiatrist and the author of Man’s Search Meaning said – “Finding a meaning is a good way to mitigate suffering”. However, finding a meaning to this calamity seems distant, and one wonders, if we would ever find it; till then this suffering of grief will continue to torment us. (Chandra is Professor of Psychiatry and Chaturvedi is Ex-Dean and Retired Senior Professor of Psychiatry, Nimhans, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/new-ways-of-grieving-mourning-982190.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘No oxygen shortage in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi for time being’||Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts do not seem to be facing a shortage of oxygen for the time being. As a precautionary measure, work orders have been issued for setting up oxygen plants in taluk hospitals under CSR activities of mega industries in Dakshina Kannada, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said.  The DC said that there are three oxygen refilling units in Dakshina Kannada and the units supply medical oxygen to all the hospitals in the district. There was a slight delay in the supply of liquid oxygen from Palakkad in Kerala to the oxygen refilling units. As a result, there is a slight problem in the distribution of oxygen cylinders to the hospitals. No hospitals in the district are facing any shortage of oxygen for the time being. The public need not panic over the shortage of oxygen, he clarified. About eight tonnes of oxygen is required in the district. Wenlock Hospital and eight private hospitals have facilities to store oxygen that is sufficient for 15 days. The oxygen used in industries has been reserved for medical purpose. Hence, there is no shortage, for the time being, said Assistant Drug Controller Ramakanth. Three firms are engaged in supplying oxygen to Dakshina Kannada. The firms get liquid oxygen from Kerala and fill it in cylinders for supply. DHO Dr Kishore Kumar said that the oxygen plants that were being set up in Wenlock Hospital, ESI hospital and taluk hospitals would be completed by four weeks. Udupi The supply of oxygen is on par with the demand in Udupi district. The district requires 5,000 to 6,000 kilolitres of oxygen per day. District hospital has a 6,000-kilolitre capacity plant and KMC Manipal has a 20,000-kilolitre capacity plant, sources in the Health Department said. Oxygen is being procured from Ballari. At present, the district hospital has 1,200 kilolitres of oxygen. Further, oxygen is stored in 140 jumbo cylinders. The oxygen will be supplied from Ballari within two days, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-oxygen-shortage-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-for-time-being-982145.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MRPL to set up oxygen generation plants across Karnataka||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) has decided to install oxygen generation plants in Dakshina Kannada district and other parts of the state to support the fight against Covid-19. One will come up at the government Wenlock Hospital, while four others will be in places chosen by the government.  The MRPL’s parent company ONGC will also set up two more oxygen plants in Karnataka. The plant in the district will be set up at the Wenlock Hospital that can produce 930 litres of oxygen per minute.  Shell MRPL Aviation (SMA), a joint venture between MRPL and Shell, will contribute Rs 75 lakh to the initiative. The MRPL has already placed an order for this unit at an estimated cost of Rs 1.12 crore. This system will have compressors, PSA tank, filters, tanks, dryers etc and will ensure oxygen pressure of four bars with purity meeting requirements. This should be sufficient to meet the medical oxygen demand, according to MRPL managing director M Venkatesh. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has directed different Oil and Gas Public Sector Undertakings to set up 28 oxygen plants in Karnataka. The MRPL has already placed orders for two plants. Each plant is capable of generating 530 litres of oxygen per minute. An amount of Rs 1.4 crore is being spent on the two plants. During the first Covid wave, the MRPL supported the district administration with food kits, sanitisers, masks, travel arrangements for migrant workers and food for the unorganised sector. Venkatesh added, "The MRPL is committed to help the public in distress.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mrpl-to-set-up-oxygen-generation-plants-across-karnataka-982147.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 Covid-19 patients die of oxygen shortage in Karnataka's Kalaburagi||Four Covid-19 patients died of oxygen shortage at the Afzalpur taluk hospital in Kalaburagi district on Monday late at night. A total of 30 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in the hospital.  According to the sources, six oxygen cylinders that were available in the hospital on Monday were given to the patients. After all the cylinders were exhausted on Monday night, four patients breathed their last. Taluk Health officer called Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna on Tuesday morning requesting her to supply oxygen to the hospital. Other patients heaved a sigh of relief as the oxygen cylinders reached the hospital by 11.30 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-covid-19-patients-die-of-oxygen-shortage-in-karnatakas-kalaburagi-982157.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||SKDRDP training centres converted to covid care centres||Keeping in mind the rise in Covid-19 cases, Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade has directed the conversion of training centres of Shri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP) into covid care centres. Executive Director Dr L H Manjunath said as per the directions of Heggade,  Janajagruthi Madhyamukta Samshodhana Kendra in Ujire, Human Resource Training Centre in Mysuru and Jnanavikasa Training Centre in Dharwad have been converted to Covid care centres for isolating the infected persons. In the first phase, arrangements have been made for 175 patients in three centres. In case of necessity, arrangements will be made for 800 patients in the days to come, said Dr Manjunath. Each centre needs medicines to treat the infected, lodging and food facilities. Arrangements have also been made to ferry the patients to the hospital in case of any emergency. Each centre will have two nurses. Further, he said if demands raise, then a centre in Belthangady and Udupi too will be converted as covid care centres. Counselling Further, on the direction of Hemavathi Heggade, Gelathi Family Counselling centre will start counselling the Covid victims. Last year with the help of the health department, Covid patients received counselling via phone. The counselling helps in instilling confidence and also to understand the health conditions of the patients who are in home isolation. Vehicles The SKDRDP has arranged free vehicles to ferry Covid patients in all taluks in the state. It is not an ambulance only a passenger vehicle, said Dr L H Manjunath. Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade had ordered for the arrangement of 350 vehicles across the state with two vehicles for a taluk. The vehicles have already been arranged. Those who are in need of it can contact the project officer of the taluks. Further, the SHG activities have been suspended till May 15, in the backdrop of the rise in covid cases. All the activities of collecting money, paying the loan of the SHGs will remain suspended till May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/skdrdp-training-centres-converted-to-covid-care-centres-982184.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalasad visits Chamarajanagar hospital for probe||A team, led by IAS officer and KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi Kalasad, visited the district Covid Hospital in Chamarajanagar, where 23 patients died, allegedly due to shortage of Oxygen. Kalasad has been appointed as the inquiry officer to probe the tragedy.  The team interacted with the doctors and hospital staff and held discussion with Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi. Speaking to reporters, Kalasad said, “The probe is in the initial stage. Inquiry is conducted from all dimensions. We have collected all the details As the probe is still under initial stages, I cannot give any details. We have been directed to submit the report in three days”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalasad-visits-chamarajanagar-hospital-for-probe-982329.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mandya: Doctor attacked over death of Covid patient||Tension prevailed for some time at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) Hospital when the irate family members of a Covid-infected youth attacked a doctor, holding her responsible for his death, in the city on Tuesday. Dr Ayesha, a postgraduate medical student, who was attacked, is out of danger. The other staffers in the ward rescued her. According to officials, a 29-year-old youth was on ventilator support in the hospital. There was a power fluctuation for some time in the ward on Tuesday afternoon. Though the power resumed immediately, the family members alleged that the youth died as the ventilator stopped functioning. They entered the ward and started arguing, creating trouble. They attacked the doctor who was in the ward. This created anxiety among the family members of other patients. They also entered the ward, to ensure that the patients are safe. When the situation went out of control, the doctors alerted the police, who rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. According to the doctors, power fluctuation, for a few seconds, is a common problem. “The other patients have not faced any issue. The youth was admitted to the hospital in Mandya as he could not get treatment in Bengaluru. We had already told the family members that his condition was critical. He has died of Covid and not due to power variation,” they said. Meanwhile, doctors and medical students staged a protest, condemning the attack on Dr Ayesha. Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi visited the spot and assured them of providing necessary security to the medical staff. SP Ashwini said a case would be filed against those who attacked the doctor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-doctor-attacked-over-death-of-covid-patient-982334.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||BSY's home district Shivamogga sees 61 Covid deaths in 11 days||Shivamogga, the home district of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, has recorded 61 Covid deaths in just 11 days, causing anxiety among the people. According to data released by the district administration, the daily Covid deaths ranged between one and six between April 24 and May 1. It hit a high of 12 on May 2, while seven deaths were reported on May 3 and 15 deaths on May 4, the highest in a day over the last few months. Sources in the health department said though the Covid death rate is less than 1 per cent against last year’s 1.54 per cent, the same has gone up among people aged between 31 and 50 years, causing a lot of concern. The district has so far recorded a total of 420 deaths due to Covid-19. District health officer (DHO) Rajesh Suragihalli told DH that earlier, of the 10 deaths, around seven were aged above 60 years. But this year, the mortality rate is almost equal among middle-aged patients and the elderly.  He said recovery rate in the district is around 98 per cent, which is good. But the health condition of middle-aged people is deteriorating in a span of three days after being admitted to the hospital. This is shocking and the individual’s immunity level could be the reason for it, Suragihalli said. He made it clear that there is no shortage of medical oxygen and nobody died because of it in the district so far. The government McGann hospital has a medical oxygen storage tank with a capacity of 14,000 cubic metres. Of this, 7,000 cubic metres is consumed by the hospital daily. As many as 10 jumbo oxygen cylinders are being supplied to each of the taluk general hospitals every day. Covid patients are being treated in 13 private hospitals in the district and they need 330 jumbo cylinders. There is no shortage of medical oxygen in the district and the storage tanks are being filled on a regular basis to ensure that there is no crisis.  The DHO said around 2,000 Covid tests are being conducted in the district every day. More than 40 per cent of the primary contacts of the Covid patients are testing positive, he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bsys-home-district-shivamogga-sees-61-covid-deaths-in-11-days-982343.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wild jumbo strays into village, chases residents||A wild elephant chased a group of youths at Mallapura vilage in Belur taluk, Hassan district, on Tuesday. Following information that a wild elephant had strayed into the village, a group of youth went in search of the jumbo on Tuesday morning. However, the elephant suddenly appeared before them from the roadside and started chasing them. The youths managed to escape. However, the elephant disappeared after a while and could not be spotted anywhere in the vicinity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wild-jumbo-strays-into-village-chases-residents-982355.html
04-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five struck dead by lightning||Four persons were struck dead by lightning in Kudligi taluk of Vijayanagara district on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Chinnappa (40), Veeranna (50), B. Patreppa (43) and Rajashekhar (32). Chinnappa and Veeranna had taken shelter under a tree as it started raining when they were struck dead by lightning. Patreppa was closing a opening on the ceiling on his house when lightning struck him. Rajashekhar was on his way to his village when he was killed by lightning. The revenue officials and police personnel visited the spot. In another incident, 45-year-old Siddamma Bheemappa Kouluru was killed due to lightning in Munagala village of Raichur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-struck-dead-by-lightning-982356.html
04-05-2021||National||Treat HC remarks as a 'bitter pill': SC to EC||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Election Commission to take the Madras High Court’s recent comment — on slapping murder charges against its officials for failing to ensure adherence to Covid protocols during the poll process in Tamil Nadu — in the right spirit and as a bitter pill. The top court said reporting by the media on the judicial process in courts brought about accountability among judges and fostered citizens’ confidence. “We cannot expect the media not to report dialogues. Oral observations are as important as judicial orders. The unfolding process of judicial thinking is equally of interest to the public,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The court, however, said that the comment was quite strong but must have been made out of anguish and frustration. It reserved the order on a petition by the poll panel against the oral comments by the high court. The bench assured the EC that the top court would try to balance the situation but it cannot ask the high court judges not to make comments beyond the pleadings. Sometimes, judges say certain things in larger public interest, the court said. “The observations by the judges are momentary while what leaves its footprints on the sands of time is the written order,” the bench said. The court termed as far-fetched a contention made by senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, on behalf of the Election Commission, that the media should not report the oral observations which did not form part of the final order. The poll panel faced a lot of flak for failing to limit huge gatherings in public rallies in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and the Union Territory of Puducherry during the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treat-hc-remarks-as-a-bitter-pill-sc-to-ec-982066.html
04-05-2021||National||Armed forces recalling medical officers from key bases for deployment at Covid care facilities||As India battles a calamitous second wave of Covid-19, the armed forces are taking a series of measures like recalling doctors and other medical staff from key bases to help civilian authorities deal with the sudden surge in coronavirus infections. Medical officers posted with various recruiting offices, National Cadet Corps and on staff appointments are also being recalled for their deployment in areas witnessing high caseloads, officials said. In another move to increase the availability of doctors, the defence ministry on April 23 announced giving extension till December 31 to all the Short Service Commissioned doctors in Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) who were due for retirement. "This will augment the strength of AFMS by 238 more doctors," the ministry said. The officials said courses of all doctors have been cancelled and steps are being taken to ensure that services of military doctors are not wasted on administrative duties or for overseeing the quarantine centres. These doctors are being deployed for providing medical support in dealing with the surging cases of the Covid-19. The officials said medical officers from the frontline formations are being recalled for their deployment in various Covid-19 hospitals and medical facilities. The officials said the number of oxygenated beds available with the AFMS was 1,821 on Apr 19 which has been bolstered to 4,220 on Apr 30, adding efforts are also underway to increase this bed strength further. "As the nation faces one of the worst health care crises in human history, the Indian Armed Forces are throwing in their might to reach out and help the citizens in these challenging times. Towards this aim, a number of hospitals are being set up across the country," said a senior official. The officials said the armed forces have set up hospitals at multiple locations and a large number of men and women of the military have left the comfort of their homes and moved to these hospitals. In Delhi, the armed forces have set up the 500-bed Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Covid Hospital near the airport. Around 122 medical officers, 48 nursing officers and 120 paramedical staff from the Army, Navy and Air Force are deployed at the facility. The Dhanvantri Covid Care Hospital at Ahmedabad, inaugurated Home Minister Amit Shah, was the second hospital that was made functional with the help of Armed Forces Medical Services. Another hospital is now working round the clock at Patna in Bihar. Similar facilities are being made functional in the very near future at Lucknow and Varanasi, the officials said. The Armed Forces Dhanvantri Covid Care Hospital at Ahmedabad is working with support from the state machinery and it is planned to be made a 900-bed facility. The officials said more than 200 seriously ill patients, who have been infected by the deadly virus, are being treated at the hospital. "The ICU in this hospital is almost ready and will start working in service of the critically ill patients soon. A contingent of about 70 health care personnel from the three Services have been moved from various parts of the Country and are deployed at the Ahmedabad hospital," said an official. The officials said post-graduate resident doctors have willingly volunteered to defer their critical post-graduate training and are providing their services to treat Covid-19 patients. The officials said Covid-19 hospitals are also being set up at Lucknow and Varanasi. The armed forces have already earmarked a contingent of 33 doctors, 69 paramedical staff and 34 nursing staff for the hospital at Lucknow which is planned to be a 450-bed facility.   The hospital in Varanasi will have 750 beds and is being made functional in the next few days, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-forces-recalling-medical-officers-from-key-bases-for-deployment-at-covid-care-facilities-982089.html
04-05-2021||National||Over 2.15 lakh people in 18-44 age group receive 1st dose of vaccine on May 3||More than 2.15 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received the first dose of the anti-Covid vaccine across 12 states and Union territories in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Monday. The total number of vaccinations across the country has crossed 15.88 crore with nearly 16.5 lakh vaccine doses administered on Monday (till 8 pm). A total of 2,15,185 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received the first dose of the vaccine across 12 states and Union territories in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 15,88,71,435, according to a provisional report compiled at 8 pm, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-215-lakh-people-in-18-44-age-group-receive-1st-dose-of-vaccine-on-may-3-982092.html
04-05-2021||National||Give priority to Maharashtra in vaccine allocation: Tope to Serum CEO||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Monday urged Serum Institute of India Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla to give priority to the state in providing its anti-coronavirus vaccine as the government was ready to purchase doses from the Pune-based company. He said the Maharashtra government was even ready to purchase Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Talking to the media, Tope said since Poonawalla hails from Pune, he should think about Maharashtra and give priority to his home state in allocating Covishield, the anti -coronavirus vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII). He said Serum Institute has declared it would provide vaccine doses only in July and August. We have started the vaccination programme for the 18 -44 age group people, but due a shortage of vaccines, we are unable to accelerate the programme, he said. Due to a "mini-lockdown" currently in force in Maharashtra, Covid-19 cases are declining in the state, the Health Minister said. On Monday, Maharashtra reported 48,621 new Covid-19 cases and 567 deaths. He said in view of the rising cases in the country, US epidemiologist Anthony Fauci has suggested a lockdown for a few weeks in India as an immediate step to contain the spread of the coronavirus. It is up to the Indian government totake a decision on the issue (nationwide lockdown) and the Maharashtra government will follow the direction of the Centre, Tope said. Earlier in the day, Poonawalla said his firm cannot ramp up production overnight as vaccine making is a specialised process. SII has orders from the Government of India to supply 11 crore more doses over the next few months on top of 15 crore already supplied, he said in a statement. Another 11 crore doses will be supplied to states and private hospitals in the next few months, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-priority-to-maharashtra-in-vaccine-allocation-tope-to-serum-ceo-982096.html
04-05-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar holds talks with US counterpart Blinken in London||In their first in-person meeting, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Monday deliberated on ways to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, situation in Indo-Pacific and issues relating to climate change. Jaishankar and Blinken held the talks in London on the sidelines of the G7 foreign ministers' meeting. In a series of tweets, Jaishankar said he conveyed to Blinken appreciation for the support extended by the US to India in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. "Good to meet in person my old friend @SecBlinken. Detailed discussion on the global Covid challenge, focussing on expanded vaccine production capacity and reliable supply chains," he tweeted. The external affairs minister said the meeting also covered issues relating to Indo-Pacific, climate change and UN Security Council. "Expressed appreciation for the strong US support to India at this difficult time, especially oxygen and Remdesivir. Our meeting also covered issues of Indo-Pacific, UN Security Council, Myanmar and climate change," he said. Sources here said Jaiishankar and Blinken held in-depth discussion on the Covid-19 challenge and the immediate requirements of India. Blinken assured Jaiishankar that the US was monitoring developments closely and would respond positively to any Indian requirements. Sources said the next shipment of medical supplies from the US is landing in India soon. It was also conveyed to Jaiishankar that supply of oxygen and related equipment to India will continue to be key priority of the US. The US has also acted on India's request for supply of more Remdesivir medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-us-counterpart-blinken-in-london-982097.html
04-05-2021||National||Restrictions easing in US, Europe amid disaster in India||Air travel in the US hit its highest mark since Covid-19 took hold more than 13 months ago, while European Union officials are proposing to ease restrictions on visitors to the continent as the vaccine rollout sends new cases and deaths tumbling in more affluent countries. The improving picture in many places contrasts with the worsening disaster in India. In the US, the average number of new cases per day fell below 50,000 for the first time since October. And nearly 1.67 million people were screened at US airport checkpoints on Sunday, according to the Transportation Security Administration, the highest number since mid-March of last year. Las Vegas is bustling again after casino capacity limits were raised Saturday to 80 per cent and person-to-person distancing dropped to 3 feet (0.9 metres). EU officials announced a proposal Monday to relax restrictions on visiting the 27-nation bloc this summer, though the final decision is up to its member countries. “Time to revive EU tourism industry and for cross-border friendships to rekindle — safely,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said. “We propose to welcome again vaccinated visitors and those from countries with a good health situation.” In Greece, restaurants and cafes reopened their terraces on Monday after six months of the shutdown, with customers flocking to soak up the sunshine. In France, high schools reopened and a ban on domestic travel was lifted. But with more contagious variants taking hold, efforts are underway to boost vaccination efforts. In Detroit, officials began going door-to-door to persuade residents to get immunised. Brazil, once the epicentre of the pandemic, has has been overtaken by a surge in India that has overrun crematoriums and made it clear the pandemic is far from over. As the US and other countries rushed in aid, India reported nearly 370,000 new cases and more than 3,400 deaths Monday — numbers that experts believe are vast undercount because of a widespread lack of testing and incomplete reporting. In Germany, Bavarian officials canceled Oktoberfest for a second year in a row because of the safety risks. The beer-drinking festivities typically attract about 6 million visitors from around the world. And in Italy, medical experts and politicians expressed concern about a possible spike in infections after tens of thousands of jubilant soccer fans converged on Milan's main square Sunday to celebrate Inter Milan's league title.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restrictions-easing-in-us-europe-amid-disaster-in-india-982099.html
04-05-2021||National||India will need 11K MT oxygen by May 5, Centre tells HC||The union government has told Gujarat High Court on Monday that as per its projection by May 5, India would require a little over 11,000 metric ton (MT) of medical oxygen a day against  8,462 MT recorded on April 28, with states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan and Gujarat alone consuming nearly 6,000 MT. The figure is based on the central government's projection on the basis of rising coronavirus cases. This was revealed in an affidavit the central government filed in Gujarat High Court in response to a suo moto PIL which is slated for hearing on Tuesday. The affidavit stated that by May 5, the country will have over 37.77 lakh active cases and the requirement of oxygen supported beds would be over 6.42 lakh while more than 1.13 lakh ICU beds will be needed. The Centre has predicted that with 46 days of doubling rate, Maharashtra will have over 7.78 lakh active cases, followed by Karnataka with over 4.05 lakh cases (30 days of doubling rate), Uttar Pradesh, 4 lakh cases, (21 days doubling), Kerala, 3.21 lakh, (34 days doubling rate), Rajasthan, 2.15.lakh cases (22 days), and Gujarat will have 1.72 lakh cases (24 days). According to the affidavit, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan and Gujarat will respectively need 2284, 1191, 1174, 945, 632, 505 metric tons of medical oxygen by May 5. However, the data with regard to Gujarat is contrary to what Gujarat Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi told the court in an affidavit also filed on Monday.  She has stated, "ln view of the allocation of 975 MT of medical oxygen being now made by the Centre, as against a demand of 1190 MT across the state of Gujarat..." The government has added that it is trying to find alternatives and is also "continuously requesting the central Government to allocate an additional 200 MT" of medical oxygen. An official said that there seems to be a typographical error on Gujarat's oxygen demand projection (505 MT by May 5). The central government's affidavit states Covid-19 hospitals across the states have been categorised in three broad classes. Class 1 comprises of 80 per cent of cases that are mild and do not require oxygen, class 2 comprises of 17 per cent of cases which are moderate and could be managed on non-ICU beds and 50 per cent of them may require oxygen that is 10 litre per minute. Class-III comprises 3 per cent of cases which are severe ICU cases and require approximately 24 litre oxygen per minute. The affidavit says that based on these norms, "the oxygen requirements of different states on the basis of active cases is being calculated which in the estimates of the central government at present is around 8462 MT. However, since the actual percentage of ICU and non-ICU beds can vary in states, and also is variation in the per minute oxygen consumption, it is endeavoured that the demand from the states is considered as the actual requirement and allocation planned accordingly." While, the rest of the response of the central government has been taken from its submission before the Supreme Court which it has said that " the central government, with active and constant supervision and direct involvement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, is augmenting the oxygen supply on a war footing evolving and implementing innovative measures. Resultantly, more and more medical oxygen is generated and is being made available every day, keeping in mind not just 1 existing requirement but potential future requirements." The affidavit ends with a note stating, "It is respectfully submitted that this process is going on at a national level and is being undertaken at an international level. Any deviation by any judicial order based upon fact, situation and considerations existing in one state will completely frustrate the whole exercise and shall have a cascading effect."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-need-11k-mt-oxygen-by-may-5-centre-tells-hc-982102.html
04-05-2021||National||Pfizer says it told India there no safety concern with its Covid-19 vaccine||Pfizer Inc said on Monday it told the Indian government that there was no concern over the safety of its COVID-19 vaccine, as the country insists on small local trials for foreign shots despite a record surge in infections and shortage of doses. The government in mid-April made it easier for foreign vaccines approved in the West and Japan to sell in India, though companies would still have to initiate a local clinical trial within 30 days of receiving emergency use authorization. Previously, companies were required to do the trial prior to approval. India has invited Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc to sell their vaccines to the country but none have applied to do so yet. Pfizer, however, said it is holding fresh talks with the government after having withdrawn its initial application in February over the earlier local trial rule. "Pfizer’s application for emergency use authorization was supported with data that shows an overall efficacy rate of 95% with no safety concerns," a company spokeswoman told Reuters, when asked if it had sought an exception even to the current trial rule in its discussions with the government. She added that the safety and efficacy data had been backed by regulatory authorities in the United States, Britain, Japan and the World Health Organization - agencies that India endorses. Pfizer, which produces the vaccine with German partner BioNTech SE, reiterated that it would supply doses only through government contracts. Asked about the vaccine's ultra-low temperature storage requirements - minus 70 degrees Celsius (-90 F) - Pfizer said the company could deliver the shot to vaccination centers using its specially designed, temperature-controlled thermal shippers. It said doses could be stored in ultra-low-temperature freezers for up to six months, in the shippers for up to 30 days by refilling them with dry ice every five days, or in common refrigeration and freezer units for five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfizer-says-it-told-india-there-no-safety-concern-with-its-covid-19-vaccine-982103.html
04-05-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Save our lives before you vanish again'||Four states and a union territory are set to form new governments after Assembly elections concluded on May 3. The counting of votes this time happened in the shadow of a raging Covid-19 pandemic.  The country's daily Covid-19 cases showed a slight dip with 3.6 lakh new Covid-19 infections being reported in a day, taking the total case tally to 1.99 crore according to the Union Health Ministry data on May 4. New governments in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry will have the coronavirus on their agenda when they come to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-save-our-lives-before-you-vanish-again-982107.html
04-05-2021||National||Jaishankar to join G7 ministers to agree on action against threats to democracy||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will have his first interaction with the G7 leaders in London on Tuesday evening, when he joins foreign ministers from some of the world’s leading democracies to agree on decisive action on the most critical global issues such as threats to democracy. In the first major in-person diplomatic gathering since the coronavirus pandemic began and the first gathering of G7 Foreign Ministers since 2019, UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab will lead discussions on pressing geopolitical issues that threaten to undermine democracy, freedoms and human rights. This includes relations with Russia, China, and Iran as well as the crisis in Myanmar, the violence in Ethiopia and the ongoing war in Syria. At the end of a daylong set of sessions at Lancaster House in London involving foreign ministers from the G7 countries–Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, US, UK and the European Union (EU)–ministers from guest countries India, Australia, the Republic of Korea and South Africa and the Chair of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Foreign Ministers’ Meeting will join the discussions at a working dinner for the first time as the focus shifts to the Indo-Pacific region. “The UK’s presidency of the G7 is an opportunity to bring together open, democratic societies and demonstrate unity at a time when it is much needed to tackle shared challenges and rising threats,” Raab said. "The addition of our friends from Australia, India, the Republic of Korea and South Africa, as well as the chair of ASEAN reflects the growing significance of the Indo Pacific region for the G7," he said. The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) said the UK, as the host nation, will use the working dinner to outline Britain’s vision for cooperation between the G7 and the nations of the Indo-Pacific region to develop stronger trade ties, ensure stability and tackle climate change. Jaishankar, who arrived in London on Monday, is scheduled for a bilateral meeting with Raab on Thursday at Chevening in Kent, around 50 km from London. The G7 Foreign and Development Ministers’ discussions during the day on Tuesday will cover the coup in Myanmar as attendees watch a video from the National Unity Government which will update them on the situation on the ground. Raab will urge G7 nations to take stronger action against the military junta. This includes expanding targeted sanctions against individuals and entities connected to the junta; support for arms embargoes and increased humanitarian assistance for the most vulnerable in the country. The discussions will then turn to the situation in Libya and the ongoing war in Syria. The afternoon session will cover the situation in Ethiopia as well as Somalia, the Sahel and Western Balkans. The foreign ministers will also discuss Russia’s ongoing "malign activity", including through the build-up of troops on the border with Ukraine and its imprisonment of opposition figure Alexei Navalny and the situation in Belarus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-to-join-g7-ministers-to-agree-on-action-against-threats-to-democracy-982112.html
04-05-2021||National||Fauci's advice to India: Clamp nationwide lockdown, go for massive vaccination drive||Expressing concern over surging coronavirus cases in India, America’s top public health expert and White House Chief Medical Adviser Dr Anthony Fauci on Monday recommended a nationwide lockdown, massive vaccination drive and the construction of a large number of makeshift hospitals. “It is quite obvious to everyone that the situation in India is extremely serious," Dr Fauci, who is considered one of the world’s top infectious disease specialists, told PTI in an interview. “When you have so many people getting infected…the lack of the capability to take adequate care of everyone; when you have shortages of hospital beds and oxygen and shortages of supplies, that really becomes a very desperate situation. Which is the reason why we feel it's important for the rest of the world to help out, to the extent they can,” Dr Fauci said. Keeping a close tab on developments in India, given that US President Joe Biden has geared up the administration to help India, The director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases said there are certain things that India can do immediately, mid-term and long-term basis. “First of all right now, they should start getting as many people vaccinated as they possibly can, with both the vaccines that they develop themselves in India as well as supplies of vaccines that they may be able to procure from other suppliers, be that the United States, be that Russia… whatever country is willing whenever companies are willing to supply vaccine,” Dr Fauci said. However, getting someone "vaccinated now" does not solve today's problem, he noted, adding that it helps prevent a problem several weeks from now. "But the solution immediately right now is, and I know India is already doing it, so I'm not telling you something that you are not already doing. A few days ago, I recommended and I believe at least parts of India are doing it, that you shut down the country in lockdown,” he said. "Because other countries, including for example what China did last year, what Australia did when they had an outbreak, what New Zealand did, what other countries did is to completely lockdown for a relatively limited period of time. You don't have to lock down for six months. You can lockdown for a few weeks.   Because when you walk down, it is well known, with the experience of other countries that locking down, definitely interferes with the dynamics of the viral outbreak and you could interfere with the continuity and the transmission of infection," Dr Fauci said. He also recommended taking the help of the armed forces to immediately build makeshift field hospitals. "You will recall, last year when China had a very serious problem, they marshalled their resources to very, very rapidly build new hospitals, to be able to handle all the people who required hospitalisation," he said. Referring to media reports, he said there is a drastic shortage of hospital beds and people are being taken care of in makeshift arrangements. "So, it would be possible, perhaps, with the help of your own military, to put up field hospitals as you would do as if in a war time setting, so that people who are sick and require a hospital bed, will have a hospital bed," he said. Perhaps, the Indian government is already doing that, he noted. Dr Fauci said the world can help by supplying India with materials and perhaps even personnel that they need to adequately address it. For example, the United States is supplying oxygen cylinders, concentrators and generation units, he said. Dr Fauci said India often helps other countries in emergency situations. "Given the fact that India is under such terrible stress right now with the extent of the outbreak, the rest of the world should pitch in to help them, similar to what the United States is doing," he said. "We are very sorry that India is going through this very, very difficult time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/faucis-advice-to-india-clamp-nationwide-lockdown-go-for-massive-vaccination-drive-982119.html
04-05-2021||National||US flights with medical supplies for India delayed till May 5||US Air Force flights that were scheduled to leave for India with essential life-saving supplies have been delayed till Wednesday due to maintenance issues, the Pentagon said here on Monday. We just received word from USTRANSCOM that the flights for India are "delayed until at least Wednesday due to maintenance issues", a Pentagon spokesperson said. So far, only two US Air Force flights have landed in India. Three US Air Force C-5 Super Galaxies and one C-17 Globemaster were scheduled to leave for India Monday to deliver critical supplies amid a surge in coronavirus cases there. Officials, however, did not say how this would impact the emergency aid supplies to India, in particular life-saving oxygen cylinders and concentrators. Earlier in the day, Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby told reporters that the US will continue to fly its planes with health care supplies for India, which has faced one of the worst outbreaks of Covid-19 in the world. Three US Air Force C-5 Super Galaxies and one C-17 Globemaster are continuing to deliver critical healthcare supplies to India, which is experiencing one of the worst outbreaks of Covid-19, the Pentagon said. “We continue to assist the government and the people of India as they continue to struggle with their Covid outbreak,” Kirby said.  US Transportation Command and its components continue to demonstrate their capability to provide immediate assistance to a partner nation, he said. The United States will continue to assess the situation, he said. "We'll stay in touch with our counterparts in India, should there be a need for additional help. The (defence) secretary was very clear in speaking to his counterpart in India that we'll continue to do whatever we can to help,” Kirby said. Meanwhile, Senator Amy Klobuchar said the tragic crisis in India is a reminder that "we can only beat Covid-19 if we beat it everywhere". The United States, she said "is stepping up and providing relief and aid to our ally in this time of tremendous and heart-breaking need". Congressman Alan Lowenthal said the Biden Administration has taken early positive steps but the scale of the tragedy in India is simply unbearable. "We must do more to facilitate access to vaccines. We have a duty to save lives and to reduce the risk of terrifying new variants," he said. "The Covid crisis in India is heartbreaking and could have huge implications for the rest of the world. The fight against this pandemic is a global one and we must do our part to help combat this surge and save lives," Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton said in a tweet. "India is in crisis. President Biden’s decision to send supplies and vaccine doses to India is a necessary one. But we must also eliminate vaccine patents — and work to expand vaccine production and availability globally. We must work to save lives everywhere," Congresswoman Cori Bush tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-flights-with-medical-supplies-for-india-delayed-till-may-5-982120.html
04-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 4||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with 3,57,229 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Countries across the world rushed to the aid of India to help the curb of Covid-19. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,02,82,833 as of May 4, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,22,408 as of May 4, 2021 No. of people discharged: 1,66,13,292         Total Vaccination: 15,89,32,921 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-may-4-982121.html
04-05-2021||National||Australia walks back on 'racist' India ban after backlash||Australia's prime minister fended off accusations of racism and having blood on his hands Tuesday, as he retreated from a threat to jail Australians trying to escape Covid-wracked India. Scott Morrison's government moved to ban travellers from India from entering Australia until May 15, threatening rule-breakers -- including Australian citizens -- with prison time. Amid a widespread backlash, Morrison on Tuesday said it was "highly unlikely" that Australians who skirted a ban would be jailed. "I think the likelihood of any of that occurring is pretty much zero," Morrison said in a breakfast-time media blitz on Tuesday. Around 9,000 Australians are believed to be in India, where hundreds of thousands of new coronavirus cases are being detected every day and the death toll is soaring. Among those trapped are some of Australia's most high profile sporting stars -- cricketers playing in the lucrative Indian Premier League. Commentator and form Test cricket star Michael Slater was among those who pilloried Morrison's decision as a "disgrace". "Blood on your hands PM. How dare you treat us like this," he tweeted. "If our Government cared for the safety of Aussies they would allow us to get home." If our Government cared for the safety of Aussies they would allow us to get home. It's a disgrace!! Blood on your hands PM. How dare you treat us like this. How about you sort out quarantine system. I had government permission to work on the IPL but I now have government neglect Morrison said the idea he had blood on his hands was "absurd". "There have been a lot of difficult decisions during Covid and people will criticise me and my government for it," he told Nine television. "I'm not going to fail Australia. I'm going to protect our borders at this time," he said. The decision came into force on Monday and was denounced by rights groups and some of Morrison's most prominent allies including Sky News commentator Andrew Bolt who said it "stinks of racism". Australia has largely avoided the worst of the pandemic, through some of the strictest border controls in the world. There is a blanket ban on travel to-and-from the country unless an exemption is secured. Non-residents are mostly banned from entering and anyone who does come into the country must carry out a mandatory 14-day hotel quarantine. But that system has come under increasing strain as the virus has jumped from quarantine facilities and caused a series of outbreaks in the largely unvaccinated community. The conservative prime minister faces re-election in the next 12 months, and had hoped Australia's relatively successful handling of the pandemic would propel him to victory. But the India travel ban and a glacial vaccine rollout have prompted criticism. Australia has administered 2.2 million vaccine doses out of a population of 25 million people, who each need two doses to be fully immunised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australia-walks-back-on-racist-india-ban-after-backlash-982122.html
04-05-2021||National||India's youth fight the second Covid-19 wave through apps and social media||Her exam revision done, schoolgirl Swadha Prasad gets on with her real work: finding life-saving oxygen, drugs, and hospital beds for Covid-19 patients as India reels from a brutal second wave of infections. As the government struggles to tackle the pandemic, young Indians have stepped into the breach, setting up apps to crowdsource aid, delivering key supplies, and using social media to direct resources to people in need. Prasad works with dozens of volunteers — all aged between 14 and 19 — as part of the youth-led organisation UNCUT, building online databases packed with information about medical resources available across the country. It is a 24/7 operation, with the teenagers constantly on their phones as they verify the availability of supplies, update information in real-time and field calls from frantic relatives. "Some of us do midnight to morning shifts, because the calls don't stop at 3 am," said Prasad, 17, who works a 14-hour stretch from before midday until one in the morning. It is a long and often tiring affair, the Mumbai-based student said, but added: "If I can help save a life, there is no part of me that is going to say no." And lives have been saved, she said, pointing to a case where the team was able to source oxygen for a young Covid-19 patient in the middle of the night after an agonising two-hour wait. "It's not only about providing resources... sometimes people just need to know they are not alone", she said. With two-thirds of its 1.3-billion people under the age of 35, India is an overwhelmingly young country, but its youth have never been called on to shoulder such huge responsibilities. As India's pandemic has grown ever more dystopian — with crematoriums running out of space and patients, including a former ambassador, dying in hospital parking lots — many have volunteered in droves. In the slums of Mumbai, Shanawaz Shaikh has provided free oxygen to thousands of people. Known popularly as the "oxygen man", the 32-year-old sold his cherished SUV last June to fund the initiative after his friend's pregnant cousin died in a rickshaw while trying to get admitted to a hospital. "She died because she couldn't get oxygen in time," he told AFP. He never expected to be fielding so many requests nearly a year later. "We used to get around 40 calls a day last year, now it's more like 500," he said. Shaikh's team of 20 volunteers are also battling a massive shortage, made worse by profiteers. "It's a test of one's faith," he said, describing how he sometimes travels dozens of kilometres (miles) to source oxygen for desperate patients. "But when I am able to help someone, I feel like crying." While major cities have borne the brunt so far, the limitations of technology are becoming apparent as the virus burrows into smaller towns and villages, software engineer Umang Galaiya told AFP. Urgent requests for supplies and spare hospital beds have promoted a flood of leads on Twitter — many unconfirmed. Galaiya responded by building an app to make it easier for users to find what they are looking for and, crucially, limit their search to verified resources only. But even so, his app is unlikely to help people outside big cities, the 25-year-old said, citing the example of his hometown in hard-hit Gujarat state where internet usage is low. "If I look for resources in Jamnagar, there is nothing on Twitter," he said. Ultimately the pandemic cannot be defeated without the government, he added, outlining simple measures that could have saved many lives. For instance, officials could have created a real-time, automatically updated online registry of beds, to spare distressed patients the effort of running from one packed facility to another. "If we can do it for movie theatres, to avoid overbooking, why can't we do it for hospitals?" he asked. Youth-led efforts were also unsustainable, the Bangalore-based tech worker said, pointing out that overwhelmed volunteers would likely run out of energy themselves as the virus ravages their cities. The trauma of confronting illness and death daily is already beginning to show. "We work very hard but we can't save everyone," said Mumbai teenager Prasad, her voice quavering as she recalled efforts to help an 80-year-old woman who died. Although they take breaks and arrange Zoom movie-viewing sessions to try and unwind, the stress never fully dissipates. "My parents do worry about it," she said. "But when their friends need help, they also turn to me."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-youth-fight-the-second-covid-19-wave-through-apps-and-social-media-982127.html
04-05-2021||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 2-crore mark with over 3.5 lakh new cases||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2 crore mark with 3,57,229 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country has climbed to 2,02,82,833.   Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,47,133 comprising 17 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 81.91 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 66,13,292, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated.     India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 29,33,10,779 samples have been tested up to May 3 with 16,63,742 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-crore-mark-with-over-35-lakh-new-cases-982128.html
04-05-2021||National||India, South Africa work together in US for TRIPS waiver on Covid-19 vaccines||Diplomats from India and South Africa are working together to convince American lawmakers and policymakers on the need to support their proposal before the WTO to temporarily waive some of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) during the Covid-19 emergency. Running against time, because of the gravity of the situation in various countries across the world, including India, the diplomats from the two countries have been making daily rounds of the US Capitol and the corridors of power in Washington DC, mostly virtually, underscoring the point that this is one of the key elements of saving lives. In addition to the senior diplomats from the two countries, the two ambassadors – Taranjt Singh Sandhu from India and Nomaindiya Cathleen Mfeketo from South Africa – have been making coordinated efforts to reach out to both lawmakers at the Capitol Hill and policymakers in the Biden administration. On Monday, Sandhu had a virtual meeting with Kenyan Ambassador to the US Lazarus O Amayo. "Discussed issues relating to cooperation in affordable Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics to ensure global public health and strengthen the fight against the pandemic," Sandhu tweeted. While the Trump administration is yet to make a call on this issue, its top officials have been making a series of intense consultations with various stakeholders including the major producers of Covid-19 vaccines, like Pfizer and Moderna, and heads of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and top business advocacy groups like US Chambers of Commerce. Readouts issued by the office of US Trade Representative Katherine Tai over the past one month after her meetings with various stakeholders is a reflection of this. Tai on Monday virtually met with World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Director-General Daren Tang to discuss increasing vaccine production, the role of intellectual property in addressing pandemic issues, the latest USTR readout said. Tai and Tang “shared their views on the specific challenges confronting developing countries, and the proposed waiver to certain provisions of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for the Covid-19 pandemic,” USTR said. WTO is scheduled to hold a meeting on this issue on May 5. Though sympathetic and considerate to the issue raised by India and South Africa, the White House remains undecided whether to ease Covid-19 vaccine patent protections to help bolster production abroad. “There hasn't been a decision or recommendation that's come yet from USTR, one that's come to the President, nor has been a decision made. But, our overall objective is to provide as much supply to the global community and do that in a cost-effective manner. And that's our consideration," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters last week. However, the massive outreach by India and South Africa has resulted in overwhelming support on the issue by Congressmen. Democrats, in particular, progressive lawmakers have been urging the Biden administration to weaken patent protection on Covid-19 vaccines globally. Last week, more than 100 Congressmen wrote a letter to President Joe Biden, stating that from a global public health perspective, this waiver is vital to ensuring sufficient volume of and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics around the world. The TRIPS waiver is also essential to ensure all global economies, including the US' economy, can recover from the pandemic and thrive. Simply put, we must make vaccines, testing, and treatments available everywhere if we are going to crush the virus anywhere, the letter said. In their letters to Biden, leadership of India Caucus in both the US House of Representatives and the Senate have called for TRIPS waiver on Covid-19 vaccines. At individual level, lawmakers like Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi and Ro Khanna have been very vocal on this issue, as are powerful Democratic Senators like Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Amy Klobuchar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-south-africa-work-together-in-us-for-trips-waiver-on-covid-19-vaccines-982131.html
04-05-2021||National||Three siblings raise over $280,000 for medical supplies in India||Three Indian-American siblings raised more than $280,000 to send essential oxygen supplies for Covid-19 patients in India. Founders of a non-profit organisation, “Little Mentors", they reached out to their school friends and families for funds so that they could arrange life-saving equipment like oxygen concentrators and ventilators for needy patients and hospitals in and around Delhi. "Our only request is to return it (the equipment) when it’s not further needed as the next patient can use it,” said 15-year-old triplets Gia, Karina, and Armaan Gupta. “This is important as supply of these equipment is very scarce and the affected population is enormous,” they said. The triplets said they also plan to keep a database of the needy population so that supply could be properly directed. “We need everybody's help in this as such an enormous task can only be accomplished by teamwork. We are very fortunate to work with an excellent team of physicians, both in the US and India. We are further working on getting vaccine supplies,” they said. Previously, the triplets worked to reach out to senators and congressmen, requesting to lift the critical supply embargo. "Although we hope and pray that this second wave of the coronavirus will go away soon, we are getting ready for the worst and asking people to be careful and help each other in this major crisis," they said. Besides, the group plans to open distribution centres in major cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-siblings-raise-over-280000-for-medical-supplies-in-india-982138.html
04-05-2021||National||Kangana Ranaut's Twitter account permanently suspended||Twitter has permanently suspended actor Kangana Ranaut's account for repeated violations of rules, specifically its "Hateful Conduct and Abusive Behaviour policy”, the microblogging site said in a statement on Tuesday.  The 34-year-old actor’s handle @KanganaTeam now displays the message: account suspended. Ranaut, known for her often inflammatory tweets, posted several messages following the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress’ win over the BJP in West Bengal and incidents of post-poll violence. Calling for President’s Rule in the state, she also blamed Banerjee for the violence and called her unpublishable names. "We’ve been clear that we will take strong enforcement action on behaviour that has the potential to lead to offline harm,” a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement. "The referenced account has been permanently suspended for repeated violations of Twitter Rules specifically our Hateful Conduct policy and Abusive Behaviour policy. We enforce the Twitter Rules judiciously and impartially for everyone on our service," the spokesperson added.   According to Twitter's Abusive Behaviour policy, "one may not engage in the targeted harassment of someone, or incite other people to do so or attempt to harass, intimidate, or silence someone else’s voice". When an account is suspended permanently, the account holder is notified about the rules they have violated, the social media platform said citing the policy. On Monday, writer-lyricist Hussain Haidry had shared two tweets of the actor and urged people to report the account. “If you are a blue tick account or with a large following, I am not asking you to speak up against this. But please just quietly REPORT these two tweets. This is calling for mass violence. And directing it at Muslims,” he wrote. Many social media users have called Ranaut out for spreading hatred. The actor also posted a video on Instagram where she termed the silence of the liberal international media on Bengal violence their "conspiracy against India". Ranaut is also active on Facebook. Last year, Ranaut's sister Rangoli's account was suspended on the microblogging website. The actor became active on Twitter after that.  In a statement, Ranaut said that Twitter has only proved her point that "they are Americans and by birth, a white person feels entitled to enslave a brown person, they want to tell you what to think, speak or do, fortunately, I have many platforms, I can use to raise my voice including my own art in the form of cinema but my heart goes out to the people of this nation who have been tortured, enslaved and censored for thousands of years and still there is no end to the suffering...”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-ranauts-twitter-account-permanently-suspended-982160.html
04-05-2021||National||Ten states account for over 71% of new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi are among 10 states that account for 71.71 per cent of the 3,57,229  new Covid-19 cases in the country, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. India's daily positivity rate now stands at 21.47 per cent. The ministry said that Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 48,621. It is followed by Karnataka with 44,438 while Uttar Pradesh reported 29,052 new cases. Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are among the other states in the list of 10. India's total active caseload has reached 34,47,133 and now comprises 17.00 per cent of the country's total positive infections. A net increase of 33,491 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Bihar and Haryana cumulatively account for 81.41 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said. "The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.10 per cent which is continuously declining," the ministry reiterated. Besides, 3,449 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 73.15 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (567) followed by Delhi (448) and Uttar Pradesh with 285 daily deaths. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,66,13,292 with 3,20,289 recoveries being reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 73.14 per cent of the new recoveries, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-states-account-for-over-71-of-new-covid-19-cases-982162.html
04-05-2021||National||CAPSI to offer course on dealing with biological threats after Covid-19||In an attempt to tackle biological security threats following the Covid-19 pandemic, the Central Association of Private Security Industry (CAPSI) is offering a first-of-its-kind “Certified for Biological Threat Security” (CBTS) certification to master trainers of the private security industry in collaboration with the UK-based International Security Industry Organization (ISIO). The course was designed following a discussion CAPSI Chairman Kunwar Vikram Singh had with ISIO Director General Mr Juan Kirsten, when both pondered over the need to equip the private security industry with the expertise of dealing with ever-emerging biological threats. Following this, CAPSI and ISIO jointly formulated a module to train master trainers who can equip the security personnel managing protocols on the ground. “Any practitioner in security criminology, risk and investigation can apply to undertake the CBTS which is suitable for site managers, trainers and assessors for the COC19 Certificate of Compliance for Security Covid-19 Protocols. CBTS will ensure that manpower is equipped and layered by skill sets besides being knowledgeable on security Covid-19 protocols for their field of responsibility,” Singh said. He said the Covid-19 Security Compliance Certification Project is being submitted to the Ministry of Home Affairs for making it mandatory for every government and private organisation to get its security teams acquire professional certification so that human assets of all establishments can be secured from any kind of biological threat. Claiming that India is the first country to introduce such a programme globally, Singh said the Covid-19 security protocols related to the biological threats are based on intensive research, which fuelled the security and operational protocol guide for managing Covid-19 in March 2020. "We have also released booklets for building and housing security protocols in consultation with some leading global security experts. These new protocols and certification will massively strengthen our preparedness in dealing with the rapidly changing Corona pandemic situation. We cannot always remain in lockdown or partial lockdown, so these new methodologies and training programmes will help in normalising our economic and business activities which have been severely hit by the pandemic," he said. On the certification, he said the initiative is important because it is impossible to inoculate the entire globe within weeks, as in some countries it could still take a good year to begin making an impact. “The point is that this is a mutating beast that can change shape. The security industry must have awareness of comprehending that this is an active biological threat that must be treated with the respect and addressed accordingly by using security Covid-19 protocols. This certification will help in dealing with emerging scenarios vis a vis the Corona pandemic,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/capsi-to-offer-course-on-dealing-with-biological-threats-after-covid-19-982167.html
04-05-2021||National||Rickshaw driver offers free oxygen, transport for Covid-19 patients||When an auto-rickshaw driver Mohammad Javed Khan saw people carrying their coronavirus-stricken parents to hospitals on their backs as they were too poor to afford an ambulance, he knew he had to help. Khan, a 34-year-old driver in the central Indian city of Bhopal, sold his wife's jewellery and converted his three-wheeled vehicle into a small ambulance, fitting it out with an oxygen cylinder, an oximeter to measure oxygen levels in the blood, and other medical supplies. As India grapples with a harrowing Covid-19 crisis that has seen infections skyrocket and the healthcare system stretched to breaking point, individuals like Khan have stepped forward to try and help their local communities. "A critically ill patient cannot be brought to the hospital without oxygen support. So, I thought, why not turn my three-wheeler into an ambulance. It's not as spacious as an ambulance, but it can surely save lives," Khan told AFP. "I see young people struggling without oxygen. Even when they call ambulances, the ambulances are charging Rs 5,000-10,000. How will a poor person be able to afford it? Especially during this pandemic when most people don't have an income?" A donor provided him with a cylinder and another with the oximeter. A doctor taught Khan how to use the cylinder and oximeter to safely supply the lifesaving gas to patients as he drove them to a hospital. "Many people have come forward to help me with donations and have requested me to continue driving around until the pandemic is over," he said. "It is thanks to the help of so many people, I am able to do this. I couldn't have done this on my own." Khan briefly ran into trouble with the authorities when police charged him for operating his auto-rickshaw without an emergency permit during Madhya Pradesh state's virus lockdown, India Today reported. But after an outcry on social media, police withdrew the charges and issued him with a special pass, the broadcaster added. Madhya Pradesh, like many other states, has witnessed a spike in cases in recent weeks that had led to shortages of oxygen and other critical medical supplies. Crematoriums and burial grounds have also struggled to cope with the influx of bodies. The state reported more than 12,000 new infections on Monday, with one in five people tested receiving positive results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rickshaw-driver-offers-free-oxygen-transport-for-covid-19-patients-982168.html
04-05-2021||National||Early use of steroids during Covid-19 may be causing drop in oxygen, as per AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria||India is currently facing its second wave of Covid-19. The country on Tuesday reported 3,57,229 cases with the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country reaching 2,02,82,83.  Guleria who is also a member of the national task force on Covid-19 said that hospitals were seeing patients with mild symptoms requiring oxygen after they had consumed steroids. He said this happens because steroids cause virus replication and a drop in oxygen levels. For moderate disease, only three specific treatments are effective, he said. “First is oxygen therapy; second, when the illness is moderate and oxygen saturation is low, then there is a role for steroids; third is anticoagulants because we know Covid-19 pneumonia is a little different from viral pneumonia and promotes the clotting of blood. There could be blood clots in lungs resulting in a drop in blood saturation. Again, in mild illness, there is no role for anticoagulants,” Guleria said. He also cautioned against overuse of CT-scan for diagnosis of Covid-19 saying excessive use could cause cancer. “There have been studies which show that around 30-40 per cent of people who are asymptomatic but are Covid positive and got a CT scan done, also had patches but ended without any treatment,” AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria told reporters. He said there was no advantage of doing a CT scan if a patient had mild symptoms and suggested getting a chest X-ray done instead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/early-use-of-steroids-during-covid-19-may-be-causing-drop-in-oxygen-as-per-aiims-chief-randeep-guleria-982175.html
04-05-2021||National||Full lockdown only way to stop Covid-19 spread: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the only way to stop the spread of coronavirus now was a full lockdown with the protection of minimum income guarantee scheme, NYAY, for the vulnerable sections. Gandhi also said that a lockdown is now the only option because of alleged "complete lack of strategy" by the government of India. "GOI doesn't get it. The only way to stop the spread of Corona now is a full lockdown- with the protection of NYAY for the vulnerable sections," Gandhi said in a tweet. GOI doesn’t get it. The only way to stop the spread of Corona now is a full lockdown- with the protection of NYAY for the vulnerable sections. GOI’s inaction is killing many innocent people. "GOI's inaction is killing many innocent people," he said. Later, in another tweet, Gandhi said he just wants to make it clear that a lockdown is now the only option because of a "complete lack of strategy" by the government of India.  "They allowed, rather, they actively helped the virus reach this stage where there's no other way to stop it. A crime has been committed against India," the former Congress chief alleged. I just want to make it clear that a lockdown is now the only option because of a complete lack of strategy by GOI. They allowed, rather, they actively helped the virus reach this stage where there’s no other way to stop it. A crime has been committed against India. The Congress has been asserting that the central and state governments move to control the situation by resorting to partial curfews, travel restrictions, closure and lockdowns will again be restricting economic activity that will hit the poor and, therefore, it was imperative to provide monthly income support. Gandhi has been pushing for the implementation of the party's proposed Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY) providing minimum income guarantee to vulnerable sections. The Congress has been critical of the government's response to the Covid-19 crisis. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with 3,57,229 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/full-lockdown-only-way-to-stop-covid-19-spread-rahul-gandhi-982177.html
04-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Paytm to set up oxygen plants to assist hospitals||Digital financial services platform Paytm on Monday announced that Paytm Foundation will be setting up oxygen plants in 12-13 cities as hospitals across pan-India face oxygen shortage amid the tumultuous second Covid-19 wave. These oxygen plants would be directly installed at hospitals which would serve the oxygen needs for the entire hospital. Some of the cities where the plants will be installed include Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Pune, Aligarh, Noida and Lucknow. Paytm Foundation has also sourced over 21,000 oxygen concentrators that would be sent to government hospitals, Covid care facilities, private hospitals, nursing homes as well as Resident Welfare Associations in the mid of May. Oxygen plants are devices that render possible the production of medical oxygen from ambient air while simultaneously supplying the gas to multiple beds. The company has currently raised Rs 10 crore from people across the country under its Oxygen For India initiative and has mirrored the donation amount making it a total contribution of Rs 20 crore. Paytm is working in conjunction with other prominent organisations including Elevation Capital and the American Indian Foundation. The donation garnered under the initiative will be used to purchase oxygen concentrators and oxygen plants, costing between Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore each. Paytm is currently between dialogues with the state governments and hospitals for affirmation and approval to set up these oxygen plants; once purchased, the oxygen plants will be provided free of cost to government hospitals by Paytm Foundation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-paytm-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-to-assist-hospitals-982187.html
04-05-2021||National||Construction of PM's house to be completed by December 2022||The construction of the prime minister's residence under the ambitious Central Vista project will be completed by December 2022, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has informed a government-appointed expert panel, which has given its nod to the project. The CPWD, which is the project developer, informed the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) that the expansion of the Parliament building and the construction of a new Parliament building will be done by November 2022 and the prime minister's residence will be constructed by December 2022. The Ministry of Environment has already granted clearance for the expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building, which is part of the Rs-13,450 crore Central Vista Redevelopment Project. At a meeting held last month, the EAC recommended environmental clearance for the redevelopment of the Common Central Secretariat buildings and the prime minister's residence. "The EAC, based on the information submitted and clarifications provided by the project proponent and detailed discussions held on all the issues, recommended granting environmental clearance to the project," the minutes of the meeting said. The panel took note of the CPWD's submission that the Common Central Secretariat will consolidate all ministries and improve the productivity and efficiency of the administration. According to the CPWD, the Common Central Secretariat buildings will be constructed by May 2023. It informed that the Central Conference Centre, which is expected to be ready by December 2026, will cater to the conferencing needs and will also be connected by a people mover to the Delhi Metro. "Modern and secure residential facilities for the Vice President and the Prime Minister will be equipped with all necessary spaces and infrastructure, including the Special Protection Group; Environmental: Landscape/greenbelt development, traffic decongestion, provision of STP, OWC, safety aspects including fire-fighting system, maximum use of treated waste water, well-designed network of storm water drains, rain water harvesting system etc.," the EAC noted. While giving its nod, the panel directed the CPWD to ensure that an area for greenery is provided according to the details in the project document, which say the area under plantation or greenery will be 81,220 square metres. "As proposed, at least 4,918 trees will be maintained within the project site during the operation phase of the project," it said. It also directed the CPWD to install two continuous online ambient air quality (AAQ) monitoring stations in the project area in consultation with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) before the demolition work starts. "Online monitoring should cover parameters e.g. PM10, PM2.5 along with NOx, SOx, covering upwind and downwind directions during the construction period," it said. The committee also directed the project developer to draw a detailed traffic management-and-decongestion plan to ensure that the service of the roads near the project site may not get adversely impacted during the implementation of the project. "The plan should stipulate, inter alia, the path and appropriate time for the movement of vehicles to and from site. The plan shall be vetted by a concerned agency in the state government," it said. It directed the CPWD to ensure that noise barriers or acoustics of adequate efficiency are provided at each construction site during the construction phase and at least 50 anti-smog guns and an equal number of anti-smog towers are installed to curb air pollution during the construction phase. The anti-smog towers shall be installed during the operation phase as proposed, it said. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista — the power corridor of the country — envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The CPWD, which is executing the project, had revised its estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/construction-of-pms-house-to-be-completed-by-december-2022-982189.html
04-05-2021||National||Covid-19: An ICU doctor in Mumbai battles depleting resources||Dr Murtuza Ghiya (34) is getting a call from the hospital after work hours. He has a tough decision to make: Two dying patients and just one ventilator. “We have to choose and It takes a toll,” said Dr Ghiya, who works as a frontline consultant at a Covid-19 ICU for poor patients -- brought in by the Municipal Corporation -- in Mumbai. On average, there are 50 patients under his care in this Covid ICU. “Normally, in an ICU, a consultant is not supposed to attend to more than 10 beds. I am in charge of 50 beds and I get to spend just 10 minutes on a patient,” he said.  “You have a level of knowledge that you can’t apply because there aren’t enough hands or time." Like countless Covid-19 warriors, he stands for hours in his PPE. He also uses a technique called 'proning' to help Covid-19 patients. The term 'proning' basically means putting patients in the prone position or flat on their stomachs with chests and faces down. "Proning in PPE is a lot of hard work," he said. "Patients don’t cooperate with oxygen running through them. We have to manually lift them up and lay them on their stomach. That’s where the hard work is." Dr Ghiya spends a lot of his time motivating patients to do proning. “I tell them ‘There is no magic drug and your lungs have to open. And I can’t put everyone on the ventilator’.” Most of these patients don't know anything about Covid. “Also, they have very high-pressure masks on and it’s difficult to understand what they are saying,” Dr Ghiya said. Dr Ghiya, who doesn’t charge any consultation fee from his patients, said that he is only trying to do his best in a broken healthcare system. “More than anything, actual work is done next to the patient’s bedside,” he said. A mantra he sticks to as he dons the PPE every single day. Desperate calls for beds and oxygen are getting louder across the country and health professionals like Dr Ghiya are giving all they have within the limited resources at hand. As Dr Ghiya, gets back to attending calls, he said, "Public healthcare is underfunded and there is unchecked corporatisation of healthcare. The actual pandemic is the broken healthcare system that is 100 years old. Covid just exposed it.".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-an-icu-doctor-in-mumbai-battles-depleting-resources-982192.html
04-05-2021||National||Pakistani singers cover 'Ariziyan' to show solidarity with India amid Covid-19 crisis||A few singers from Pakistan have done a soulful cover of the song Arziyan. What is special about this cover is that it was performed to express solidarity with India which is grappling with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the two crore mark with 3,57,229 infections being reported in a day. In the video, Pakistani musicians Zeeshan Ali and Nauman Ali, along with a few of their friends, are seen singing a heartwarming rendition of the song Arziyan, which was shared on Facebook. “Pakistani Artists Zeeshan Ali, Nauman Ali & his fellows singing in Solidarity with India out of Covid-19 crisis. 'Hosla Na Haro ya waqt Bhi Tal Jaega, Raat Jitni Ghani ho phir sawera aega'. Art and humanism have no borders. Respect and gratitude are always here in our hearts, love and affinity,” was in the caption, which was followed by the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistani-singers-cover-ariziyan-to-show-solidarity-with-india-amid-covid-19-crisis-982196.html
04-05-2021||National||Deploy resources to save lives not build PM's new house: Priyanka Gandhi to Modi govt||Slamming the Centre over its Central Vista project, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said that at a time when people are grappling with the shortage of oxygen and vaccines in the country, it would be better if the government deploys all resources in saving lives instead of building a new house for the prime minister. Her attack on the government came over reports that the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has informed a government-appointed expert panel that the construction of the prime minister's residence under the ambitious Central Vista project will be completed by December 2022. "At a time when the people of the country are struggling with shortage of oxygen, vaccines, hospital beds, medicines, it would be better if the government deploys all resources in saving the lives of the people, instead of building a new house for the PM at Rs 13,000 crore," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Such expenses send a message to the public that the priorities of the government are in some other direction," the Congress general secretary said. The CPWD, which is the project developer, informed the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) that the expansion of the Parliament building and the construction of a new Parliament building will be done by November 2022 and the prime minister's residence will be constructed by December 2022. The Ministry of Environment has already granted clearance for the expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building, which is part of the Rs 13,450 crore Central Vista Redevelopment Project. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The Opposition has been strongly opposing the project, demanding that all resources should be deployed in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deploy-resources-to-save-lives-not-build-pms-new-house-priyanka-gandhi-to-modi-govt-982197.html
04-05-2021||National||Vehicle location tracking devices mandatory for oxygen containers: MoRTH||The Road Transport and Highways Ministry (MoRTH)has made it mandatory for oxygen containers, tankers and vehicles to be fitted with Vehicle Location Tracking (VLT) devices. GPS tracking will ensure proper monitoring and protection of these tankers, besides ensuring that there is no diversion or delay. "MoRTH has made it mandatory for #Oxygen containers/tankers/vehicles to be fitted with Vehicle Location Tracking (VLT) devices. GPS tracking will ensure monitoring and protection of these tankers, besides ensuring there is no diversion or delay," the ministry said in a tweet. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 coronavirus cases being reported daily over the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with over 50 lakh infections being added in just 15 days. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 2,02,82,833 with 3,57,229 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vehicle-location-tracking-devices-mandatory-for-oxygen-containers-morth-982201.html
04-05-2021||National||‘N protein’ of coronavirus plays critical role in viral transmission, IISER Bhopal’s research shows||The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Bhopal in comprehensive research has shown that proteins from the coronavirus other than the well-known ‘spike protein’ can play a critical role in the infectivity of the virus. The study was led by Dr Ajit Chande, Assistant Professor, Department of Biological Sciences, IISER, Bhopal. The results of this work have recently been published in the peer-reviewed journal Frontiers in Cellular and Infection Microbiology co-authored by Tarun Mishra,  Sreepadmanabh M, Pavitra Ramdas, Amit Kumar Sahu, Dr. Atul Kumar, and Dr Ajit Chande. The SARS-CoV-2 virus has an RNA genome, surrounded by a sphere-shaped structure. This structure comprises various types of proteins, with one of them being the ‘spike protein’ that gives the virus its characteristic spiked look or ‘crown’. Since the virus is highly infectious, most studies do not use the live virus, but use a similar protein capsule made up of spike that has been filled with another viral core, in a process called ‘pseudotyping.’ In a press statement, Dr Chande said: “Current methods of retrovirus pseudotyping are focused on the spike protein of the virus. Our study picks off from this point.” While only the spike protein is commonly used for pseudotyping when one wants to study viral entry process or the neutralizing antibody responses, the IISER, Bhopal team was curious to see if including the other SARS CoV-2 proteins would influence pseudotyped virion infectivity. This was motivated by the fact that in a real-world scenario, the spike protein does not operate in isolation, but in conjunction with other viral proteins that are engaged in various auxiliary roles during the course of infection. The team combined a type of virus vector called the lentivirus with a Covid-19 spike protein to produce ‘spike lentiviruses.’ Twenty-four different SARS CoV-2 viral proteins were included in the pseudovirus ensemble, along with a fluorescent reporter to detect the infected cells. The infectivity of each of the pseudovirus containing one of the twenty-four proteins was studied. With this, the researchers found that pseudovirus produced with the nucleocapsid (N) protein had higher infectivity than those containing other proteins. The researchers also found that a synthetic microbody that neutralizes spike-pseudotyped viruses was less effective against the N protein-containing pseudotype. They observed similar patterns during experiments with a spike mutant that is found in the UK variant of Covid-19. “We believe that the N-protein promotes the incorporation of the spike protein into viral particles, thereby increasing the chances for each viral particle to bind to the target cell. Our discovery opens up an exciting host of questions for related research in this area,” added Dr Chande.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/n-protein-of-coronavirus-plays-critical-role-in-viral-transmission-iiser-bhopal-s-research-shows-982209.html
04-05-2021||National||Remdesivir production increased to 1.05 crore vials a month, says Mansukh Mandaviya||The production of Remdesivir has gone up nearly three times to 1.05 crore vials per month as the government works hard to enhance the availability of the antiviral drug in the country, Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. The production capacity of the drug has crossed 1.05 crore vials per month as on May 4, a nearly three-fold increase from 37 lakh vials per month on April 12 this year, Mandaviya said in a tweet. कुछ दिन में ही लगभग 3 गुना रेमेडिसविर उत्पादक प्लांट बढ़ाये जा चुके हैं। The minister said the antiviral drug is now being produced across 57 plants in the country compared to 20 facilities a month ago. Production of Remdesivir is being enhanced and in the few days, India has seen the manufacturing capacity of the antiviral drug go up by three times, Mandaviya said. "Soon, we will be able to cater to increase in demand," he added. Mandaviya also noted that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government is trying hard to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Demand for Remdesivir has gone up manifold in the country amid a massive spike in Covid-19 infections. The government has already waived customs duty on Remdesivir, its raw materials and other components used to make the antiviral drug in order to help augment domestic availability and reduce the cost of the injection. On April 11, in view of increased demand for Remdesivir, the Centre banned the export of the injection and its APIs till the situation improves. Various drug companies have also cut the prices of Remdesivir injection following intervention of the government. India's total tally of Covid cases has crossed the 2-crore mark with over 50 lakh infections being added in just 15 days. The tally rose to 2,02,82,833 with 3,57,229 new infections being reported in a day while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remdesivir-production-increased-to-105-crore-vials-a-month-says-mansukh-mandaviya-982210.html
04-05-2021||National||May edition of JEE-Mains postponed due to Covid-19 situation||Engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains scheduled from May 24 to 28 has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 situation, according to the Ministry of Education's National Testing Agency (NTA). Earlier, the April edition of the exam was postponed following an exponential rise in coronavirus cases. "The JEE-Mains scheduled from May 24 to 28 is being postponed in view of the current pandemic situation," the NTA said in an order. The rescheduling of the April and May sessions will be done subsequently and "the registration for the May session will also be announced at a later stage", it said. From this year, the exam is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. While the first phase was conducted in February followed by the second phase in March, the next phases were scheduled to be held in April and May. Over 6.2 lakh candidates appeared in the first session, while 5.5 lakh candidates appeared in the second session of the exam. As per the policy, after the February, March, April and May sessions of JEE(Main)-2021, the ranks of candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of their four scores. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with over 50 lakh infections being added in just 15 days. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 2,02,82,833 with 3,57,229 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/may-edition-of-jee-mains-postponed-due-to-covid-19-situation-982214.html
04-05-2021||National||States, UTs have more than 75 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, over 48 lakh doses to be delivered in 3 days, says Centre||More than 75 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine are available with states and union territories and they will receive over 48 lakh more within the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The government of India has so far provided 16,69,97,410 vaccine doses to the states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 15,94,75,507, according to ministry data updated at 8 am. "More than 75 lakh (75,24,903) Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, more than 48 lakh (48,41,670) vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry said. The government of India is leading the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in collaboration with the states and UT through a "Whole of Government" approach. Vaccination forms an integral component of the government's five-point strategy for containment and management of the pandemic, it said. The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to cover people in the 18-44 age group started from May 1 and the registration for the eligible population groups commenced from April 28. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on the CoWIN portal or through the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-uts-have-more-than-75-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-over-48-lakh-doses-to-be-delivered-in-3-days-says-centre-982232.html
04-05-2021||National||Abdul Kalam's close associate, scientist Manas Verma dies||Padma Shri decorated Aeronautical scientist Manas Bihari Verma died of heart attack at his native place in Darbhanga district Tuesday. He was 78. A close friend of former President APJ Abdul Kalam, Verma had played an important role in the development of Light Combat Aircraft - Tejas. He breathed his last at his residence in Laheriasarai, family and official sources said, adding that he was single. During his presidential tenure, the "missile man" had twice visited Verma at his Darbhanga house and appreciated his efforts to popularise knowledge of science among masses. Bihar Governor Phagu Chouhan and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar have expressed grief over Verma's demise. The Chief Minister said his role in the field of aeronautical engineering will always be remembered. Verma had launched "Mobile Science Laboratory" (MSL) vans in 2010 in the rural areas of Bihar to impart knowledge in science to children. Verma was a colleague of Kalam in the Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA), Bengaluru. The reputed scientist had retired as Director of ADA in 2005 and was conferred with Padma Shri award in March 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abdul-kalams-close-associate-scientist-manas-verma-dies-982243.html
04-05-2021||National||Serum Institute of India leads cross-sector Indian investments into UK||The Serum Institute of India will invest 240 million pounds in the UK to expand its vaccine business and set up a new sales office creating a large number of jobs, Downing Street announced as part of plans for a 1-billion pound India-UK Enhanced Trade Partnership creating around 6,500 jobs in Britain. The announcement came ahead of a virtual summit between Prime Ministers Boris Johnson and Narendra Modi on Tuesday. The Pune-based vaccine manufacturer headed by CEO Adar Poonawalla is among a list of nearly 20 Indian companies across sectors such as healthcare, biotech and software services to announce significant investment plans in the UK this week. It was also revealed that the Serum Institute of India (SII) has started phase one trials in the UK of a nasal vaccine against coronavirus. "The sales office is expected to generate new business worth over USD 1 billion, 200 million pounds of which will be invested into the UK," Downing Street said in reference to the company's plans for the UK market on Monday. "Serum’s investment will support clinical trials, research & development and possibly manufacturing of vaccines. This will help the UK and the world to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and other deadly diseases. Serum has already started phase one trials in the UK of a one-dose nasal vaccine for coronavirus, in partnership with Codagenix INC," it said. Poonawalla, who is currently in London and had recently hinted at plans to expand vaccine production outside India, described his meetings in the UK as "excellent". "We shall work even harder and strengthen India’s fight against Covid-19,” he said on Twitter. In the field of healthcare, another Indian investment highlight includes 59 million pounds by biotech firm Global Gene Corp over the next five years. It will create 110 highly skilled jobs in the UK, mostly based in the R&D centre at Wellcome Genome Campus in Cambridge, which is the site of the||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-leads-cross-sector-indian-investments-into-uk-982250.html
04-05-2021||National||Accenture pledges $25 million for pandemic relief efforts in India||Global IT and professional services company Accenture on Tuesday said it has pledged USD 25 million (about Rs 185 crore) for pandemic relief efforts in the country. This is in addition to the company's ongoing investments in people and communities, Rekha M Menon, Chairperson and Senior Managing Director of Accenture in India, said in a blog post on LinkedIn. Local and global efforts are already underway including providing ventilators, oxygen concentrators, and medical kits, she added. "Accenture stands in solidarity with India. We have made a fresh pledge of USD 25 million (about Rs 185 crore) for pandemic relief efforts in addition to ongoing investments in our people and communities... Additionally, we will be augmenting existing hospitals with beds and ICUs and setting up portable hospitals," she noted. Menon - who was recently appointed as the Chairperson for IT industry body Nasscom - said Accenture is also engaging with the government to support vaccination camps and provide local language call-centre support. To support its over 2,00,000 employees and their families in India, the company has built several resources including 24/7 telemedicine, care-at-home services, enhanced insurance coverage, virtual childcare, mental health support, and support for testing and vaccinations. "Across the globe, our people have expressed their support and are getting involved. In addition to their time, they are also donating funds, and Accenture will match 100 per cent of our people's contributions for Covid-19 relief efforts. Sharing gratitude for our ONE Accenture family - the 5,37,000 people standing with us every day," Menon said. The massive rise in infections in the second wave of the pandemic has led to hospitals in several states reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Social media timelines are filled with SOS calls with people looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors, and ventilators. Organisations across the spectrum have come forward to source and donate oxygenators, breathing machines, and ventilators. IT companies like Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys and HCL Technologies are taking a number of steps to contribute to these efforts, including setting up Covid care centres at their facilities. Capgemini has committed Rs 50 crore to augment medical infrastructure in India, while SAP said it is doubling its Covid-19 Emergency Fund that was announced last year to 6 million euros.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accenture-pledges-25-million-for-pandemic-relief-efforts-in-india-982254.html
04-05-2021||National||J P Nadda lauds states ruled by BJP, allies for providing free Covid-19 vaccines to all||Lauding the states ruled by the BJP and other NDA constituents for providing free Covid-19 vaccines to their people, party president J P Nadda on Tuesday said this decision is a manifestation of its motto of 'sabka sath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas'. India launched the vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16. The third phase of the vaccination drive started on May 1 to cover people in the age group of 18-44. Following the Centre's decision last month to liberalise the vaccination drive to allow states and private hospitals to procure doses directly from manufacturers, several states have announced that they will provide free vaccines to their citizens. "BJP lives up to its motto of sabka sath, sabka vikas & sabka vishwas. The decision of our BJP-NDA state govts to provide free vaccination is a manifestation of this. I am proud that they are taking special care of the Dalits, Tribals, Women & all marginalised sections of the society," Nadda tweeted. BJP lives upto its motto of Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas & Sabka Vishwas. The decision of our BJP-NDA state govts to provide free vaccination is a manifestation of this.I am proud that they are taking special care of the Dalits,Tribals,Women & all marginalised sections of the society. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is headed by the BJP. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Nadda said, the world's largest vaccination drive started on January 16 and till now more than 15 crore doses have been provided by the Centre free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/j-p-nadda-lauds-states-ruled-by-bjp-allies-for-providing-free-covid-19-vaccines-to-all-982257.html
04-05-2021||National||UAE extends suspension of entry for travellers from India||The United Arab Emirates has extended a ban on entry from travellers coming from India, the foreign ministry in Abu Dhabi said in a statement on its website Tuesday, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The statement did not specify a date to lift the suspension, which was first announced on April 22. "Flights between the two countries will continue to allow the transport of passengers from the UAE to India," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uae-extends-suspension-of-entry-for-travellers-from-india-982258.html
04-05-2021||National||S Jaishankar meets Priti Patel to sign Migration and Mobility Partnership||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met British Home Secretary Priti Patel in London on Tuesday to sign a new Migration and Mobility Partnership Agreement, which he said would strengthen the "living bridge" between the two countries. According to the senior Indian Cabinet minister, the agreement will facilitate legal travel and encourage talent flows between India and the UK. It is one of the outcomes related to a Virtual Summit between Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled for Tuesday. "A fruitful meeting this morning with Home Secretary Priti Patel. Signed the Migration and Mobility Partnership Agreement that would facilitate legal travel and encourage talent flows,” Jaishankar tweeted alongside images of his meeting with the British-Indian Cabinet minister. "The living bridge between India and UK will get stronger as a result,” he said. While details of the agreement have not yet been released, it is expected to enhance student numbers coming into the UK in return for illegal migrants being deported back to India. The issue of illegal Indian migrants in the UK has long been on the agenda of bilateral negotiations, with both sides failing to agree on the numbers in question. While the UK maintains around 100,000 Indians are living illegally in the country, India has questioned the veracity of those numbers in the past because that figure is believed to also cover nationals from other parts of the Indian subcontinent. The two sides were close to signing an agreement on the issue in 2018 before it fell through over this ambiguity. Jaishankar’s meeting with Patel follows an announcement by Downing Street on Monday revealing details of an Enhanced Trade Partnership (ETP), which has been agreed and is to be signed off between the two Prime Ministers. The UK government said it has finalised 1-billion pound worth of trade and investment with India and that the ETP sets an ambition to double the value of UK-India trade by 2030 and declare a shared intent to begin work towards a comprehensive Free Trade Agreement (FTA). Jaishankar, meanwhile, is in London for the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting on the invitation of host UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and will join other guest nations at a working dinner later on Tuesday evening to agree on action on critical issues such as threats to global democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-meets-priti-patel-to-sign-migration-and-mobility-partnership-982268.html
04-05-2021||National||India receives more medical supplies from abroad as Covid-19 rages||India on Tuesday received essential medical supplies from several countries, including the US, Ireland, United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, as hospitals in several states and union territories continued to reel under an exponential growth in Covid-19 cases. Seven tankers each carrying 20 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) arrived at Mundra Port in Gujarat in the first such shipment of LMO to India. "Further consolidating our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. 7 ISO tankers with 20 MT Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) each arrive at Mundra Port (India). First such shipment of LMO to India. Deeply value the support from UAE. Will help augment oxygen availability," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Twitter. A special flight from the US brought to Delhi the country's fifth consignment of medical aid comprising 545 oxygen concentrators. The second shipment of medical supplies from Ireland, included two oxygen generators, 548 oxygen concentrators, 365 ventilators and other medical equipment. "Deeply grateful to our EU partner Ireland for the support which will help add to our oxygen capacities," Bagchi said. He said an Indian Air Force aircraft carrying 450 oxygen cylinders arrived in Chennai from the United Kingdom. India also received a shipment of 282 oxygen cylinders, 60 oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies from Kuwait. "Deepening our fraternal ties of friendship. Thank Kuwait for shipment of 282 oxygen cylinders, 60 oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies that arrived today," Bagchi said in another tweet. India has been ravaged by a massive spike in coronavirus infections in the last few weeks and hospitals across the country are facing acute shortage of beds, medical oxygen and other supplies due to rising Covid-19 cases. At least 40 countries have announced medical aid to India so far. The European Union on Monday announced additional emergency medical support by its member countries including Denmark, Spain and Netherlands to India to help it deal with the severe wave of infections. Under the additional package, Denmark is sending to India 53 ventilators while Spain is supplying 119 oxygen concentrators and 145 ventilators. The EU said the medical supplies from the Netherlands included 100 oxygen concentrators, 30,000 vials of antiviral drugs Remdesivir and 449 ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-receives-more-medical-supplies-from-abroad-as-covid-19-rages-982269.html
04-05-2021||National||Prakash Padukone recovering from Covid-19||Legendary Indian badminton player Prakash Padukone has tested positive for Covid-19 and is recovering from the infection at a hospital in Bengaluru. The 65-year-old, who is the first Indian to win the prestigious All England Championships title in 1980, is likely to be discharged later this week. "Around 10 days back, Prakash, his wife (Ujjala) and second daughter (Anisha), they developed symptoms and got themselves tested and the results came out to be positive," Vimal Kumar, a close friend of the legendary shuttler and director at the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy (PPBA), told PTI. "They got themselves isolated but after a week Prakash's fever didn't come down, so last Saturday, he was admitted to a hospital here in Bengaluru. "He is okay now. All his parameters are fine, his wife and daughter are at home and he too will be hopefully discharged in 2-3 days," he added. One the most revered figures in world badminton, Padukone had emerged as a role model of Indian sports during his playing days in the 1970s and 1980s. Padukone was also the first Indian to win a medal at the World Championships after clinching a bronze in the 1983 edition. He was also the first Indian to be ranked world number one after achieving the feat in 1980 following back-to-back title wins at the Denmark Open, All England Championships and Swedish Open. Following his retirement in 1991, Padukone served as the chairman of Badminton Association of India (BAI). He was also the coach of the Indian team from 1993 to 1996.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prakash-padukone-recovering-from-covid-19-982271.html
04-05-2021||National||Air India airlifts 190 tonnes of medical equipment from various countries in 10 days||Air India on Tuesday said it has airlifted over 190 tonnes of medical equipment from various countries, including Germany, the US, the UK and Singapore, in the last 10 days amid a massive surge of Covid-19. India is struggling with the second wave of the coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of drugs, equipment, oxygen and beds. In the last 10 days, Air India has been ferrying critical medical equipment such as oxygen concentrators, BiPAP machines, and ventilators from several locations globally, the airline said in a statement. "Till date, we have carried more than 8,000 medical equipment worth over 190 tonnes from Hong Kong, Germany, USA, Singapore, Dubai, London etc. into India for onward delivery in various states," it noted. Various international agencies such as Amazon, Temasek Foundation, Phillips, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) and World Hindu Council of America have trusted Air India to transport critical medical equipment and other supplies to India, the statement said. "In the coming days, we have plans to carry more such equipment in good numbers from countries from where it can be procured by any government or private agency," it added. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark on Tuesday, with over 50 lakh infections being added in just 15 days. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the country has mounted to 2,02,82,833 with 3,57,229 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-airlifts-190-tonnes-of-medical-equipment-from-various-countries-in-10-days-982274.html
04-05-2021||National||Diesel doped with biodiesel made from used cooking oil rolled out||India on Tuesday began experimenting with doping diesel with a small portion of biodiesel extracted from leftover cooking oil in kitchens to cut reliance on imports as well as reducing carbon emissions. Diesel, India's most used fuel, is made from crude oil, for which the nation is 85 per cent dependent on imports. Imports can be reduced if a portion of diesel extracted from fossil oil is supplemented by an equally combustible diesel. Bio-diesel that can be produced from vegetable oil, animal fat, tallow and waste cooking oil, Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) Chairman S M Vaidya said at a function to launch diesel doped with used cooking oil (UCO). To start with, 7 per cent biodiesel extracted from UCO is being doped in diesel and the supply of such fuel was started on Tuesday. As much as 23 million tonnes of edible oil is consumed in the country annually. Out of this, 3 million tonnes of oil is discarded after use and is called used cooking oil, he said. "There is a potential to generate 222 crore litres of UCO annually but no structure exists for collection of waste cooking oil," he said. To encourage this, the oil companies floated an expression of interest (EoI) seeking biodiesel made from UCO, offering a fixed price for five years and a guaranteed offtake for 10 years. As many as 30 LOIs have been issued at the industry level (by IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) which will give 26.62 crore litre of biodiesel in years to come, it was informed at the function. India consumed 72.7 million tonnes (about 8,000 crore litres) of diesel in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. The first lot of used cooking oil-based biodiesel blended diesel was flagged off by Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. "So far, IOC has also issued 23 LOIs for biodiesel plants with a total capacity of 22.95 crore litres. Under this initiative, IOC has received 51 kilolitres of UCO-Biodiesel at its Tikrikalan terminal in Delhi as of March 31," the company said in a statement. Speaking on the occasion, Pradhan said, "This is a landmark in India's pursuance of biofuels and will have a positive impact on the environment. This initiative will garner substantial economic benefits for the nation by shoring up indigenous Biodiesel supply, reducing import dependence, and generating rural employment". Oil Secretary Tarun Kapoor said with this flag off, a new era of Bioenergy has been ushered in that will revolutionise the Indian petroleum sector. "Feedstock availability in Biodiesel is a challenge, and leveraging UCO can be a major breakthrough that will enable us to reach the target of 5 per cent biodiesel blending. It will also help divert the unhealthy used oil from the food chain to a more productive purpose," he said. Vaidya said the initiative will retrieve the unhealthy used cooking oil. "We aspire to trace even the last drop of UCO and ensure its conversion to biodiesel, thereby contributing to a more energy secure, greener and healthier India." IOC, he said, started constructing eight biodiesel plants across Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh. Biodiesel is an alternative fuel similar to conventional or 'fossil' diesel. It can be produced from vegetable oil, animal fats, tallow and waste cooking oil. A significant advantage of Biodiesel is its carbon-neutrality, i.e. the oilseed absorbs the same amount of CO2 as is released when the fuel is combusted in a vehicle. Also, Biodiesel is rapidly biodegradable and completely non-toxic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diesel-doped-with-biodiesel-made-from-used-cooking-oil-rolled-out-982293.html
04-05-2021||National||India to take back illegal migrants in UK, young workers to get visas in return||India on Tuesday agreed to take back its citizens illegally staying in the United Kingdom as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterpart in the British government Boris Johnson announced the launch of the Enhanced Trade Partnership – a prelude to a free trade agreement between the two nations. The two prime ministers announced an investment of £1 billion in new UK-India trade, that includes vital growing sectors such as health and technology. While Modi and Johnson had a virtual summit, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and British Home Secretary Priti Patel signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on India-UK Migration and Mobility Partnership in London. The pact would facilitate legal movement of students and professionals and also enhance cooperation between India and the UK in combating illegal migration. It would create a new scheme for exchange of young professionals under which every year up to 3,000 young Indian professionals can avail employment opportunities in the UK for a period of two years without being subject to labour market test, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. India in return agreed to take back any of its citizens living illegally in the UK, Sandeep Chakravorty, the Joint Secretary (Europe West) at the MEA, said after the virtual summit between the prime ministers of the two nations. Modi and Johnson launched the Enhanced Trade Partnership and announced their intent to negotiate a comprehensive Free Trade Agreement to unlock the full potential of the India-UK trade and commercial relationship, boosting jobs, investment and exports, including consideration of an Interim Trade Agreement to deliver early gains. They agreed to continue removing trade barriers on the path to an FTA, and an ambitious target of more than doubling India-UK trade by 2030. Modi nudged Johnson to expedited extradition of fugitive economic offenders like Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi from the UK to India, said the MEA official. An MoU announcing the launch of a new India-UK Global Innovation Partnership was signed on the occasion of the virtual summit. This partnership aims to support transfer of inclusive Indian innovations to select developing countries. Both India and UK will be co-financing it and also create a new market-driven fund which will mobilise additional resources to support Indian innovations and their transfer to third countries, said Chakravorty. The two nations also signed two MoUs on cooperation in the field of pharmaceuticals and medical product regulation, apart from an agreement on customs cooperation and mutual administrative assistance in customs matters and a statement of principles on new joint work between India and the UK on the India Energy Security Scenarios Calculator. They also inked a joint Declaration of Intent on cooperation in the fields of Digital Technology and an MoU on cooperation in the field of telecommunications. Modi thanked Johnson for the prompt assistance provided by the UK in the form of critical medical equipment for ameliorating the current situation in India. They agreed to expand and enhance the existing UK-India vaccines partnership, highlighting the successful collaboration between Oxford University, Astra Zeneca and the Serum Institute of India on an effective anti-Covid-19 vaccine that is 'developed in UK', 'Made in India' and 'distributed globally'. They emphasised that the international community should learn lessons and agreed to work together to reform and strengthen WHO and the global health security architecture to strengthen pandemic resilience. Modi and Johnson signed off on a new shared roadmap during their virtual meeting that includes measures to help limit global temperature rise and support the communities most vulnerable to the impact of climate change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-take-back-illegal-migrants-in-uk-young-workers-to-get-visas-in-return-982296.html
04-05-2021||National||8 Asiatic lions in Hyderabad zoo contract Covid-19; CCMB experts say virus detection in animals an 'emerging requirement'||In the first such confirmed case of animal infection in India, eight Asiatic lions housed in the Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad were found to have contracted Covid-19. At a time when the nation is reeling under the massive surge in coronavirus cases, experts said that detection of the SARS-CoV-2 spread in animals is “an emerging requirement for managing the pandemic in the country.” The zoo lions were showing respiratory distress following which their nasal and oral discharge samples were collected after anesthesia administration on 24 April. RT-PCR tests at the Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species at CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (LaCONES-CCMB) in Hyderabad confirmed them as positive for coronavirus. “As far as we know, this is the first case of any zoo, domestic or wild animal in the country confirmed as infected with Covid-19,” Dr Rakesh Mishra, advisor, CCMB told DH. LaCONES-CCMB is one of the four designated Covid-19 testing centres for captive animals in India. CCMB's genome analysis showed that the virus that infected the lions “is not a variant of concern.” Telangana zoo officials said the lions are responding well to the treatment, eating well, behaving normally and are recovering. “The lions were isolated from other animals, and are receiving due care. Our assumption is that the lions have caught the virus from some asymptomatic enclosure keeper(s). None of the staff in that section had tested positive,” Dr S Kukrety, director of zoos, Telangana told DH. “Four other lions there are fine. Since the lions' enclosure is secluded, the possibility of other animals getting infected is remote. As of now, we have not found Covid-19 symptoms in any other animal in the zoo,” the official said. The zoo was closed for visitors from 2 May. LaCONES-CCMB scientists emphasized the need “to strictly follow the safety regulations in the Indian zoos to avoid transmitting the infection to animals”. “Since the pandemic began, many zoos and animal farms worldwide have reported about their animals getting infected with the virus from humans. We have to carefully document the different symptoms that coronavirus infection causes in animals as well as develop non-invasive ways to procure samples from animals. Getting swab samples from animals, understandably, is very difficult,” said Dr Karthikeyan Vasudevan, scientist-in-charge, LaCONES-CCMB. Dr Mishra said that CCMB is exploring a method of testing captive and free-ranging animal samples for coronavirus, using their fecal samples. “Detecting the coronavirus spread in animals opens up an unchartered area of work for CCMB. And it is an emerging requirement for managing the pandemic,” said Dr Virendra Tiwari, director-in-charge, CCMB. Meanwhile, the Central Zoo Authority has issued advisories to the zoos with a set of precautions to be undertaken in the light of surging Covid-19 cases. “Based on the experience with zoo animals with SARS-COV-2 infection elsewhere in the world, there is no factual evidence that animals can transmit the disease to humans,” the ministry of environment, forests and climate change said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-asiatic-lions-in-hyderabad-zoo-contract-covid-19-ccmb-experts-say-virus-detection-in-animals-an-emerging-requirement-982299.html
04-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: 8 deaths due to oxygen shortage reported in AP, 4 deaths in Karnataka||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-8-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-reported-in-ap-4-deaths-in-karnataka-982305.html
04-05-2021||National||After family, Deepika Padukone tests Covid-19 positive||Popular Bollywood actor Deepika Padukone has tested positive for Covid-19. Around 10 days ago, her father Prakash Padukone, mother Ujjala and sister Anisha had also tested positive for coronavirus. Amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, several Bollywood celebrities have been infected by the virus in recent past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-family-deepika-padukone-tests-covid-19-positive-982312.html
04-05-2021||National||SAIL doubles oxygen output to 1,100 MT per day||Public sector steel major Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) has more than doubled its capacity to produce Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) in the country to 1,100 metric tonnes per day. The daily delivery of LMO from its integrated steel plants situated at Bhilai (Chhattisgarh), Rourkela (Odisha), Bokaro (Jharkhand), Durgapur, and Burnpur (West Bengal) has been increased from a level of about 500 Metric Tonnes (MT) in the second week of April to more than 1,100 MT per day currently, the company said in a statement. The company has so far supplied around 50,000 MT of LMO. In the month of April 2021. SAIL has delivered more than 17,500 MT LMO to 15 states across the country including the states in which the plants are located. So far, 14 nos. of “Oxygen Express” carrying more than 950 MT LMO have been loaded for various parts of the county from SAIL plants at Bokaro, Rourkela, and Durgapur. In addition to the supply of LMO, SAIL is also planning to set up additional 2,500 hospital beds outside its current medical facilities. They will be equipped with a gaseous oxygen supply through a dedicated gas pipeline from the plants. These beds will use gaseous oxygen directly as an additional source of oxygen as the demand for Liquid Medical Oxygen is currently high, the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sail-doubles-oxygen-output-to-1100-mt-per-day-982316.html
04-05-2021||National||Gurdwaras, temples, mosques open doors for Covid patients||As the national capital struggles to deal with the urge in Covid-19 cases, temples, mosques and gurudwaras have opened their doors to treat patients with mild symptoms by setting up Covid Care Centres, some with oxygen support. The Radha Saomi Satsang Beas premises at Chhatarpur in south Delhi opened its huge premises to set up a 500-bed Covid Care Centre which is operated by the medical wing of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police. The centre became operational from April 26 as the national capital was running short of beds with the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. The Green Park Masjid, also in south Delhi, has been converted into a quarantine centre with 10 beds and medical facilities and was admitting patients on the basis of prescription from doctors. The Gurdwara Rakabganj Sahib located next to Parliament is setting up a 250-bed facility with oxygen support for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms. “The Covid Care Centre is only for those patients whose oxygen saturation is in the range of 80-90 and do not require admission to an ICU or ventilator support,” M S Sirsa, the President of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee said. Sirsa said the gurdwara was also planning to expand the facility by adding another 250 beds if and when required. The gurdwara has arranged for 100 oxygen concentrators to begin with and is working on sourcing more. The langar at the gurdwara will provide fresh meals to the patients. In Ajmer, the Ajmer Sharif Dargah has offered to convert the community hall and guesthouses to be converted into Covid Care Centres. The Swaminarayan Temples in Vadodara and Mumbai have coverted their premises into Covid Care Centres, while ISKCON temples were offering free food to Covid patients in several cities. The Minority Affairs Ministry has also decided to give Haj Houses to state governments for setting up care centres for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gurdwaras-temples-mosques-open-doors-for-covid-patients-982322.html
04-05-2021||National||Extradition of Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi figures in India-UK virtual summit||The issue of extradition of Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi figured in a virtual summit between India and the UK on Tuesday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that economic offenders should be sent back to the country at the earliest for trial. India has been pressing the United Kingdom to extradite Mallya and Modi to face trial in India for their alleged involvement in cases relating to financial fraud. At a media briefing, Joint Secretary in the Europe West division in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Sandeep Chakravorty said British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has mentioned that the authorities in the UK will do whatever possible to make sure that the economic offenders are extradited. "They discussed the extradition of economic offenders and the prime minister (Modi) said such offenders should be sent back to India at the earliest for trial," Chakravorty said. "Prime Minister Johnson said he faces some legal hurdles because of the nature of the criminal justice system in the UK, but he is aware of it and they will do whatever is possible to make sure that these people are extradited at the earliest," he added. The joint secretary was replying to a question on the issue. Mallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard. In May last year, the fugitive businessman lost his appeals in the British Supreme Court against his extradition to India to face money-laundering and fraud charges. Subsequently, India urged the UK not to consider any request for asylum from Mallya as there appeared to be no ground for his persecution in the country. Last month, UK Home Secretary Priti Patel signed off on an order to extradite Nirav Modi, wanted in India on fraud and money-laundering charges related to the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam. In February, the Westminster Magistrates' Court had concluded that the fugitive diamond merchant has a case to answer before the Indian courts. To a separate question on whether the UK asked India to take back the Indians who are staying in that country illegally, Chakravorty referred to the migration and mobility partnership inked by the two countries on Tuesday. He said India is against illegal migration as it "prejudices legal migration" and indicated that it will take back those who were not given nationality or resident permits. "The migration and mobility partnership is a very comprehensive document. India never encourages illegal migration, we are against illegal migration because that prejudices legal migration. So the migration and mobility partnership is a comprehensive document where we will take back Indian nationals," he said. "It is our solemn duty. Indian nationals who are undocumented or are in distress abroad and are not being given nationality or resident permits have to be taken back and I think we will do that. "I think this agreement systematises that but more than that, it creates opportunities for legal migration and I think that is the aspect we would like to focus on. We would be very much keen to see that the numbers that have been offered by the UK are increased in the future and a large number of Indian professionals find opportunities in the UK," the joint secretary added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extradition-of-vijay-mallya-nirav-modi-figures-in-india-uk-virtual-summit-982324.html
04-05-2021||National||ICMR scraps mandatory RT-PCR test for inter-state travel||With laboratories facing challenges of testing for Covid-19, the Centre on Tuesday suggested “complete removal” of mandatory RT-PCR negative tests for inter-state travel for healthy persons. As per the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), RT-PCR test should not be repeated if any individual has tested positive either through Rapid Antigen Test or RT-PCR test. It also made it clear that there is no need for RT-PCR test for individuals seeking discharge from hospitals after recovering from Covid-19. “The need for RT-PCR test in healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel may be completely removed to reduce the load on laboratories,” the ICMR said, asking symptomatic individuals to avoid non-essential or inter-state travel to reduce the risk of infection. The fresh ICMR guidelines come at a time when the country is battling the second wave of Covid-19 infections and the test positivity rate across the country has crossed 20 per cent. “At present, the laboratories are facing challenges to meet the expected testing target due to extraordinary caseload and staff getting infected with Covid-19,” the ICMR said. It noted that it was imperative to optimise the RT-PCR testing and simultaneously increase the access and availability of testing to all citizens of the country. The ICMR also asked states to ramp up RAT tests at all government and private healthcare facilities by setting up dedicated booths in cities, towns, and villages to offer Covid testing to people. It suggested setting up RAT booths at healthcare facilities, RWA offices, schools, colleges, community centres, and other available vacant spaces. It also suggested offering drive-through RAT testing facilities at convenient locations as identified by the local administration. Drive-through RAT testing facilities may be created at convenient locations as identified by local administration and stringent measures must be instituted to avoid overcrowding at RAT testing facilities, the ICMR stated. The ICMR also advised all states to ensure full utilization of the available RT-PCR testing capacity, both in public and private laboratories, and added that symptomatic individuals identified positive by RAT should not be re-tested and advised to go through home-based care as per ICMR guidelines. Symptomatic individuals identified negative by RAT should be linked with RT-PCR test facility and in the meantime be urged to follow home isolation and treatment.  During the current upsurge of Covid-19 cases, any individual presenting with fever with/without cough, headache, sore throat, breathlessness, bodyache, recent loss of taste or smell, fatigue and diarrhea should be considered as suspect case of Covid-19 unless proven otherwise by confirmation of another etiology, the advisory said.  The vaccination status of all individuals tested for Covid-19 must be entered into the Sample Referral Form (SRF) in the RT-PCR app, both for individuals tested by RT-PCR and RAT. This information is of critical importance, the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-scraps-mandatory-rt-pcr-test-for-inter-state-travel-982374.html
04-05-2021||National||Will vaccinate all employees by month-end, says Air India as pilots body threatens stir||National carrier Air India on Tuesday said it will vaccinate all its employees against Covid-19 by the month-end as a pilots' body demanded inoculation of the flying crew on priority basis citing risk to their lives from the deadly infection. Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA), a union body that represents pilots who fly narrow-body aircraft, in a letter has threatened to stop work if the airline management would not start vaccination camps across India for the flying crew immediately. The airline said in a statement on Tuesday evening said that discussions were already on for the vaccination of all the employees, including the crew. "As the guidelines did not allow vaccination of persons below 45 years of age, Air India could not complete the vaccination," it noted. Since from May 1, all persons above 18 years of age can be vaccinated, a schedule for vaccination is now being drawn up and it is expected to commence as early as next week and all employees will be vaccinated by the end of this month, it said. "The schedule is also being drawn up keeping in mind that crew who do not have fixed working days," it noted. India has been badly hit by the second wave of the coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of oxygen, drugs, equipment and beds. The ICPA has demanded vaccination camps across the country for the flying crew on priority basis citing risk to their lives amid the second wave of the pandemic. In a letter to Air India director for operations R S Sandhu, the ICPA threatened to stop work if the management fails to come up with such camps. Alleging that many crew have been tested positive for Covid-19 and are struggling to get oxygen cylinders, the ICPA said that the pilots are left to fend for themselves for hospitalization. Amid all this, the management continues to do what it does best, providing lip service, it said. "It is disheartening to witness the top management make a mockery of pilots discharging their duties in a risky environment. We were hoping that Air India will not let down the crew and their families who stand by the nation during this pandemic, but the management yet again drags its feet when it comes to the safety of its employees and is creating a caustic work environment without any reproach or consequence, the pilots' body said in the letter. The Association also alleged that there is no health care support or insurance to the flying crew. "We are in no position to continue risking the lives of our pilots without vaccination ... If Air India fails to set up vaccination camps on a pan-India basis for the flying crew above the age of 18 years on priority, we will stop work," the ICPA has warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-vaccinate-all-employees-by-month-end-says-air-india-as-pilots-body-threatens-stir-982376.html
04-05-2021||National Politics||Modi-Johnson virtual summit brings £1 bn worth of deals, Enhanced Trade Partnership||The British government has finalised £1 billion worth of trade and investment with India, creating over 6,500 jobs in Britain, ahead of the virtual summit between UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on Tuesday. The investments confirmed by Downing Street on Monday evening form part of an Enhanced Trade Partnership (ETP), which the two leaders will formally sign off during their talks. The ETP will set the ambition to double the value of UK-India trade by 2030 and declare a shared intent to begin work towards a comprehensive Free Trade Agreement (FTA). “Like every aspect of the UK-India relationship, the economic links between our countries make our people stronger and safer,” said Johnson. “Each and every one of the more than 6,500 jobs we have announced today will help families and communities build back from coronavirus and boost the British and Indian economies. In the decade ahead, with the help of (the) new partnership signed today and a comprehensive Free Trade Agreement, we will double the value of our trading partnership with India and take the relationship between our two countries to new highs,” he said. The trade and investment package unveiled by the British government contains over £533 million of new Indian investment into the UK, covering areas such as healthcare and technology. This includes a £240 million investment by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in the UK into its vaccine business and a new sales office in the country, expected to generate new business worth over $ 1 billion. Serum Institute's investment will support clinical trials, research and development and "possibly" manufacturing of vaccines, to help the UK and the world defeat the Covid-19 pandemic and other deadly diseases, Downing Street said. British businesses have also secured new export deals with India worth more than £446 million, which is expected to create more than 400 British jobs. This includes CMR Surgical exporting its next-generation “Versius” surgical robotic system, which helps surgeons perform minimal access surgery being rolled out to hospitals in India. This export deal is worth £200 million and will result in the creation of 100 new jobs in the UK. “With almost 1.4 billion people, India’s population is bigger than the EU and US combined and by far the largest market the UK has committed to negotiating a trade deal with to date,” Downing Street said. The ETP agreed between India and the UK is said to create immediate opportunities for British businesses in India across industries including food and drink, life sciences and the service sector. Non-tariff barriers on fruit and medical devices will be lowered, allowing British businesses to export more of their products to India and boosting UK growth and jobs. It also commits both sides to addressing immediate market access barriers as well as continuing to seek further opportunities on the road to an FTA. “A future UK-India trade deal will support hundreds of thousands of jobs and boost the economies of both the UK and India by potentially lowering or removing current tariffs such as those of up to 150 per cent on whisky and up to 125 per cent on automotives as well as on other British products. It would also create huge benefits for British services -- four out five of India’s fastest growing imports are for services like IP and telecommunications,” Downing Street said. The trade barriers addressed by the ETP include lifting restrictions to enable fruit producers across the UK to export British apples, pears and quince to India for the first time and improved access for medical devices through the acceptance of UK Certificates of Free Sale in India, removing the requirement for additional accreditation of UK medical devices when exporting to the Indian market before they can be sold. There is also a commitment to deepening cooperation in educational services and concluding work on the recognition of UK higher education qualifications, which will encourage an increase in student flows, skills transfer and knowledge sharing between the UK and India. It has also been agreed for both sides to work on removing barriers in the Indian legal services sector preventing UK lawyers from practising international and foreign law in India, a step that Downing Street could “significantly increase” UK legal services exports and UK legal services imports from India. According to official statistics, trade between the UK and India is already worth around £23 billion a year, supporting more than half a million jobs. Last week, Johnson spoke to Indian business leaders from companies Infosys and HCL and the software majors are among the Indian firms listed as part of a series of investment deals, set to create 1,000 jobs each in the UK. Some of the others on the list include the likes of biotech firm Global Gene Corp, TVS Motors and Goila Butter Chicken. The UK companies clinching export deals with India include Morningside Pharmaceuticals with an R&D pact, Kloudpad with a data centres deal, BP in a partnership with Infosys and GoZero Mobility with an e-bicycles deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-johnson-virtual-summit-brings-1-bn-worth-of-deals-enhanced-trade-partnership-982104.html
04-05-2021||National Politics||West Bengal burning due to state-sponsored violence: BJP||The BJP on Monday attacked the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC over the alleged killing of its party workers in West Bengal, and charged that the state is burning due to state-sponsored violence. Comparing the TMC with Nazis, the BJP dubbed the government is Bengal as fascist. The BJP on Monday had alleged that four of its workers were killed in West Bengal by TMC workers after the state assembly poll results.  Banerjee led her party Trinamool Congress to a massive win in the West Bengal assembly elections announced on Sunday. Addressing a virtual press conference here, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra charged that, "Bengal is burning because of state-sponsored violence. Such scenes have never been witnessed in the country's electoral history." He said one should be gracious after winning polls while terming the violence in Bengal as painful and saddening. Speaking at the same press conference, another party leader and its candidate in the West Bengal assembly polls Anirban Ganguly said people who voted for the TMC in Bengal should ask whether whatever happening in Bengal is right. "Whatever the TMC is doing is very close to Nazi Germany's fascism. This is a fascist government. Such incidents do not take place in a democratic government," Ganguly said and asked where are the political leaders of other opposition parties and why are they silent about this. Expressing anger over the alleged killing of party workers,  Patra said 2.28 crore Bengalis voted for the BJP and asked is it not their democratic right to vote for any party?. "Mamata Ji you have won and everyone has congratulated you for it. You are a woman and the daughter of Bengal. Aren't these women who are being killed and raped daughters of Bengal? Do they deserve this?" asks Patra. He said the party will firmly stand behind BJP workers in Bengal and support them in this hour. "BJP president JP Nadda Ji will personally visit them. The same Nadda Ji, who was attacked by TMC goons earlier," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-burning-due-to-state-sponsored-violence-bjp-982200.html
04-05-2021||National Politics||No place for violence in a democracy, Mamata Banerjee should control it: Congress||After the BJP and the CPI-M, the Congress also condemned the post-poll violence in West Bengal by TMC cadres, saying such incidents were unacceptable and people of the state have not voted for lawlessness. Congress' West Bengal incharge Jitin Prasada alleged on Tuesday that his party cadres were attacked by Trinamool Congress workers and even women and children were not spared. "The post-poll violence that has been unleashed by the TMC on the Congress workers is unacceptable. Even women and children are not spared. I'm sure the people of West Bengal did not vote for this lawlessness," Prasad said on Twitter. He said the duty of every politician or public servant is to speak up against "all wrongs and stand by their cadre irrespective of which ideology one belongs to". Asked about the post-poll violence taking place in West Bengal after the Trinamool Congress' victory in the state, Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said his party never condones such violence. "Congress has never supported any kind of violence. The Congress party never condones or supports any kind of violence. There is no place for violence in a democracy," he said. "We expect that if Mamata Banerjee has received so much love and votes in Bengal, she should control the violence," he said. The Congress leader said, "Even if those who have died are BJP workers, our condolences are with their families". The BJP has charged that the state is burning due to state-sponsored violence and several of its workers have been assaulted and murdered. The Left has also claimed that its workers have been targeted. "Are these reports of gruesome violence in Bengal TMC’s ‘victory celebrations’?Condemnable. "Will be resisted & rebuffed. Instead of focusing on combating the pandemic TMC unleashes such mayhem," CPI(M) leader had Sitaram Yechury tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-place-for-violence-in-a-democracy-mamata-banerjee-should-control-it-congress-982240.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Congress's resurgence will start from Punjab: Jakhar||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Monday said the "resurgence" of the grand old party will start from his state with a victory in next year's Assembly polls. "The resurgence of the Congress will start from Punjab, after which the grand old party will soon restore its old glory across the country," he said in a statement issued here. People are rejecting the politics of "hate" and understanding how some corporates "influence" the programmes and policies of the BJP-led NDA, the Congress leader said. "The people of West Bengal have rejected those who had profusely filled their election campaign with hate and arrogance, the poll result is a good sign for the country," he said. On Congress's poor performance in the just-concluded elections in four states and a Union Territory, Jakhar said the responsibility of the party's Punjab unit has now increased further. "The party will register a victory on the basis of its work in the state in the next election. Our victory will prove to be the first step towards the resurgence of the Congress," he added. "As the (Narendra) Modi government is working against farmers and minorities, people have started distancing themselves from the BJP," Jakhar claimed. The Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year. Meanwhile, Jakhar announced the launch of a help desk for the Covid-19 affected families at the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) office here. He said the desk will work round the clock to help those who are being treated for Covid-19 and their families can call up for any kind of help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congresss-resurgence-will-start-from-punjab-jakhar-982094.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||HC hears PIL for increase in cremation, burial sites in Delhi; seeks Centre, Delhi govt's response||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought responses of the Centre and the Delhi government on a PIL to temporarily increase the number of cremation and burial sites in the city in view of the "overwhelming" number of people dying due to Covid-19 daily. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the Centre, Delhi government, National Disaster Management Authority and the municipal bodies seeking their stand on the plea by a lawyer. The court directed the authorities to consider data provided by the petitioner, Pratyush Prasanna, while filing their replies. In his plea filed through advocate Snigdha Singh, Prasanna has claimed that "due to an acute shortage of hospital beds and other necessities such as testing kits and oxygen supply, there have been an overwhelming number of deaths in the country, especially in the national capital region". As a result, the cremation sites and burial grounds are also full and, therefore, a substantial amount of time was being taken to cremate the body, the plea has claimed.  "Hence, a temporary increase in the number of cremation sites, grounds, burial sites is necessitated," the petition has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-hears-pil-for-increase-in-cremation-burial-sites-in-delhi-seeks-centre-delhi-govts-response-982161.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Ex-Union minister, J&K governor Jagmohan passes away; PM pays tribute||Former Union minister and Jammu and Kashmir governor Jagmohan, 93, has passed away after a spell of illness. He died on Monday. A number of dignitaries including Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid rich tributes to him on Tuesday. "Jagmohan Ji's demise is a monumental loss for our nation. He was an exemplary administrator and a renowned scholar. He always worked towards the betterment of India. His ministerial tenure was marked by innovative policymaking. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Jagmohan Ji’s demise is a monumental loss for our nation. He was an exemplary administrator and a renowned scholar. He always worked towards the betterment of India. His ministerial tenure was marked by innovative policy making. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti. Jagmohan started his career as a bureaucrat and was seen by many as a tough and efficient administrator. He also served as the lieutenant governor of Delhi. He was appointed Jammu and Kashmir governor in 1984 and completed his five-year tenure. As militancy erupted in Jammu and Kashmir, he was made the governor again in 1990 but was removed within a few months as differences between him and the then V P Singh-led government at the Centre grew over tackling the militancy. Jagmohan then joined the BJP and represented the party in the Lok Sabha a number of times from New Delhi. His tenure as a Union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government earned him praise from many quarters. In his condolence message on Twitter, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said, "Shri Jagmohan Ji will always be remembered for his remarkable tenure as the Governor of J&K. An able administrator and later a devoted politician who took key decisions for the nation's peace & progress. India mourns his sad demise. My deepest condolences to his family. Om Shanti."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-union-minister-jk-governor-jagmohan-passes-away-pm-pays-tribute-982163.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi govt to provide Rs 5,000 aid to auto, taxi drivers; provide free ration to 72 lakh people||The Delhi government will provide free ration for two months to 72 lakh ration card holders and financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers in the city to help them tide over the Covid-19 crisis, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. However, the decision to provide free ration does not mean that the lockdown imposed in the city to break the chain of transmission will continue for two months, he said during an online briefing. The national capital is under lockdown till May 10 to check the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Kejriwal said he is hopeful that the situation in Delhi will improve and lockdown will not be needed. "The 72 lakh ration card holders in Delhi will be provided free ration for the next two months," the chief minister said. "Our decision to provide free ration for two months does not mean that the lockdown will continue for two months. We imposed the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid, and I am hopeful that we will end this as soon as possible," he added. Further, Kejriwal said, "The Delhi government provided financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to each of the 1.56 lakh auto and taxi drivers during the last year's lockdown and will do so again this time to help them." The Delhi government imposed a lockdown in the national capital to check the spread of Covid-19. However, lockdown creates a financial crisis for people, especially for the poor and daily wage earners who find it difficult to run their homes, he said. Last week, the Delhi government had announced financial assistance of Rs 5,000 for construction workers, he said. Describing the current situation in Delhi as a "very difficult time", the chief minister appealed to people to help each other in finding hospital beds, oxygen, medicines and provide food wherever needed. "We are undergoing a very difficult time and the second wave has been extremely dangerous. There is so much despair and sadness all around. This is the time to become good human beings and help each other," he said. Kejriwal also called on all political parties to help people. "I appeal to all political parties to rise above political affiliations and help people irrespective of their class, caste or religion," he said. This is not the time to indulge in politics and everyone, whether they belong to BJP, Congress or AAP, should help those who have been hit by the pandemic, he said. On Monday, Delhi saw a record 448 Covid-19 deaths that pushed the toll to 17,414 while 18,043 fresh cases took the tally to 12,12,989, according to a health department bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-govt-to-provide-rs-5000-aid-to-auto-taxi-drivers-provide-free-ration-to-72-lakh-people-982181.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Kashmir hospitals run out of ICU beds as Covid-19 cases surge||Tertiary-care hospitals in Kashmir are fast running out of dedicated intensive care unit (ICU) beds as the Union Territory (UT) continues to see a record-breaking surge in daily Covid-19 cases. In the four tertiary care, Level 3, hospitals of Kashmir, treating severely sick Covid-19 patients, only three ICU beds out of 40 were available as on Monday evening, a local newspaper reported. A senior doctor at territory-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said that one bed became vacant on Sunday evening after a patient expired. Prior to that, he said, the hospital refused to admit severely sick patients owing to the non-availability of an ICU bed. “We get requests from hospitals for a ventilator bed or an ICU bed. We have no option but to refuse referral,” he said and added the hospital currently has only eight ICU beds out of the total 300 that have been reserved for Covid-19. Another medico at Chest Diseases hospital in Srinagar said they were struggling to find a life-support bed for severely sick Covid-19 patients. “It is painful to tell a family to wait till a patient who is occupying the ICU bed dies and it becomes available for their patient,” he said on the condition of anonymity. The medico said the hospital has more ICU beds than any hospital in Kashmir but “it is not enough” given the increasing patient load. “The discharge policy is also being strictly followed to ensure beds get free on time for another patient,” he added. In the latest spike, J&K on Monday recorded 3,733 positive cases, along with 51 deaths. The UT has been recording in excess of 3,000 Covid cases for the last eight days. Till Monday evening, there were 22,244 active cases of Covid-19 in Kashmir, of which 1,138 were admitted in various hospitals. According to a daily media bulletin, 116 ICU beds have been allocated in Kashmir for patients infected with SARS-CoV2, distributed over 23 hospitals designated for Covid-19.  Of these, 76 beds are in peripheral set-up and 40 in tertiary care. With J&K fast running out of health infrastructure to cope up with the rising number of Covid-19 patients, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has started work on setting up two 500-bed Covid hospitals in Jammu and Srinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-hospitals-run-out-of-icu-beds-as-covid-19-cases-surge-982191.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 lockdown restrictions intensified in Srinagar after surge in cases||After Srinagar district was declared as 'Red Zone' in the wake of huge surge in Covid-19 cases, authorities on Tuesday imposed strict measures in the city with civil and police administration on roads to enforce the curfew. The streets wore a deserted look in Srinagar as the Union Territory government has imposed lockdown till May 6. Srinagar reported 1,126 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally of active cases up to 9,554. Srinagar’s classification as a Red Zone resulted in stricter containment measures on Tuesday to slow down the spread of the disease. Police and paramilitary forces sealed off main roads in most places in Srinagar and erected temporary barriers at several other places to check the ‘unwanted’ movement of people. “I appeal to the people to stay at home and come out only in extreme medical emergencies. It is in our interest to break the transmission chain and, at the same time, follow all SOPs related to Covid-19,” Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Aijaz Asad told reporters. He also said several vehicles were seized by the police as SSP Srinagar is himself on the ground to ensure that nobody violated curfew guidelines. “The vehicles of all those persons will be seized who are coming out of their homes unnecessarily,” the DC warned. Health experts have been advocating for extended curfew to bring down the number of cases. The administration has exempted grocery shops, milk and dairy product shops, fruit and vegetable mandi, bakery and meat shops from the curfew and allowed to function between 1000 hrs and 1800 hrs. Chemist shops, LPG/petrol pumps, ATM, media, FCI, e-Commerce, COVID-19 vaccination, inter-state movement is also allowed during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-restrictions-intensified-in-srinagar-after-surge-in-cases-982207.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi University suspends online classes till May 16||The Delhi University has suspended online classes till May 16 in view of the surge in coronavirus cases. Student organizations and teachers have been demanding the suspension of online classes. In a notification issued on Tuesday, the varsity said, "In view of sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the online teaching shall remain suspended till May 16 in the Departments and Colleges of the University." The Delhi University Teachers'' Association (DUTA) had written a letter to the varsity's acting vice-chancellor Professor PC Joshi on the issue. "The fact that students are battling illness of self and family members is evident from the fact that the attendance in classes has significantly dropped... Hence, the DUTA demands that classes be suspended as students and teachers are not mentally and physically in a state to continue with the teaching learning process," the body had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-suspends-online-classes-till-may-16-982217.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||UP govt's 'lie' that there is no Covid spread in villages proving very deadly: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said the Uttar Pradesh government's "lie" that there is no Covid-19 spread in villages is proving to be "very deadly" for the rural areas. He claimed that there is a scarcity of fever medicines in villages, let alone oxygen and hospital beds. For days now, Uttar Pradesh has figured among the 10 biggest contributors to India's Covid-19 tally. According to an official statement, the state recorded 29,192 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday that pushed its tally to 13,42,413 while 288 more fatalities took the death toll to 13,447. "The spread of coronavirus in villages is a matter of great concern. When there is a shortage of fever medicines in villages and tehsils, we cannot expect availability of oxygen, beds or vaccines," Akhilesh said in a tweet in Hindi. "The BJP government's lie that there is no coronavirus in villages is proving very deadly for the rural areas," he said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to start large scale Covid-19 testing in rural areas from May 5 in view of the rising number of cases in villages following the recently concluded panchayat polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govts-lie-that-there-is-no-covid-spread-in-villages-proving-very-deadly-akhilesh-982222.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||PIL in Delhi High Court seeks to halt Central Vista construction during Covid-19 second wave||A PIL in the Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought direction for the Centre to halt construction activity at the Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment Project during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The PIL was opposed by the Centre before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Jasmeet Singh, which after hearing brief arguments, said it wants to first go through what the Supreme Court has deliberated in its judgement permitting the project. With this observation, the court adjourned the matter and posted the next hearing on May 17. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, who along with central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia appeared for the Housing Ministry and Central Public Works Department, told the bench that a reply can be filed by the next date of hearing. Petitioners Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, have claimed that the project has the potential to be a super spreader if allowed to continue during the pandemic.  Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, said the continuation of the project was a matter of concern in view of the "crumbling" healthcare system and the lives at stake of the workers employed at the construction site. The project entails construction activity on Rajpath and the surrounding lawns from India Gate to Rashtrapati Bhawan, the plea, filed through advocates Gautam Khazanchi and Pradyuman Kaistha, has said. The project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the Vice-President, as well as several new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate Ministry offices. The petitioners have said, in their plea, that they are aware of the apex court decision permitting the project and are not trying to overreach it. They are only concerned that the continuing construction activity poses a threat to the lives of the citizens of Delhi and also the workers engaged in the project, the petition has said and added that the work going on there was in violation and breach of the orders of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. "It is the respectful submission of the petitioners that at a time when the city of Delhi is grappling with a devastating corona virus outbreak, all efforts, particularly and more so by the state and its agencies, have to be towards controlling the spiraling situation. "The petitioners are also questioning why or how the project constitutes an 'essential service', merely because some executive mandated contractual deadline has to be met," the plea has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-delhi-high-court-seeks-to-halt-central-vista-construction-during-covid-19-second-wave-982237.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||UP bride calls off wedding after groom fails to recite table of two||A bride in Uttar Pradesh called off the wedding after the groom failed to recite the table of two (multiples of two.) According to media reports, the bride was suspicious of the man's educational qualifications and just before exchanging the garlands, she decided to try a simple 'math test' for the groom. As the groom failed to recite the multiples of two, she walked out of the wedding saying she cannot marry a person who does not understand the basics of mathematics.  It was an arranged marriage and the groom is said to be from Dhawar village of Mahoba district. Friends and family reportedly failed to convince the woman to get married. "The groom's family had kept us in the dark about his education. He may not have even gone to school. The groom's family had cheated us. But my brave sister walked out without fearing social taboo," the bride's cousin said. The matter was not escalated to the police as the two families struck a deal to return jewellery and gifts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bride-calls-off-wedding-after-groom-fails-to-recite-table-of-two-982242.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Can't ascertain oxygen shortage as cause of death of 21 patients at JG Hospital, Delhi government tells High Court||The AAP government has informed the Delhi High Court that oxygen shortage as the cause of death of 21 Covid-19 patients at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi could not be ascertained by an expert committee which probed the matter. The Delhi government in its report to the high court referred to the findings of the expert committee which said, “In view of natural virulent course of the disease and lack of any evidence suggestive of oxygen shortage in the case records, the committee was of the opinion that shortage of oxygen as the cause of death could not be ascertained.” "Many of the reported patients had one or multiple co-morbidity like heart disease, diabetes, DM, hypothyroidism and hypertension. All these patients were receiving some form of oxygen therapy and / or ventilator support during the hospital stay,” the committee said in its report. In pursuance to the order of a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, the Delhi government had directed hospitals and nursing homes to send details of patients whose death occurred due to shortage of oxygen. The 4-member committee was constituted by the government headed by Naresh Kumar, professor (medicine), MAMC and LNH to examine the case sheets of all such patients and to determine whether the cause of death was due to shortage of oxygen. The committee found that only Jaipur Golden Hospital has claimed that the reported deaths were due to deficiency of oxygen, the Delhi government said. The hospital has sent the information pertaining to the 21 such patients whose deaths occurred in their hospital on April 23 and 24, in response to the mail from DGHS, it said. After examining the records, the committee observed that all the reported patients were suffering from Covid-19 infection and the deaths have occurred in over seven hours of time period and almost all of them were already very sick and critical either from the time of admission or during the course of hospital stay even prior to the evening of April 23. It added that as per case records, all patients were given supplemental oxygen till resuscitation or death and that there was no mention of shortage of oxygen in any of the case sheets. “The reason of death in all 21 cases has been uniformly mentioned as ‘respiratory failure’ in the proforma submitted by the hospital. However, the cause of death recorded in case sheets were different from the cause mentioned in the submitted proforma. There was no mention of oxygen shortage in wither the submitted proforma or in the case sheets. “Shortage of drug was recorded in case sheet of one patient... However, shortage of oxygen, if any, was not recorded. In such situation where even drug unavailability was recorded, committee wonders why the shortage of life saving oxygen, if any, was not recorded,” the committee report said. According to the hospital’s medical director, D K Baluja, the reason behind the deaths of the “critically-ill” patients was a “dip in the oxygen pressure”. Thereafter, the hospital’s counsel had also told the high court that they lost 21 patients due to shortage of oxygen and were still facing a deficit in supply of the gas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-ascertain-oxygen-shortage-as-cause-of-death-of-21-patients-at-jg-hospital-delhi-government-tells-high-court-982251.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Row over nod for new PM home amid Covid-19 pandemic||The green light to build brand new residential quarters for the Prime Minister in the middle of the raging Covid-19 pandemic has triggered a political row, with the Congress questioning the priorities of the Narendra Modi government. The Environment Appraisal Committee (EAC) recently granted clearance for redevelopment of the common central secretariat buildings and the prime minister’s residence, which would be ready by December next year. “At a time when people are struggling with shortages of medicines, oxygen, vaccines, hospital beds, it would be better if the government spends Rs 13,000 crore on equipment to save peoples’ lives, instead of a new home for the Prime Minister,” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said. “Such expenses give a message to the people that the government’s priorities lie elsewhere,” Priyanka said. The EAC, under the Ministry of Environment, has already granted the clearance for the expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building, which is part of the Rs 13,450-crore Central Vista Redevelopment Project. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said the amount spent on the Central Vista redevelopment could help fully vaccinate 45 crore Indians, or help procure one crore oxygen cylinders, or give two crore families minimum income support of Rs 6,000. “But, PM’s ego is bigger than people’s lives,” Rahul said. The CPWD informed the EAC that the Common Central Secretariat (CCS) will consolidate all ministries and improve the productivity and efficiency of the administration. It said the CCS buildings will be ready by May 2023. The panel directed the CPWD to ensure that the green area – of 81,229 sq meters – be provided according to the details in the project document. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice-president. The construction work on the project has been exempted from the strict curbs in place in the national capital as part of Covid-19 management protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/row-over-nod-for-new-pm-home-amid-covid-19-pandemic-982259.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||You can put your head in sand like an ostrich, we will not: Delhi HC to Centre on oxygen crisis||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to explain why contempt action should not be initiated against it on failure to ensure oxygen supply to the hospitals in the national capital reeling under intense pressure due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli rejected a contention by the Centre that Delhi was not entitled to 700 metric tonnes of medical oxygen in the backdrop of existing medical infrastructure.  The court issued notice to the Union government to show cause why no action should be taken against it for failure to comply with the Supreme Court and High Court order to supply required oxygen to the Delhi government.  Making strong remarks, the bench asked Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, “are you living in ivory tower? Where are you living?”  The bench further asked just because Delhi government didn’t raise the demand people should be allowed to die. "Is this what it has come to? You want to quibble while people are losing lives," an anguished bench asked. Noting shortage of oxygen in Delhi, the High Court further said, “you can put your head in sand like ostrich, we will not.”  "You may be blind, but we are not. We cannot shut our eyes. This is so insensitive and unfortunate," the bench told the Union government's counsel.  The bench pointed out the top court’s April 30 order showed it directed the Centre to provide 700 MT of oxygen and not just 490 MT. There was already a top court order and now we also say the Centre will have to supply 700 MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means, the bench said. The High Court pointed out it saw grim reality everyday of people were not able to secure oxygen or ICU beds in hospitals, which had also reduced the facility due to shortage oxygen.  The court sought appearance of two central government officers Piyush Goyal and Sumita Dawra to before it on Wednesday to respond to the notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/you-can-put-your-head-in-sand-like-an-ostrich-we-will-not-delhi-hc-to-centre-on-oxygen-crisis-982267.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||UP Panchayat polls: BJP embarrassed in Kashi, Mathura, Ayodhya||Nurturing hopes to reap electoral dividends from its support to the saffron outfits' demand for 'liberation' of Kashi (Varanasi) and Mathura Temples, BJP was left red-faced after a majority of the candidates backed by the saffron party lost in the Zila panchayat polls in the three districts. Even in Gorakhpur, the hometown of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the Samajwadi Party (SP) backed nominees were reportedly maintaining a lead over the BJP-backed candidates. According to reports, of the 40 Zila Panchayat seats in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP could manage to win only eight seats while SP backed nominees won 24 seats. In Mathura district also, the BJP supported candidates could win only eight seats. BSP and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) backed nominees secured victory in 12 and nine seats respectively, reports said. BJP supported candidates also failed to do much in Ayodhya and could win only six of the 40 Zila Panchayat seats. SP-backed nominees won 24 seats. Reports said that SP-backed candidates also secured a majority of Zila panchayat seats in Mainpuri and Etawah districts while its nominees were ahead of their rivals in Lucknow as well. According to the reports, BJP also fared badly in the western region, mainly owing to the opposition by the farmers who have been on a dharna on the UP-Delhi border for the past several months in protest against the new farm laws.  The Aam Admi Party (AAP) on Tuesday claimed that 70 candidates supported by it have won in the Zila panchayat polls in the state.  The counting of votes is continuing and the final results are expected by Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-panchayat-polls-bjp-embarrassed-in-kashi-mathura-ayodhya-982297.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||J&K’s daily Covid-19 cases breach 4,000-mark||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported 4,650 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day tally of infections in the Union Territory (UT) since the pandemic began raging across countries last year. As many as 37 deaths were also reported during the day pushing the death toll to 2,458. Tuesday’s tally of positive cases also eclipsed the previous record of 3,832 new infections in a day recorded on May 1. Last year's all-time high in J&K was 1,698 daily positive cases on September 12. The fresh jump in cases has taken J&K’s active caseload to 37302. In the first four days of this month, the UT has reported 17,786 fresh cases and 175 deaths related to Covid-19. The test positivity rate, which is considered a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection in a region, has also shot up sharply over the past few weeks. Five out of every 100 people tested have been found positive in J&K from April 15-30, depicting the widespread infection here. J&K witnessed an increase of nearly 1000% in active Covid cases in April rising from 2,874 cases in the beginning to 28,359 on April 30. J&K also reported 289 deaths in April, of which over 160 fatalities were reported in just last week of the month. Experts say cases have escalated in a big way in the last two weeks or so and the situation is very serious. They attributed the rise in infections in the UT to poor adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as masking and social distancing, and to potential impacts of the mutant variants of the coronavirus. “Mutant variants are definitely one of the main factors behind the current surge across India and J&K can’t be isolated from it,” a senior doctor at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-s-daily-covid-19-cases-breach-4000-mark-982303.html
04-05-2021||North and Central||Pakistani militant involved in killing of councilors, cop killed in J&K's Sopore||A Pakistani militant involved in the killing of two municipal councilors and a policeman on March 29 in Sopore town of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district was killed in an encounter with security forces along with his accomplices on Tuesday. A police official said that among the two militants killed in the joint operation at Nathipora, Sopore, 55 kms from here, one was involved in the attack that resulted in the killing of two councilors and a policeman during a scheduled urban local body (ULB) meeting in Sopore on March 29. While terming the killings a “huge success” for security forces, he said the encounter broke out after a joint team of the police and the army cordoned off Nathipora and launched a search operation on the basis of specific information about presence of militants in the area. As the security forces zeroed in on the spot where militants were hiding they came under a heavy volume of fire which was retaliated in which both the ultras were killed, he said. Sources identified the slain Pakistani militant as Hamas alias Asrar alias Saria, a commander of Lashker-e-Toiba outfit. Earlier, a spokesperson of J&K police in a tweet said that the foreign militant involved in the March 29 attack on a group of councilors was trapped in the gunfight at Nathipora. Meanwhile, as a ‘precautionary measure’ and to maintain the law and order situation authorities suspended internet services in Sopore police district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-militant-involved-in-killing-of-councilors-cop-killed-in-jks-sopore-982313.html
04-05-2021||Oasis||Trust precedes belief and love||A person was walking slowly on a rope tied between two tall towers, balancing a long stick in his hands. His son was sitting on his shoulders. On the ground, everyone watched him in bated breath. When he reached the second tower successfully, everyone clapped, whistled, welcomed him and shook hands with him. He asked the crowd, “do you all think I can walk back on the same rope now from this side to that side?” The crowd shouted in unison “yes, yes you can.” “Do you trust me?” he asked. They said yes, we are ready to bet on you. He said, “Okay, Can anyone send your child to sit on my shoulder; I will take the child to the other side safely.” There was a stunned silence. None of them was willing to take the risk. Everybody believed in that person’s ability, but nobody trusted him when it came to their involvement.   Believing in something is very easy, but placing our trust on the same is entirely different. We believe in God for having created us to exist in this universe and pray to him fervently, seeking divine intervention to all our problems, believing that He will do the needful. But, do we have that wholehearted trust required to wait patiently for Him to act or recognise His benevolent action when bestowed?  Instead, in the meantime, we are anxious and seek other ways to get the problem solved. To trust, you need to surrender totally.   We not only believed, but had trust in our parents, to nurture us from our infancy to adulthood, and in our teachers, to teach us all the right things so that we grow up to be a wise and successful person. Now, it’s time we believe and trust ourselves to lead an honest and exemplary life that befits society and set examples for the youngsters to follow. Trust is considered to be greater than belief and love because, if you don’t trust a person, how can you believe or love him/her? Trust precedes belief and love. Trust is something that is earned through actions. If someone you believe or love breaks your trust in any way, or form, it isn’t a true affiliation.  As Isaac Watts said, “Learning to trust is one of life’s most difficult tasks”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/trust-precedes-belief-and-love-982064.html
04-05-2021||Opinion||How to be the complete man||A woman’s role in society has dramatically evolved over the past few decades from being a daughter, sister, wife, daughter-in-law, to a professional, a trailblazing employee, to a breadwinner, a woman’s role has transformed significantly. Women have come a long way in contributing to the country’s socio-economic development, while deftly managing work, family, social obligations and self-care. While this progress brings us pride, it’s time that men experience a role reversal. A complete man is the one who not only supports his family financially but one who ensures physical, emotional and mental well-being of his family. A caring husband, father, son or partner is instrumental in empowering a woman and ensuring her wellbeing. Men for their daughters:  Fathers impact the lives of their young daughters in many ways. An excellent father-daughter relationship influences her academic performance, mental growth and emotional stability, therefore impacting her career, success and financial well-being as well as her health. During the daughter’s adolescent years, a father needs to be more sensitive towards her. He must be aware of her needs in reference to her menstrual cycle, pre-menstrual syndrome, have knowledge about sanitary napkins, menstrual hygiene and should be further empowered to speak about menstruation with his daughter. Men for their wives: Today, as our society has evolved to become gender-equal, men take responsibility of buying groceries, cooking, domestic work, looking after the elderly and kids, etc. They also help their wives in planning meals for the family, manage household chores, especially during the days when she is hardpressed or physically unable to manage it all. He continues to shoulder responsibility during her pregnancy accompanying her for antenatal check-ups as well as taking on huge responsibility after childbirth. During his paternity leaves, he shoulders wider responsibility and helps his wife in caring for the newborn. Some men opt to work from home to support their wife when she needs to focus on her work and career. Men for mothers: A mother plays a significant role in nurturing her kids and raising responsible citizens. Responsible men take special care of their mother’s mental, physical and emotional well-being. Today, we see a lot of men caring for their mothers and helping them enjoy their golden years to the fullest; they ensure that their years ahead are joyful and healthy. Men for themselves: We live in a patriarchal society that is gradually seeing the turn of the wheels of change. Gender equality comes in when men and women both stand by each other, while being independent they are interdependent too. Just like men come forward to support women, it is the duty of women to support men in their lives. Tell them that is it okay to be emotional and vulnerable. Men need to take care of themselves too so that they can take care of their families better. So, while the wheels of change are turning for the good, there’s scope for more. However, during this progression, we must also shoulder the responsibility of engaging their mental and emotional wellbeing. (The writer is Senior Consultant-Obstetrician and Gynecologist at a hospital in Mulund, Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-to-be-the-complete-man-982063.html
04-05-2021||Opinion||Religion as a poll issue in God's own country||The just-concluded Kerala Assembly polls had the state's three principal political alliances employ deft moves to woo voters on sectarian lines. Ironically, on a pitch seemingly more suited to parties known to fight electoral battles on religious planks, the “godless communists” outmanoeuvred their opponents. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tried to corner the incumbent Left Front government on the issue of entry of women in the sanctum sanctorum of the Sabarimala shrine. Both the UDF and the BJP promised in their manifestos to bring in legislation to ‘protect the age-old traditions of the shrine’ and ‘respect the sentiments of Ayappa devotees.’ In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections held in the aftermath of the state roiled by protests opposing the Supreme Court’s 2018 Sabarimala verdict, the UDF had won 19 of the 20 seats, gaining from the protests against the SC verdict. The Pinarayi Vijayan government’s firm stand taken in favour of the SC verdict was seen as a major reason behind the dip in the electoral fortunes of the Left. Following the loss in the 2019 polls, the LDF softened its stand. Ahead of the Assembly elections, the state government withdrew the cases filed during the Sabarimala protest. In March 2021, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran expressing regrets over the Sabarimala issue had said, “The incident that took place in Sabarimala in 2018 was something which had pained all of us. It should never have happened. It has pained everyone. It has pained me also.” The minister had assured Ayappa devotees that the Left government would implement the final verdict of the Supreme Court only after consulting with believers, political parties and the general public. A few days later, Surendran was contradicted by CP(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury. Predictably, Congress and the BJP tried to leverage Yechury’s comments to corner the LDF. Wary of the price it had to pay for its 2018 stand on the Sabarimala issue, the incumbent Left government performed a balancing act to neutralise the Sabarimala factor in the polls. On election day, Vijayan set the cat among the pigeons with his comment stating that Ayappa and all other gods were with the LDF which had worked for the welfare of the people. The LDF’s course correction on the Sabarimala issue seems to have paid off as the party won all the five assembly constituencies of Pathanamthitta district. The biggest loser has been the BJP -- ever since the election was announced, huge posters appeared across Kerala, which featured pictures of state BJP chief K Surendran, dressed in the black attire, and his protests against women’s entry into the Sabarimala temple. Surendran came a poor third in the Konni constituency. While the Sabarimala issue hogged the limelight, ‘love jihad’ was another issue that topped the charts during the campaign. It was Jose K. Mani, the leader of Kerala Congress (M), the new entrant in the ruling LDF, who kicked off the debate on the sensitive issue. The BJP wasted no time in joining the ‘love jihad’ bogey. Making use of the opportunity to appeal to conservative Christian voters, BJP State president K. Surendran remarked that the conversion to Islam under the pretext of inter-faith love marriages was a matter of serious concern for Christians. While campaigning in the state, BJP’s Hindutva mascot Yogi Adityanath also raked up the issue. Voters did not buy the ‘Love Jihad’ theory. Jose. K. Mani, Kerala Congress (M) chief, who had resigned from the Rajya Sabha to contest from the Pala constituency, lost by over 14,000 votes. Speaking at a rally in Palakkad, PM Narendra Modi had used a reference from the Bible to target the LDF. In a scathing rebuttal to the PM’s Judas jibe, the Kerala CM had lashed out at what he claimed was the BJP’s attempts of wooing Christians using Judas and Jesus. The CM noted that the voters of Kerala had not forgotten the Kandhamal riots and the murder of Graham Staines and his children. The LDF’s impressive performance in the Christian-dominated Central Kerala belt- traditionally considered to be a Congress bastion would not have been possible had it not managed to dent the Congress-led UDF’s Christian base.  However, the Vijayan-led LDF cannot claim the moral high ground. Buoyed by the success it enjoyed in the December 2020 local body polls, the LDF leaders, had gone all out alleging a nexus between Congress-IUML-radical Muslim outfits, besides accusing the IUML of calling the shots in the UDF and dictating terms to the Congress. As political parties focussed excessively and exclusively on religion and religious issues, more pressing issues like unemployment were ignored. Gods and religion reigning supreme in the politics of God’s own Country is a trend that is unfortunately likely to stay. For now, one hopes that after an unprecedented communally divisive campaign, the man of the moment- Pinarayi Vijayan lives up to his reputation of being an able crisis manager by dealing efficaciously with the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. (The writer is a Mumbai-based freelance journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/religion-as-a-poll-issue-in-gods-own-country-982134.html
04-05-2021||Right in the Middle||The elephant and the horse||One of the few animals that make me feel like a five-year-old boy again is an elephant. My love for this gentle and majestic creation of God started when I was introduced to it for the first time at the Kanchipuram Varadaraja Perumal Temple. He was not big like the elephants of Guruvayurappan. He was medium-sized. He had, to give him company, a milk-white mare named Komala. Her greatest asset was her blazing tail. Sudharshan was so gentle and docile that children were allowed, by his mahout, to offer him bananas directly. We used to watch with amazement when he would crush full coconuts offered under his pillar-like foot. He was so indulgent with children that they could even shake his trunk. A toddler once strayed into his path while he was on his weekly trip to collect coconut fronds through the streets of the town.  Onlookers’ hearts skipped a beat when he picked up the child gently and placed the child aside. Sudharshan and Komala preceded the procession in festivals. Sudharshan would come in first with his swinging trunk, his back covered with a big ornamental cloth made from silk, followed by well-groomed Komala the Sun-white horse.  When they were off duty, Komala would stand like a surgeon at an operation table, wearing a nose bag, Sudharshan would stand in his enclosure, twitching his trunk's tip, swinging softly and sweetly, ogling at Komala. It looked like they were in love like the giraffe and hippo pair in the film 'Madagascar'.  Even gentle Sudharshan once ran amok. People who happened to be inside the temple when it happened took shelter within the hundred-pillared complex. When his anger subsided, he returned to his enclosure and stood there at a corner ruefully, looking as if he was ashamed of his unbecoming behaviour. One day, during my half-yearly exam, I received a postcard from a cousin of mine who lived in Kanchipuram, informing me that Sudharshan was critically ill. “He may go at any time. Why don’t you come and see him?” he asked in the letter. I wanted to go to Kanchipuram to see my ailing friend but my father said, “are you going to absent yourself from the exam? No.” In a week’s time, Sudharshan passed away. Sudharshan and Komala, as far as I was concerned, were not just animals but a part of Lord Varadaraja Perumal’s priceless jewels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-elephant-and-the-horse-982061.html
04-05-2021||Second Edit||BCCI, open your purse for the Covid-19 cause||The Board of Control for Cricket in India, the world's wealthiest sporting body, needs to stand up and be counted in the war against Covid-19. There has been plenty of debate on whether the Indian Premier League should continue at a time when the country is reeling under a particularly vicious second wave of the disease, whose effects have been exacerbated by governmental bungling at various levels. This second wave has worsened considerably during the course of the tournament, making for the difficult optics of blazing floodlights and grinning commentators contrasting with makeshift funeral pyres burning not far away. The easiest solution would be to end the IPL prematurely, especially as a few players have now started falling sick. But a better option would be to get the BCCI to fork out half of its earnings of Rs 3,300 crore from the tournament for the Covid cause.  While tragedy and sport never make for good optics together, there are no straightforward answers to the question 'Should the IPL be stopped?' It's significant that the one other sport that is happening almost unnoticed in India currently (Asian club football) isn’t measured by the same high morality standard, but that's the price cricket has to pay for being the most popular sport in the country. Countries pointing a finger at India for hosting a spectacle while people are dying had no qualms in continuing with their premier sporting events bang in the middle of their respectively deadly second waves - be it the NBA in the USA, the EPL in England or Ligue 1 in France. In EPL alone, from January 1- April 18, 100 players and members of supporting staff had tested positive. The IPL has contributed to keeping people off the streets and has been a distraction from the death and despair all around -- something that cannot be underestimated given the pandemic's impact on mental health. Viewing figures, even if lower than last year, are still higher than the 2019 edition. But hosting this tournament at this time is a luxury, and if it wants to keep this privilege, the BCCI needs to open up its coffers and come up with a far bigger assistance package than it did during the first wave last year when it contributed Rs 51 crore. The cricketers and the franchises also need to do more. The former are notoriously silent when it comes to anything that could be seen as remotely critical of the government, but there are several ways for them to frame their fight against Covid in a positive light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bcci-open-your-purse-for-the-covid-19-cause-982056.html
04-05-2021||South||ISRO espionage case: CBI lodges FIR against 'erring' Kerala cops||The CBI has registered an FIR against former Kerala police officials for allegedly framing space scientist Nambi Narayanan on false charges in the 1994 ISRO espionage case, officials said on Monday. The CBI has officially refused to comment on the names of the accused in the FIR and the specific charges, but sources have said several former officials of the Kerala police have been named. The Supreme Court, on April 15, directed the CBI to conduct further investigation into the allegations of the framing of Narayanan on false charges by the police, based on the findings of a three-member committee under retired apex court judge Justice DK Jain. The court had also ordered that the findings of the committee should not be published. "On the basis of the report, the Supreme Court directed the CBI to proceed in the matter in accordance with law, being a court-directed enquiry," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. Accordingly, the CBI has registered a case, he added. Narayanan (79), who was working at ISRO's Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC), was absolved of the espionage charges following the CBI probe. He had approached the Supreme Court seeking action against Kerala police officials. Narayanan, the then director of the cryogenic project at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), along with the then ISRO deputy director D Sasikumaran, were arrested by the Kerala police in the 1994 case pertaining to the alleged selling of secret documents to Pakistan through a Maldivian woman, Rasheeda. The police registered two cases at Thiruvananthapuram's Vanchiyoor police station in October and November of 1994 over stay beyond visa limits and espionage respectively against Rasheeda, who was arrested in the state capital for allegedly obtaining secret drawings of ISRO rocket engines to sell to Pakistan. The arrest during the Congress government in Kerala assumed political colour when a section of the party leaders blamed the then chief minister K Karunakaran for the police action, leading to his resignation. The cases were handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which gave a clean chit to Narayanan. "In the espionage case, the CBI submitted a final report before the chief judicial magistrate, Ernakulam, which was accepted by the court. While submitting the said report, the allegations pertaining to espionage were found to be false,"  Joshi said. Narayanan approached the Supreme Court against a Kerala High Court judgment that said no action needed to be taken against former state director general of police (DGP) Siby Mathews, who was then heading the SIT, and two retired superintendents of police — K K Joshua and S Vijayan — who were later held responsible by the CBI for the scientist's illegal arrest. Narayanan had said the Kerala police had "fabricated" the case and the technology he was accused to have stolen and sold in the 1994 case did not even exist at that time. The CBI, while giving a clean chit to the scientist, had said Mathews had left "the entire investigation to the IB surrendering his duties" and ordered an indiscriminate arrest of the scientist and others without adequate evidence being on record. On September 14, 2018, the apex court awarded a Rs-50 lakh compensation to Narayanan and ordered the formation of a committee for ascertaining the actual scenario, including the arrest and false implication of Narayanan. The panel was also tasked with finding out ways for taking appropriate steps against the erring officials. In its order, the Supreme Court had said, "There can be no scintilla of doubt that the appellant, a successful scientist having national reputation, has been compelled to undergo immense humiliation. The lackadaisical attitude of the state police to arrest anyone and put him in custody has made the appellant to suffer the ignominy." It accepted Narayanan's plea that the authorities, who were responsible for causing such a "harrowing effect" on his mind, should face "legal consequences". The home ministry constituted the three-member committee under Justice Jain, which submitted its report to the apex court after nearly two-and-a-half years of investigation. On April 5 this year, the Centre moved the top court seeking an urgent hearing and consideration of the panel's report.  After going through the report, the court ordered it to be kept in a sealed cover and not to be published. It asked the CBI to take the findings of the report as part of its preliminary investigation and directed the agency to submit its report to it within three months. The court rejected the submission of Mathews that he was not heard by the committee, while Narayanan was heard. The bench said the committee was not to adjudicate the matter, but it had to go through the circumstantial evidence and form a prima facie view on the acts of omissions and commissions of the erring officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/isro-espionage-case-cbi-lodges-fir-against-erring-kerala-cops-982055.html
04-05-2021||South||Media professionals to be considered as frontline workers in Tamil Nadu||DMK President M K Stalin announced that media professionals will be considered as frontline workers in Tamil Nadu. "All media persons working in newspapers, visual and audio media at the risk of their lives... will be considered as frontline employees in Tamil Nadu," he tweeted. மழை - வெயில் - பெருந்தொற்றிலும் உயிரைப் பணயம் வைத்து செய்தித்தாள்கள், காட்சி - ஒலி ஊடகங்களில் பணியாற்றி வருகின்ற ஊடகத் துறையினர் அனைவருமே தமிழகத்தில் முன்களப் பணியாளர்களாகக் கருதப்படுவர். முன்களப் பணியாளர்களுக்குரிய உரிமைகள் - சலுகைகள் அவர்களுக்கும் உரிய முறையில் வழங்கப்படும். Building a strong narrative over the years against the AIADMK and BJP-led governments in Tamil Nadu and the Centre, Stalin reaped huge success in Assembly polls, recreating the 2019 magic when he won the Lok Sabha polls hands down for his party and allies. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/media-professionals-to-be-considered-as-frontline-workers-in-tamil-nadu-982130.html
04-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis:Two die due to alleged oxygen shortage at Arka hospital; BBMP JC orders audit||Two patients died of alleged oxygen shortage at Arka hospital, Yelahanka, soon after SOS calls started flooding Twitter in the wee hours of Tuesday. By RJ Amit @ 3:11 am People have started dying in Arka Hospital Yelahanka because hospital has run out of oxygen cylinders.     BBMP Joint Commissioner Dr DR Ashok, of Yelahanka, said he had instructed the medical officer of the zone, Dr Yoganand. to conduct a death audit of these two patients. "We received this information (of deaths) on Tuesday morning. I've sent the medical officer to audit these cases. Once he visits and inspects the facilities there, we'll know if it was due to oxygen shortage. The hospital was not a part of BBMP's CHBMS (Central Hospital Bed Management System). They were making oxygen arrangements from Universal Gases. These deaths have taken place around 2 am. We've learnt that Universal could not supply the 35 cylinders they were supposed to in time. The hospital has 45 patients and they have received 15 cylinders this morning. For one day, they require as many as 30 cylinders. We're told the rest of the supply is coming from Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh," Ashok said. The hospital authorities did not respond to calls from DH. Universal Air Products' Managing Director Subasish Guha Roy and KSN Shastri, Assistant General Manager, Universal Air Products did not respond to calls and messages from DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisistwo-die-due-to-alleged-oxygen-shortage-at-arka-hospital-bbmp-jc-orders-audit-982158.html
04-05-2021||South||Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar visit Chamarajanagar hospital||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar visited the district Covid hospital in Chamarajanagar on Tuesday afternoon, where 24 patients allegedly died of oxygen shortage. Other Congress leaders also accompanied them and interacted with hospital authorities and the kin of victims. A number of people had gathered on the hospital premises, raising slogans against the state government, holding it responsible for the tragedy. They also criticised Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri for not sending oxygen cylinders on time resulting in the tragedy and demanded action against her. Meanwhile, Chamarajanagar DC M R Ravi said the death audit has been conducted and a report submitted soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leaders-siddaramaiah-d-k-shivakumar-visit-chamarajanagar-hospital-982176.html
04-05-2021||South||Stalin expels DMK men for removing boards with 'Amma' picture in canteen||A group of DMK cadre on Tuesday ransacked an Amma Canteen that serves subsidised food here by tearing the name board and removing the picture of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, two days after the party won the election. As videos of the incident went viral, DMK swung into action and expelled two cadres who went on the rampage, and installed the name board back within hours. Amma Canteen was established in 2013 by Jayalalithaa as part of an initiative to provide subsidised yet quality food in urban areas. The canteens kept their doors open for thousands of people who visited them during the Covid-19 lockdown. The incident took place on Tuesday morning at the Amma Canteen in J J Nagar in Mogappair in the city as the DMK men barged into the building and pulled down a portrait of Jayalalithaa from the wall. The viral video showed the men tearing the name board outside the canteen, and leaving the area. As the video was shared on various social media platforms, the DMK expelled the two cadre – Navasundar and Surendran – from the party. The duo were picked up by the police after the canteen staff filed a police complaint. DMK MLA Ma Subramanian said party chief Stalin has ordered their expulsion. “They did not hold any posts in the party. However, they have now been expelled,” he said, adding that the name board was re-installed in the same place. The incident prompted AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam to appeal to Stalin to ensure that action is taken against such individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-expels-dmk-men-for-removing-boards-with-amma-picture-in-canteen-982218.html
04-05-2021||South||BJP wins four seats in Tamil Nadu; party MLAs to enter Assembly after 20 years||For the first time in two decades, the BJP's voice will be heard in the Tamil Nadu Assembly with four party candidates romping home in the just-concluded elections. Familiarity of the candidates in their constituencies, and the alliance with AIADMK, has helped the BJP open its account for the first time since 2001, when it had won the same number of seats as part of the DMK combine. M R Gandhi (Nagercoil), Nainar Nagendran (Tirunelveli), C Saraswathi (Modakurichi), and Mahila Morcha chief Vanathi Srinivasan (Coimbatore South) are the four out of 20 candidates from the BJP who emerged victorious. Nagendran, who is a former AIADMK minister, and Gandhi, who has had his grooming in the RSS, are popular in their respective constituencies, while Srinivasan is quite familiar in Coimbatore. Clinching four seats, though in an alliance with AIADMK, is sort of an achievement in a high-octane election campaign in which BJP was the prime target of the DMK-Congress combine. Though state party chief L Murugan, senior leader H Raja, and star candidate K Annamalai lost the elections, the BJP is happy that it has won an election after two long decades. The party, which is making a concerted effort to make inroads into Tamil Nadu, will now hope to create a base for itself on the ground, as the Opposition campaign that BJP cannot win seats, has failed -- at least for now. In the run-up to the polls, BJP had made headlines as it attempted Hindu consolidation by undertaking 'Vel Yatra' to “unmask” people behind a YouTube channel that made derogatory remarks on Kandha Shasti Kavasam, a popular devotional hymn sung in praise of Lord Murugan. The yatra was a failure, but 'Vetrivel Veeravel' continued to be the catch phrase of the BJP, with even Prime Minister Narendra Modi raising the slogan in his public meetings. “The alliance seems to have worked well for the BJP, though the popular opinion was that the party will not open its account. That has now been proved and BJP should understand that the success has not come due its Vel Yatra or religious polarisation. A combination of local factors and alliance with AIADMK has worked for the party,” political commentator Maalan Narayanan told DH. He also said the BJP should formalise a different strategy for non-Hindi speaking states for the simple reason that all have distinct cultural and linguistic identities. “When BJP talks of one nation-one language, people here get insecure. Their religious politics will not have any takers here,” Maalan said. Agreeing with Maalan, senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh said the BJP has to completely re-engineer its strategy in Tamil Nadu as they cannot play the Hindu consolidation card in the state. “Only inclusivity will work in Tamil Nadu. The BJP should identify local leaders and nurture them so that they don't have to import leaders to campaign even for a local body election like they did in Telangana. More than everything, the BJP should drop Hindi. Otherwise, they will play straight into the trap laid by political opponents,” Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-wins-four-seats-in-tamil-nadu-party-mlas-to-enter-assembly-after-20-years-982278.html
04-05-2021||South||Lone woman opposition MLA in Kerala sends a strong political message to CPI(M)||Even as only one of the 12 women candidates of UDF could make it to the Kerala Assembly, she is sending a strong message against political killings and will be a major opponent to the ruling CPI(M) in the Assembly. K K Rema, who is the lone woman who won from the UDF side, is the wife of a dissident CPI(M) activist T P Chandrasekharan who was murdered by inflicting over 50 hack injuries on May 4, 2012 at Onchiyam in Kozhikode by a gang involving CPI(M) local leaders. The brutal killing was allegedly with the knowledge of the party's top leaders, especially the 'Kannur lobby,' owing to political vengeance. Some prominent local leaders of the party were among those convicted in the case. Rema has been strongly campaigning against the CPI(M) leadership, especially over murder politics, over the years. The Revolutionary Marxist Party founded by Chandrasekharan had also worked against the CPI(M)'s prominent leader P Jayarajan in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Rema contested and secured 20,500 votes. This time the Congress-backed her and despite the pro-LDF trend across the state, Rema won from Vadakara constituency with a comfortable majority of around 8,000 votes against LDF's Manayat Chandran of the Lok Tantrik Janata Dal. Rema's comment after her election victory was that it was Chandrasekharan's victory and the CPI(M) cadres would feel Chandrasekharan alive in the Kerala Assembly in the coming days. Incidentally, the election results came just two days ahead of Chandrasekharan's ninth death anniversary on Tuesday. Meanwhile, all the 10 women Congress candidates in the fray as well as the lone IUML women candidate from the UDF side got defeated in the elections, while 10 from the LDF made it to the Assembly. The state had witnessed Mahila Congress state president Lathika Subash tonsuring her head in protest against denial of seat and poor representation of women. Though she contested as a rebel candidate at Ettumanoor in Kottayam district she could secure only around 7,400 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lone-woman-opposition-mla-in-kerala-sends-a-strong-political-message-to-cpim-982283.html
04-05-2021||South||Kerala government formation likely by May 18 or later||The formation of the new LDF government in Kerala is likely by May 18 or later only as the talks with the coalition partners on the new ministers were just beginning. It was learnt that youngsters and women may be given more prominence in the Cabinet. The party's decision to make a young woman mayor of the Thiruvananthapuram city after the last local body election was widely appreciated. Moreover, inducting more youngsters in the Cabinet would also help in ensuring a better governance, sources close to party leadership said. LDF convenor and CPI(M) acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said that the LDF and CPI(M)state secretariat meetings on May 17 and 18 would only finalise the members in the cabinet. In the coming days the CPI(M)leadership would begin talks with coalition partners on seat sharing in the cabinet. While the CPI(M)has 62 MLAs, CPI has 17, Kerala Congress (M) five, NCP and JD(S) two each. Six other parties got one seat each and there are five independents also. Already the major coalition parties were reported to have staked claims for more seats in the Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-formation-likely-by-may-18-or-later-982295.html
04-05-2021||South||Kamal Haasan meets M K Stalin; congratulates him on DMK's victory||In a gesture that went beyond politics, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan on Tuesday drove to DMK President M K Stalin's residence to congratulate him on the party's victory in the assembly elections. The meeting took place on Tuesday evening. MNM did not win any seats with Kamal Haasan himself losing from Coimbatore South assembly constituency to BJP's Vanathi Srinivasan. The MNM chief also congratulated Udhayanidhi Stalin who won from Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni constituency in Chennai. The gesture comes a day after Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami bowed out with much grace wishing Stalin good luck for his new assignment. Stalin too reciprocated the gesture by seeking advice and cooperation from Palaniswami on taking the state to greater heights. During the campaign, MNM and Kamal Haasan had attacked the AIADMK and DMK equally branding them “corrupt.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-meets-m-k-stalin-congratulates-him-on-dmks-victory-982302.html
04-05-2021||South||Stalin chairs high-level meeting on Covid-19||DMK President M K Stalin, who will be sworn-in as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on May 7, held a high-level review meeting with government officials on Tuesday on the situation arising out of the second wave of Covid-19. In the review meeting held at his residence, Stalin told officials to ensure that enough beds and oxygen are available for Covid-19 patients who need them. He also told officials to make sure that tablets and necessary medicine are available in districts. After the meeting, Stalin issued a statement asking the fight against Covid-19 be converted into a “people's movement” while appealing to the people to wear masks and follow instructions issued by the government every now and then. “People should follow the restrictions that have been imposed in the state. If people do not follow the rules, it would lead to an increase in the number of cases. People should consider that the restrictions are for them, and convert the fight against Covid-19 into a people's movement,” he said. He also asked people not to step out of their homes unless it is necessary and keep their windows in air-conditioned rooms. Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, DGP J K Tripathy, and Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-chairs-high-level-meeting-on-covid-19-982309.html
04-05-2021||South||M K Stalin to be sworn in as Tamil Nadu CM on May 7||DMK President M K Stalin will take oath as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on May 7 at a simple ceremony in Raj Bhavan due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. He was duly elected as the leader of the DMK Legislature Party at its meeting on Tuesday evening. DMK general secretary Durai Murugan chaired the meeting and announced the election of Stalin as the Legislative Party leader. With this, Stalin and senior party leaders will meet Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Wednesday and stake claim to form the government. “Our leader will be sworn-in as Chief Minister on Friday (May 7) in Raj Bhavan. It will be a low-key event,” a senior DMK leader told DH. After being elected as the DMK Legislative Party leader, Stalin paid respects at the memorials of party founder C N Annadurai and his father M Karunanidhi. Sources said Stalin is likely to firm up the names for his cabinet by Wednesday or Thursday, with party leaders hoping that the ministry will be a mix of young faces and experienced seniors. The DMK is coming to power in Tamil Nadu after a gap of 10 years and there is intense lobbying for ministerial positions in the party. Party I-T wing chief P T R Thiaga Rajan, Anbil Mahesh, who hails from a traditional DMK family and shares excellent rapport with Udhayanidhi Stalin, and former Chennai Mayor Ma Subramanian are some of the leaders who are likely to be made ministers for the first time. Seniors like K Ponmudy, K N Nehru, I Periyasamy, and former ministers Thangam Thennarasu, and Geetha Jeevan are also likely to be inducted into the cabinet. DMK has won 133 seats on its own, while its allies have emerged victorious in 26 seats. Since the DMK government will assume office during a pandemic, there will be no time to settle down – Stalin has already begun chairing Covid-19 review meetings with Chief Secretary Rajiv Ranjan and other officials. The new government has multitude of issues to contend with like controlling the spread of Covid-19, ramping up vaccination drive, attending to poor fiscal health of the state, and fulfilling a slew of promises made in the election manifesto. Keeping Covid-19 cases under check, swinging into action to keep the medical infrastructure ready for any third wave and accelerating the vaccination drive – TN has one of the lowest numbers – would be the biggest challenges for the new dispensation. The state added over 21,000 cases on Tuesday and hospital beds, including those created during the pandemic, are filling up fast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-to-be-sworn-in-as-tamil-nadu-cm-on-may-7-982311.html
04-05-2021||South||Covid-19 double mutant fast replacing dominant N440K variant in south India, say scientists||The B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus, also known as the double mutant, is fast replacing the N440K variant in south India, scientists at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) said on Tuesday. Former CCMB director Rakesh Mishra said the double mutant is now a dominant variant in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and now Telangana. After an exhaustive analysis of 5,000 variants earlier this year, the CCMB had found that N440K is spreading a lot more in the southern states compared to the other variants. But B.1.617 is fast replacing N440K, including in Kerala, Divya Tej Sowpati, a scientist with the CCMB, said. "Lineages with #N440K are NOT the dominant ones in the second wave of #Covid19inIndia. While N440K was indeed a mutation of concern in South India during and after the first wave, current data shows that it is essentially replaced by new VoCs such as #B1617 and #B117. "In KL, though not much data is available on GISAID, we can see from https://genescov2.genomes.in that B.1.1.7 is increasing at present, whereas N440K is present in <20% of the genomes. "Also, it is important to remember that just because a variant behaves a certain way in cell cultures (with no competition, and in controlled settings), it does not mean it will behave the same way in humans, or in a complicated pandemic scenario," Sowpati tweeted. The B.1.617 variant harbours 15 lineage defining mutations. B.1.617, initially termed as the double mutant, has three new spike protein mutations. Two mutations -- E484Q and L452R -- are in the area important for antibody-based neutralisation. The third mutation, P681R, allows the virus to enter cells a little better. "When comparing the data from MH, in MH we can see that the increase in B.1.617 is seen in Feb rather than Mar 2021, and again we observe a reduction in proportion of lineages with N440K," Sowpati tweeted. At a webinar last month, Sujeet Singh, the Director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said in Maharashtra, the B.1.617 variant was found in proportions of over 50 per cent in many cities, while the UK variant was found in 28 per cent samples in the second week of March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-double-mutant-fast-replacing-dominant-n440k-variant-in-south-india-say-scientists-982314.html
04-05-2021||South||Media persons will be considered as frontline workers: Stalin||Tamil Nadu's to-be Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday announced media persons working in print and television mediums will be considered as “frontline” workers in the fight against Covid-19. In a statement, Stalin said entitlement and support being extended to front-line workers will be given to media persons. Journalists have been demanding to announce them as “front-line” workers as they continuously report on Covid-19. The outgoing AIADMK government had included journalists of all ages in the vaccination programme in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/media-persons-will-be-considered-as-frontline-workers-stalin-982317.html
04-05-2021||State||Oxygen shortage claims 24 lives at Chamarajanagar hospitals||In yet another hospital tragedy in the second wave of the pandemic, 24 patients died at two hospitals in Chamarajanagar district allegedly due to oxygen shortage. While 23 deaths were reported from the District Covid Hospital, one patient died at a private hospital at Kamagere in Hanur taluk. The district administration and the state government denied this and claimed that 24 people died over a period of 24 hours due to Covid-19 and other comorbidities. “Not all deaths were because of oxygen shortage,” officials said. Health Minister K Sudhakar, who reached Chamarajanagar after the incident, said according to primary reports by the district administration, health department and hospital, only three deaths were due to oxygen shortage. The Covid hospital has 24 ventilators, 53 ICU beds and 55 oxygenated beds. All the beds were occupied, sources said.The 6,000-litre oxygen plant that was installed on the premises a few days ago can sustain the needs of the hospital for one and a half days. Liquid oxygen is supplied from Ballari. After the supplies ran dry on Sunday night, cylinders were being used for the patients. Cylinders from Mysuru were supposed to reach Chamarajanagar by 9 pm. The delay is said to be the reason behind the tragedy. The Opposition Congress demanded a judicial probe, alleging that the incident was due to the negligence of the government. The relatives of the deceased held a protest outside the hospital, seeking compensation. Following the outcry, District Judge S S Puri visited the hospital and held discussions with Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi.  Officials in Mysuru denied charges that the administration failed to supply oxygen to the neighbouring Chamarajanagar district. They claimed 250 cylinders were sent to Chamarajanagar till Sunday midnight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/oxygen-shortage-claims-24-lives-at-chamarajanagar-hospitals-982071.html
04-05-2021||State||Karnataka govt defers II PUC exams due to Covid-19||Keeping in mind the rapid surge in the Covid cases across the state, the Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar on Tuesday announced the postponement of  II PUC (12th Standard) exams that were scheduled to be held from 24th May onwards. According to the department, the revised dates for the exams will be announced later.  "The revised dates for the II PUC will be announced 15 to 20 days prior to the commencement of the final exams," minister Suresh Kumar said. A few months ago, the state government had announced to hold II PUC exams from May 24 to June 16 in as many as 1,047 examinations centres across Karnataka. A total of 6.80 lakh students had registered for the exams.  In the meantime, the department has taken a decision to promote I PUC (11th Standard) students without conducting any examination. Previously it was decided to conduct the I PUC exams after the II PUC exams in the month of July. "The decision on promotion has been taken keeping in mind the safety of the children and a bridge course will be conducted before the commencement of II PUC classes," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-defers-ii-puc-exams-due-to-covid-19-982206.html
04-05-2021||State||Remdesivir in black: You’ll face consequences, BSY tells officials ||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday said he was in possession of a report showing involvement of government officials in the black market sale of the antiviral drug Remdesivir.  Yediyurappa said this at an emergency meeting he chaired to review the supply and availability of Remdesivir, which is used in Covid-19 treatment.  “The information I have is that it’s being sold in black, even to other states,” Yediyurappa said. “I will get a comprehensive investigation done into this and all of you will face the consequences. I won’t spare anyone.”  Yediyurappa said the drug, which is now in great demand, was being sold in the black market “in spite of the difficult times” and that “it has become a business”. He was addressing an officer in the meeting attended by Health Minister K Sudhakar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar and others.  “The report I have says everyone is involved, not one or two. If this is investigated, everything will come out and you’ll face the consequences,” Yediyrappa said, repeating that he will not spare anybody. “Don’t speak here by concealing the facts,” he told the official.  “No, Sir. The fact is that all officials are working day and night,” the official said only to be cut off by Yediyurappa. “Did I say you’re not working? That’s not important. What do you have to say about the black market sale? When there’s a shortage of Remdesivir and it’s being sold in the black market, do you know what effect an investigation will have? I will get this investigated,” he thundered.  Govt to import 5 lakh Remdesivir vials  The Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force headed by Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Tuesday decided to float a global tender to import five lakh Remdesivir vials into the state.  On May 1, Union Minister for Chemicals DV Sadananda Gowda said Karnataka’s allocation of Remdesivir for the period April21-May 9 would be 3,01,300 vials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/remdesivir-in-black-you-ll-face-consequences-bsy-tells-officials-982284.html
04-05-2021||State||BJP top brass ask CM to probe Chamarajnagar hospital incident||BJP National General Secretary (in-charge Karnataka) Arun Singh on Tuesday spoke to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and asked him to conduct detailed probe into the death of patients in district Covid-19 hospital in Chamarajnagar. Singh also asked the CM to ensure proper justice to the victims and book the culprits.  He also said such incidents should not repeat, sources said. Singh also spoke to Health Minister D Sudhakar and asked him to take steps to supply sufficient medical oxygen to hospitals across the state. While asking Yediyurappa to work in coordinated manner, Arun Singh also asked the CM to deploy his cabinet ministers for the various tasks to combat the pandemic, sources in the BJP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-top-brass-ask-cm-to-probe-chamarajnagar-hospital-incident-982330.html
04-05-2021||State||Private hospitals warn of downing shutters||Private hospitals in the city have warned that they would have to down shutters if the district administration did not ensure a regular supply of medical grade oxygen to them as per their requirements for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Many of the hospitals were denying admissions and discharging patients. Dr Amit Bhate, Director, Jeevanrekha Hospital told DH on Tuesday that hospitals were getting 10 per cent to 20 per cent of their daily oxygen requirement. "Delay in supply of medicine like Remdesivir could be managed, but not without oxygen as patients would gasp for breathing. During the first wave of Covid-19, ventilator requirements for patients was low, but now with the mutated virus most of them need ventilators," he said.    He said a section of patients and VIPs in particular prefer treatment in private hospitals. "We are not being able to admit patients as we are not sure of oxygen supplies if the condition of patient turns critical requiring ventilator"  Admission of new patients has been stopped by many private hospitals and rest have been discharging patients. Many of them will not admit patients from Wednesday as they are not sure of oxygen supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-hospitals-warn-of-downing-shutters-982335.html
04-05-2021||State||Covid tears fabric of livelihood for Lakshmeshwar’s powerloom workers||It is familiar to hear the rattling sound of the powerlooms in the village of Shigli, but that was before the pandemic. These days one hears only the sigh of exasperation of the workers and owners of the looms that, in the pre-Covid days, weaved beautiful sarees which commanded demand from as far as Bengaluru, Davangere, Dharwad, Belagavi and Bagalkot. In short, the pandemic and the resultant lockdown have meant that the looms have fallen silent and the piles of sarees have remained unsold, tearing the very fabric of livelihood for the scores of workers here. Hundreds of sarees used to be weaved at the tens of powerlooms in the village, where 400-500 people are employed. But they are literally on the streets for the last one year due to the Covid-19 crisis. Owners of the looms say that they can weave new sarees only if the old stock is cleared. But the lockdown last year meant that the saree shops remained closed during the wedding season when the sales hit the peak, thus leading to uncleared stock.   Also, with connectivity taking a hit in the wake of the pandemic, it became impossible to transport the sarees worth lakhs of rupees to the markets. The situation doesn’t seem any better this year, belying all hopes of a revival. The only saving grace is that the looms are getting specific orders for limited number of sarees this year, which means that better days can be expected by the workers and the loom owners. The looms had completely stopped running last year. What has added insult to injury for the looms here is the increase in prices of thread, a key raw material in the making of the sarees. The rates have gone up from Rs 2,700-3,000 for a five-kg bundle of thread to Rs 4,600 now. The price of a saree ranges from Rs 450-500, depending on quality. The owners say profits are far-fetched, given the bleak scenario over the last two years. Their fortunes can be revived if demands pick up in the near future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-tears-fabric-of-livelihood-for-lakshmeshwar-s-powerloom-workers-982350.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka Govt appoints five ministers to monitor oxygen supply, key drugs||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appointed five ministers to oversee supply of oxygen, remdesvir and other essential drugs, along with Covid war rooms and allocation of beds at hospitals. The Karnataka government has also petitioned the Centre to ensure that oxygen manufactured in the state is used locally to avoid imports from other states. Yediyurappa said that the state government has requested the Centre to divert the oxygen allocation of Maharastra to Karnataka as cases in neighbouring state were going down. Speaking to reporters after a special Cabinet meeting convened to discuss Covid-19 - a day after the tragic death of 24 patients in Chamarajanagar district hospital, Yediyurappa said that five ministers are put in charge of various Covid-19 related works. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar will handle oxygen supply management with the Central government. "He will keep in regular touch with the Centre to secure required oxygen for patients. The minister will also hold meetings with local producers constantly to ensure adequate oxygen supply," he said. DyCM Dr CN Ashwath Narayan is put in-charge of the supply of remdesvir and other drugs to patients, along with ramping up human resource at Covid hospitals. Final years students of medicine and nursing will be roped in to increase man power at Covid care facilities. Revenue Minister R Ashok and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai are tasked to ensure maximum availability of beds in government and private hospitals. Forests Minister Arvind Limbavali will be in-charge of various war rooms and call centres. "The minister will the monitor them and make the call centres more effective in providing essential medical advice to patients," Yediyurappa said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appointed five ministers to oversee oxygen, remdesvir and other essential drug supply, Covid war rooms and allocation of beds at hospitals. Karnataka government has also petitioned the Centre to ensure that oxygen manufactured in the state is used locally to avoid imports from other states. Yediyurappa said that the state government has also requested the Centre to divert the oxygen allocation of Maharastra to Karnataka as cases in neighbouring state were going down. Speaking to reporters after a special Cabinet meeting convened to discuss Covid-19 - a day after the tragic death of 24 patients in Chamarajanagar district hospital, Yediyurappa said that five ministers are put in charge of various Covid-19 related works. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar will handle oxygen supply management with the Central government. "He will keep in regular touch with the Centre to secure required oxygen for patients. The minister will also hold meetings with local producers constantly to ensure adequate oxygen supply," he said. DyCM Dr CN Ashwath Narayan is put in-charge of the supply of remdesvir and other drugs to patients, along with ramping up human resource at Covid hospitals. Final years students of medicine and nursing will be roped in to increase man power at Covid care facilities. Revenue Minister R Ashok and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai are tasked to ensure maximum availability of beds in government and private hospitals. Forests Minister Arvind Limbavali will be in-charge of various war rooms and call centres. "The minister will the monitor them and make the call centres more effective in providing essential medical advice to patients," Yediyurappa said. Oxygen supply The state was in constant touch with the Centre to ensure adequate supply of oxygen. "Oxygen supply from neighbouring states is delayed. We are in constant touch with Union ministers to ensure speedy supply. Case numbers are dropping in Maharashtra. We have sought the Centre to divert the (Oxygen) allocation from Jindal steel being supplied to Maharashtra (to Karnataka), and have spoken to the central ministers over the past three days. They have agreed to it," he said. To a question, Yediyurappa said that he has spoken to Union Ministers Amit Shah and Piyush Goyal to ensure that Karnataka used the oxygen produced here. "They have almost agreed and will take a call soon," the CM said. The Cabinet also cleared the proposal to import one lakh oxygenerators and to consider media persons as frontline workers for administration of vaccines on priority. On whether the government would extend the 'Janata Curfew', he said another meeting will be chaired in the coming days before taking a call on the issue. The state was in constant touch with the Centre to ensure adequate supply of oxygen. "Oxygen supply from neighbouring states is delayed. We are in constant touch with Union ministers to ensure speedy supply. Case numbers are dropping in Maharashtra. We have sought the Centre to divert the (Oxygen) allocation from Jindal steel being supplied to Maharashtra (to Karnataka), and have spoken to the central ministers over the past three days. They have agreed to it," he said. To a question, Yediyurappa said that he has spoken to Union Ministers Amit Shah and Piyush Goyal to ensure that Karnataka used the oxygen produced here. "They have almost agreed and will take a call soon," the CM said. The Cabinet also cleared the proposal to import one lakh oxygenerators and to consider media persons as frontline workers for administration of vaccines on priority. On whether the government would extend the 'Janata Curfew', he said another meeting will be chaired in the coming days before taking a call on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-govt-appoints-five-ministers-to-monitor-oxygen-supply-key-drugs-982298.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka declares journalists as frontline Covid workers||The Karnataka government announced Tuesday that journalists will be considered as ‘frontline workers’ for the purpose of Covid-19 vaccination. This was decided at a special Cabinet meeting that discussed the Covid-19 situation in the state. "Mediapersons will be considered frontline workers and vaccines will be administered to them on a priority basis," Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said, briefing reporters. Karnataka is among the few states that have announced free vaccination to journalists. Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh have announced a similar decision. The Cabinet also cleared the proposal to import one lakh oxygen concentrators to ramp up Covid-19 facilities in the state. To a question on deaths at Chamarajanagar district hospital owing to lack of oxygen, Yediyurappa said that the government would initiate action against those responsible. "Such incidents should not repeat," he said, noting that directions were issued to all district in-charge ministers and deputy commissioners to ensure the same. On whether the government would compensate families of victims who died due to shortage of oxygen, he said that the government would discuss the issue. Yediyurappa said that there were no discussions extending the Covid-19 curbs beyond May 12, when the current 'close down' will end. "We will meet and take a call on this in a few days," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-declares-journalists-as-frontline-covid-workers-982300.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 44,631 fresh Covid-19 cases, 292 deaths||Karnataka yet again reported more than 40,000 Covid-19 cases with 44,631 cases on Tuesday, taking the total caseload to 16,90,934. Bengaluru Urban district alone accounted for 20,870 of these infections with its active cases going up to 3,01,712. Karnataka now has 4,64,363 active cases and its positivity rate stands at 29.03%. The state had reported 44,438 cases on Monday.As many as 292 people died on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 16,538. Bengaluru alone saw 132 deaths. As many as 12,10,013 people have so far been discharged, including 24,714 people on Tuesday alone. As many as 2,293 cases were reported in Mysuru, 2,278 in Hassan, 1,636 in Tumakuru, and 1,506 cases in Mandya. Deaths have been reported in 26 districts, including 27 deaths in Ballari, 15 in Shivamogga, 14 in Tumakuru, 10 in Mysuru, eight each in Bagalkote, Chamarajanagar and Uttara Kannada, six each in Mandya and Haveri. As many as 1,53,707 tests were done on Tuesday, including 1,40,609 using the RT-PCR and other methods taking the total tests done so far to 2.62 crore. So far, 99.36 lakh people have received either the first or second dose of the Covid vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-44631-fresh-covid-19-cases-292-deaths-982323.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||5 dead in Hubballi hospital, kin allege O2 shortage||Five Covid-19 patients breathed their last in the ICU of the Lifeline Hospital on Gokul Road in Hubballi on Tuesday, even as relatives of the deceased alleged that the deaths occurred due to a shortage of oxygen. However, district health officer Yashwanth Madinkar, who visited the hospital, said there was no shortage of oxygen at the hospital, which has both oxygen concentrators and jumbo cylinders. “All five patients had serious health complications and they included aged persons. It can be an incident of ‘cluster death’ as five patients died in a duration of one-and-a-half hours. However, a committee headed by the deputy commissioner will conduct a detailed inquiry to ascertain the exact cause for the deaths,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5-dead-in-hubballi-hospital-kin-allege-o2-shortage-982332.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Oxygen shortage kills 4, including 2 Covid-19 patients, in Kalaburagi's Afzalpur||Four people, including two Covid-19 patients, died due to a shortage of oxygen at the taluk hospital at Afzalpur in Kalaburagi District late on Monday night. Two middle-aged men, an elderly woman and another woman from the taluk are the deceased.  Of the four dead, two were Covid patients on oxygen support for the past two days. The other two were brought in a critical condition on Monday evening. Their Covid test is yet to be done.      Hospital medical officer Dr Hanumanthappa Halamal said the condition of the four patients was critical and their oxygen saturation level was less than 75. Of these, two were diabetic. They died despite our best efforts to save them, the doctor said.   On coming to know of the incident, Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna sent the assistant commissioner and the tahsildar to the hospital to conduct a probe. Expressing shock at the incident, Afzalpur MLA M Y Patil said there are no physicians at the Afzalpur taluk hospital and oxygen cylinders are out of stock. The cylinders have to be taken to Kalaburagi for a refill, every time the gas gets exhausted, he said.  District incharge minister Murugesh Nirani told reporters that four oxygen cylinders were available at the Afzalpur hospital. Three patients died on Monday as their health condition deteriorated and another patient breathed his last on Tuesday. The deaths were not due to oxygen shortage, he claimed. Jyothsna told a press meet that the oxygen saturation level of the patients was low when they were admitted to the hospital. The DC said disciplinary action will be taken against the taluk health officer who gave a ‘false statement’ that the cylinders were exhausted. The hospital medical officer himself has denied that there was oxygen shortage, she said. Jyothsna said that an additional five cylinders were kept ready for use in the hospital. Taluk health officers get oxygen supply as per requirement, the DC said. A total of eight Covid patients are on oxygen support in the Afzalpur hospital, she said. The district is facing a shortage of oxygen and a 400-cylinder-capacity oxygen manufacturing unit is being set up, she said. Presently, there is availability of 900-cylinder capacity and 15 kilolitres of liquified oxygen in the district, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/oxygen-shortage-kills-4-including-2-covid-19-patients-in-kalaburagis-afzalpur-982333.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||II PUC exams postponed; promotion for all 1st year students||The state government has postponed the second PUC examinations which were scheduled to begin from May 24. Keeping in mind the rapid surge in the Covid-19 cases across the state, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Tuesday conducted a meeting with officials and announced the postponement of the examinations. According to the pre-university education department, the revised dates for the exams will be announced later.  “The revised dates will be announced 15 to 20 days prior to the commencement of the final exams,” Suresh Kumar said.  After the meeting, he told reporters, “Most of the departments which were supposed to join hands in conducting the exams are busy handling Covid crisis. Several students have gone to their hometowns. Considering all these facts, we have decided to postpone the exams.”   No exams for I PUC  In the meantime, the department decided to promote the first PUC students to the second year without holding the examinations. Previously, it was decided to conduct the exams for the first year students in July, after the second PUC exams. “This decision has been taken keeping in mind the safety of the children and a bridge course will be conducted before the commencement of II PUC classes for these students,” he said.  The department, which has granted work from home option for teaching staff, directed them to be available on the telephone for students to clear their subject-related doubts whenever they needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ii-puc-exams-postponed-promotion-for-all-1st-year-students-982336.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to import one lakh oxygen generators||The Cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal to import one lakh oxygen concentrators to ramp up Covid-19 facilities in the state. Briefing reporters after the special Cabinet meeting, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also announced that journalists will be considered as frontline workers for whom vaccines will be administered on a priority basis. To a question on deaths at Chamarajanagar district hospital owing to lack of oxygen, Yediyurappa said that the government would initiate action against those responsible. “Such incidents should not repeat,” he said, noting that directions were issued to all district in-charge ministers and deputy commissioners’ to ensure the same. On whether compensation would be provided to families of victims who died due to shortage of oxygen, he said that the government would discuss the issue. Yediyurappa said that there was no discussion about extending the Covid-19 curbs beyond May 12, when the current ‘close down’ ends. “We will meet and take a call on this in a few days,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-import-one-lakh-oxygen-generators-982339.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress holds ministers responsible for oxygen tragedy||Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah demanded a judicial probe into 24 deaths in Chamarajanagar district due to Oxygen shortage and held the state government responsible for the tragedy. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Siddaramaiah alleged that the Health and District In-charge Ministers Dr K Sudhakar and S Suresh Kumar have given a false report on the number of deaths. The number of deaths due to Oxygen shortage in Chamarajanagar is 28 and not 24, he claimed. He said the Covid Hospital required 300 Oxygen cylinders, but only 160 cylinders were supplied from Mysuru. The patients died without Oxygen. The health minister hid the fact and said that only three people died of Oxygen shortage, Siddaramaiah charged. He criticised Suresh Kumar for not holding any Covid-related meeting after the second wave set in. Both Sudhakar and Suresh Kumar should take the responsibility for the incident, hesaid. Compensation sought KPCC president D K Shivakumar said, the government itself lacks oxygen and is in the ICU. “We had doubts on the number of deaths, when the minister furnished the details. But, after visiting the hospital, we learned that 28 deaths occurred due to Oxygen shortage. The government should provide Rs 25 lakh compensation to the kin of each deceased,” he demanded. Siddaramaiah, along with Shivakumar, ex-MP R Dhruvanarayana, and MLA C Puttarangashetty, visited the Covid Hospital. Another death was reported in a private hospital in Kamagere of Hanur taluk. They also held discussions with hospital authorities and sought explanations for the tragedy. Siddaramaiah took the district health officer to task, when he was giving details on the availability of beds in the hospital. High drama There was high drama in front of the Covid Hospital, when a social activist staged a lone protest, condemning the district administration and the government, holding it responsible for the death of 24 covid patients. He demanded the suspension of Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri. However, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi pacified him and brought the situation undercontrol. When asked about the Congress leaders’ claim that there were 28 deaths in Chamarajanagar and not 24, due to the unavailability of Oxygen, Ravi said, 23 deaths were reported in the District Hospital and one in Kamagere hospital. Two deaths occurred in Kollegal. However, the details will be available after a probe, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-holds-ministers-responsible-for-oxygen-tragedy-982342.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister exceeds brief and interferes in state environment authority, irks ministers||Environment and Ecology Minister C P Yogeshwara has waded into a controversy after trying to interfere with the environment clearance process at the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), a body which does not come under his jurisdiction. Set up by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MOEFCC) under the EIA Notification 2006, the body comes under the direct supervision and monitoring of the Central government. While the MoEFCC directly clears largescale ‘A’ category projects that impact the environment, the SEIAA has to look into the ‘B’ category projects that are considerably smaller but nevertheless leave a huge environmental impact. A state minister has no role to play in the authority, which is an extension of Union ministry. However, on April 7, Minister for Environment and Ecology C P Yogeeshwara wrote a letter directing the authority not to hold any meeting till further instructions. “Ever since I have taken charge, I have received a lot of complaints against the environment clearances... It is unfortunate that some of these complaints have also been raised by the hon’ble members of the Karnataka State Legislature. In lieu of the same, I direct to defer the online meeting of (SEIAA) scheduled on 9th April 2021 till further directions,” the letter said. Sources said the letter stalled all the projects. “The letter is an attempt at undue interference in the functioning of a body which stands as the gatekeeper. The state minister, let alone MLAs, cannot influence the SEIAA to give clearance for the projects,” the source said.   The issue has been a sore point for ministers who had held the profile. However, knowing their limitations, they had tried to get things done through soft power.  Another source said any interference by the minister was seen as a misconduct. “Such acts are seen as an attempt to gain something. People in such positions should know their limits. If he has found irregularities, he can write to the Centre and seek an investigation,” he said. The authority comprises three officials, one deputed by the Union government, while senior IFS officers are appointed Member Secretary and member. An expert committee includes 13 members, all believed to be nominated due to their political influence.  “The SEIAA and KSPCB have faced several allegations of irregularities. The minister’s intervention will only hurt the image further,” the source added. DH reached out to Yogeeshwar for comment but did not get a response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-exceeds-brief-and-interferes-in-state-environment-authority-irks-ministers-982348.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HDK writes to PM Modi over oxygen shortage in Karnataka||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's urgent intervention in ensuring sufficient oxygen supply to Karnataka and warned that "a great tragedy" would unfold if oxygen shortage persisted in the state. In a letter, the JD(S) leader noted the 24 deaths in Chamarajanagar and four deaths in Kalaburagi due to oxygen shortage were "avoidable". "The inputs that I have been personally receiving from people across the state, and more specifically from districts like Tumakuru, Belagavi, Dharwad and Hassan, are alarming and indicative of a crisis that is fast expanding. If the state administration does not act briskly, and if it is not ably supported by the centre, then my sense is that a greater tragedy is likely to unfold," he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdk-writes-to-pm-modi-over-oxygen-shortage-in-karnataka-982361.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY warns officials against Remdesivir black marketing||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said he was in possession of a report showing the involvement of government officials in the black market sale of the anti-viral drug Remdesivir.  Yediyurappa said this at an emergency meeting he chaired to review the supply and availability of Remdesivir, which is used in Covid-19 treatment.  “The information I have is that it’s being sold in black, even to other states,” Yediyurappa said. “I will get a comprehensive investigation done into this and all of you will face the consequences. I won’t spare anyone.”  Yediyurappa said the drug, which is now in great demand, was being sold in the black market “in spite of the difficult times” and that “it has become a business”. He was addressing an officer in the meeting attended by Health Minister K Sudhakar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar, and others.  “The report I have says everyone is involved, not one or two. If this is investigated, everything will come out and you’ll face the consequences,” Yediyurappa said, repeating that he will not spare anybody. “Don’t speak here by concealing the facts,” he told the official. “No, Sir. The fact is that all officials are working day and night,” the official said only to be cut off by Yediyurappa. “Did I say you’re not working? That’s not important. What do you have to say about the black market sale? When there’s a shortage of Remdesivir and it’s being sold in the black market, do you know what effect an investigation will have? I will get this investigated,” he thundered.  Import of 5 lakh Remdesivir vials The Covid-19 Task Force, headed by Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, on Tuesday decided to float a global tender for the import of five lakh Remdesivir vials into the state to meet the demand for the anti-viral drug. Karnataka’s Remdesivir allocation fixed by the Centre for April 21-May 9 is 3,01,300 vials.  Charges hiked The task force also decided to hike charges paid to private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment by Rs 1,000/day for oxygenated beds, ICU bed without ventilator by Rs 1,250/day, and ICU bed with ventilator by Rs 1,500/day. The charges for the non-critical care will remain unchanged at Rs 5,200/day. Based on this, the government will now pay Rs 8,000/day for oxygenated beds, Rs 9,750/day for ICU bed without a ventilator, and Rs 11,500/day for ICU bed with a ventilator, Narayan said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-warns-officials-against-remdesivir-black-marketing-982363.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY tasks five ministers with fixing Covid-19 mess||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa picked five ministers Tuesday to oversee oxygen and Remdesivir supplies, functioning of the war rooms and the availability of beds, all of which have become pain points in Karnataka’s fight against Covid-19. On oxygen specifically, the state government has decided to petition the Centre that it wants to use up all of the life-supporting gas manufactured in the state. Plus, it will ask the Centre to divert Maharashtra’s oxygen allocation towards Karnataka as the number of cases in the neighbouring state is decreasing. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar will handle oxygen supply management. “He will keep in regular touch with the Centre to secure the required oxygen for patients. He will also hold meetings with local producers constantly,” Yediyurappa said, briefing reporters after a special Cabinet meeting that discussed the Covid-19 situation. Yediyurappa’s deputy C N Ashwath Narayan is in charge of Remdesivir supply and other drugs along with ramping up human resource at Covid hospitals. “Final-year medicine, nursing students will be roped in to increase strength at Covid care facilities,” the CM said. Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai have been tasked with ensuring maximum availability of beds in government and private hospitals. Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali will look at various war rooms and call centres. “He will monitor them and make them more effective in providing essential medical advice to patients,” Yediyurappa said. In another significant decision, the Cabinet gave “full authority” to district in-charge minister to bring Covid-19 cases under control, Yediyurappa said. On the oxygen front, Yediyurappa said his government was in constant touch with the Centre. “Our supply from neighbouring states is delayed,” he said. “We’ve been speaking with union ministers over the past three days...we have asked the Centre to divert the oxygen allocated to Maharashtra from the Jindal plant since case numbers are dropping there. They’ve agreed,” he said. He also said that Union Ministers Amit Shah and Piyush Goel “have almost agreed and will take a call soon” on allowing Karnataka to use all the oxygen produced in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-tasks-five-ministers-with-fixing-covid-19-mess-982373.html
04-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar congratulates Tejasvi Surya on ‘bed scam’ expose||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday slyly thanked BJP’s Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya and other saffron party legislators for exposing a ‘bed blocking scam’ in Bengaluru.  “I congratulate MP Tejasvi Surya, MLAs Satish Reddy, Ravi Subramanya and Uday Garudachar for exposing corruption in bed allocation by their party government and corporation,” Shivakumar said in a tweet. “Under whose control is BBMP? They should immediately name the BJP minister responsible for people suffering so much,” he said.  Shivakumar’s demand that the “BJP minister” be named led to speculation within political circles.  AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala demanded Health Minister K Sudhakar’s resignation on the back of the alleged bed blocking scam.  “Yediyurappa-BJP government has deceived Covid-19 patients: patients dying for lack of oxygen, black-marketerring of medicines, no testing, no tracing, no vaccination and now corruption in beds by BBMP. Sack the health minister! Let CM answer!” Surjewala said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-congratulates-tejasvi-surya-on-bed-scam-expose-982378.html
04-05-2021||West||Mumbai prepares for third wave, to set up Pediatric Covid Care Ward||Launching preparations for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a new Pediatric Covid Care Ward is being set up in the financial capital of Mumbai. The Maharashtra government has asked the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to start preparations. Last week, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the municipal commissioners and district collectors to prepare for the third wave and make preparations. Maharashtra’s Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray, who is the Guardian Minister of Mumbai Suburban district, held discussions with Additional Municipal Commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal. “I have suggested to BMC that we create a Paediatric Covid Care Ward anticipating the next wave and the demographic it may target,” Thackeray said. “Since last year, our jumbo covid care centres also have units of Covid +ve dialysis, Covid +ve maternity care as well. As the virus mutates and targets different age groups, our response to it must actively mutate as well,” said Thackeray. The Pediatric Covid Care Ward is expected to come up at the NESCO Jumbo Covid Care Centre at the Goregaon East suburbs of Mumbai – and 700 beds are expected to be added. This would include 300 for a dedicated Pediatric Covid Care Ward and it would also comprise a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) with a capacity of 25 beds each. Apart from that, the BMC is planning to build four oxygen plants and maintain of adequate stock of medicines like Remdesivir and  Tocilizumab injections, “During the first wave (2020) mostly adults were affected. In the ongoing second wave (from February 2021) young men and children were also affected. We have to prepare for the third wave… also we need to consider the fact that vaccines have not yet been opened for the age group below 18 years,” BMC officials said. Wide-ranging discussions are also expected to be held with the Covid-19 Task Force on the strategies that need to be adopted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-prepares-for-third-wave-to-set-up-pediatric-covid-care-ward-982125.html
04-05-2021||West||A novel deed: Villagers in Maharashtra's Ratnagiri to be part of turtle conservation||The tiny coastal village of Velas in Ratnagiri district has become a hub of conservation of the Olive Ridley turtles, who come here to lay eggs. Thanks to the efforts of Bhau Katdare, villagers are being inducted into the massive programme for turtle breeding and conservation along the Konkan coast facing the Arabian Sea. “All the five species of sea turtles occurring in India, including the Olive Ridley turtles, are legally protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and Appendix I of the CITES Convention which prohibits trade in turtle products,” said Katdare, addressing a webinar hosted by the Directorate of Tourism of the Government of Maharashtra. Katdare, the founder of Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra, said Olive Ridley turtles, which visit various coastal areas of Maharashtra every year, are 2-2.5 feet long and weigh 36-49 kg. Their breeding season is from December to February and their life span is around 50 to 100 years. “These turtles are migratory but during the breeding season, the female turtle comes to the shore, digs a 1-1.5 feet deep hole, and lays 100-150 eggs in it. Out of these eggs, only 1 per cent of the hatchlings survive. This means only 1 out of 100 turtles survives,” Katdare said. Explaining the importance of this species of turtles, Katdare said that these turtles are essential for a balanced ocean ecosystem as they keep the sea clean by consuming dead fish and seagrass. “These turtles, which are very important from an environmental point of view, were in a bad condition some time ago as stealing turtle eggs, eating or selling them were some of the issues faced. Besides, construction work and global warming, causing a decrease in dry sand, posing a threat to the growth of turtle eggs, unclean beaches were also other threats for the turtles,” he said. However, with turtle conservation beginning in 2003, the situation has improved. With an aim to conserve these sea turtles, Katdare gradually started convincing the locals that turtle breeding can create job opportunities. He launched several new employment-generating and conservation initiatives such as turtle surveying, hatchery planning, and egg conservation. With the help of the forest department and individual sponsors, the Turtle Festival was initiated, which today has become a big event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/a-novel-deed-villagers-in-maharashtras-ratnagiri-to-be-part-of-turtle-conservation-982133.html
04-05-2021||West||Mahindra rolls out 'Oxygen on Wheels' in Maharashtra||As India reels under shortage of medical oxygen supply, the Mahindra Group has rolled out a free service initiative, Oxygen on Wheels (O2W), which will strengthen the availability of oxygen by connecting oxygen producers with the hospitals and medical centres in dire need of it. The O2W is launched in Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Chakan, Nashik and Nagpur in Maharashtra, with over 100 Mahindra vehicles ferrying oxygen at present.  Discussions are ongoing with the civic administration and government departments to extend the free service to other cities as well, most importantly to Delhi, which is facing an acute shortage. Given the overwhelming response in the past 48 hours, extending this initiative to deliver oxygen cylinders directly to patients’ homes is also under consideration. O2W will be helmed by Mahindra Logistics, a Mahindra Group company, which is partnering with the administration and local government bodies on this project. With a large fleet of vehicles at its disposal and an integrated command and control center, Mahindra Logistics is working on creating a seamless and endless chain of supply of lifesaving oxygen and transport it to the hospitals and medical centres in a way that is safe and reliable. In a press statement, Anish Shah, Managing Director & CEO, Mahindra Group said, “We are committed to deploying our resources and capabilities innovatively to address the challenge on hand. Oxygen on Wheels meets an urgent need by partnering with local authorities to help save precious lives and reduce the pressure on our healthcare services.” Additionally, the group is closely working with the government to set up oxygen plants and building isolation centres. M&M’s plants as well as its suppliers are not using oxygen for any industrial activity. Tech Mahindra supported the Nursing Academy’s staff and students have been helping in various hospitals. Vaccination has also been a key priority for the group, with emphasis on 100% vaccination for all its associates and their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahindra-rolls-out-oxygen-on-wheels-in-maharashtra-982193.html
04-05-2021||West||Now, GPS keeps an eye on oxygen tankers in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government’s Transport Department in collaboration with the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA) state unit has fitted GPS devices to monitor the movement of Oxygen tankers in the state. FADA State Chairperson Amar Jatin Sheth met Transport Commissioner Dr Avinash Dhakane and decided to fix the 250 oxygen tankers with GPS devices enabling the transport department to monitor it on a single dashboard. The dashboard has been set up in the Transport Commissioner’s office and is being monitored 24x7.  The FADA roped in MOBO for this and spent Rs10 lakh for the venture. FADA president Vinkesh Gulati  said: “We have tried to do our best as this is a small contribution towards enabling the transport department to monitor oxygen tankers movement on a single dashboard.” Dr Dhakane said with the GPS facilit,y the tankers would be able to do a quicker turnaround and help save more lives||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/now-gps-keeps-an-eye-on-oxygen-tankers-in-maharashtra-982205.html
04-05-2021||West||Curbs expanded to include non-essential services in Goa||The Goa government on Tuesday decided to bring non-essential services, including restaurants, under the ambit of the Covid-19 induced restrictions in the state which will remain in force till May 10. Modifying the previous order issued by the state government on the extent of the restrictions, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters that non-essential services will remain closed keeping in mind the "sentiments of the people". Given the alarming rise in cases and alarmingly high positivity rate, the state government had imposed a four-day lockdown in the state, which was lifted on Monday morning but decided to continue the restrictions till May 10. Several panchayats and municipal areas are voluntarily observing a lockdown in their respective areas even as the government came under fire from Opposition parties led by Congress for lifting the shutdown despite a surge in cases. Sawant on Tuesday warned the panchayats and municipalities against shutting down the essential services in the name of a lockdown. “If you shut down essential services, it will cause panic among the people. No panchayat or municipality should shut down the shops selling essential products,” he said. Sawant further said that some panchayats were stopping people from joining their duties. “Many people are working in hospitals and pharma companies who need to report to their duties," he added. Goa, a popular tourist hotspot, had reported an extremely high test positivity rate of over 50 per cent on Thursday. Sawant had announced on Sunday that various commercial establishments will remain closed while political and social gatherings will be banned till May 10. Various establishments including casinos, bars, sports complexes, auditoriums, community halls etc remain closed along with river cruises, water parks, entertainment parks, gyms, spas, massage parlours, saloons in the state. Schools, colleges, and educational institutes also remain closed except for the examination purpose. Religious places in the state are also closed for the public. Goa's coronavirus caseload stood at 98,088 as of Monday while the death toll is 1,320, a health official had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/curbs-expanded-to-include-non-essential-services-in-goa-982228.html
04-05-2021||West||In absence of ambulance, garbage vehicle used to move Covid patient's body in Maharashtra||A garbage vehicle was used to transport a Covid-19 patient's body to a crematorium, after ambulances were unavailable and private vehicles refused to help despite offers of extra money in Maharashtra's Osmanabad district, an official said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday, when a resident of Kinhi village went to consult a private doctor in neighbouring Ter village, which was 7 km away, and collapsed and died outside the clinic, an official from Dholki police station said. The police were immediately informed and a team from a government hospital was called in, he said, adding that following a rapid antigen test, the man was found positive for coronavirus. After necessary procedures, the body was handed over to Kinhi village authorities, who tried to hire an ambulance from Ter, said Vijay Hajgude, sarpanch of Kinhi gram panchayat. "The ambulance at Ter hospital was reserved for ferrying pregnant women, so it could not be used for Covid-19 patients. Although, we offered to pay double charges, other private vehicles, including local autorickshaws, also refused to transport the body to the crematorium in Kinhi," he said. In the end, a vehicle used for garbage collection in the village was called in to take the body to the crematorium, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-absence-of-ambulance-garbage-vehicle-used-to-move-covid-patients-body-in-maharashtra-982230.html
04-05-2021||West||Covid-19 crisis: BMC launches drive-in vaccination facility in Mumbai||In a major initiative, the Mumbai civic body on Tuesday launched a special drive-in vaccination facility for the elderly and specially-abled – perhaps the first of its kind – in India. The drive-in facility was launched at the Kohinoor parking lot in Dadar. The effort is being coordinated by the G/North municipal ward of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Kohinoor has the facility of vaccinating 5,000 people on a daily basis. “Of them, 200 will be able to drive in to take the jabs… they can also spend 30 minutes mandatory waiting in their cars. Those who use the facility will only have to pay the relevant parking charges,” said Assistant Municipal Commissioner Kiran Dighavkar. The same premises were used for drive-in testing by the BMC last year. In the facility, Covishield vaccine is available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-crisis-bmc-launches-drive-in-vaccination-facility-in-mumbai-982235.html
04-05-2021||West||Goa to set up two oxygen plants under PM-Cares Fund, says Vishwajit Rane||Two oxygen plants will be set up in Goa under the PM-Cares Fund which will address majority of the requirement of hospitals in the state in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Tuesday. Talking to reporters, Rane said the state government is working overtime to augment the oxygen supply in state-run hospitals and Chief Minister Pramod Sawant is personally monitoring the entire exercise. "The Goa government will set up two oxygen plants under the PM-Cares Fund in the state," he said. Rane said the oxygen supply at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the state's biggest medical facility located near Panaji, was designed considering the past requirements. “No one expected such a huge requirement of the life-saving gas. We are now improving the supplies at the GMCH on war-footing,” he said. The minister also said the GMCH's new super-speciality block, which will be converted into a Covid-19 hospital in the next couple of days, has all the facilities, including oxygen, keeping in mind the requirements of future. The minister said the state government has been encouraging setting up of more oxygen generating plants with the participation of private players.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-set-up-two-oxygen-plants-under-pm-cares-fund-says-vishwajit-rane-982238.html
04-05-2021||West||Goa Opposition demands restriction on entry at borders, 15-day lockdown amid Covid spike||Implementation of strict restrictions on the state's borders and a 15-day lockdown will help the state curb the increasing Covid-19 infection rate in the state, which crossed one lakh cumulative cases in Goa, Opposition MLAs said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after a meeting of Opposition MLAs, which had been called to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat also said that an expert panel needs to be set up to guide the state government on issues related to Covid management and slammed the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant government for sloppy efforts to contain the spread and growth of the pandemic. "The government must immediately announce a 15-day lockdown in the state of Goa with closure of all the borders. Entry to vehicles carrying essential commodities, medical aid and equipment and vehicles on government duty may be permitted during the lockdown period," Kamat said. "Opposition MLAs expressed complete displeasure over the attitude and approach of the government in handling the Covid situation. The MLAs strongly felt that the government must constitute a task force comprising of experts from civil society and army to handle and manage the Covid pandemic in the state of Goa," the former Chief Minister also said. Kamat also said that Opposition MLAs sought transparency in the matters related to supply and administering of oxygen to Covid patients. "There is apprehension and fear in the minds of the people about the shortage of life saving medical oxygen in the state of Goa. Government must address this issue on topmost priority and ensure that required oxygen is made available in the state. The government must engage multiple vendors to ensure uninterrupted and timely supply of oxygen. The government must ensure that Goa makes good the current shortage," the Leader of Opposition said. "Government must take the expert opinion from academicians, educationists to prepare an academic action plan to ensure that inconvenience is not caused to the students studying at different levels. Government must take into consideration the decisions taken by other states with regards to SSC, HSSC and other examinations," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-opposition-demands-restriction-on-entry-at-borders-15-day-lockdown-amid-covid-spike-982321.html
04-05-2021||West||Gujarat Congress MLAs move HC to spend entire MLA fund for building Covid-19 facilities||The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued notice to state government on a joint petition moved by all 65 Congress members of legislative assembly (MLA) seeking direction to state government to allow them to use their annual Local Area Development (LAD) funds in their constituencies to purchase medical equipment, oxygen, among other facilities, to help coronavirus infected patients. The petition has been filed by state Congress' President Amit Chavda and Leader of Opposition in the assembly Paresh Dhanani on behalf of the party's all 65 MLAs. Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani has also moved the high court with a similar plea. They have argued that the amount of Rs 1.50 crore, that an MLA gets under LAD each year, should be allowed to use them in their constituency "to meet with impending necessity in the second surge." Last week, the state government allowed use of only Rs 25 lakh for extending help in Covid-19 related medical infrastructure. The Gujarat high court, after a brief hearing, asked the state government to file its response by May 11. "This amount is insufficient and therefore applicants humbly urge this court to consider giving direction to the state of Gujarat to permit all MLAs including 65 MLAs of INC (Indian National Congress) to utilize entire amount of Rs.1.50 crore in their own constituency in the interest of people at large and purely out of humanitarian consideration to try to overcome the tsunami of Corona," the petition stated.   The petitioners have said that they need the funds for "purchasing ambulances, one ambulance costs Rs.20 lakh, setting up of oxygen plant in each constituency, purchase of oxygen concentrators, purchase of RTPCR units for testing, oxygen cylinders, flow meter and humidifiers. ventilator and medical beds." They have said that the cap of Rs 25 lakh prescribed by the state government is too little to meet the demand. A similar argument has been advanced in the court by Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mevani. He is also crowdfunding for setting up oxygen plants and other Covid-19 facilities in his constituency in Banaskantha district in north Gujarat. A day before, he threatened the local administration to provide oxygen to a 25-bed community health centre which has become defunct due to the non-availability of oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-mlas-move-hc-to-spend-entire-mla-fund-for-building-covid-19-facilities-982352.html
