05-05-2021||First Edit||Can’t tackle Covid with adhocism||In a country that has an enviable track record of inoculating millions of its citizens over the past several decades, the ongoing vaccination drive against Covid-19 has landed in a complete mess due to Centre’s lack of foresightedness, whimsical decisions and absence of a transparent policy. The Modi government which procured the vaccines for the initial three phases has now abdicated its national responsibility and shifted the burden to state governments at a time when a critical mass of the population, the 18 to 44 age group, is to be inoculated. After erring by exporting vaccines without considering local demand and failing to grant permission to foreign candidates on time, the Centre went ahead and opened the drive for the 18-plus bracket from May 1, without first ramping up production knowing fully well that it did not have adequate doses in stock. Lakhs of people who had enthusiastically registered on Cowin portal despite several glitches are now disappointed with no firm date of when vaccinations will begin. The Supreme Court, which has taken suo motu notice of the issue, has described the differential pricing where the same vaccine is sold to the Centre at Rs 150 and to states at Rs 300-400, as “very, very disturbing”, as it would lead to a cumulative cost escalation of Rs 30,000-40,000 crore. Strangely, private players have been given a free hand in deciding the rates without even consulting the states which will ultimately pay for them, though Rules 19 and 20 of the Drugs Price Control Order require the Centre to determine the price of drugs. The court also asked the Centre why it had not involved the 10 public sector units (PSUs) which had the capability to manufacture these vaccines under license from the patent holders, as this was permitted under Section 92 of the Indian Patents Act and the Doha Declaration of TRIPS (Agreement on Trade Related Property Rights). The current policy which was discriminatory also might not stand scrutiny under Article 14 (equality before law) and Article 21 (Protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution, the court held. Unless the government acts fast, a situation may arise where there may be no vaccines left for the second dose of the 45-plus age group, leave alone those between 18 and 44 years. While the Centre should put an end to differential pricing and be the sole procuring agent, it should also come out with a clear mandate of production schedules and rollout dates to end the confusion. As the Madras High Court rightly pointed out, “There cannot be adhocism while dealing with a pandemic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/can-t-tackle-covid-with-adhocism-982435.html
05-05-2021||In Perspective||The five Rays of Satyajit||May 2, 2021 marked the birth centenary of Satyajit Ray. Mostly known for his highly acclaimed films, Ray was a remarkable polymath whose contribution is not restricted to just filmmaking. Ray the Writer: Ray had said, “My family runs on royalty from my books.” Among Bengalis, is Satyajit Ray more popular as a writer or as a filmmaker? Perhaps, most are proud of his films, while he is dearer for his books. Feluda, Ray’s detective, is a household name, and Feluda books have been sitting atop bestseller charts for five decades now. Amitabh Bachchan had said that his one regret is never having played Feluda on screen, which his compatriot Shashi Kapoor did. Science fiction is another genre of Ray’s expressive best. His protagonist, Professor Shonku, the inventor of Evolutin — a drug that makes people evolve ten thousand years in a jiffy — and such wonder products, is as comfortable in the rarified academic circles of Germany and Sweden, as in his adventures in Bolivia and Congo, chasing inexplicable phenomena or fighting evil forces. Ray’s short stories, other than detective and sci-fi ones, are both fascinating and intriguing. Interestingly, while rationalism and realism reign in his films, many of his stories explore the occult and the supernatural. Ray has also written a few weighty books on films. Master Filmmaker: Award-winning director Rituparno Ghosh said Satyajit Ray showed us how to create poetry with the camera. There are volumes written and reels of films shot on Ray’s filmmaking. From Shyam Benegal to Adam Low to Goutam Ghose, acclaimed film and TV producers across the globe have captured Ray the filmmaker. Starting from Pather Panchali to his last film Agantuk (The Stranger), Ray has received countless awards, including the Oscar for Lifetime Achievement. Akira Kurosawa, one of the greatest filmmakers, said, “Not to have seen the cinema of Ray means existing in the world without seeing the sun or the moon.” Insightful Artist: Ray was lucky. After graduating in Economics from Presidency College, on Rabindranath Tagore’s insistence he reluctantly enrolled in Shantiniketan’s Art Department — Kala Bhavan. During his brief stay, his artistic finesse sharpened under some of the greatest modern artists of India — Nandalal Bose, Ramkinkar Baij and Benode Behari. Ray acknowledged the lasting effect of this serendipitous twist in his life, how Shantiniketan shaped his way of looking at nature and his understanding of human sensibility. On a lighter note, Nandalal Bose, the departmental head, got a longer cot made in the dorm for the 6 foot 4 inch Manik — Satyajit’s nickname to family and friends. Ray’s artistic manifestation spattered wide — from being a visualiser in advertising to designing posters for his films, delightful illustrations for his stories, and book covers for Signet Press, which revolutionised printing and publishing in 1940s’ India. Ray learnt calligraphy from Benode Behari while in Shantiniketan, which he applied extensively in Bengali fonts. He eventually created his own font of Roman alphabets, internationally known as Ray Roman. Ray’s Music: Satyajit Ray had one international and two national awards for music under his belt. Artist Annada Munshi said Ray was Beethoven in his previous life. He could identify any Western Classical piece by listening to any part for a moment. While in Shantiniketan, Ray and Alex Aronson, professor of English Literature, spent countless evenings listening to Bach and Tchaikovsky, Brahms and Vivaldi. Sitar maestro Ravi Shankar, who scored music for four of Ray’s films, said Ray’s mastery over music has no parallel in the world of film direction. From the trilogy of Teen Kanya (Three Girls), filmed in 1961, Ray started scoring music for his own films. He also scored music for Merchant Ivory’s Shakespeare Wallah. Ravi Shankar profusely praised Ray’s music in Piku, a film Ray made for French Television. In his penchant for realism, Ray made Kishore Kumar — untrained in Tagore-Songs — sing one in Charulata, arguably Ray’s finest film. In his long spell in film music, Ray created two full-scale musicals in which he wrote the lyrics too. Songs of Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne (GGBB), a fantasy adventure, and Hirak Rajar Deshe (Land of Diamond King), a political satire in the form of a children’s film, are still sung in carefree and concerned moods. Using a mix of western and Indian musical instruments, Ray created a signature genre for himself. Which music would he carry to a remote island? Ray had quipped, Mozart’s opera, The Magic Flute. Ray for Children: The intellectual halo and the baritone voice obfuscate the voluminous work Ray has done for children. To think of it, most of his writings are for children. He resurrected the children magazine Sandesh, and wrote, edited and drew for it amid hectic film shootings. Four if his films are for children, and in one of them, GGBB the musical fantasy, Ray lent his deep voice, singing as Bhuter Raja (King of Ghosts). Satyajit Ray wore his laurels lightly and remains an icon reflecting the finest flavours of a modern man. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based software entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-five-rays-of-satyajit-982440.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Girl dies due to unavailability of hospital bed||A 17-year-old girl reportedly died due to being unable to get a bed in a hospital in time on Tuesday. According to the victim's parents, Sangeetha, resident of Bharath colony, complained of chest pain on May 3 night. After being given the first aid, she was taken to various hospitals in a vehicle seeking treatment. But she was denied admission citing unavailability of beds in the hospital. K Raja, relative of the girl, told DH that she would have survived if she was given treatment on time. But all hospitals including private ones denied her a bed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/girl-dies-due-to-unavailability-of-hospital-bed-982381.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru DC rubbishes Chamarajanagar DC's allegations of controlling oxygen supply||Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri rubbished the allegation made by Chamarajnagar Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi that she controlled the oxygen supply to the southern district. In a communication, Sindhuri has denied the allegation and mentioned the matter is under inquiry as per orders of the state government. However, Chamarajnagar Deputy Commissioner, without waiting for the enquiry to be completed, has continued to make false allegations against Deputy Commissioner Mysuru in the media.  Sindhuri has stated that as Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru, she did not ration or control oxygen supplies to Chamarajanagar or any other district. The oxygen supplies to a district are entirely between the supplier/re-filler and the district. Another Deputy Commissioner has no role or authority in the same. For example Mysuru oxygen supplies are from Ballari. "If supplier from Ballari supplies less, I cannot blame Deputy Commissioner Ballari," she mentioned. The DC also stated it is the responsibility of the district to manage its own oxygen supplies. If any supplier does not supply or district needs are not met then supervision and correction is by the State level officers.  The DC Chamarajnagar should have coordinated with the state-level officers and got his supplies. He failed to do that and is now blaming DC Mysuru, she said. As a matter of fact Mysuru district, upon emergency request from Chamarajnagar, took 40 oxygen cylinders out of the District Hospital on May 1 night and sent it to Chamarajanagar, Sindhuri mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dc-rubbishes-chamarajanagar-dcs-allegations-of-controlling-oxygen-supply-982563.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 crisis: 40 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen reaches New Mangalore Port from Bahrain||Indian Navy vessel INS Talwar, carrying 40 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen filled in cryogenic containers, arrived at New Mangalore Port on Wednesday. In a tweet, NMPT said the medical oxygen has been donated by the government of Bahrain to Indian Red Cross Society to overcome the current pandemic situation in the country. In his tweet, Minister of State for Ports, Shipping & Waterways (I/C) & Chemicals & Fertilizers, Mansukh Mandaviya thanked Bahrain for the initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-crisis-40-metric-tonnes-of-liquid-medical-oxygen-reaches-new-mangalore-port-from-bahrain-982571.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen tragedy: Police raid offices, recover documents||The police conducted a raid at five places and recovered documents in connection with the oxygen shortage deaths at the district hospital in Chamarajanagar on Wednesday. Raids were conducted at the offices of district administration, district health officer, district surgeon and medical college dean. Documents related to the incident were seized. It is said that district health officer Dr M C Ravi collapsed during the raid and was admitted to the hospital. However, the health officials said, Dr Ravi was under pressure during the last few days and collapsed. He is advised rest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-tragedy-police-raid-offices-recover-documents-982709.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP leaders warn AHV not to speak against CM, govt||BJP leaders, including District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, came down heavily against BJP MLC A H Vishwanath for criticising the state government and claiming that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has no presence of mind. In a press conference here, on Wednesday, Somashekar said, "It is not right on the part of Vishwanath to criticise the CM and the state government. The CM has kept up his promise and fulfilled the demands of the 17 MLAs, who joined the BJP from the Congress and the JD(S). The CM suggested Vishwanath not to contest the by-polls from Hunsur. But, he contested and was defeated. But, the CM made him MLC." “Being a senior leader, you should not issue such statements against the CM. The CM is working round-the-clock. If you find any faults, it should be communicated personally and not publicly," he suggested.    MP Pratap Simha said, "Yediyurappa has been working tirelessly to contain the spread of Covid-19 and taken necessary measures during the lockdown, only due to his presence of mind. But, Vishwanath has claimed the CM has speech and hearing impairment. Vishwanath is not mentally sound.” MLA L Nagendra said, "Vishwanath should be loyal to the party. The CM made him the MLC. Despite this, he is criticising the CM. No one should be targeted personally. This kind of attitude will not be tolerated. Be cautious before issuing statement against the party and the leaders."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-leaders-warn-ahv-not-to-speak-against-cm-govt-982710.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gopalaiah takes a U-turn, cancels four-day lockdown||District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah, who announced a four-day lockdown in Hassan district, took a U-turn and withdraw the lockdown orders by evening. Speaking to reporters, he said, “We are waiting for the directions from the state and the Central governments. A decision will be taken after getting the revised guidelines. Till then, the Janatha Curfew announced by the state government will continue. There will be provisions for the shops to open from 6 am to 12 noon, he said. In an effort to provide suitable treatment to the Covid patients, Covid care centres will be open at each taluk. Those who have no facility for home isolation can get admitted to these centres. It has also been directed to utilise the hostels belonging to social welfare department, he said. Nurses and para medicals required for the hostel and Covid care centres will be appointed on contract basis, he said. All steps would be taken to ensure there is no oxygen shortage in the district. Strict action would be taken against those who sell Remdesivir in black market, he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gopalaiah-takes-a-u-turn-cancels-four-day-lockdown-982711.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vishwanath slams state govt over Covid management||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath took severe exception against the state government and said, “What can we do with the chief minister, who has no presence of mind?”  Speaking to reporters here, Vishwanath said, “I had said that all the departments handled by the CM will not survive. Today, what has happened to the Intelligence, Bengaluru Development, Finance, Department of Personnel Reforms, and Power,” he asked. Vishwanath criticised the failure of the state government in containing Covid. “From the last two months, I have been demanding a complete lockdown for at least 15 days. The partial lockdown will never work,” he opined. He also alleged a lobby behind permitting construction activities and garments factories during the lockdown, and said, several MLAs and ministers are involved in real estate business and garment factories. Taking exception on frequent changing of BBMP Commissioners, he asked “How many times the government will change the BBMP Commissioner?”. He congratulated MP Tejasvi Surya for unearthing the bed blocking scam. “Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar was working and the national technical committee was with him. He never failed to follow the instructions of the committee. Now, his situation is like Draupadi of Mahabharata,” he said. Commenting on the appointment of five ministers to oversee supply of oxygen, Remdesvir and other essential drugs, along with Covid war rooms and allocation of beds at hospitals, he said, “It should have been done earlier. We suggested the industries to manufacture medical oxygen, but, none of them listened.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vishwanath-slams-state-govt-over-covid-management-982712.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||More labs to test Covid samples, says Minister Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Wednesday said that necessary steps will be taken to increase the number of labs to speed up Covid-19 test. In a meeting organised to review the measures taken to contain the spread of Covd-19, the minister said, "As there is a surge in the number of Covid cases, it has been decided to establish more laboratories to furnish the test reports without much delay." At present, it takes three to five days to get the test report from the day of sample collection. The district has a total of 77 labs and additional labs will be established soon. Earlier, the district was reporting 150 to 200 cases per day but, now, the numbers have increased to thousands, he said. The minister also said that the people are under fear and think that all the patients need oxygen supply. The authorities have been supplying Remdesivir to the private hospitals. Several measures have been taken to ensure that the medicine is being used effectively without irregularities, he said. Somashekar directed the officials to ensure that the government guidelines to contain the spread of pandemic will be followed without fail. He also said that the people at market places are not following the norms and maintaining social distance. The minister also said that a task force committee will be constituted under the chairmanship of respective MLAs in the district. When asked about the allegation against the district administration in connection with shortage of oxygen in Chamarajanagar which resulted in several deaths, the minister said that the government has formed a committee to conduct a probe and action will be taken as per the committee's report. MP Pratap Simha, MLA L Nagendra, Mysuru Mayor Rukmini Madegowda, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Shilpa Nag, Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute Dean Dr Nanjaraj and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/more-labs-to-test-covid-samples-says-minister-somashekar-982713.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Revive oxygen plant in KGF: HDK||JD(S) Legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy said, "The Britishers had setup an oxygen production plant at the gold mines in Kolar Gold Fields (KGF). Steps can be taken to reuse it. I have written a letter to the Union government in this regard." Speaking to reporters here, during his visit to Mandya district, he said, "There is an oxygen production plant in Hutti gold mines also. These oxygen plants can be revived to resolve the oxygen shortage problem created by the Covid pandemic, and save lives. There is a possibility to get oxygen supplies from the steel companies also. I have also spoken to a minister in this regard."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/revive-oxygen-plant-in-kgf-hdk-982715.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt will conduct thorough probe, assures Prasad||Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivas Prasad welcomed Karnataka High Court’s move of constituting a committee headed by a retired judge to probe Chamarajanagar Oxygen deaths case.  Speaking to reporters here, Prasad said, "The government has ordered a probe by a senior IAS Officer and the high court has taken a good decision by appointing a commission, led by a retired judge, to conduct a probe. All the details will come before the commission." “I spoke to Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and asked her to brief all the facts before the investigation officer and the committee. It is the worst incident in the history of the district,” Prasad said. Prasad said, Even Chamarajanagar district administration is getting suggestions about tackling the situation. The investigation is on and the government will take a decision in two days." When asked about the compensation for the deceased, Prasad said that there is a proposal before the government and the matter needs to be discussed as most of them have died of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-will-conduct-thorough-probe-assures-prasad-982716.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister visits Covid hospital, instils confidence among patients||Donning PPE kit, District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar inquired the health of the Covid patients being treated at the district Covid hospital in Chamarajanagar on Wednesday. He instilled confidence among the patients by saying that even he was over come Covid, so nothing to fear. There are 167 Covid patients under treatment at the district hospital. While 26 of them are under ventilator support, 47 are in the intensive care unit. The minister interacted personally with almost all the patients. He himself tested the oxygen level of a few patients. He also met a Covid infected woman, who gave birth to a newborn in the morning and told her to find a good name for the baby. Several patients complained about the unhygienic condition in the hospital toilet. The minister directed the in-charge to ensure that it is cleaned immediately and hygiene maintained. Speaking to the officials, Suresh Kumar said, “The death of Covid patients due to oxygen shortage has caused immense pain. The government has constituted an inquiry commission led by retired judge B A Patil. Stern action would be taken against the guilty. This should be a warning bell to the authorities,” he said. Commenting on the blame game by the deputy commissioners of Chamarajanagar and Mysuru, the minister said, “Instead of issuing public statements, the DCs should explain it before the inquiry commission. I will speak about it with the chief secretary.” The beds at the district hospital is totally occupied. The Covid patients will be admitted to the hospital at the medical college in two days, he assured. To a query, he said, “Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar has assured of supplying 7,000 litres of oxygen every day. The demand for oxygen has come down in Maharashtra. The power plants have agreed to supply 1,500 to 2,000 oxygen cylinders. Hence, the possibilities of oxygen shortage is less.”. The minister will be staying in the district on Thursday also and hold meetings in connection with the Covid-related issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-visits-covid-hospital-instils-confidence-among-patients-982717.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bed shortage claims youth’s life in Chamarajanagar||A 25-year-old youth Abhishek, a resident of Chamarajanagar, allegedly died of bed shortage, at the district Covid hospital, on late Tuesday night. Irked over his death, the family members vent their ire by damaging the glass panes of the hospital. According to sources, Abhishek tested positive for Covid a few days ago. He was suffering from breathing issues and was brought to the hospital on Tuesday night. But, the hospital staff claimed that there were no beds for admission, it is alleged. After some time, Abhishek collapsed and died in the ambulance, on the hospital premises. Irked over his death, the relatives vent their ire by damaging the glass panes. However, the police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Abhishek’s friend Manju said that he was suffering with breathing problem and was brought to the hospital. He was in the ambulance for more than 15 minutes as the hospital authorities claimed there was no bed. Abhishek could have been saved if oxygen was given on time, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bed-shortage-claims-youth-s-life-in-chamarajanagar-982718.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Muslim organisation behind bed-blocking racket: K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa alleged that a Muslim organisation is behind the bed-blocking racket in Bengaluru and the government would initiate disciplinary action against those indulged in it. Speaking to media persons, here on Wednesday, he said Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya, BJP MLAs Satish Reddy, L A Ravi Subramanya and Uday Gudachar have exposed the racket. He claimed that the state government is tackling Covid situation effectively. "The government is leaving no stone unturned to meet medical oxygen and vaccine demands. But people with vested interests are conspiring to tarnish the image of the government. The government would expose people behind the racket and bring them to justice without fail," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/muslim-organisation-behind-bed-blocking-racket-k-s-eshwarappa-982530.html
05-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Need vaccine for Tejasvi Surya’s communalism: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday strongly objected BJP’s Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya listing out 17 Muslim names, linking them with the alleged bed-blocking scam in Bengaluru's south municipal zone. The Congress released the full list of employees working in the BBMP South zone war room handling distress calls for Covid-19. “There are 205 employees working in the BBMP south zone war room. But Tejasvi Surya chose to name 17 names of Muslims. This is a third-class, third-rated, gutter-class mentality,” Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Syed Naseer Hussain told reporters. A video clip of Surya reading out the 17 Muslim names and MLAs Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya making “communal” comments have gone viral. The Congress leader sought to know on what basis Surya named the 17 people. “Who is Tejasvi Surya? Is he an investigating officer? Who gave a clean chit to the other 188 people working in the war room? We need a vaccine not only for Covid-19, but also for the communalism in Tejasvi Surya,” he said, daring the BJP MP to also speak against the ‘failures’ of the B S Yediyurappa administration. Congress spokesperson Brijesh Kalappa charged that three of the four BJP leaders who went public with their allegations on the bed-blocking scam belonged to one particular caste (Brahmins). “Tejasvi Surya himself runs a trust, which has been giving beds to people of their choice and is engaged in blackmailing. Can beds be given to people of only one caste?,” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/need-vaccine-for-tejasvi-surya-s-communalism-congress-982575.html
05-05-2021||Main Article||Democratic backsliding||Few scholars have left more of a mark in the field of development economics than Amartya Sen. Awarded the 1998 Nobel prize in economic science, Sen’s work reoriented mainstream economic thought and diagnosis on issues such as collective decision-making, welfare economics, measuring poverty, gender inequality and social justice. Amongst his more popular works, Sen is well-regarded for the work on famines and for explaining what causes them. Just as we associate Adam Smith with the phrase 'invisible hand' and Joseph Schumpeter with 'creative destruction', Sen is famous for his assertation that "famines do not occur in democracies". “No famine has ever taken place in the history of the world in a functioning democracy,” he argued in his book ‘Development as Freedom’. Sen grounded this explanation in the fact that because well-functioning democratic governments “have to win elections and face public criticism, they have a strong incentive to undertake measures to avert famines and other catastrophes". What is happening in India at the moment — the wrath of a second Covid-19 storm — may push us hard to reflect on Sen’s assertions. This isn’t a famine but is surely India’s worst catastrophe since Independence — measurable in countless deaths. Images of people running from pillar to post to find a hospital bed for their loved ones, several dying helplessly outside hospitals, dead bodies being cremated in parking lots, hospitals facing oxygen shortage across states... all of this reflects a systemic breakdown of India’s health and governance machinery. Grief often looks for a victim to blame and a cause to relate to its effect. In the current scenario, India’s democratic backsliding over the last few years — as observed in the autocratic rise of majoritarianism under Modi-Shah’s BJP; a callous disregard for people’s welfare which is evident from lesser public investments; loss of autonomy for public institutions and the weakening of media; a submissive judiciary and a dysfunctional political Opposition — has contributed to the current colossal disaster. It may well be compared with ‘The Great Chinese Famine’ under Mao’s rule between 1958-1961, when tens of millions died. It took years after Mao’s rule ended to unearth the ‘truth’ behind the famine (till this date, we don’t know the exact number of deaths caused by the state-administered famine). In India, the Great Bengal Famine of 1943 claimed 30 lakh lives. The actual number of deaths from Covid-19 in India is likely to surpass that figure. Like The Great Chinese Famine, we may just not know the 'truth’ ever. The question of how we got here, with a year’s time in hand for preparing our medical system across states for a second wave, isn’t divorced from the issue of liberties, of the independence of media and ultimately of democracy. Yes, India has seen deaths from malnutrition, chronic hunger and starvation even in the decades after Independence, but never at such a scale. Also, the situation did not become so bad that a government in power ceased to care about protecting the lives of its own citizens. India under Modi-Shah leadership is more invested in redesigning Parliament (The Central Vista Project), arresting a 22-year-old environmental activist on sedition charges, rendering an entire state to become a Union-controlled-Territory by the stroke of a pen, and railroading bills without political consensus. Some might even argue that all of this was seen long coming, especially if one bothered to understand Modi’s leadership style from his time as the chief minister of Gujarat. Modi won the 2014 general election on the promise of scaling the ‘Gujarat Model’ to the entire of India. He has done just that. Gujarat had one of the lowest shares of public spending on the provisioning of basic healthcare for the entirety of Modi’s term as chief minister. Jammu and Kashmir as a state did far better than Gujarat in terms of access to basic social opportunities (healthcare, education). Gujarat is now one of the worst-performing states in terms of Covid-19 infections, hospitalisation and deaths. Back then, no one within the system could question Modi during his tenure as chief minister, as public institutions became subservient alongside a confused and ineffective political opposition. All of the above is happening on a pan-India level now, not just in Gujarat. At a time when the surge in infections was peaking, the prime minister and his party were busy organising mass rallies in Bengal, appealing to people to come out in "large numbers to vote", facilitating a Kumbh in one of its own states, and showing absolute disregard and ignorance for following Covid-appropriate behaviour. The mainstream media did nothing to highlight either of these follies at the time of a public health emergency. It was, instead, absorbed in reporting mass rallies in its typical propagandist tone, as if the pandemic was long over. A toothless Opposition remained more active on the social media than on the ground protesting against the government’s inaction and callousness. The Opposition remains more visibly ‘absent’ even now. "Developing and strengthening a democratic system is an essential component of the process of development… Among the great variety of developments that have occurred in the twentieth century, the most preeminent development of the period is the rise of democracy," Sen said. India’s case, according to him, despite being an “ungainly, unlikely, inelegant combination of differences, nonetheless, survived and functioned remarkably well as a political unit with a democratic system”. This remarkable story of a ‘chaotic nation’ championing democratic conduct in political propriety appears like a legend of the past. Our country’s political core now resembles an autocratic China, where discourse isn’t shaped by public participation or in the interest of safeguarding civil liberties, fundamental rights, but is rather built around a story of lies, propagandistic rhetoric, fed and further (re)enforced by the oppressive hands of a supreme commander. (The writer is an Associate Professor of Economics and Director, Centre for New Economics Studies, Jindal School of Liberal Arts and Humanities, O P Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/democratic-backsliding-982441.html
05-05-2021||National||Vaccination drive across India slows down amid shortage||After opening up vaccination for those aged 18 years and above, India’s immunisation drive against Covid-19 has slowed down considerably with just over 17 lakh doses administered on Monday as states complained of shortages. According to the health ministry data, over 18 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered on May 1, the first day of phase three of the vaccination drive when those between 18-44 years became eligible to get the vaccines. “The seven-day average of jabs is only 22 lakh now compared to 37 lakh four weeks back – 40 per cent decline from its peak,” Rijo M John, health economist, said. India’s vaccination drive had hit its peak on April 5 when health workers had administered 43 lakh doses in a single day. However, the vaccination drive has not breached the 40-lakh mark ever since and has been on a downward spiral. State governments have complained of shortages of vaccines as Covid-19 cases surged in the national capital. More than 2.5 crore persons in the 18-44 age group had enrolled for vaccinations in the first two days since registrations for the category opened up on the evening of April 28. On April 27, health workers had administered 24.55 lakh doses of vaccines which dipped to 20.49 lakh on April 28. On April 29, 20.84 lakh doses of vaccines were administered. The numbers rose to 27.44 lakh on April 30. On May 1, India managed to administer 18 lakh doses, while on May 3, the number was 17.08 lakh. According to the government, it had supplied 16.69 crore vaccine doses to the state governments as on Tuesday, of which 15.94 crore had been administered since the vaccination drive was launched on January 16. The Health Ministry said more than 75 lakh doses were in cold-storage facilities with the state governments and an additional 48 lakh will be supplied to the states over the next three days. The Centre has said that it had placed fresh orders of 11 crore Covishield doses and five crore Covaxin doses in the last week of April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-drive-across-india-slows-down-amid-shortage-982388.html
05-05-2021||National||SC declares WB law on real estate unconstitutional||In an important judgement, the Supreme Court on Tuesday struck down a West Bengal real estate law, saying it was in direct conflict with the central legislation enacted by Parliament on the subject. The top court declared the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, (WB-HIRA) 2017, unconstitutional as it came in conflict with the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA), 2016, enacted to prevent exploitation of home buyers and to ensure orderly growth of the housing sector.  "If Parliament has enacted a law on a subject, it is not open to state legislature to enact a similar law," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said in its 190-page judgement. The bench said the state law created a parallel regime and lacked the necessary safeguards of the central law. By enacting it, the state legislature had transgressed the limitations on its power, the court said, pointing out that it did not have presidential assent under Article 254 of the Constitution, necessary as parliamentary statute already occupied the field. It also noted a significant and even overwhelmingly large part of WB-HIRA overlapped with the provisions of RERA but it did not complement the central law by fortifying the rights, obligations and remedies. The court pointed out how RERA included open car parking in its definition of common area but that was not there in WB-HIRA. The definition of 'force majeure' under RERA for delay in the registration of a housing project covered war, flood, drought, fire, cyclone, earthquake or any other calamity, while the state law gave wide discretion to authorities to incorporate “any other circumstances prescribed” for it.  Forum for People's Collective Efforts (FPCE), an NGO, had challenged the validity of the state law, saying it had caused irreparable loss to home buyers. After the striking down the WB law, the top court used its power under Article 142 of the Constitution to direct that prior permission and sanctions granted to housing projects would not be affected with its judgement in order to avoid "uncertainty and disruption".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declares-wb-law-on-real-estate-unconstitutional-982424.html
05-05-2021||National||Over 16 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 16 crore with nearly 11.5 lakh doses administered till 8 pm on Tuesday, the health ministry said. It said 2,29,999 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received the first dose of the vaccine on Tuesday. A total of 6,62,619 people in this age group have so far received the first dose across 12 states and Union territories. The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 16,04,18,105, according to a provisional report compiled at 8 pm. "India also administered more than 13 crore (13,00,03,225) doses as the first dose and more than three crore (3,04,14,880) vaccine doses as the second dose," the ministry said. The beneficiaries include 94,61,633 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose, 63,20,945 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,35,59,294 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 73,21,052 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 6,62,619 in the 18-44 age group who have taken the first dose. The 6,62,619 individuals aged 18-44 years include 1,61,000 from Gujarat, 1,26,514 from Rajasthan, 1,11,231 from Maharashtra, 99,252 from Haryana, 79,975 from Delhi, 51,236 from Uttar Pradesh and 13,526 from Odisha. Besides, 5,33,76,589 and 43,99,995 beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group have received the first and the second dose of the vaccine respectively, while 5,29,43,090 and 1,23,72,888 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and the second dose respectively. On the 109th day of the vaccination drive (Tuesday), the country administered nearly 11.5 lakh vaccine doses (11,49,009) till 8 pm -- 6,15,220 beneficiaries vaccinated for the first dose, 5,33,789 for the second dose -- the ministry said, adding that the final report for the day would be compiled by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-16-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-982443.html
05-05-2021||National||Lawyers' body find lack of basic medical facilities in districts including Narmada, the seat of tallest statue||Picture this. Narmada district, the seat of Sardar Vallabhaai Patel's statue known as "Statue of Unity", the world's tallest, has been able to increase from 100 to 900 hundred beds for treating Covid-19 patients but the number of doctors has remained the same. The laboratory for RT-PCR test is not functioning in the district and it takes about three days to get test results as they are being done at neighbouring Vadodara district. There is no CT-scan machine and at private facilities, Rs 4,000 is being charged for the same. While this may look reasonable in Ahmedabad but in districts like Narmada, which is economically backward and dominated by tribals, this price of Rs 4,000 is too much for the CT scan. The district recorded 143 new cases, taking the total active cases to 1,017. A day before, it had reported 103 cases and total cases were 1,374. The number of tests conducted on Tuesday was not available.  Although there are ventilators, there is none to look after as there are no technicians to operate them. In public hospitals, there is no equipment for administering oxygen to critical patients. And, for any medical emergency, reliance is on government hospitals at Vadodara which is 68 km away. The aforementioned are findings of Gujarat High Court Advocates' Association (GHAA) which is assisting the court, hearing suo moto public interest litigation on medical infrastructure and ground reality across the state in view of rising coronavirus cases. The findings were submitted by the association through senior advocate Percy Kavina in court Tuesday. The submission of the lawyers' body is based on interaction with members of district bar associations such as Narmada, Surendranagar, Godhra, Panchamahals, Tapi, Banaskantha, Chhota Udepur, Ahmedabad among others. The report suggests a lack of basic facilities such as Covid-19 testing kits, oxygen beds, ICU beds, doctors, among others. During the hearing in the court on Tuesday, Kavina pointed out that his report is based on anecdotal incidents. It was found out that in Panchmahals district, patients who want to go to Vadodara or Ahmedabad for treatment have to take permission from a nodal officer appointed specially by the government for this purpose. "Upon inquiry, it was further revealed that such practice is prevalent since a week. This aspect of the permission was strongly resented by the respondent." The report also stated that "it was apprehended that daily about 15 to 20 deaths due to Covid-19 should be happening but there is no official count for this."  It adds further that the collector was actively working and admitted that "while laboratory for RT-PCR test is not fully functional but it should start in a couple of days and training for this purpose is going on."   Similarly, in district Chhota Udepur, the association has reported that mass gathering during weddings was as usual while the cost of essential items has increased significantly. This is one of the most economically backward districts of the state which has "no medical facilities available viz. availability of Oxygen, Medical Personnel for operating Ventilators, etc." In Vyara, Tapi district in south Gujarat, an RT-PCR centre was inaugurated but it is yet to become functional. The association has also found lack of medical oxygen, beds and other facilities in districts such as Banaskantha, Surendranagar. During the hearing, the state government tried to play down the submissions of the association but the court directed to file a detailed affidavit with regard to these findings by the next hearing on May 11. Meanwhile, the state government's affidavit filed on Monday said that the government has started a campaign, titled, "Maru Gam. Gorona Mukt" for creating awareness at the village level and involving the village community including political and religious leaders. With regards to the condition of tribal districts, the state government's affidavit stated that all 14 such districts have RT-PCR testing facilities through RT-PCR, TRUENAT or CBNAAT machines. RT-PCR testing through RT-PCR machines was available in ten districts. The machines in the other four districts-Mahisagar, Dang, Aravalli and Chhota Udepur-will be functional shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-body-find-lack-of-basic-medical-facilities-in-districts-including-narmada-the-seat-of-tallest-statue-982451.html
05-05-2021||National||DH Toon | IPL suspended, survival games to continue||The Indian Premier League was on Tuesday suspended indefinitely after multiple Covid-19 cases were reported in its bio-bubble, ending a month-long relatively smooth run for cricket's most glamorous and cash-rich event in the middle of a raging pandemic. "The tournament has been suspended indefinitely. We will try to conduct the event in the next available window but this month is unlikely," league chairman Brijesh Patel told PTI. The country's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with over 3.5 lakh infections reported in a day on Tuesday. The overall deaths crossed 2.2 lakh with 3,449 in 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-ipl-suspended-survival-games-to-continue-982453.html
05-05-2021||National||61% upset, angry over govt’s handling of Covid-19 second wave: Survey||More than half of the people are upset, angry and depressed or worried about the way the second wave of Covid-19 is handled by the government while opinion is split on whether the country is on the right track in controlling the pandemic, a survey has claimed. At the same time, a majority of the people are not sure whether experts in the country have a handle on what is causing the massive second wave. The survey by LocalCircles claimed that 61 per cent of those surveyed are "feeling angry, upset, depressed or worried as the Covid-19 second wave wreaks havoc in the country". "The second wave has been terrifying and a once-in-a-century health crisis that India has experienced," it said. Breaking down the numbers, the survey claimed 23 per cent said they were “anxious or worried”, 8 per cent were “depressed, gloomy or sad”, 20 per cent “upset and angry”, 10 per cent “extremely angry”, and 7 per cent said “calm or peaceful”. Another 28 per cent, however, felt “optimistic and hopeful”. With lockdown-like restrictions being imposed in many states, the survey claimed, people have started to also fear for their livelihoods. When asked about whether they believe India is on the right track in handling the second wave, the respondents were split. "Wrong priorities, indecisiveness and lack of preparedness are key reasons why 45 per cent believe that India is not on the right track. The 41 per cent on the other hand who believe that India is on the right track state that all of this took India by big surprise and India is now enabling more hospital beds, oxygen supplies and healthcare staff, local lockdowns which should help in recovering from the crisis," it added. Some of the respondents raised the "key issue" of central and state governments "not building capacities" despite seeing so many countries around the world experiencing massive second waves. Many have also "criticised" India’s decision of restarting flights from the United Kingdom on January 8 after a two-week suspension despite the country having 60,000 daily cases. "Hundreds of citizens also raised objections to the Kumbh Mela celebrations. People have highlighted how many returnees from the Mela coming back to their state have tested positive for Covid-19. Madhya Pradesh just reported that 99 per cent of those who came back from Kumbh tested positive," the survey claimed. The survey also claimed 51 per cent citizens were unsure if experts in India have a handle on what is causing the massive second wave in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/61-upset-angry-over-govt-s-handling-of-covid-19-second-wave-survey-982454.html
05-05-2021||National||Covid-19: 12 Republican lawmakers urge Biden admin to not support India's proposal at WTO||Twelve Republican lawmakers have urged the Biden administration to not support a proposal by India and South Africa before the World Trade Organisation to temporarily waive some Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) rules amid the coronavirus pandemic. If the US gives up intellectual property rights, it will harm innovation and production, and result in fewer people getting vaccinated, the 12 influential Congressmen said in a letter to US Trade Representative Katherine Tai on Tuesday. The letter is in response to the proposal in this regard by 60 developing countries, led by India and South Africa. "The United States should continue to oppose the request by India, South Africa, and other nations to waive certain portions of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for all members of the World Trade Organisation (WTO)," the letter said. Spearheaded by Congressmen Jim Jordan and Darrell Issa, the lawmakers said the requested waiver is extraordinarily broad and unnecessary to accomplish the goal of giving as many people as possible access to vaccines and treatment for Covid-19. They claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi pressed US President Joe Biden to support the waiver during a phone call in early May. Among other signatories to the letter are Steve Chabot, Louie Gohmert, Matt Gaetz, Mike Johnson, Tom Tiffany, Thomas Massie, Dan Bishop, Michelle Fischbach, Scott Fitzgerald and Cliff Bentz. "The justification for the waiver rests on an incorrect assumption that IP rights are a significant bottleneck to the widespread availability of Covid-19 vaccines and treatments,” the letter said. "The waiver's sponsors have presented no convincing evidence to support this assertion. Instead, the sponsors mainly just point out that relevant IP rights exist and speculate that those rights could serve as a barrier to access to Covid-19 vaccines and treatments - not that IP rights have actually blocked or significantly hindered their availability,” it added. If anything, the examples of IP 'disputes' cited by the waiver sponsors generally demonstrate that IP rights have not prevented the involved parties from supplying vaccines and other medicines, the letter said. Respect for intellectual property rights has been a cornerstone of the US trade policy for decades and should not be set aside lightly, the Republican Congressmen said. "Although some flexibility may be warranted in emergency situations, the waiver of TRIPS IP protections requested by India, South Africa, and other countries would do little to improve public health during this critical period in the Covid-19 pandemic. The scope of the requested waiver is overbroad and unjustified in light of the economic harm it would cause and the negligible benefits it would provide,” they said in the letter. "Existing aspects of TRIPS and global public health initiatives, along with the existing actions of key IP rights holders and innovators, make the waiver unnecessary. While considerable work can still be done to improve access to Covid-19 medicines and other innovations, that work can be done without the drastic step of suspending IP rights, and significant progress has already been made to address the real obstacles hampering the global Covid-19 response,” they said. The lawmakers argued that relevant intellectual property rights have been successfully licensed to expand access to Covid-19 innovations while maintaining IP protections. For example, the Serum Institute of India has secured licenses to produce multiple vaccines, including Astrazeneca and Novavax vaccines. South Africa's Aspen Pharmacare has secured a license to produce the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Several vaccine makers have licensed direct competitors to increase vaccine manufacturing capacity. Moderna has announced that it would not seek to enforce any of its Covid-related patents against other vaccine makers for the rest of the pandemic and has pledged to license its Covid-19 vaccine patents. Gilead has licensed nine generic pharmaceutical manufacturers (including in India) to produce its Covid-19 therapeutic drug remdesivir for 127 countries, most of which are developing nations. Moreover, TRIPS already allows countries to impose compulsory licenses to access vital IP rights, and no country has availed itself of that capability to date for Covid-19 vaccines or treatments, the lawmakers noted. The proposed waiver is not limited to patents on vaccines or treatments for Covid-19 - the waiver would also gut protections for copyrights, industrial designs (e.g., textile patterns or other ornamental designs), and trade secrets. The waiver’s supporters have only offered vague, unsubstantiated explanations for how waiving IP protections for copyrights or industrial designs would lead to improved vaccine or therapeutics availability, they said. It is also unclear how a waiver of TRIPS obligations would provide more access to trade secrets and proprietary technologies, which are confidential by definition and typically closely guarded, they said. "Gifting away our technological leadership and competitive advantage at a time when the US economy remains vulnerable would be irresponsible and send the wrong message to millions of American taxpayers. The damage would extend beyond even the considerable value of Covid-19 vaccines and medicines, also endangering the far greater value of the jobs and economic growth promised by these IP rights and the advanced technologies they represent," the Republican Congressmen said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-12-republican-lawmakers-urge-biden-admin-to-not-support-indias-proposal-at-wto-982462.html
05-05-2021||National||14 crew members of cargo ship from India test positive for Covid-19 in South Africa||Fourteen crew members of a cargo ship that sailed to Durban from India have tested positive for Covid-19, South Africa's Transnet National Port Authority has said. A spokesperson from Transnet said the cause of a chief engineer's death aboard the ship was heart attack and not Covid-19. The 14 were among the entire crew that was tested after the ship arrived in Durban on Sunday. They are now all in isolation as authorities start a track and trace initiative for all those who might have been in contact with them. "The vessel is currently on quarantine. No one is allowed to leave or enter the vessel, and the company responsible for anyone who worked on board is to track and trace all employees who interacted with the subject vessel,” Transnet said on Tuesday. A senior port official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told a news portal that at least 200 port employees had been working on the vessel since Sunday evening, manually offloading about 3,000 tonnes of rice. "The rice came in 50kg bags. We are a bit concerned because a lot of people have boarded that vessel since Sunday,” the source said. Transnet said the ship with Filipino crew had sailed directly from India, where they had been tested for Covid-19 and cleared as per requirements. "Upon arrival at the Port of Durban, as a standard precautionary measure, all crew members were tested and 14 of the crew tested positive for Covid-19. The entire vessel is currently in quarantine at the Port of Durban, as per Covid-19 regulations," Transnet said. All operations with the vessel have been suspended. The authority said it remained vigilant to ensure that all vessels calling at the port have been cleared. "TNPA is responsible for ensuring that all vessels calling the port have been cleared by relevant state organs, namely, port health, migration, MRCC and customs before entering or leaving the port,” it said. News of the incident caused widespread concern on social media about fears that the new B.1.617 variant that was causing thousands of deaths in India daily had reached South African shores. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize has assured the public that plans are in place to test all arrivals into the country, reminding them that there were no direct flights from India. Mkhize did express concern though that those arriving from India via other countries could pose a challenge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-crew-members-of-cargo-ship-from-india-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-south-africa-982464.html
05-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 5||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases topped 2.04 crore with over 3.8 lakh infections reported in a day on Wednesday. Overall deaths amounted to 2.6 lakh with a record 3,780 fatalitiesin 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry data. Health systems across the country continued to be overwhelmed, with the vaccination drive slowing down due to a shortage of vaccines.   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,04,38,960 as of May 5, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,26,188 as of May 5, 2021   No. of people discharged: 1,66,13,292         Total Vaccination: 16,04,94,188 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-may-5-982465.html
05-05-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices up for second day in a row across India||Petrol and diesel prices were raised for the second day in a row on Wednesday as state-owned fuel retailers resumed daily rate revision after a more than two-week long hiatus during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. Petrol price was increased by 19 paise per litre and diesel by 21 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Petrol in the national capital now costs Rs 90.74 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 81.12 per litre. Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT). Oil companies had on Tuesday resumed daily price revision in line with cost after ending an 18-day hiatus. Prices were on Tuesday hiked by 15 paise per litre for petrol and 18 paise on diesel. In two days, more than half of the 67 paise a litre reduction in petrol and 74 paise per litre cut in diesel prices effected between March 24 and April 15, has been wiped out. Oil companies, who have in recent months resorted to unexplained freeze in rate revision, had hit a pause button after cutting prices marginally on April 15. This coincided with electioneering hitting peak to elect new governments in five states including West Bengal. No sooner had voting ended, oil companies indicated an impending increase in retail prices in view of firming trend in international oil markets. Despite the concerns about rising Covid-19 cases in India denting demand, crude oil prices in the international market have risen primarily on account of strong US demand recovery and a weak dollar. Prices have been on a continuous uptrend since April 27, an industry official said adding crude oil price hit $65 per barrel mark. It is expected that the crude oil prices in the international market will remain firm in the near future, exerting upward pressure, he said. State-owned fuel retailers, IOC, BPCL and HPCL, who are supposed to revise rates daily based on input cost, had raised petrol price by Rs 21.58 per litre and diesel by Rs 19.18 a litre since the government raised excise duty in March last year. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 on diesel. In Mumbai, the petrol price was hiked to Rs 97.12 a litre on Wednesday from Rs 96.95, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 88.19 from Rs 87.981, the price notification showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-up-for-second-day-in-a-row-across-india-982469.html
05-05-2021||National||India reaches out to US companies over investment in pharmaceutical, medical devices sector||India has reached out to top American pharma companies seeking investment in the country's pharmaceutical and medical devices sector, which gains urgency in view of a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu has held virtual meetings with Alberta Bourla, the CEO of Pfizer, Thermo Fisher CEO Marc Casper, Bernd Brust, the chairman and CEO of Antylia Scientific, and Joseph Repp, the CEO of Pall Life Sciences. He also had a call with Emmanuel Ligner, the CEO and president of Cytiva. During his interactions with the pharma companies, Sandhu mentioned that India is seeking to encourage investments into the pharmaceutical and medical devices sector. India, he said, has recently launched a production linked incentive scheme that will provide the US companies new opportunities for investment. "Discussed ways in which Pfizer could support healthcare efforts, including vaccines in India, and strengthen our pandemic response,” Sandhu said after his meeting with Bourla last week. On Monday, Bourla had said that Pfizer was following with a deep concern the critical Covid-19 situation in India and his company was doing everything possible to provide support. "Today we have announced we are mobilising the largest humanitarian relief effort in our company’s history to help the people of India fight the vicious second wave of coronavirus that is currently ravaging the nation,” he said. Among other things, it announced to donate enough of its medicines worth $70 million to ensure that every Covid-19 patient in every public hospital across India can have access to them in the next 90 days free of charge. "This effort has the potential to impact the lives of hundreds of thousands of patients,” Bourla said. In his meeting with Thermo Fisher CEO Marc Casper, Sandhu underlined their important role in the fight against the pandemic, including expediting supplies to India of raw materials for Covishield vaccine as well as for essential medicines such as remdesivir. Massachusetts-based Thermo Fisher is a company critical in the supply chain for biopharma products. It offers analytical instruments, laboratory equipment, chemicals and supplies to pharmaceutical and biotech companies, hospitals and clinical diagnostic labs, universities, research institutions, and government agencies. During his meeting with Repp, CEO of Pall Life Sciences, the Indian ambassador discussed strengthening supply chains, and expediting inputs for critical medicines such as remdesivir, and Novavax vaccine. Pall biotech products have played a key role in life-saving drugs that range from Ebola vaccines to cancer-curing monoclonal antibodies. Its products have huge relevance given the current pandemic situation and are part of critical supply chains in the industry. The company has an extensive network in India, including offices in Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Chandigarh, Delhi, and Bangalore. Sandhu in his call with Bernd Brust, the chairman and CEO of Antylia Scientific, appreciated the efforts of his company to ensure timely inputs for Covishield and Novavax vaccines. Antylia Scientific is a global peristaltic and single-use bioprocessing solution expert, with a diverse portfolio of life sciences and diagnostic products for the pharma, biopharma, healthcare and environmental markets. The ambassador also had a call with Emmanuel Ligner, the CEO and president of Cytiva which is a global provider of technologies and services that advance and accelerate the development and manufacture of therapeutics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reaches-out-to-us-companies-over-investment-in-pharmaceutical-medical-devices-sector-982478.html
05-05-2021||National||At 3,780, India logs highest-ever daily Covid-19 deaths, 3.82 lakh cases||A record 3,780 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India taking the death toll to 2,26,188, while 3,82,315 new coronavirus infections were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 2,06,65,148. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,87,229 comprising 16.87 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.03 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 69,51,731 while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.09 per cent, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,48,52,078 samples have been tested up to May 5 with 15,41,299  samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-3780-india-logs-highest-ever-daily-covid-19-deaths-382-lakh-cases-982481.html
05-05-2021||National||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade; Nifty tops 14,550||Market benchmark Sensex rose over 200 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys ahead of the Reserve Bank chief’s speech. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das will make an unscheduled announcement at 10 am. The 30-share BSE index jumped 266.09 points or 0.55 per cent to 48,519.60 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 81.45 points or 0.56 per cent to 14,577.95. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, gaining over 2 per cent, followed by NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Titan, Axis Bank and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, HDFC, Nestle India and HUL were among laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 465.01 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 48,253.51, and Nifty slumped 137.65 points or 0.94 per cent to 14,496.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,772.37 crore on Tuesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 987.34 crore, according to provisional exchange data. "RBI Governor's announcements on Wednesday are likely to influence markets, particularly certain segments like banking. Relief to MSMEs and retail borrowers might positively impact banks which have a higher proportion of such loans. The rally in PSU banks on Tuesday may be in anticipation of this," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The market is presently caught between fear from the economic fall out of the second wave of the pandemic and hope arising from the flattening of the Covid-19 curve, he said, adding that it will take some more time for clarity to emerge on which of the two will have a higher impact on markets. "Going by the experiences of countries that went through the second wave, like the UK, hope will triumph over fear. GDP and earnings growth in Q1 FY 22 will take a hit, but is likely to recover in subsequent quarters,” he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong were trading flat in mid-session deals, while Seoul, Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. Equities on Wall Street ended on a negative note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.61 per cent higher at  $69.32 per barrel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sensex-jumps-over-200-points-in-early-trade-nifty-tops-14550-982483.html
05-05-2021||National||Supreme Court quashes Maratha reservation in education, jobs||In a major decision, the Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down as unconstitutional the 2018 Maharasthra law, providing reservations to Marathas in jobs and education, for being in violation of 50 per cent cap on quota and fundamental right to equality.  A five-judge bench by a unanimous view also ruled out any need to reconsider the 1992 nine-judge bench judgement in Indra Sawhney (Mandal Commission) case, which fixed 50 per cent ceiling on reservation.  By a majority view of 3:2, the top court also declared that with the 102nd Constitutional Amendment passed in 2018, states would not have the power to prepare a list for socially and educationally backward classes. During the hearing, several states, including Karnataka, demanded revisiting of the landmark nine-judge bench decision in view of subsequent developments and change in social dynamics. "There can be no quarrel that society changes, law changes, and people change but that does not mean that something which is good and proven to be beneficial in maintaining equality in the society should also be changed in the name of change alone," Justice Ashok Bhushan wrote on behalf of himself and Justice S Abdul Nazeer. The 569-page judgement is likely to have far-reaching consequences on pending challenges to the validity of the Union government's 10 per cent Economic Weaker Section quota, and Tamil Nadu's law for up to 69 per cent reservation for the OBC. Both the governments would have to prove exceptional circumstances to support their move. Allowing appeal against the Bombay High Court's approval to Maratha quota, the Constitution bench presided over by Justice Bhushan said that the pre-condition for breaching 50-per cent limit on quota under Article 16(4) like "extra-ordinary and exceptional circumstances" was not fulfilled in granting 12 per cent and 13 per cent reservation to Marathas in jobs and education, respectively. The court said the community was satisfactorily represented as 33.23 per cent, 29.03 per cent, 37.06 per cent, and 36.53 per cent in Grade A, B, C and D jobs, respectively. The state law thus defied another criterion of the inadequacy of representation on the basis of quantifiable data, by granting quota beyond 50 per cent. "One community bagging such as the number of posts in public services is a matter of pride and its representation in no manner can be said to not adequate," the bench said. It said the data collected from Gaikwad Commission showed that Marathas are not socially and educationally backward class. Providing reservation in public services is not the only means and method for improving the welfare of the backward class. Other measures like free education, giving concession and skill development can be undertaken to enable backward classes to be self-reliant, the bench said. The bench declared the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, as ultra vires to the Constitution. "The Act, 2018 violates the principle of equality. The exceeding of ceiling limit without any extra-ordinary circumstances clearly violates Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution," Justice Bhushan wrote. Other judges on bench Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat agreed to the judgement on the points that the Maratha quota was unconstitutional and there was no need to relook at the 50-per cent cap. The five judges also upheld the validity of the 102nd Amendment, which granted constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes. However, the three judges did not agree to Justices Bhushan and Nazeer who held the state was empowered to identify the backward class for granting quota. Justice Rao said there is no obscurity in Article 342 A (1) and it is crystal clear that there shall be one list of socially and educationally backward classes which may be issued by the President.  Likewise, Justice Bhat said by the introduction of Articles 366 (26C) and 342A through the 102nd Constitution Amendment, the President alone, to the exclusion of all other authorities, is empowered to identify socially and educationally backward classes.  "The States can, through their existing mechanisms, or even statutory commissions, only make suggestions to the President for inclusion, exclusion or modification of castes or communities, in the list to be published under Article 342A (1)." Justice Gupta agreed with Justices Rao and Bhat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-quashes-maratha-reservation-in-education-jobs-982488.html
05-05-2021||National||All you need to know about the Centre's new Covid-19 testing guidelines||As Covid-19 cases surge during the second wave of the pandemic, so has the load on laboratories in charge of processing the swabs taken for a Covid-19 test. To reduce the load on these labs, the Centre has announced new guidelines for Covid-19 testing, one of which says that Covid-19 patients discharged from hospitals need not be tested. India currently has a total of 2,506 molecular testing laboratories, including RT-PCR, TrueNat, CBNAAT, and other platforms. The total daily national testing capacity is close to 15 lakh tests considering a three-shift operationalization of the existing laboratory network.  "At present, the laboratories are facing challenges to meet the expected testing target due to extraordinary caseload and staff getting infected with COVID-19. In view of this situation, it is imperative to optimize the RT-PCR testing and simultaneously increase the access and availability of testing to all citizens of the country," the apex health research body said. The new guidelines state that an RT-PCR test is not necessary in these instances: 1. Individuals whose Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) has returned a positive result 2. Individuals who have returned a positive result for an RT-PCR test once 3. Healthy individuals undertaking interstate travel 4. Covid-19 recovered patients while being discharged from hospitals 5. Individuals who have completed 10 days of home isolation and shown no symptoms (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-centres-new-covid-19-testing-guidelines-982489.html
05-05-2021||National||Indian-American doctors for removal of hurdles to provide services to Covid-19 patients in India||Indian-American physicians have sought “blanket immunity and indemnification” from the Indian government for offering their voluntary services to Covid-19 patients either virtually or in-person by flying to their home country amidst an unprecedented second wave of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. The American Association of Physicians of Indian-Origin (AAPI), which represents thousands of Indian-origin doctors in the US, has urged this in identical letters to Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. AAPI has also raised  $2.6 million for Covid-19 assistance in India. “We request the Government of India through an emergency declaration (to) provide a blanket immunity and indemnification for volunteering physicians from the USA, providing Covid related medical care in India,” the AAPI leadership wrote in the letters. “That will mobilise thousands of Indian doctors in the USA to come forward to offer their expertise and provide compassionate and competent care urgently and relieve the heavy burden on the overstretched physicians and systems in India. Please consider this request as an urgent priority, as time is of essence,” it said. Copies of the letters, dated April 30, were provided to PTI. A delegation of the AAPI leadership is scheduled to have a virtual conversation with the health minister soon. “Hundreds of Indian-American doctors are ready to sign up to help Covid-19 patients in India” through tele-health and remotely, AAPI vice president Dr Ravi Kolli told PTI. “There are some legal and licensing issues that may not allow (tele-health and tele-consultancy). We want to get a clear understanding of what is the government's position as far as licensing and liability requirements,” he said. Once that is done “can unleash thousands and thousands of Indian doctors to help local doctors (in India),” Kolli said. AAPI, he said, has three partners who are willing to donate their platforms for the Indian doctors to do consultancy for free. In addition, two groups of Indian doctors numbering 20 each from California and Chicago have offered to fly to India to serve in any part of the country to assist local administrations to treat Covid-19 patients. “We do feel that it is our calling, it is our job, moral duty” to help people in India right now, he said, adding that there has been an outpouring of support from Indian-American doctors. In less than a week, AAPI has raised $2.6 million. One of the biggest donations of $500,000 has come from Dr Jagdish Shah from Richmond in Virginia. AAPI has so far sent 1,000 oxygen concentrators and is in the process of sending another 1,000. It has tied up with Sewa International USA, a non-profit body, he said. “We are continuing to interact with the physicians back in India to answer their questions. AAPI as a group and individual physicians are reaching out almost on a daily basis with doctors on ground in India,” he said, adding that it is in addition to the calls being received from their friends and families back home. “We are ready to jump and help in any way, because of the gravity of the situation both from a medical, scientific point of view as well as a humanitarian catastrophic point of view,” he said. Describing the situation in India as dire, Kolli said people in India are dying of lack of oxygen. “Doctors are exhausted. When we receive calls from doctors, they're showing signs of stress and anguish, being burned, are not able to take care of the patient and save their lives. “They are desperately pleading with whatever we can do to send whatever we can to help them provide some oxygen and basic care as well as more appropriate therapeutics, which also appear to be in short supply. So, we are well aware of the situation, the tragedy and the stress that everybody is having,” he said. In the two letters, the AAPI urged the Indian government to mobilise on a war footing, all the resources available at its disposal to address the current reported scarcity of various therapeutics. “As we know, the spread of Covid-19 is escalating and the associated morbidity and mortality is causing havoc and panic in the society. The critical shortage will have a further catastrophic consequence in the survival of millions of citizens,” the AAPI added. India is struggling with an unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days. According to Indian health ministry data on Tuesday, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with 3,57,229 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities. The total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country has climbed to 2,02,82,833, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-american-doctors-for-removal-of-hurdles-to-provide-services-to-covid-19-patients-in-india-982492.html
05-05-2021||National||Centre moves SC over Delhi HC's contempt notice on oxygen supply to national capital||Centre on Wednesday moved Supreme Court against Delhi High Court's contempt notice to it over the medical oxygen supply to Delhi. CJI N V Ramana told Registry to place the matter before a bench led by J Chandrachud. Meanwhile, the Delhi High Court posted the contempt matter for consideration after 2.30 pm on being informed that the Centre has gone to the Supreme Court. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-moves-sc-over-delhi-hcs-contempt-notice-on-oxygen-supply-to-national-capital-982498.html
05-05-2021||National||Legislative Secretary G Narayan Raju dies of Covid-19||Legislative Secretary G Narayan Raju has died of Covid-19, officials said on Wednesday. He was 62. The top draftsman of the government was suffering from coronavirus and was admitted to the DRDO facility here where he breathed his last on Tuesday night, the Law Ministry officials said. The legislative secretary is responsible for drafting and clearing key legislative proposals of the government before they are introduced in Parliament. The legislative department in the Law Ministry also deals with issues related to the Election Commission. Raju was recently given a one-year extension as legislative secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legislative-secretary-g-narayan-raju-dies-of-covid-19-982506.html
05-05-2021||National||Many Indian-American families separated due to US ban on travellers from India||Several families in the US find themselves separated from their loved ones more than 13,000 kms away across two continents as the Biden administration’s ban on travellers from India in view of the unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country has come into effect. In some cases, the main earning member of the family has been left stranded in India, with no way to rejoin their spouses and kids in the US while in some other instances, mothers have been separated from their young children as one of the unintended consequences of the travel ban announced by President Joe Biden last week. The proclamation signed by Biden on April 30 came into effect on May 4. Certain categories of students, academics, journalists and individuals have been exempted from the ban, according to the US State Department. The travel ban is for an indefinite period given the major outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. Some of these people say that they are now stuck in India for an indefinite period as the American consulates have also been shut down. “My husband who has been on H-1B since 2008 had to travel to India on April 17 to be with his dying father and to perform last rites. Since then, the US embassy in India has been closed. Although he has an approved H-1B visa, he needs visa stamping on his passport and also to attend an in-person interview at the US mission in Delhi,” Neha Mahajan, co-founder of Skilled Immigrants in America, told PTI. “I am here with our two daughters who miss their dad during this extremely hard time for the family in the middle of this pandemic,” she said. Nashville-based Payal Raj said that she has no idea when and how will she get back from India to be with her nine-year-old child. “The bans are specifically targeted towards non-immigrants and their families and looking at the history of other country’s bans, this could go on for months or even a year. “There are thousands of people stuck with heart-breaking stories of coming here to attend to dying parents and then getting stuck due to the bans and not able to go back to their kids and spouses,” Raj told PTI from India. Abhinav Amresh finds himself stranded in Mumbai away from his kids because the US Consulate in Mumbai has been shut down as a result of which he cannot get his H-1B visa stamped. The next available appointment that he is now getting is for September. Unless his visa is stamped, he cannot return to the US. “The kids have never been away from their father for so long and the passing of their beloved grandmother and even their dad being away is already putting them under a lot of stress. Wife and I are primary caregivers for the kids and share all household responsibilities. Also, I am the main driver at home to bring groceries, take kids to their doctor (they have a visit and vaccination due) and all regular things,” Amresh said. The whole situation is becoming very stressful, he said. “My only question to the authorities is - despite the exceptions in travel ban, there are many people like me with young US citizen kids who had to travel on family emergencies but do not have a valid visa stamping. How can they come back to the US and unite with their family? This is a humanitarian crisis and child rights issue and if travel ban means visa ban then why not say so,” he said. Utkarsha Hazarnis, who has been in the US since 2013 and now stranded in India as his visa cannot be stamped due to the closure of the US consulate, urged the Biden administration to take active steps for those who have jobs in the US and are currently stuck in India. “Active measures and alternatives should be worked on to help such cases,” he said. He had travelled to India to see his ailing father in Mumbai. Another Indian-American, who requested anonymity, said that she has no clue when the consulates would open. “We have no clue when this proclamation will end. We are not able to meet our families due to the fear of getting stuck over there in India. Of course, nobody is stopping us now, but we bought a house here. Our kids are studying here for five years… This is not an easy situation for us to handle,” she said. Hemanth Modadugu was supposed to travel to India for H-1B stamping and get married in May 2020. However, he had to cancel. He left the US for India in April. “I left Seattle on April 24. I reached Doha and within the next 10 minutes, I received an email that all visa appointments are cancelled. I cannot return to the US without stamping. So, I continued my journey to India. Even if I had a hint of appointment cancellation while in the US, I would have tried to cancel my trip,” he said. “Now, on top of visa appointment cancellation, we received the news of a travel ban. Why leave H-1B visa holders or those who came to India for stamping from exemptions?” Hemanth asked. The new travel restrictions have been imposed for an indefinite period and will require another presidential proclamation to end it. India is struggling with an unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past one week. According to Indian health ministry data on Wednesday, a record 3,780 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India, taking the death toll to 2,26,188, while 3,82,315 new coronavirus infections were recorded. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 2,06,65,148.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-indian-american-families-separated-due-to-us-ban-on-travellers-from-india-982515.html
05-05-2021||National||India accounted for one in four Covid-19 deaths globally last week: WHO||India accounted for nearly half of the Covid-19 cases reported worldwide last week and one in four of deaths, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Wednesday. "India accounts for over 90 per cent of both cases and deaths in the region, as well as 46% of global cases and 25 per cent of global deaths reported in the past week," the Geneva-based agency said in its weekly epidemiological report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-accounted-for-one-in-four-covid-19-deaths-globally-last-week-who-982516.html
05-05-2021||National||PIL for priority vaccination to disabled, Delhi High Court seeks stand of Centre, Delhi government||A PIL in the Delhi High Court on Wednesday urged it to direct the Centre and Delhi government to treat persons with disabilities (PWD) on priority basis and make special provisions for vaccinating them against Covid-19 irrespective of their age. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Ministry of Health and Delhi government on the plea by two disabled persons. In their plea, filed through advocates Siddharth Seem and Joicy, they have contended that the governments' failure to make any special provision for ensuring priority to PWD in the  administration of the Covid-19 vaccine, was a violation of the  Constitutional mandate to give preferential treatment to such individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-for-priority-vaccination-to-disabled-delhi-high-court-seeks-stand-of-centre-delhi-government-982527.html
05-05-2021||National||Two Indian delegates at G7 meeting test positive for Covid-19, schedule modified||Two members of the small delegation accompanying External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to the UK have tested positive for Covid-19, forcing him to rework his official schedule here. "Was made aware yesterday evening of exposure to possible Covid positive cases," Jaishankar tweeted on Wednesday. Was made aware yesterday evening of exposure to possible Covid positive cases. As a measure of abundant caution and also out of consideration for others, I decided to conduct my engagements in the virtual mode. That will be the case with the G7 Meeting today as well. "As a measure of abundant caution and also out of consideration for others, I decided to conduct my engagements in the virtual mode. That will be the case with the G7 Meeting today as well," he said. According to numerous sources, two members of the delegation tested positive on Tuesday with further test results still awaited. Jaishankar had arrived in London on Monday for a four-day visit at the invitation of UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab to join the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting as one of the guest ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-indian-delegates-at-g7-meeting-test-positive-for-covid-19-schedule-modified-982528.html
05-05-2021||National||Make Covid-19 vaccination free for all, ensure seamless supply of oxygen, medicines: NHRC||Warning that the healthcare infrastructure in the country "appears to be on the verge of a breakdown", the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has urged the government to look at the option of making Covid-19 vaccination free and universal and ensure "continuous, rapid and seamless" supply of oxygen and medicines. Finding "critical gaps" in patient care, the NHRC also asked the government to ensure that the treatment of Covid-19 patients at "defined, affordable rates" at private hospitals, amid claims that some of these facilities are overcharging. The recommendations were part of the 'Human Rights Advisory on Right to Health in view of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic (Advisory 2.0)' shared by the NHRC with the Union Health Secretary and state Chief Secretaries on Tuesday. The NHRC had earlier issued advisories on health in September and November last year. "With the advent of the second wave of Covid-19, the situation has worsened and India is now facing a public health emergency of unprecedented proportion and severity. Critical gaps are apparent in the system related to patients’ access to life-saving healthcare, including the availability of critical care beds, oxygen supplies, essential medicines, emergency transport, and other facilities," the advisory said.  Acute shortage of these resources is resulting in high mortality and putting a huge burden on the hospitals and healthcare professionals, beyond their capacity so much so that the healthcare infrastructure of the country "appears to be on the verge of a breakdown", it added. With people scrambling for hospital beds and treatment, the NHRC said that the Centre and the states should coordinate for "providing continuous, rapid and seamless logistics" to meet the demand of oxygen, essential medicines and devices in all healthcare establishments in the country. A single point of contact may be established for the same, especially for oxygen. The NHRC suggested that any Covid-19 patient approaching public health facilities should get free treatment and in case, appropriate care to the severity of the condition is not available, it would be the "obligation" of the Health Department to organise the patient's transport to another hospital. In such a scenario, private hospitals should approach the government nodal officer. Amid a raging debate over pricing, the NHRC said there should be "universal coverage and non-discriminatory pricing" of Covid-19 vaccines in all health facilities and "if feasible, vaccination should be made free for everyone irrespective of private or public health establishment". "Private hospitals should be directed by the respective government to provide care for Covid-19 patients at defined, affordable rates. The regulated rates should be made applicable to the maximum proportion of beds, at least two-third of all available beds or as per local requirements," the NHRC said. The NHRC also wanted a cap on the prices of Covid-19 treatment resources like essential medicines, oxygen cylinders, ambulance services, etc. It suggested that their prices should be operationalised, monitored and audited to prevent exploitation of patients. Cases of hoarding and black marketing of essential medicines, oxygen cylinders and other medical resources should be taken seriously and those found guilty must be brought to book. A complaint management system should be established in this regard and nobody should be harassed on grounds of making such a complaint, it added. It also suggested that the number of vaccination centres should be increased to speed up the pace of vaccination and production of vaccine and supply chain arrangement for vaccination centres should be reviewed and reworked to ensure availability of vaccines for all in time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-covid-19-vaccination-free-for-all-ensure-seamless-supply-of-oxygen-medicines-nhrc-982558.html
05-05-2021||National||Over 16 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 16 crore, with India reaching the mark in 109 days, the Union Health Ministry said. In comparison, the US took 111 days while China took 116 days to achieve a similar mark, it said. The ministry said 6,71,285 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose of Covid vaccine across 12 states and UTs.  These are Chhattisgarh (1,026), Delhi (82,000), Gujarat (1,61,625), Jammu and Kashmir (10,885), Haryana (99,680), Karnataka (3,840), Maharashtra (1,11,621), Odisha (13,768), Punjab (908), Rajasthan (1,30,071), Tamil Nadu (4,577) and UP (51,284). Cumulatively, 16,04,94,188 vaccine doses have been administered through 23,66,349 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. These include 94,62,505 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 63,22,055 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,35,65,728 FLWs who have received the first dose), 73,32,999 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 6,71,285 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45 age group who have received the first dose. Besides, 5,29,50,584 and 1,23,85,466  beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,33,94,353  and 44,09,213 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first and second dose. Ten states account for 66.86 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country. More than 14 lakh vaccination doses were administered in  a span of 24 hours. As on Day-109 of the vaccination drive (May 4), 14,84,989 vaccine doses were given. Across 14,011 sessions, 7,80,066 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 7,04,923 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-16-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-982560.html
05-05-2021||National||Conduct detailed review, prepare plan of action to ensure no fire incidents in hospitals: MHA to states||Amid increasing fire incidents in hospitals, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday asked states to conduct a detailed review and prepare a detailed plan of action to ensure that fire safety measures are in place in all hospitals and health facilities. The MHA also highlighted the need for ensuring uninterrupted power supply in hospitals, including Covid-19 dedicated facilities. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to Chief Secretaries of states and Administrators of Union Territories urging them that care should be taken to put in place a plan of action, to ensure that no fire incident occurs in any of the health facilities, particularly Covid-19 dedicated facilities, both in the government and private sector. "In the context of recent fire incidents and particularly in view of the impending summer season, it needs to be highlighted that either because of high temperature, lack of maintenance or high load on the internal wirings within the facilities, short circuiting takes place, leading to fire incidents and consequential loss of life and essential infrastructure," Bhalla said. The Home Secretary's communication comes against the backdrop of a series of fire incidents in the past few days, including the death of 18 patients in a hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch on May 1. On Tuesday late night, a fire broke out in a private hospital in Delhi where all the 26 patients, including 17 Covid-19 positive people, were rescued unharmed. He said a detailed review should be conducted with the officials from the Health, Power and Fire Departments in attendance and prepare a detailed plan of action to ensure that fire safety measures are in place in all hospitals and health facilities. The States and UTs should issue directions to the concerned officials that health facilities should be visited by field level personnel to examine internal wirings and availability of functional safety equipment as per fire safety guidelines within these facilities. Necessary remedial action should be taken immediately in case any deficiencies are found, the letter said. Highlighting that a large number of Covid-19 positive people are under treatment in health facilities across the country, Bhalla said it is important to ensure that there is uninterrupted power supply on regular 24x7 basis in all health facilities for the proper functioning of oxygen supported beds, ICU beds, and ventilators are critical interventions. Reports showed that around 100 people have lost their lives in fire incidents in hospitals since last August. On April 28, four persons died after a fire broke out in a private hospital in Maharashtra's Thane district and in the last four months, there were fire incidents in four hospitals in the state in which around 40 people have lost their lives. On Tuesday, police arrested two officials of a multi-speciality hospital in Raipur where five Covid-19 patients died in a fire on April 17. In November last year, the Supreme Court had directed that all Covid-19 hospitals should have No Objection Certificate from the fire department. On November 30 last year, the MHA asked states to take all measures to avoid such incidents, saying "utmost precaution" needs to be taken when the country is fighting a pandemic. Bhalla had then said that non-adherence of fire safety measures by authorities in their respective jurisdiction were a "matter of concern".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conduct-detailed-review-prepare-plan-of-action-to-ensure-no-fire-incidents-in-hospitals-mha-to-states-982564.html
05-05-2021||National||TV, OTT platform leaders see huge headroom for growth in India||Notwithstanding the pandemic-led disruptions, Indian media industry captains are optimistic and see huge headroom for growth in the sector. Though the industry witnessed a 25 per cent drop in TV advertising revenue in the pandemic-impacted 2020, the leaders, while participating at the recently-organised Future of Video India conference by the Asia Video Industry Association’s (AVIA), were confident of the growth potentials, a statement said. President and Head of Disney+ Hotstar Sunil Rayan said the platform is eyeing local expansion with their next stage for growth primed at developing their product for India, with pricing and content made for the local market. As India is a mobile-first market that drives individual viewing, over-the-top (OTT) content needs to be far more engaging for individual viewing. "Fundamentally, we do not believe in a one-size-fits-all approach for India because there are multiple Indias within India," said Rayan. Megha Tata, MD of South Asia for Discovery Communications India said there is a sentiment of diversity and positive co-existence between the platforms. "India lives in several centuries at the same time," commented Tata adding it is still a long way away before the demise of the TV and a differentiated content and product offering remains a key focus. Advisory and consulting services provider Media Partners Asia (MPA) said pay TV subscriptions in India will grow both in - value and volume terms and continue to offer scale for the traditional media players, though there would be a structural decline in the traditional cable TV. With a current presence of over 60 online video services in India, the total addressable market will continue to expand, said MPA in a statement quoting its VP, India Mihir Shah. "With learnings from the last year and economic resurgence picking up in certain sectors, MPA predicts that in the next 5 years, with every new incremental dollar in the region, India will have 35 per cent share, almost evenly divided between television and online video," he said. Monika Shergill, VP of Content for Netflix India, shared that premium storytelling was a new space in India, as Indian audiences were open to experimentation and yet gravitating towards highly local tastes. Archana Anand, Chief Business Officer of ZEE5 Global said it best when she said, “It is the decade of video.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tv-ott-platform-leaders-see-huge-headroom-for-growth-in-india-982566.html
05-05-2021||National||10 states account for 70.91% of new Covid-19 cases: Health ministry||Nearly 71 per cent of the 3,82,315 Covid-19 cases registered in India in a day were reported from 10 states including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. India's Covid-19 caseload stands at 2,06,65,148, according to ministry data. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Haryana, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan reported 70.91 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases reported in a day, the ministry said. Nineteen states and union territories including Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, West Bengal and Rajasthan have a weekly positivity rate higher than the national average of 21.46 per cent, it said. Seventeen states and UTs including Gujarat, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu and Bihar have a weekly positivity rate lower than the national average, it added. Maharashtra reported the highest number of daily new cases at 51,880, followed by 44,631 in Karnataka and 37,190 in Kerala. India's active caseload has reached 34,87,229 and accounts for 16.87 per cent of the total infections. A net increase of 40,096 cases was recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Twelve states cumulatively account for 81.25 per cent of the country's total active cases. "The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.09 per cent," the ministry said. As many as 3,780 deaths were reported in a day. Ten states account for 74.97 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (891), followed by Uttar Pradesh (351). India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,69,51,731 with 3,38,439 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 73.4 per cent of the new recoveries, the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-account-for-7091-of-new-covid-19-cases-health-ministry-982574.html
05-05-2021||National||As Covid-19 rages, rural India gasps for breath||Weakened by fever and gasping for breath, 47-year-old Vinod Kumar died in an ambulance more than 60 km (35 miles) from his home in Bihar, far from the big cities at the centre of the nation's devastating Covid-19 crisis. His death last week followed a frantic journey and dozens of phone calls by desperate relatives in search of a hospital bed and oxygen supplies, as a nationwide surge in coronavirus cases exposes the limitations of health facilities in the countryside. "We admitted him wherever we found a bed. It was a nursing home but wasn't functioning like one. Patients were getting their own oxygen," said Kameshwar Kumar, Vinod's brother. "The hospital was rationing its oxygen supply to patients and my brother was sinking so we were forced to rush him to another hospital but he didn't make it," Kumar told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone, crying as he spoke. India's Covid-19 crisis has been most acute in the capital, New Delhi, among other cities, but in rural areas - home to nearly 70 per cent of India's 1.3 billion people - limited public healthcare is posing particular challenges. Ill-equipped hospitals, staff shortages and long journeys to dedicated Covid-19 wards are making it harder for village patients to access treatment as a second wave pushed India's total coronavirus cases to more than 20 million this week. Less extensive testing and public awareness about the disease's symptoms - especially in the countryside - mean the actual number of infections could be five to 10 times higher than reported, medical experts say. "The situation has become dangerous in villages," said Suresh Kumar, a field coordinator with Manav Sansadhan Evam Mahila Vikas Sansthan, a human rights charity. In some villages where the charity works in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh - home to about 200 million people - "there are deaths in almost every second house", he said. "People are scared and huddled in their homes with fever and cough. The symptoms are all of Covid-19, but with no information available many think it is seasonal flu." India's Health Ministry did not respond to a request for comment. Quacks, concoctions In the village of Kodai, which lies in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Varanasi constituency, emergency facilities set up during last year's first wave of coronavirus infections were dismantled earlier this year when cases dropped. "The quarantine centres set up for returning migrant workers were closed and so are the fever camps," Vijay Kumar, a village resident, said by phone. "Returning migrant workers are going home, falling sick and there is no one keeping track. People are drinking home concoctions and depending on quacks for treatment. Most of them are dying in the process." Elsewhere, local activists warned that pre-monsoon agriculture activities mean more farm workers are on the move - increasing the risk of contagion in rural districts. In Bihar's Bikram district, about 200,000 residents of 15 villages have one primary healthcare centre (PHC) equipped for Covid-19 care, with a stock of 12 oxygen cylinders and one ambulance. As cases multiply from one week to the next, such stocks are woefully inadequate, officials said. "We have asked for 30 more oxygen cylinders as our stock may fall short," said Om Prakash Kumar, the monitoring and evaluation officer for Bikram, where 150 coronavirus cases were registered over the last 15 days. In Patna, nearly 40 of 100 test samples are testing positive and local hospitals are overrun. "I get calls for beds every day. But where are the beds? Our in-charge of a primary healthcare centre died last night in a private nursing home as we couldn't find him a bed in a proper hospital," said Krishnakant Singh, who oversees two PHCs in Patna district. "Just oxygen won't help, we need ICUs (intensive care units) and ventilators. Just breathing has become difficult here," he said. PHCs are not equipped to handle serious cases requiring hospitalisation, said public health expert Abhay Bang. "Access to healthcare has increased in the past couple of decades with more health centres, better access to government hospitals and expansion of private hospitals everywhere ... but the issues of quality, cost and ethics remain," he said. 'I lost him' In Bhadoi district, pharmacist Sagar Sharma has been racing from village to village in recent weeks to distribute anti-fever medication to people who have fallen sick with COVID-19. "I do what I can. When I see patients who can't breathe or in severe distress, I tell them to go to a hospital," said Sharma, who locals have nicknamed the "jholawala doctor" (doctor with a bag). He said, however, that many local doctors were refusing to do home visits for Covid-19 patients even though the nearest hospital was located 20 km away. In western Maharashtra state, Laxmi More had no choice but to take her seriously ill husband to a private hospital with an ICU in Pandharpur, which lies some 55 km from her village. He died on April 25 in the ICU, which had a capacity for 10 patients but was treating 20 at the time, she said. "I lost him and the hospital gave me a bill of Rs 5 lakh ($6,772)," said More, whose husband, aged 46, worked as a driver. "I'm taking loans from family and local lenders to repay. How am I to raise this kind of money?" she said. ($1 = 73.8300 Indian rupees)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-rages-rural-india-gasps-for-breath-982582.html
05-05-2021||National||President Kovind, Vice-President Naidu condole passing away of Philipose Mar Chrysostom, one of longest serving bishops in India||President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday condoled the death of Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan, one of the longest serving bishops in India, saying he touched people with his kindness, religiosity, compassion and service. The bishop, who was the former head of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, died due to age-related ailments on Wednesday, a church spokesman said. He was 104. "Dr Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan, one of longest serving bishops in India had touched millions with his religiosity, compassion and service, specially to needy and downtrodden. He was honoured with Padma Vibhushan also. My condolences to his followers," Kovind tweeted. Dr Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan, one of longest serving bishops in India had touched millions with his religiosity, compassion & service, specially to needy & downtrodden. He was honoured with Padma Vibhushan also. My condolences to his followers. In his tweet, Naidu said he was saddened by the demise of the bishop who has done yeoman service to humanity throughout his life. "Saddened by the demise of Dr Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan. As the longest-serving bishop in India, he has done yeoman service to humanity throughout his life. He will be fondly remembered for his kindness and warmth that touched one and all," Naidu tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-vice-president-naidu-condole-passing-away-of-philipose-mar-chrysostom-one-of-longest-serving-bishops-in-india-982595.html
05-05-2021||National||Good to see health workers, nurses set example in reducing vaccine wastage: PM responds to Vijayan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday appreciated healthcare workers and nurses for setting an example in reducing vaccine wastage in Kerala, responding to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's tweet about these professionals being "super efficient" in his state.  Vijayan had on Tuesday pointed out that Kerala received 73,38,806 doses of vaccine from the Centre and provided 74,26,164 doses, even making use of the extra dose available as wastage factor in each vial.  The health workers, especially nurses, have been super efficient and deserve wholehearted appreciation, he had said.  Good to see our healthcare workers and nurses set an example in reducing vaccine wastage. Responding to Vijayan's post, Modi tweeted, "Good to see our healthcare workers and nurses set an example in reducing vaccine wastage. Reducing vaccine wastage is important in strengthening the fight against COVID-19." In his discussion with chief ministers on the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi has often stressed the need to reduce the wastage of vaccines and has noted their high rates in a few states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/good-to-see-health-workers-nurses-set-example-in-reducing-vaccine-wastage-pm-responds-to-vijayan-982605.html
05-05-2021||National||No poor to go without foodgrains in May-June: Centre||The Centre on Wednesday said no poor family would suffer for want of foodgrains due to disruptions, over the next two months, as India battles the surge in Covid-19 infections. The government had announced that it would provide five kg free foodgrains per poor person over and above their entitlements under the National Food Security Act during May and June – when several states have put local restrictions on movement and shut down work to fight rising Covid-19 cases. Restrictions are in place in Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar which are witnessing high Covid-19 cases. The free foodgrains will be given under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana Phase 3 and his expected to cover 79.88 crore beneficiaries over May and June. The initiative was announced on April 23 and the Union Cabinet granted ex-post facto approval to the scheme on Wednesday. “No poor family will suffer on account of non-availability of foodgrains due to disruption in the next two months,” an official statement said. It said the State/UT-wise allocation in terms of wheat/rice shall be decided by the Department of Food and Public Distribution on the basis of existing allocation ratio under NFSA. The Centre may decide on the extension of the lifting/distribution period under PMGKAY as per operational requirements keeping in view partial and local lockdown situations, and also arising out of adverse weather conditions like monsoon, cyclones, supply chain and Covid-induced constraints, it added. The total outgo in terms of foodgrains may be approximately 80 lakh metric tonnes. “The allocation of additional foodgrain free of cost to approximately 79.88 Crore individuals under Targeted Public Distribution Scheme (TPDS) at 5 Kg per person per month for two months i.e. May to June, 2021 would entail an estimated food subsidy of Rs. 25332.92 crore taking the estimated Economic Cost of Rs. 36789.2/MT for rice and Rs. 25731.4/ MT for wheat,” it said. Additional allocation will ameliorate the hardships faced by the poor due to economic disruption caused by corona virus, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-poor-to-go-without-foodgrains-in-may-june-centre-982610.html
05-05-2021||National||13 deaths at Chengalpattu Government Hospital in Tamil Nadu: Officials deny oxygen shortage||As many as 13 people died at a Government Hospital in Chengalpattu in a span of 24 hours, with their relatives alleging shortage of oxygen, a charge stoutly denied by officials on Wednesday. The death of the 13, aged 40 to 85, in quick succession at the Chengalpattu Government Medical College Hospital was not due to the shortfall of the lifesaving medical oxygen, top officials claimed. The overnight fatalities triggered panic among the people in the area and outrage among the relatives of the deceased who alleged that a shortage of oxygen had led to the deaths. Chengalpattu district collector A John Louis, who reviewed the situation on Tuesday night, denied that the deaths were due to oxygen shortage. "I was there at the field the whole night monitoring the situation. Oxygen supply (for the patients) was not interrupted," Louis told reporters on Wednesday. He said a probe will be taken up by the director of medical education into "technical issues." Of the deceased, only one patient was Covid-19 positive while others tested negative but had viral pneumonia and comorbidities, hospital Dean Dr J Muthukumaran said. "While six had comorbidities, seven patients who came in with complications also died within 24 hours, as they didn't respond to treatment," he told PTI. The staff on duty noticed oxygen levels dropping in some patients and immediately took steps to stabilise them, he said. "We are thankful to the district collector who responded to our plea for replenishment of oxygen supplies last night and immediately arranged for a tanker of oxygen," he said. At present, the hospital has three days' stock of oxygen and the higher officials have assured more supplies soon, he added. The Government Hospital has 325 beds with oxygen lines. "Of the 447 patients, 256 were coronavirus positive while 191 were suspected to be infected with the virus. Yesterday, 309 patients were put on oxygen support," the collector said. Owing to the increase in the number of infected patients, the Government Hospital had to provide 4.5 kl oxygen to the patients yesterday alone as against the daily intake of 2.9 kl. "The hospital had adequate (oxygen) stock...Yesterday they had 1.4 kl in the morning and by evening 5 kl oxygen was refilled. The district administration responded to the request for refill by managing to divert the supplies from three hospitals besides from the government godown," Louis said. "Oxygen supply was not interrupted at the hospital. I was there on the field last night and personally monitored the situation," he said. Louis deputed a deputy collector to continuously monitor the beds and oxygen supply at the GH and shift the severe cases to the Covid Care Centres. "Compared to the situation in March, the district is now witnessing a five-time increase in the number of infections. We will rise to the occasion if any issues arise," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-deaths-at-chengalpattu-government-hospital-in-tamil-nadu-officials-deny-oxygen-shortage-982613.html
05-05-2021||National||EC says it didn't make any plea before SC for media restriction over oral observations made by judges||The Election Commission on Wednesday said that it had not made any plea before the Supreme Court for restriction on reporting by the media and that its decision against doing so was unanimous. Two days after the Supreme Court turned down the Election Commission’s plea for stopping the journalists from reporting the oral observations by the judges during hearings, the poll-panel issued a press-release stating that the commission recognised the positive role of the media. “The commission as a whole and each one of its members recognise the positive role played by the media in the conduct of all elections in the past and present and in strengthening electoral democracy in the country.” The Supreme Court on Monday rejected the EC’s view that the media should not report oral observations by the judges and report only the written orders. The Madras High Court had on April 26 held the EC “singularly responsible” for the second wave of the Covid-19 in the country as it had failed to enforce safety protocols required to check the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus during electioneering. The High Court had also observed that the EC officers should probably be booked for murder. The scathing remarks by the Chief Justice of Madras High Court, however, were not mentioned in his written order. When the Madras High Court refused to stop the media from reporting oral observations of the judges, the EC moved the Supreme Court, which too rejected its plea. In response to a media report about differences within the EC over seeking restrictions on journalists reporting oral observation of the courts, the poll-panel clarified that that it remained “sincerely committed to its faith in free media”. “The commission very specially recognises media’s role in enhancing effectiveness of election management and in reinforcing transparency from the very beginning of election process till the end, including transparent coverage during all processes, campaigning and from polling station level to counting,” the poll-panel stated, adding that the media continued to be its natural ally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-says-it-didnt-make-any-plea-before-sc-for-media-restriction-over-oral-observations-made-by-judges-982617.html
05-05-2021||National||Over 94 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states: Centre||More than 94.47 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and they will receive over 36 lakh fresh doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The Government of India has so far provided nearly 17.02 crore vaccine doses (17,02,42,410) to states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,07,94,796 doses, according to data available at 8 am. "More than 94.47 lakh Covid vaccine doses (94,47,614) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, more than 36 lakh (36,37,030) vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry said. Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination to inoculate those in the age group of 18-44 years has started from May 1.  Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on the CoWIN portal or through the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-94-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-centre-982620.html
05-05-2021||National||Heavy rains cause surge in Rishiganga river; scared villagers spend night in caves in Uttarakhand||Heavy rains in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand caused a surge in the Rishiganga river as panic-stricken people in nearby villages left their houses and took refuge in caves to spend the night. With the horrifying images of the February 7 flashfloods in Rishiganga following an avalanche still playing in their minds, residents of Raini and Jugju villages downstream of the river rushed to nearby forests to take refuge in caves where they spent the night with the help of lanterns on Tuesday. Chamoli's District Disaster Management Officer N K Joshi said NDRF teams have been sent to the villages to help residents. An alert has also been sounded for people living in the river valley, he said. The official, however, said the water level in Rishiganga came down and became normal later on Tuesday night itself as it stopped raining. An avalanche on February 7 had caused a flashflood in the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers of Chamoli district, demolishing the Rishiganga hydel project at Raini completely and causing heavy damage to NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project. More than 200 people had gone missing after the avalanche. Eighty bodies and 35 human body parts of people killed in the avalanche have been recovered during a massive search and rescue operation which continues in the affected areas, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-rains-cause-surge-in-rishiganga-river-scared-villagers-spend-night-in-caves-in-uttarakhand-982621.html
05-05-2021||National||India’s US envoy Taranjit Singh Sandhu discusses Covid crisis, new strains and variants with Dr Fauci||India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu held a virtual meeting with America’s top public health expert Dr Anthony Fauci and discussed the current Covid-19 crisis in India, the efficacy of vaccines against the new strains and variants of the virus. The meeting was part of the Ambassador’s intensified and focused outreach to key stakeholders of healthcare and pandemic response in the US. This was for the first time that a top Indian government official had a meeting with Fauci, who is the top advisor to President Joe Biden on the pandemic. During the meeting, Fauci expressed his solidarity and support with India in this hour of crisis. The meeting came a day after he termed the situation in India “very desperate” and suggested that the government marshal all its resources, including the armed forces, to immediately build makeshift field hospitals, and urged other countries to help with not only materials but also personnel. During his talks with Ambassador Sandhu, the virus strains and variants in India, and the efficacy of vaccines against these came up for discussion. Fauci, who is also the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institute of Health, offered American assistance, including in research and development. “Discussed virus variants, vaccines, response mechanisms and joint efforts incl in R & D. Thanked him for his insights and solidarity (sic),” Sandhu said in a tweet. Fauci recalled the severe Covid-19 situation that the US has faced and the various policy responses adopted to tackle it. Strengthening joint research in healthcare, particularly in the context of the pandemic, was also discussed. Earlier in the day, America’s Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas spoke with Sindhu and reiterated the Biden administration’s full support in India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. “Deeply appreciate the strong solidarity and offer of support of” Department of Homeland Security,” the Indian envoy said on Twitter after the phone call. Two Indian-American congressmen Ro Khanna and Raja Krishnamoorthi issued another plea for more US aid to India. “It might not be on the front page anymore but make no mistake: the crisis in India has not ended. Many have stepped up to send help, but nothing can match the resources of our government. We need to mobilise our resources to quell the surge in India and prevent spikes elsewhere,” Khanna said. India is struggling with an unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days. According to Indian health ministry data on Tuesday, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with 3,57,229 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities. The total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country has climbed to 2,02,82,833, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-us-envoy-taranjit-singh-sandhu-discusses-covid-crisis-new-strains-and-variants-with-dr-fauci-982624.html
05-05-2021||National||India-China relations going through a 'very difficult phase', says External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar||India's relationship with China is going through a "very difficult phase" but recent discussions have yielded positive results in terms of easing the flow of logistics during the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. During a virtual session here, Jaishankar was asked about India-China relations and the outcome of his recent discussions with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi. "The last conversation was significantly focussed on the Covid pandemic and my discussions were essentially that Covid is something bigger and it is in our mutual interest to work together to deal with it and that’s what Foreign Minister Wang Yi told me as well," said Jaishankar. The minister said Indian companies ordering supplies from China were encountering difficulties and his message to the Chinese minister had been that the best support they could offer would be to ease that process. "After our conversation, things did move. Some of our airlines immediately got their approvals. The chain is flowing, which is very laudable," he said. On the wider India-China relationship, the minister said a disengagement process remains ongoing but is yet to reach the desired de-escalation point at the border. He said: "The relationship right now is going through a very difficult phase, because in violation of agreements and understandings of many, many years the Chinese have deployed a very large part of their military on and close to the Line of Actual Control without explanation. "They continue to be there now for a year. And, their actions have disturbed peace and tranquility in the border areas. We saw bloodshed there last June after 45 years." The minister said India has been very clear that peace and tranquility in the border areas is absolutely essential for a good relationship with the neighbouring country. "I can't have friction, coercion, intimidation and bloodshed on the border and then say let’s have a good relationship in other domains. It’s not realistic. That is something we have maintained and been discussing with the Chinese. We have made some progress in some areas, the disengagement process, and in some areas it’s still an ongoing discussion,” he said. "But we haven’t come to the de-escalation part of it, which will follow only after disengagement is done,” he added. India and China were locked in military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year but they have completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong Lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. Jaishankar is in the UK to participate in the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting as a guest minister. The Global Dialogue Series, organised by UK-based media house India Inc. Group and the Indian High Commission in London on Wednesday, was transformed from a hybrid to a virtual event after members of the Indian delegation tested positive for Covid-19. It has led to the Cabinet minister's remaining UK engagements, including his G7 meetings, taking on a virtual form.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-relations-going-through-a-very-difficult-phase-says-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-982629.html
05-05-2021||National||India approves Roche/Regeneron drug for Covid-19||Pharma major Roche and Regeneron on Wednesday received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) for its antibody cocktail Casirivimab and Imdevimab in India. This approval was based on the data that has been filed for the EUA in the United States, and the scientific opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) in the European Union. This Emergency Use Authorisation will now enable Roche to import the globally manufactured product batches to India, and will be marketed and distributed in India through a strategic partnership with Cipla Limited, according to a press statement issued in Mumbai. The antibody cocktail (Casirivimab and Imdevimab) is to be administered for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age or older, weighing at least 40 kg) who are confirmed to be infected with SARS-COV2 and who are at high risk of developing severe Covid-19 disease. It could significantly help these high-risk patients before their condition worsens. ‘With the increasing number of Covid-19 infections in India, Roche is committed to doing everything we can to minimise hospitalisations and ease pressure on healthcare systems. This is where neutralising antibody cocktails like Casirivimab and Imdevimab can play a role in the fight against Covid-19 and in treatment of high risk patients before their condition worsens,” said V Simpson Emmanuel, Managing Director, Roche Pharma India. Umang Vohra, MD & Global CEO Cipla said, “We are deeply committed to exploring all possible treatment options and being at the forefront in our fight against Covid-19.” Cipla will market and distribute the product in India by leveraging its solid distribution strengths across the country. The drug will be available through leading hospitals and Covid treatment centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-approves-roche/regeneron-drug-for-covid-19-982634.html
05-05-2021||National||'Delhi Corona' app now shows hospitals' oxygen availability status||The 'Delhi Corona' app, which provides information on beds and ventilators at hospitals in the city, on Wednesday started showing the oxygen availability status of these facilities. As per the latest updates on the app, the Centre-run Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi has 18 hours of medical oxygen left. Batra Hospital, where 12 patients died on Saturday due to an oxygen shortage, has 12 hours' supply left of the life-saving gas. The app, however, shows that the National Heart Institute in East of Kailash has 999 days and 23 hours of the gas left in its reserve. The city's Jaipur Golden Hospital, where 20 patients died on the night of April 23 due to a lack of oxygen, has just enough stock of the life-saving gas to last a day. The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital has eight hours of oxygen left and the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital has seven hours' stock left. Hospitals in the city and its suburbs have in the last few days often sent out SOS messages over depleting medical oxygen supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-corona-app-now-shows-hospitals-oxygen-availability-status-982641.html
05-05-2021||National||Supreme Court stays Delhi High Court's contempt proceedings against officials over oxygen supply||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Centre to ensure a daily supply of 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi hospitals. It, however, stayed contempt proceedings intimated against the Union government's officers, saying hauling them up would not help the people crying for support in the humanitarian crisis during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. "Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to the city, let us ensure lives are saved,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said, hearing an urgent plea by the Centre against Tuesday's order by the High Court. The court, however, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to tell it by Thursday, as to how it was going to achieve the quantity of 700 MT though the Centre claimed to have supplied up to 550 MT. On April, 30, the top court had fixed 700 MT as the requirement for Delhi and directed the Centre to ensure the supply by May 3 midnight. "When the country is facing a humanitarian crisis, the court must aim at problem-solving," the bench said. At the same time, the court asked the Centre, "No one can dispute that some have died to oxygen shortage and that it is a national emergency. What is the plan?". "We are answerable to citizens," the bench said, referring to the deaths of several lawyers. The court said there must be some scientific basis to ascertain the requirement of oxygen by States on a real-time basis.  It also asked the Centre and Delhi officers to study and follow the model followed by the Brihanmumbai Mumbai Corporation to deal with a similar situation. The court stressed that methodology, planning and proper distribution and actual availability and procurement of the oxygen are the main concerns in the entire case. It put the matter for further hearing on Thursday. The High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to explain why contempt action should not be initiated against it after a law officer maintained Delhi was not entitled to 700 metric tonnes of medical oxygen in the backdrop of existing medical infrastructure and requirement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-stays-delhi-high-courts-contempt-proceedings-against-officials-over-oxygen-supply-982646.html
05-05-2021||National||Global task force of CEOs of 40 US companies launch immediate Covid-19 aid to India||A newly-created global task force of CEOs of top American 40 companies on Wednesday announced an effort to provide massive Covid-19 emergency relief material, including 1,000 ventilators and 25,000 oxygen concentrators, to India in its fight against the coronavirus. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. The Global Task Force on Pandemic Response, whose steering committee members include Julie Sweet, CEO, Accenture; Andy Jassy, CEO, Amazon; Tim Cook, CEO, Apple; Brian Moynihan, Chairman of the Board and CEO, Bank of America; Raj Subramaniam, president FedEx; and Arvind Krishna, Chairman and CEO, IBM; also announced creation of Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) India Action Group to provide ideas and practical information to CHROs to help their people in India. Among other members of the steering committee are Gail McGovern, president and CEO, American Red Cross; Mike Parra, CEO Americas, DHL Express. Jim Fitterling, Chairman and CEO, Dow; Alex Gorsky, chairman of the Board and CEO, Johnson & Johnson; Michael Miebach, CEO, Mastercard; Geoff Martha, chairman and CEO, Medtronic; Brad Smith, president, Microsoft; Ramon Laguarta, Chairman of the Board and CEO, PepsiCo; Carol Tomé, CEO, UPS; Sanjay Poonen, COO, VMware; and Judith McKenna, President and CEO, Walmart International. Established as a public-private partnership organised by the US Chamber of Commerce and supported by Business Roundtable, the Global Task Force on Pandemic Response is working in close collaboration with US and Indian government officials to share information and coordinate efforts. This includes regular briefings with the (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and (US president Joe) Biden administrations, US Congress, US State Department and the US Agency for International Development, a media release said. It is working with the Chamber’s US-India Business Council and the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum to take three immediate actions to help address the Covid-19 surge in India. First sourcing, shipping, and delivering 1,000 Puritan Bennett ventilators desperately needed by healthcare facilities across India. “The first ventilators procured by the US Chamber of Commerce Foundation will arrive in India today, with all remaining ventilators expected to arrive by June 3,” a media release said. Medtronic will manufacture the ventilators and handle end-to-end shipping, installation and ongoing and virtual training. Second, delivering 25,000 oxygen concentrators to India by the end of May, with transportation support from FedEx. And finally creating the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) India Action Group to provide ideas and practical information to CHROs to help their people in India. The Task Force said initial efforts will focus on the pressing need for support in India, with more than 400,000 cases reported on May 1 alone. Through its Steering Committee, the Task Force will work to concentrate efforts where corporate support will be most beneficial, with additional countries to be determined in consultation with the US government, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-task-force-of-ceos-of-40-us-companies-launch-immediate-covid-19-aid-to-india-982648.html
05-05-2021||National||SC to consider listing of plea on Central Vista Project||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it would consider listing of a plea related to halting of Central Vista Project for new Parliament and government buildings amid Covid. The top court, however, pointed out it was difficult time and it can't force judges to take up the matter. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana expressed such a view as a plea was mentioned contending the Delhi High Court adjourned the petition for staying work on the project due to Covid-19, to May 17. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, contended that movement of labourers and ongoing construction activities at the height of pandemic would wreak havoc on the health system. He said that the matter filed in the High Court should be heard at the earliest. He also pointed out that the petitioners did not challenge the project itself but only sought halt on movement of labourers. He said the law officer agreed for hearing on May 10 but a bench presided over by Chief Justice D N Patel said it needed time to study the judgment passed by the Supreme Court on approval of the project and posted it for May 17. "This is because of shortage of judges. These are difficult times. I cannot force judges to hear cases," the CJI said. The court, however, added the matter would be examined whether it can be listed. The petitioners sought a direction to forthwith stop back and forth movement of workers by buses in the national capital. They also maintained that there was no rationale for classifying the Central Vista Project as an “essential service” because of contractual deadline. The apex court on January 5 gave the Union government a go-ahead for constructing new Parliament and other buildings for ministries here with proposed cost of Rs 20,000 crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project on December 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-listing-of-plea-on-central-vista-project-982649.html
05-05-2021||National||India-UK Roadmap 2030: All you need to know||India and UK agreed to a new Enchanced Trade Partnership (ETP) and adopted an ambitious 'Roadmap to 2030' which paves way for a UK-India Free Trade Agreement. The document charts out a partnership between the two nations over the next decade and will be periodically reviewed by both foreign ministers, who will report to the prime ministers. “Through this ambitious roadmap, we will elevate the India-UK relationship to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership," it said.  Here is all you need to know. Migration and Mobility partnership: Of the nine pacts signed at the summit, one was for a Migration and Mobility partnership. This includes the facilitating of "legal movement of students and professionals and also enhance cooperation between India and UK in combating illegal migration," a statement from the External Affairs Ministry said. It “creates a new scheme for exchange of young professionals under which every year up to 3,000 young Indian professionals can avail employment opportunities in the UK for a period of two years without being subject to labour market test," the statement said. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar and UK Home Secretary Priti Patel signed this pact. Free Trade Agreement: When discussing the India-UK trade partnership, the document highlighted the intent to negotiate a Free Trade Agreement. This has been described as an “important" and “historic" moment in ties, by Sandeep Chakravarty, joint secretary in charge of Western Europe in the External Affairs Ministry. Piyush Goyal, the Commerce and Industry Minister signed the Enhanced Trade Partnership with Elizabeth Trust, his counterpart. The pre-FTA discussions will be concluded by the end of the years and an interim deal is to be reached by next year to further the discussions for an FTA. “As part of the confidence-building measures, they (India and the UK) have also agreed on an early market access package under the ETP," Chakravarty said. “Under this, the UK will open up the fisheries sector for more Indian players, facilitate more opportunities for nurses, recognise Indian seafarers certificates and also enter into a joint dialogue on the Social Security Agreement. In return, India has agreed to UK's asks on fruits, medical devices, and mutual recognition of masters degrees and also work towards reciprocal opening of legal services. These actions are likely to generate 20-25,000 new direct and indirect jobs in India," he said. Access to India businesses in UK: The document explains the cooperation between the nations to reduce or remove marker barriers that Indian businesses face in the UK and vice-versa, Both sides would “continue to share experience on regulatory reform, tax administration, and trade facilitation and standards through the early conclusion of a new and refreshed UK-India Ease of Doing Business MoU," it said. Infrastructure policy: Deepening cooperation on infrastructure “through the new UK-India Partnership on Infrastructure Financing and Policy to support India’s ambitious plans for delivering inclusive resilient and sustainable infrastructure under the National Infrastructure Pipeline," has been mentioned. Support to startups: India and the UK aim to strengthen two-way investments “with the goal of investing into Indian start-ups, early-stage and green businesses and other innovative ventures and contributing towards sustainable development". The two countries would also explore “longer term options for a UK concessional finance offer to mobilise UK expertise into clean, green and sustainable infrastructure projects in India," the document stated. Education: Expansion of cooperation between the educational institutions of the two countries under the framework of India’s New Education Policy that was announced last year, has been outlined in the roadmap. The UK has been a favourite education destination for thousands of Indian students. The package will create more than 6,500 new jobs around the UK for Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-roadmap-2030-all-you-need-to-know-982661.html
05-05-2021||National||Third wave of Covid-19 inevitable, says Centre||A third wave of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is “inevitable” given the high level of circulation of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the top scientific advisor to the government said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, Principal Scientific Advisor K Vijay Raghavan, however, said it is not clear on the time scale for the third wave and said that India needs to be prepared scientifically to deal with it. “What scientists are doing is prepare a map in the laboratory of all possible changes which can happen in the virus and see how these changes can affect immune evasion and vaccine evasion so that we are better prepared, both theoretically and in the laboratory to deal with these changes,” he said. Raghavan also stressed on the need to update vaccines to deal with the new variants of the virus. He said it is important that people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour as the virus-variants do not change their behaviour. Raghavan said new emerging variants is one of the factors responsible for the scale and ferocity of the second Covid-19 wave in India. “Immunity attained can fade away and someone who has been infected once can get re-infected. Decreased immunity and careless behaviour had driven the second wave,” he said. Raghavan said that the current surge in infections appeared to be because of the Indian “double mutant” variant and the spread of the UK variant has slowed down. While Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Gujarat have recorded a dip in daily cases, states such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Haryana and Punjab are showing an increasing trend. “The rise in cases in cities like Bengaluru, Ernakulam, Kannur and Kanpur among others is alarming,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, told reporters. He said an increase in deaths has been noticed with Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, and Haryana reporting more fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-wave-of-covid-19-inevitable-says-centre-982662.html
05-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: BJP MP, MLAs unearth bed-blocking racket in Bengaluru||The oxygen crisis continues to claim lives and is a tragic, terrifying new normal of our times.  At least two people were killed and several were injured after a blast occurred at an oxygen plant in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-bjp-mp-mlas-unearth-bed-blocking-racket-in-bengaluru-982681.html
05-05-2021||National||Infosys doubles Covid relief commitment to Rs 200 cr||IT services major Infosys has doubled its commitment towards Covid relief efforts to Rs 200 crore that will be used to add hospital beds and augment the supply of oxygen concentrators and ventilators among other activities. In an email to employees, Infosys Chief Executive Officer Salil Parekh said the company has established vaccination centres for employees and their families at seven of its development centers (DC) across the country, and work is in progress to establish them in other DCs. Infosys has also collaborated with over 130 hospitals across India, where staff and their family members can get vaccinated. "We had committed Rs 100 crores last year to support the fight against this pandemic including contribution towards the PM Cares fund. We will continue our efforts across the country in the coming year and have expanded our original commitment to Rs 200 crores for Covid relief efforts," he said in his email, a copy of which was seen by PTI. Some of this will be directed to help set up and expand the capacity of Covid care hospital beds, augment the supply of oxygen concentrators and ventilators, as well as provide ration and support funds to migrant labourers and families impacted by the lockdowns, Parekh noted. He added that the company has contributed to providing PPE kits, sanitizers, medicines, masks, and gloves to support law enforcement officials, health officials, and health institutions. The Bengaluru-based company is also supporting the Karnataka government with an app called Apthamitra. "To each of you, I want to say that we are doing everything possible to support you now and, in the weeks ahead. Our company is coming together to help us all be better prepared for what lies ahead," he said. The massive rise in infections in the second wave of the pandemic has led to hospitals in several states reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Social media timelines are filled with SOS calls with people looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors, and ventilators. Organisations across the spectrum have come forward to source and donate oxygenators, breathing machines, and ventilators. IT companies like Tata Consultancy Services and HCL Technologies are taking a number of steps to contribute to these efforts, including setting up Covid care centres at their facilities. Capgemini has committed Rs 50 crore to augment medical infrastructure in India, while SAP said it is doubling its Covid-19 Emergency Fund that was announced last year to 6 million euros. Accenture has pledged USD 25 million (about Rs 185 crore) for pandemic relief efforts in the country. Parekh said employee Covid Care Centres have been set up at Pune, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Mysore, Mangalore, and Gurugram. "We are working as fast as we can to set up similar Covid Care Centers in other cities, subject to approvals from local policymakers. To support employees who are now working from their hometowns around the country, we have partnered with over 1,500 hospitals across India, for the treatment of employees and their families," Parekh said. He added that the company has collaborated with ambulance providers, testing labs, video medical consultations, etc. in most of the major cities to support staff. The executive highlighted that several clients of Infosys have communicated their support. "Our clients have increasing needs that we are best positioned to provide, and we will ensure we deliver the highest quality of service while keeping all of your health and safety foremost...We will walk, one step at a time, through this current situation, and emerge with strength and grace," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infosys-doubles-covid-relief-commitment-to-rs-200-cr-982693.html
05-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Indian Navy deploys nine warships to bring oxygen from abroad||Intensifying its efforts, the Indian Navy has deployed nine warships to bring liquid oxygen and other medical supplies from several countries in Persian Gulf and south-east Asia as hospitals across India continued to reel under acute shortage of the life-saving gas following a massive surge in Covid-19 cases. The Navy on Wednesday said these warships from all three naval commands in Mumbai, Visakhapatnam and Kochi have been deployed to bring oxygen and other medical equipment. "The deployment of nine warships as part of 'Operation Samudra Setu II' forms a part of the multiple lines of effort, by the government of India and the Indian Navy to supplement the oxygen requirement in the country," Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said. In addition, four warships are also enroute to Qatar and Kuwait, to bring nine 27-tonne oxygen tanks and more than 1,500 oxygen cylinders from these countries. "On the eastern seaboard, Indian Naval ship Airavat, departed Singapore today with more than 3,600 oxygen cylinders, eight 27 tonne (total 216 tonnes) oxygen tanks, 10,000 rapid antigen detection kits and seven oxygen concentrators," he said. Madhwal said another ship, INS Jalashwa, remains deployed in the region, standing by to embark medical stores at short notice. "INS Shardul, the landing ship tank of the Southern naval command at Kochi, is also on its way to Persian Gulf to bring three liquid oxygen-filled cryogenic containers," he said. Last year, Indian Navy had launched Operation Samudra Setu as part of the Vande Bharat evacuation mission under which it brought back to India around 4,000 stranded Indians from Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran. As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, countries around the world have been sending medical supplies including oxygen-related equipment to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries that have announced assistance to India include the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-navy-deploys-nine-warships-to-bring-oxygen-from-abroad-982694.html
05-05-2021||National||Three more Rafales head for India, to take IAF's count to 21||The sixth batch of three more Rafale fighter jets took off from France for India on Wednesday, the Indian embassy in France said. They will be part of the Indian Air Force's second squadron of the Rafale jets. "Next batch of three #Rafales leave from France to India today; wished the pilots smooth flight and safe landing," the Indian embassy in France tweeted. After the arrival of the new batch, the number of Rafale jets with the IAF will go up to 21. The new squadron of Rafale jets will be based in Hasimara airbase in West Bengal. The first Rafale squadron is based in Ambala air force station. A squadron comprises around 18 aircraft. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for the procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around Rs 58,000 crore. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29 last year. The fifth batch had landed on April 21. Last month, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria visited France, during which he took stock of the delivery of the remaining Rafale aircraft to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-more-rafales-head-for-india-to-take-iafs-count-to-21-982698.html
05-05-2021||National||Govt extends payment of provisional pension up to 1 year period: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Wednesday said that the government has decided to extend the payment of provisional pension up to a period of one year from the date of retirement of an employee in view of the Covid-19 situation. At a meeting held online with senior officers of the Department of Pension and Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) and the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), he said that provisional family pension was also liberalised, according to a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said that instructions were issued that family pension may be sanctioned immediately on receipt of a claim for family pension and death certificate from the eligible family member without waiting for forwarding of the family pension case to Pay and Accounts Office. "Singh today said that the government has decided to extend the payment of provisional pension up to a period of one year from the date of retirement in view of the pandemic situation," the statement said In some cases, government servants have died after retirement without submitting the pension papers, it said. In order to avoid hardships to the families of such government servants, instructions have been given for issue of Pension Payment Order for release of arrears of pension (from the date of retirement till the date of death of retired government servant) in all such cases and for grant of family pension to the family member from the date of death, the statement said. He said that orders have also been issued to extend the benefit of lump-sum compensation to National Pension Scheme (NPS) employees also, if they suffer a disability in the performance of duty and are retained in government service despite such disablement. According to rules, if a government servant suffers a disability due to an injury or disease in the performance of duty and is retained in government service despite such disablement, a lump sum compensation is paid to the person in lieu of the disability element of the disability pension. Moreover, to ensure timely credit of pension in cases where PPO (Pension Payment Order) has been issued but not sent to the Central Pension Accounting Office (CPAO) or banks due to lockdown, the matter was taken up with the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) to issue necessary directive to CPAO and the Central Pension Processing Centre (CPPC) of banks to use electronic modes during the unprecedented situation of the COVID-19 pandemic till normalcy returns, it said. The DoPPW has advised all the Pension Disbursing Banks to adopt the video-based customer identification process (V-CIP) as an additional facility for obtaining a life certificate from pensioners, within the permissible Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines. UCO Bank has become a pioneer in this area, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-payment-of-provisional-pension-up-to-1-year-period-jitendra-singh-982701.html
05-05-2021||National||Coronavirus does not spread through animals, only through human-to-human transmission: Govt||The government on Wednesday said that coronavirus spreads only through human to human transmission and not from animals. Addressing a press conference, the country's top officials dealing with the pandemic said that a combination of less cautionary measures and less immunity in the population from the first wave is driving the second wave. "The virus is not spreading from animals. This is human to human transmission. Also, if you have been vaccinated, it is not mandatory that everyone will experience side effects like bodyache or fever. If you are not feeling these symptoms you can be normal, do your work," said NITI Ayog Member VK Paul in response to a question. Paul also said that the response to the changing virus remains the same. "We need to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour such as masking, distancing, hygiene, no unnecessary meetings and staying at home," he said. He also said that it is a long fight against the disease and that the medical fraternity should come forward to help people who are dealing with coronavirus at home. "Our request is that we need physicians' fraternity to come forward and provide teleconsultations to people and families at home who are infected with Covid-19. Doctors associations could create a call centre where people know exactly who to call. We have to popularise this system. This does not need a specialist, a general physician can also guide people. This is the need of the hour," he said. He also said that it is the shared responsibility of the government and the people to suppress the chain of transmission of the disease. "Covid-appropriate behaviour which is in our own hands should be scaled up. It is our responsibility that the virus does not spread from us to others," he said. The comments from the government come days after reports that eight Asiatic lions at Hyderabad’s Nehru Zoological Park have tested positive for the deadly coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-does-not-spread-through-animals-only-through-human-to-human-transmission-govt-982706.html
05-05-2021||National||At least 25 states impose strict curbs to fight Covid-19 spread amid calls for nationwide lockdown||At least 25 states and Union Territories have imposed stricter restrictions as part of efforts to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19 which has overwhelmed the health infrastructure in parts of the country. States like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh have imposed fresh curbs after the Union Home Ministry directive on April 29 for “intensive action” to slow down the spread of the virus in districts that have a test positivity rate of 10% or more or where 60% hospital beds have been occupied by patients. The “intensive action” recommended by the Centre includes the imposition of night curfew, ban on religious, social, political gatherings, shutting down of shops, malls and cinema halls and 50% attendance in government and private offices. The curbs announced by the states come at a time when there have been demands from industry bodies, political leaders and health experts to impose a nationwide lockdown to break the chain of transmission of the virus. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made it clear measures such as lockdowns should be the last resort and stressed creating micro-containment zones to arrest the spread of the coronavirus. Asked about the possibility of a national lockdown, V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog pointed out the April 29 advisory issued by the Home Ministry. “There is a clear and balanced advisory and states are taking their decisions. If anything more is required, those options are always being discussed. Those decisions, as required, will be taken,” Paul said. At present, the national capital has been under lockdown since April 19 and it will continue till May 10. Haryana announced a seven-day lockdown on Monday and Bihar followed suit by imposing curbs till May 15. Uttar Pradesh has extended its weekend lockdown announced on April 30 till May 10, while Odisha is under a 14-day lockdown till May 19. Rajasthan had imposed a ‘fortnight of self-discipline’ from April 19 to May 3, which has now been extended till May 17. Strict curbs as per the advisory issued by the Centre are in place in Karnataka, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram, J&K, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-25-states-impose-strict-curbs-to-fight-covid-19-spread-amid-calls-for-nationwide-lockdown-982719.html
05-05-2021||National||Article 342A does not violate basic structure of Constitution: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday held that Article 342A which abrogates states’ power to legislate or classify “any backward class of citizens” does not affect the federal policy or structure of the Constitution. While quashing the Maratha quota, a five-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan by three opinions also upheld validity of 102nd Amendment giving constitutional status to National Backward Classes Commission. The amendment allowed for publication of list by the President of socially and educationally backward classes which was to be Central List for governing employment under Union government and the organisations under it. Article 342A empowered the President to specify the socially and educationally backward communities in a state in consultation with the Governor. "The Constitution 102nd Amendment Act, 2018 does not violate any basic feature of the Constitution. We uphold the constitutional validity of Constitution (One Hundred and second Amendment) Act, 2018," Justice Bhushan along with Justice S Abdul Nazeer wrote. Both the judges, however, felt the states can also identify the backward classes for granting benefit of reservation. Justice L Nageswara Rao, for his part, said the ordinary meaning that flows from a simple reading of Article 342 A is that the President after consultation with the Governor of a state or Union Territory may issue a public notification specifying socially and educationally backward classes. "It is those socially and educationally backward classes who shall be deemed as socially and educationally backward classes in relation to that state or Union Territory for the purposes of the Constitution," he said. Justice S Ravindra Bhat also said the final decision of whether to include any caste or community in the list of socially and educationally backward is that of the Union Government, i e the President. He said Article 342A of the Constitution by denuding states power to legislate or classify in respect of “any backward class of citizens” does not affect or damage the federal polity and does not violate the basic structure of the Constitution. Justice Hemant Gupta agreed to the views taken by Justices Rao and Bhat on this aspect. Attorney General K K Venugopal and and counsel for several states contended that the Constitutional provision is to be interpreted as per the intention of the Parliament. Parliament never intended to take away the power of the state to identify backward classes in the state for the purpose of employment in the state, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/article-342a-does-not-violate-basic-structure-of-constitution-supreme-court-982721.html
05-05-2021||National||Covid-19: EU announces €2.2 million funding support for India||The European Union on Wednesday announced an initial €2.2 million (approx Rs 19 crore) in emergency funding to support the World Health Organisation's measures to help India deal with increasing cases of Covid-19. The 27-nation grouping said the funding announced by the European Commission is in addition to the medical assistance being provided to India by EU member states. "Today, the Commission has announced that it will allocate an initial €2.2 million in emergency funding to respond to the drastic surge in Covid-19 cases in India," the EU said. "The funding will support the World Health Organization (WHO) for a 6-month case management of Covid-19 patients, as well as strengthening laboratory capacity for Covid-19 testing," it said. Several EU member states have announced providing emergency medical support to India as the country fights a devastating second wave of the pandemic. "We are providing additional EU support towards the fight against Covid-19 in India. This comes on top of the generous and swift assistance from EU member states that stepped up as part of Team Europe to offer critical supplies of oxygen, ventilators and medicines over the last few days," said EU's Commissioner for Crisis Management Janez Lenarcic. "We stand ready to work with the WHO and other partners on the ground to jointly fight this battle at this difficult time - we are stronger together," the official said. The EU member states which have already mobilised supplies of urgently needed oxygen, ventilators and medicines to India are Austria, Belgium, Czechia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg and Netherlands. Portugal, Romania, Spain and Sweden are also among the countries supplying medical aid to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-eu-announces-22-million-funding-support-for-india-982722.html
05-05-2021||National||Oxygen cylinder pool to come up at DTC bus depots in Delhi||A common pool of oxygen cylinders is being created in every district by the Delhi government to supply the life-saving gas to Covid patients in home isolation and meet the emergency needs of the city’s hospitals, officials said on Wednesday. In each district, a bus depot of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) will serve as the hub that will be initially stocked with 20 oxygen cylinders, said a transport department order. Concerned district magistrates will be responsible for the judicious use of the cylinders through distribution among Covid patients in home isolation and hospitals having urgent requirement of oxygen, stated the order. The district magistrates have been authorized to create a buffer stock of 10 per cent cylinders to meet any SOS calls, till the pool is expanded enough to fulfill requirements of all individuals, said the order. The common pool will be boosted in a phased manner with more cylinders obtained through procurement, donations as well as those seized during the raids by authorities, it said. The oxygen filled cylinders will be provided to Covid patients in home isolation and the hospitals in return of empty ones, after approval of the concerned district magistrates, it said. The DTC has deployed its buses to ferry oxygen cylinders to hospitals having emergency requirements, the order said. Two DTC depots are providing buses for carrying medical oxygen cylinders to hospitals in emergency situation, said a DTC officer. Managing director of DTC Vijay Bidhuri is one of the three senior IAS officers of Delhi government who have been deputed to ensure smooth supply and distribution of medical liquid oxygen from the manufacturers and suppliers to the hospitals in the city, it said. He is also in-charge of a control room set up by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that works round the clock to redress grievances and complaints from the city hospitals within 30 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-cylinder-pool-to-come-up-at-dtc-bus-depots-in-delhi-982724.html
05-05-2021||National||IDBI Bank allows video-based customer identification||IDBI Bank on Wednesday announced a video-based customer identification process, in line with the RBI's decision to allow banks to accept the method due to the coronavirus-posed challenges to the economy. In an unscheduled announcement, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das directed banks and other regulated financial entities not to impose any punitive restriction against customers for failure to update KYC till December-end, in view of the second wave of coronavirus cases. The regulator also extended the scope of video KYC (know-your-customer) or V-CIP (video-based customer identification process) for new categories of customers such as proprietorship firms, authorised signatories and beneficial owners of legal entities. IDBI in a release mentioned that the RBI has decided to extend the scope of the video-based customer identification process (V-CIP) known as Video KYC. "It has advised inclusion of additional categories of the customers as well as periodic updating of KYC records through Video KYC, as a customer-friendly measure. As a response, IDBI Bank has launched the facility of periodic KYC updation through the V-CIP," it said. Suresh Khatanhar, Deputy Managing Director said, "In continuation of various digital measures introduced by IDBI Bank, customers can now update their KYC through the V-CIP without any need to visit the branches." The customers can initiate the process at their convenience through the V-CIP link available on the bank's website. This is a completely contactless process, he said. The Reserve Bank announced a set of measures in the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/idbi-bank-allows-video-based-customer-identification-982734.html
05-05-2021||National||Covid-19: B1.617 is a variant of concern, says Union Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday for the first time recognised the India-specific double mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 as a “variant of concern”, driving the surge in some of the states, including Maharashtra, after refusing to acknowledge such a link for nearly two months. “The current surge in cases seen over the last one and half months in some states shows a correlation with the rise in the B1.617 lineage of SARS CoV-2,” Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi said here at a press conference.  The double mutation variant known as B 1617 lineage carries two signature genetic changes known as E484Q and L452R that allow the virus to escape the immune system and spread faster.  According to the INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortium) data, it has been seen in 17 states and Union Territories with a significant presence in Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka, Delhi and Gujarat.  Out of the 18,000-plus genetic sequencing of the virus carried out till May 4 by the INSACOG laboratories, more than 1,500 samples carried the double mutation variant.  For weeks, scientists at the INSACOG internally flagged how the B1617 variant was the driving factor behind the second surge at least in Maharashtra, which witnessed more than 60,000 new Covid-19 cases every day at the height of the second peak.  “I think the link is reasonably clear. The government may choose to wait longer until antibody neutralization studies are done, to fully understand reinfections and vaccine escape but based on all available data including other L452R studies, the link seems very strong,” one of the top INSACOG scientists had told DH three weeks ago. Others shared the same conclusion as early as March. The Health Ministry has now advised the states to strengthen public health response in the regions where the presence of B.1.617 has been noted. Such responses would include increased testing, quick isolation, prevent crowds and inter-mingling of people, wearing masks and vaccinations. The UK variant (B1.17) was found in 26 states and Union Territories with a significant presence reported in Punjab, Delhi, Telangana and Karnataka. The South African variant (B1.351) has been seen mostly in Delhi and Telangana but its presence is much lower than the UK variant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-b1617-is-a-variant-of-concern-says-union-health-ministry-982736.html
05-05-2021||National||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar announces medical assistance scheme for BPL cardholders seeking treatment in private hospitals||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced a medical assistance scheme for BPL cardholders seeking treatment at private hospitals in the state amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Khattar said his government will provide an assistance of Rs 5,000 per patient per day, subject to a maximum of seven days with a ceiling of Rs 35,000, to those belonging to the below poverty line (BPL) category. The chief minister also said rates of beds and other facilities have been fixed by the government for Covid-19 patients of all categories, whether from Haryana or outside, undergoing treatment at private hospitals of the state and warned those found overcharging. However, the private Covid-19 designated hospitals giving preference in admissions to Haryana residents would be given an incentive of Rs 1,000 per patient per day with a ceiling of Rs 7,000 for seven days, he said. Khattar, who was addressing a press conference virtually, said the government will make payment directly to the hospital concerned. Regarding preference in hospital admissions to Haryana residents, Khattar said, “Covid-19-registered hospitals will be paid an incentive of Rs 1,000 per patient per day subject to a maximum Rs 7,000”. “These steps will benefit BPL families as well as patients of (all categories) of Haryana,” he said. He also announced a lump sum financial assistance of Rs 5,000 for those Covid-19-positive patients from BPL families who are under home isolation and incur expenses on medicines. On the Covid-19 situation in the state, which has recently seen a surge in infections, Khattar said, “We have to collectively fight this… We have to face the situation”. At the same time, he said, no one should create an atmosphere of fear and panic. “We have to go ahead with a spirit of hope for the best and be prepared for the worst,” he said. Khattar informed that at present, there are 8,556 patients on oxygen support in hospitals while 3,828 are admitted in ICUs or on ventilator support. In Gurgaon, he said 40 per cent of patients admitted in hospitals are from Delhi while 20 per cent of patients in Faridabad's hospitals are from the national capital, Noida and other parts. In Sonipat and Ambala, 10-20 per cent patients are from other states, he said, adding all are being treated irrespective of where they come from. He said the state government is taking all necessary steps to tackle the present Covid-19 situation which includes making arrangements for additional beds and oxygen. He said, 700 additional beds have been arranged in hospitals and more will be added in the days ahead including two facilities coming up in Hisar and Panipat with DRDO's assistance. Anti-Covid-19 vaccination drive is underway in the state and so far, 39 lakh doses have been given to those above 45 years, he said. “For the 18-44 years category, Haryana has so far got 3 lakh doses, out of which 1.75 lakh doses have been used,” he said. Replying to a query, he said the state government has urged the Centre to allot 300 MT of medical oxygen daily while highlighted that steps are being taken to ensure available oxygen is distributed in the hospitals as per quota fixed for them, which keeps changing according to demand. Responding to another question, Khattar assured migrant workers that they must continue to work in the state as the government will always extend any help they may require. With Haryana being under lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, he said volunteers will be deputed to ensure that the poor beneficiaries get delivery of food items at their doorsteps. Asked about the sit-in by Haryana BJP workers in the state on Wednesday to protest the post-poll violence against party workers in West Bengal, he said: “It was a symbolic protest, but it was necessary to raise voice against the events which unfolded in West Bengal.” “Such incidents of violence are unacceptable. There is no place for such acts in our democracy and I strongly condemn such incidents,” he added. Khattar also hit out at Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, saying she is demanding an all-party meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation and at the same time criticising the government for failing to tackle the issue. “This means that she has already set her agenda,” said Khattar, asking her not to politicise the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-announces-medical-assistance-scheme-for-bpl-cardholders-seeking-treatment-in-private-hospitals-982737.html
05-05-2021||National Politics||PM Modi congratulates Mamata Banerjee on taking oath as chief minister of West Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated Mamata Banerjee on taking oath as West Bengal chief minister. Modi tweeted a congratulatory message to Banerjee soon after the Trinamool Congress head was sworn in as chief minister for a third straight term. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered her the oath of office and secrecy at a low-key ceremony at the Raj Bhawan held amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. "Congratulations to Mamata Didi on taking oath as West Bengal’s Chief Minister. @MamataOfficial," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-congratulates-mamata-banerjee-on-taking-oath-as-chief-minister-of-west-bengal-982542.html
05-05-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee is leader of the country: Kamal Nath||Veteran Congress leader Kamal Nath on Wednesday described West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as the “leader of the country” who defeated all her opponents, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Central agencies like the CBI and the ED, in the recently-held Assembly elections in West Bengal. When asked by reporters on the possibility of the TMC supremo being pitted against the prime minister in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, the Madhya Pradesh Congress president said the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) would decide its electoral face at an appropriate time. "Banerjee is the leader of our country today. She has become the Chief Minister of West Bengal for the third time in a row. She has reached this stage after a tough fight in the unprecedented assembly election," he said. Nath said Banerjee had to fight against the Central government, PM Modi, his ministers, as well as the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Income Tax Department. "Yet she has kicked all them away ('sabko lath markar bhaga diya')," he said. Asked if Banerjee could be projected as the Opposition's face against PM Modi in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, Nath said, "We don't know that right now. This will be decided by the UPA". Referring to the BJP's protest against 'political violence' in West Bengal after the election results, the former chief minister said, "Now they (BJP leaders) are trying to say that violence is happening in Bengal. Adopting violent ways is very wrong. I have also spoken to Banerjee over the phone and told her to ask everyone to stay away from violence". Nath also said that during his conversation with Banerjee, he also invited her to Madhya Pradesh. Earlier in the day, Banerjee was sworn-in as the chief minister for the third consecutive term after securing a massive mandate and vowed to not "give respite" to those behind political violence sweeping the state since the election results were announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-is-leader-of-the-country-kamal-nath-982635.html
05-05-2021||National Politics||With hat-trick as CM, Didi cements her reputation as 'giant-killer'||Even as the odds were stacked against her this time with many of her trusted lieutenants joining the BJP, and the saffron party’s record success in the last Lok Sabha elections, the mercurial leader trounced the BJP’s election machinery led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. With her latest victory Mamata cemented her reputation as the biggest mass leader in Bengal after former Chief Minister and CPI(M) stalwart Jyoti Basu who ruled Bengal from 1977 to 2000. From being a firebrand Youth Congress leader to founding the TMC in 1998 after splitting from the Congress, Mamata has come a long way. She made her presence felt as a 'giant-killer' for the first time when she defeated heavyweight CPI(M) leader and former Speaker of the Lok Sabha late Somnath Chatterjee from the Jadavpur constituency in the 1984 Lok Sabha elections. Apart from her latest loss to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, Mamata only suffered another defeat in elections when she lost the seat to CPI(M)’s Malini Bhattacharya in the 1989 Lok Sabha elections. Her agitation against the Left Front government reached a peak in 2007 and 2008 when she shook the roots of the Left regime through intense agitation against the government’s bid to acquire farm land for industrialisation. The land agitations at Singur and Nandigram boosted her image as a formidable rival of the once mighty CPI(M) and finally catapulted her to power for the first time in the 2011 Assembly elections. The TMC decimated the Left Front by winning 184 seats while its the then ally Congress won 42 seats. This time, the TMC won 213 seats. Several factors led to Mamata’s thumping victory in the Assembly elections, which put a question mark on the near invincible image of the Modi-Shah duo. The BJP’s highly polarised campaign and the confusion over the CAA and the NRC seems to have further consolidated the Muslim votes  behind the TMC. Muslims comprise of nearly 30% of the population in Bengal. For instance in Murshidabad district, an erstwhile Congress bastion, which has a Muslim population of about 70%, the TMC won 18 out of the 22 seats. As for Malda district which has 60% minority population the TMC won eight out of the 12 seats. The TMC regained considerable ground in the tribal dominated districts of Jhargram(4), Bankura (4) and Purulia(3) despite coming second to the BJP which swept these districts in the last Lok Sabha elections. Mamata’s campaign against the BJP, terming their leaders as “outsiders” trying to impose an alien culture on Bengalis, paid rich dividends for her party. TMC made Bengali pride a key issue in their election campaign. “This time there was an anti-BJP polarisation which consolidated in favour of the TMC helping the TMC to increase its vote share by 5 percentage points in over two years. This rise in vote share to 43% to 48% helped them win 213 seats,” political observer and author Snigdhendu Bhattacharya told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-hat-trick-as-cm-didi-cements-her-reputation-as-giant-killer-982652.html
05-05-2021||National Politics||EC postpones bypolls to 3 Lok Sabha, 8 Assembly seats over Covid-19 situation||The Election Commission Wednesday decided to defer proposed bypolls to three Lok Sabha and eight assembly seats in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. The poll panel said it would not be appropriate to hold the electoral exercise till the pandemic situation improves significantly. The Commission said vacancies have been notified in three parliamentary constituencies of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Khandwa (Madhya Pradesh) and Mandi (Himachal Pradesh). Also, there are eight vacancies in state assemblies -- Kalka and Ellenabad in Haryana; Vallabhnagar in Rajasthan; Sindgi in Karnataka; Rajabala and Mawryngkneng in Meghalaya, Fatehpur in Himachal Pradesh and Badvel in Andhra Pradesh. The poll panel had so far not announced schedule of the proposed bypolls. There are few more vacancies for which reports and notifications are awaited, the panel said. "The Commission has reviewed the matter today (Wednesday) and has decided that due to outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country it would not be appropriate to hold bye-elections till the pandemic situation significantly improves and conditions become conducive to hold these bye-elections," it said. The EC said it will take further decisions in the matter at an appropriate time after taking inputs from the states concerned and assessing the pandemic situation from mandated authorities such as the national and state disaster management authorities. It noted that as per the provisions of the Representation of the People Act, the vacancies are required to be filled through bye-elections within six months from the date of occurrence of vacancy, provided that the remainder of the term in relation to the vacancy is one year or more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-postpones-bypolls-to-3-lok-sabha-8-assembly-seats-over-covid-19-situation-982704.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||SC to pronounce verdict on Maratha quota on May 5||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its order on Wednesday if the 1992 Indra Sawhney (Mandal Commission) verdict for 50 per cent cap on reservation could be reconsidered due to subsequent developments and a change in social dynamics. A constitution bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat had framed the legal questions while examining the validity of the Maratha quota. Several states, including Karnataka, have favoured for more than 50 per cent reservation in jobs and education, depending upon the necessity and quantifiable data. They had cited 103rd Constitutional Amendment on 10 per cent Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota, to contend the Constitution itself now permitted reservation beyond 50 per cent. They also maintained that the 102nd Amendment granting constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes did not alter the power of the state to enact legislation determining the socially and economically backward classes and conferring the benefits to the said community under its enabling power. The Centre, for its part, supported the Maharasthra law for quota to Marathas. It also maintained 102nd Amendment did not take away states' power and rights to identify backward classes. Those opposing the Maratha quota said there was no need to reconsider the nine-judge bench in Indra Sawhney case.  "Wherever Parliament wanted to overcome Indra Sawhney, it has already done by way of amendments. If it had to revisit 50 per cent ceiling too, the same would have been revisited too by the Constitutional Amendment," they contended. A batch of petitions challenged the Bombay High Court verdict which upheld 12 to 13 per cent reservations for Marathas in jobs and education under Maharashtra Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. On December 9, 2020, the top court had refrained from modifying the stay order in implementing reservation for Marathas in jobs and education in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-pronounce-verdict-on-maratha-quota-on-may-5-982391.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana govt to launch portal for info on medical oxygen, bed status across districts||The Haryana government is going to launch a web portal which will have information on medical oxygen and bed status across all districts and other relevant details, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Tuesday. Khattar held a virtual meeting with the mayor and the councillors of Gurgaon during the day and sought feedback and suggestions from them on the arrangements made by the state government to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the city. According to an official statement, the chief minister informed the meeting that the state government is soon going to create a state-level portal which will have information related to oxygen, bed status, etc of all districts. Khattar also said that the rates of beds and ambulances in all private hospitals have been capped. If any hospital or ambulance charges more than the fixed rates from patients, the government will take strict action against them, he added. "Rates of certain medicines and daily-use items have also been fixed. Municipal councillors are also public representatives, if they get any complaint regarding overcharging, then they should immediately bring this to the notice of the government, and strict action will be taken against those found guilty," the chief minister said. Gurgaon is the hardest-hit district in the state and has been reporting more than 4,000 Covid-19 cases daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-govt-to-launch-portal-for-info-on-medical-oxygen-bed-status-across-districts-982442.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Seven more Gujarat towns face curbs, restrictions extended in 29 cities||The Gujarat government on Tuesday decided to impose a night curfew and other restrictions in seven more cities of the state and also extended till May 12 the existing lockdown-like restrictions in 29 cities to break the chain of the coronavirus infection. With this decision, night curfew (from 8 pm to 6 am) and other day-time restrictions will now be in force in 36 cities till May 12. The government on April 27 had announced restrictions and extended night curfew to 29 cities as part of measures to curb the rising Covid-19 cases. The curbs on 29 cities were to end on May 5. At a meeting of a core committee of the government, presided over by chief minister Vijay Rupani, it was decided to impose the night curfew and strict restrictions in seven more cities - Deesa, Ankelashwar, Vapi, Modasa, Radhanpur, Kadi and Visnagar, an official release said. The strict restrictions in these 36 cities include closure of non-essential shops, restaurants (open for just takeaways), swimming pools, cinema halls, shopping complexes and water parks. Main cities of the state like Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are included in the list. The decision to tighten curbs was taken by Rupani after considering Union Home Ministry's latest guidelines on controlling the spread of the coronavirus, said the official release. Essential services and factories will continue to operate in these cities, while offices will have to function with a staff strength of 50 per cent, it said. Other establishments which would remain shut in these cities include beauty parlours, gardens, saloons, gyms, auditoriums and malls, said the release. While all APMCs (wholesale agri-commodity markets) will also remain shut, only market yards trading in vegetables and fruits will be allowed to function, it said. All religious places in the state will remain shut for the public, the release said. The state government has banned religious, social and political gatherings and other public events. Only 20 persons will be allowed to attend last rites, while the guest limit for marriages is 50, the release said. Public transport buses across the state would function with 50 per cent passenger capacity, said the release. In areas excluding these 36 cities, apart from factories and offices (at 50 per cent attendance), shops and other establishments are allowed to open for business but malls, theatres, multiplexes and places of entertainment will remain shut. Restrictions related to travel in public transport buses and gathering for funerals (maximum 20 people) and weddings (50 guests) have also been imposed in other areas of the state apart from the 36 cities, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-seven-more-gujarat-towns-face-curbs-restrictions-extended-in-29-cities-982445.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC seeks Centre's stand on Whatsapp privacy policy as PIL seeks to challenge it||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre and social media platforms Facebook and WhatsApp on a PIL challenging the new privacy policy of the messaging app. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Centre, Facebook and WhatsApp and sought their stand on the petition by May 13. WhatsApp told the bench that private conversations of individuals are protected by end-to-end encryption. The petitioner, Harsha Gupta, urged the court for some interim orders as WhatsApp intends to bring its policy into effect from May 15. In view of the same, the court listed the matter for hearing on May 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-seeks-centres-stand-on-whatsapp-privacy-policy-as-pil-seeks-to-challenge-it-982497.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand: Five Covid-19 patients die at Roorkee hospital due to disruption in oxygen supply||Five Covid-19 patients, including a woman, died at a private hospital in Roorkee in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar district allegedly due to disruption in oxygen supply to the facility for around 30 minutes. The incident occurred in the early hours on Tuesday when oxygen supply to the hospital remained disrupted between 1.30 and 2 am, a doctor at the hospital said. One of the patients who died was on ventilator support while four others were on oxygen beds, he said. A magisterial probe has been ordered into the incident, Haridwar District Magistrate C Ravishankar said on Wednesday. A medical audit of the hospital is also being conducted by a team comprising Chief Medical Superintendent of Roorkee's joint government hospital and two doctors, he said. The team will give a detailed report in a week on the availability of oxygen at the hospital, demand and supply ratio and the number of patients there, Ravishankar said. He said stern legal action will be taken against those responsible for the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-five-covid-19-patients-die-at-roorkee-hospital-due-to-disruption-in-oxygen-supply-982502.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||In six weeks, J&K sees 30 fold increase in Covid-19 cases||After remaining flat for two months, the Covid-19 case graph in Jammu and Kashmir has seen over a 30-fold increase in the last six weeks. From the third week of March, a sharp rise in cases was witnessed. In less than six weeks, the daily case tally has risen from around 150 to 4650 – over a 30-fold increase. In the previous year, the peak was reached on September 12 when the Union Territory (UT) recorded 1,698 new cases. Post this, the cases started declining gradually and plateaued in January 2021. While the government maintains that no significant mutant strains have been found in J&K, experts believe that the exponential surge can’t take place without a major change in the circulating strain. Dr Saleem Khan, head department of Social and Preventive Medicine at Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar said the surge after the previous high sero-prevalence in Kashmir was an indicator that the immunity had “either waned out or was not there for this virus”. “There may be many strains circulating presently. Viruses change often and mutations are quite common, especially in influenza-causing ones,” he said. Dr Naveed Shah, head department of Chest Medicine at the GMC Srinagar, said there was a delay in getting the reports of samples that they send for genome sequencing. “We do collect samples, routinely and on suspicion also but probably due to the load on the labs, it takes very long to get a report,” he said. Since November 2020, as per the J&K government figures, 118 samples had been tested and reported in Kashmir. Of these, only one had been found positive for a mutant variant. The mutant, N440K, has recently made headlines across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-six-weeks-jk-sees-30-fold-increase-in-covid-19-cases-982510.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||This entrepreneur has launched a tiffin service for Covid-19 patients and their families in Srinagar||Amid the prevailing Covid-19 crisis, a young entrepreneur has started an exclusive tiffin service for positive patients, their families, and frontline workers involved in fighting against the deadly virus in Srinagar city. The entrepreneur has named the campaign ‘Food for Kashmir’ which is gaining popularity as they deliver free home-cooked food to Covid-19 patients and their families. Rayees Ahmad, a resident of Srinagar, had started his dream venture ‘Tiffin Aaw’ in 2019 with the sole purpose of serving hot plates of healthy, home-cooked meals to people. Loosely translated, “Tiffin Aaw” would mean “your meal is here.” Since then, the service has gained much popularity in Srinagar. A few days back, Ahmed received a call from Delhi from a Kashmiri woman who wanted food for her Covid positive parents, recovering at home in Srinagar. “Following such distress calls and given the current situation, I decided that our Tiffin service should also reach those Covid affected who cannot cook. In these times of distress, rather than being afraid, we should get together to help each other even if it is through our business ventures,” he said. Ahmad, who besides his wife, is assisted by a group of 10 people, said they deliver free food to Covid-19 positive families at home and patients in hospitals so that they get good homemade food. Initially, they started on their own but meals are now sponsored by people, and they distribute 100-200 tiffin boxes every day in a systematic way, following Covid protocol. Srinagar which is the hot spot of Covid-19 cases in J&K has many instances where whole families or the majority of family members turned out to be positive and had no source to get food. “A majority of the positive patients managed at home are not in a position to cook food. We provide nutritious and hygienic homemade food to such people,” Ahmad said. In addition to this, they also deliver food to attendants at hospitals and doctors. “Due to the Covid situation, many doctors and paramedics prefer to order from us as we are delivering at doorsteps of everyone,” he said and added the online payment systems have made it easy to make such deliveries possible without physical touch. ‘Tiffin Aaw’ is using social media accounts to let people know that they are delivering food for families who are affected by Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/this-entrepreneur-has-launched-a-tiffin-service-for-covid-19-patients-and-their-families-in-srinagar-982532.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Putting officers in jail won't bring oxygen to Delhi, says SC; seeks info on allocation in 3 days||Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to Delhi, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday while it asked the Centre about the supply it has made to the national capital since May 3. "Let us ensure lives are saved," it said. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said that it had ordered supply of 700 MT oxygen to Delhi daily from May 3 as the “pandemic in Delhi is at a very critical stage”. “Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to the city, let us ensure lives are saved,” said the bench which also comprised justice M R Shah. “This is not adversarial litigation. Centre, Delhi governments are elected and doing their best to serve Covid-19 patients,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. "Tell us how much oxygen you have allocated to Delhi in the last three days," the bench said. The hearing is still going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/putting-officers-in-jail-wont-bring-oxygen-to-delhi-says-sc-seeks-info-on-allocation-in-3-days-982538.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court denies bail to accused in IB officer's murder case ||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail plea of a man accused of killing an Intelligence Bureau (IB) official during riots in the north east part of the national capital last year, saying that allegations against him were grave in nature.  Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said accused Nazim was instigated on communal lines by former AAP Councillor and main accused Tahir Hussain, because of which he lay charged to attack the other community.  IB official Ankit Sharma's body was found in a drain near his home in North-East Delhi's Chand Bagh area on February 26, a day after he had gone missing after riots broke out. “There is enough material on record which clearly identifies the applicant to be part of a riotous mob which had indulged in arsoning, looting, vandalizing public and private property; chanting communal slogans and attacking persons of other community,” the judge noted, in the May 4 order.  The judge further remarked that the allegations against the applicant are “grave in nature” and if enlarged on bail, there is a possibility of the accused threatening the public witnesses.  He added, “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality, I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant in the matter at this stage. The bail application accordingly stands dismissed.” The postmortem report of the deceased Ankit Sharma had revealed 51 injuries caused by sharp edged weapons and blunt force on his head, face, chest, back and waist.  During the course of proceedings, Special Public Prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary said that as many as six injuries on Sharma's body could have been caused by the weapon of offence recovered from the possession of the accused. “It is very vehemently argued that the offence alleged against the applicant is very serious in nature; further investigation in the matter is still on and if released on bail at this stage, the applicant can hamper the further investigation,” the prosecutor said.  Advocate Salim Malik, counsel for accused Nazim, told the court that his client had been falsely implicated just because he was known for the 'bad character' in the area and that the witnesses were planted.   He argued that during the time of the alleged incident, the accused along with his brother and co-accused Kasim was not present in Delhi and instead were putting up at Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh, from where both of them were arrested.  “The recovery of the alleged knife has been planted upon the applicant. Even as per the FSL report received in the matter, the blood stains found on the alleged knife did not match with the blood of the deceased,” he claimed.  Delhi Police in its charge sheet filed in June last alleged there was a deep rooted conspiracy behind Sharma's murder as he was specifically targeted by a mob led by Hussain. The Delhi High Court recently dismissed the bail pleas of two other accused -- Sameer Khan and Kasim -- in the same case, saying they have been "playing hide and seek with the prosecution". Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-denies-bail-to-accused-in-ib-officers-murder-case-982545.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Appears Delhi government not taking steps to create oxygen buffer, streamline distribution: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it appears that the Delhi government has not taken steps for creation of a buffer of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and for streamlining its distribution in the national capital. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said it is for the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) to explore the various possibilities to create storage facilities for LMO and oxygen cylinders in the city. The court said that the GNCTD may take help of the Delhi Technological University to prepare a blueprint for storage and distribution of oxygen in the city. It said the obligation to create an oxygen buffer fell on both the Centre and GNCTD as per the Supreme Court's April 30 order. The observations and directions by the bench came after one of the lawyers present in the hearing said that large static cryogenic tanks for storing LMO are available and can be installed in the city to create a buffer of the life saving gas. The lawyer, Aditya Prasad, said that smaller tankers can pick up oxygen from the larger tanks and distribute it in the city and in this way Delhi need not fall upon other states or Centre for tankers to transport oxygen. He said the tanks can be installed with the help of the Army. The court also noted that oxygen supplier INOX manufactures such static cryogenic tanks and there may be others and it was for the Delhi government to explore all the possibilities for creating storage facilities for oxygen. The bench asked the Delhi government to identify the necessary areas where such tanks can be installed and to also create infrastructure for the purpose of distribution of both LMO and oxygen cylinders in the city. Prasad told the court that his research has identified several vendors providing oxygen storage tanks, oxygen generation plants and Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) plants and said that the Delhi government should also carry out research like he did and procure the necessary equipment to create the infrastructure for generation, transportation and storage of oxygen in the city. The court asked Prasad to share his research with the Delhi government and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao. It directed the Delhi government to examine the quotations obtained by Prasad and to also look for other vendors who could meet the requirements and asked them to file a report on the aspect by Friday, May 7. The court was hearing several pleas regarding the issues related to Covid-19 that Delhi is grappling with presently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/appears-delhi-government-not-taking-steps-to-create-oxygen-buffer-streamline-distribution-hc-982584.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Foreign Covid-19 aid meant for people, not to be kept in boxes: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said that foreign aid, in terms of medical equipment, is meant for the benefit of the people suffering from Covid-19 and not meant to be kept in boxes at some institution to become "junk". "When the government has received it as medical aid, it is meant to help the people. It is not meant to remain in boxes somewhere and become junk," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The observation came after amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao expressed concerns regarding the manner of distribution of the medical equipment, received as aid, by the Centre and Delhi government. He said that Lady Hardinge Medical College received around 260 oxygen concentrators when it did not require that much. He said that such random and arbitrary distribution of the equipment may lead to a situation where it is not sent to the right quarters which actually need it. The bench said the concern expressed by the amicus "deserves consideration" and directed the Centre to verify the position on the ground with regard to distribution of foreign aid to various hospitals. The court also asked the Centre to consider distributing the equipment to voluntary organisations, like Gurdwaras and NGOs, who are rendering public service. "One must not forget that the equipment received as foreign aid is meant for the people and, therefore, should be available to them. No purpose would be served by them remaining stacked in boxes in some institution and not being available for use where they are most required," the bench said. Towards the conclusion of the first half of the day's hearing, the central government told the bench that it will provide to the amicus the standard operating procedure (SOP) evolved by it for distribution of the foreign aid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/foreign-covid-19-aid-meant-for-people-not-to-be-kept-in-boxes-delhi-hc-982587.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai, jailed under PSA, dies in Jammu hospital||Jailed chairman of Tehreek e Hurriyat, Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, a close aide of senior separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, passed away at a Jammu hospital on Wednesday, a day after he was shifted there from Udhampur Jail. Sehrai, who was booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA) in July last year, was on Tuesday admitted to Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu after his health deteriorated, reports said. He was suffering from multiple ailments. Sehrai had reportedly developed pneumonia in jail. His Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for Covid-19 came negative while the RT-PCR result is still awaited. The police had on Tuesday informed his family in Srinagar about the deterioration in his health condition and told them to reach GMC Jammu. Sehrai’s stature among separatist leaders had risen when his son Junaid joined militancy in 2018, immediately after he was elected as chairman of the TeH -- a political party Geelani had founded with Sehrai after parting ways from their parent organisation Jamaat-e-Islami Jammu and Kashmir. Junaid, who had completed MBA from Kashmir University before joining militancy, was killed in an encounter with security forces in Srinagar on May 19 last year. Just two months after the killing of his son, 77-year-old Sehrai was booked under the PSA. Sehrai and Geelani, both strong votaries of implementation of the UN resolutions on Kashmir, had been close associates for the last six decades, first in Jamiat-e-Islami J&K and later in TeH. Sehrai, like Geelani, had been in and out of jail for years together. Originally hailing from north Kashmir’s frontier Kupwara district, Sehrai had been residing in Srinagar for more than two decades. Official sources said the family won’t be permitted to bury him in Srinagar. “Most probably he will be buried in his native village in Kupwara,” they said. Meanwhile, separatist-turned-mainstream leader and former minister Sajad Lone regretted that Sehrai died in incarceration. “Why did he have to die in incarceration and not at his home amongst his kin and loved ones. Have we become so weak that an old infirm dying person is a threat to the state,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/separatist-leader-ashraf-sehrai-jailed-under-psa-dies-in-jammu-hospital-982591.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Accountability should be fixed: Priyanka slams UP govt on deaths due to non-supply of oxygen||A day after the Allahabad High Court observed that the death of Covid-19 patients due to non-supply of oxygen to hospitals is a criminal act, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the Uttar Pradesh government has continuously denied the lack of oxygen when the truth is that there have been many deaths due to it for which accountability should be fixed. In stern remarks, the Allahabad High Court on Tuesday observed that the death of Covid-19 patients just for non-supply of oxygen to hospitals is a criminal act, "not less than a genocide" by authorities entrusted the task to ensure the oxygen supply chain is maintained. In an apparent reference to the observation by the court, Priyanka Gandhi said the high court has shown the mirror to the government. "The UP government has continuously denied the lack of oxygen. It has been threatening those flagging the lack of oxygen," the Congress general secretary said in a Facebook post in Hindi. "While the truth is that continuously there have been deaths due to lack of oxygen and its accountability should be fixed," she said. The observation by the court came over some news items doing the rounds on social media regarding the death of Covid-19 patients due to lack of oxygen in Lucknow and Meerut districts. The court also ordered a probe into the incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/accountability-should-be-fixed-priyanka-slams-up-govt-on-deaths-due-to-non-supply-of-oxygen-982593.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Covid restrictions continue in J&K, normal life remains disrupted||Normal life remained affected in many areas in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday with the imposition of the lockdown in the wake of an alarming surge in coronavirus cases, officials said. “Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people continued to remain imposed in many districts of the UT in the wake of the lockdown announced by the government," the officials said. They said while curfew was in place across the Kashmir valley and in Jammu district, restrictions on the assembly of people were also imposed in many areas of the Jammu division. Security forces put barricades on roads at many places here as well as in other district headquarters of the valley to prevent the movement of people, they added. The officials said while the restrictions are being implemented strictly, essential and emergency services are allowed. The officials said shops, fuel stations and other business establishments were shut across the valley, while public transport was off the roads. On April 29, the Jammu and Kashmir administration imposed a curfew in 11 districts in a bid to tackle the surge in COVID-19 cases, which was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day. The curfew, which was supposed to end at 7 am on May 3, was extended in the twin capitals of Jammu and Srinagar besides Budgam and Baramulla till 7 am on Thursday. However, the authorities in other districts of the valley also ordered the extension in the restrictions till Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-restrictions-continue-in-jk-normal-life-remains-disrupted-982598.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh floats tenders for purchase of 4 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines||The Uttar Pradesh government has floated global e-tenders to procure 4 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines from licensed manufacturers, an official said here on Wednesday. "Online short term global e-tenders have been invited from licensed manufacturers for supply of 40 million doses of Covid vaccine," an officials of the Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation Limited (UPMSCL) said. He said the tender will be governed as per guidelines of the government of India. The tender can be downloaded on May 7 and the last date of the online submission of the tender documents is May 21, he added. After taking a decision to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to all above 18, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on April 29 had decided to float global tenders to purchase four-five crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines. "For carrying vaccination effectively, state government has decided to float global tenders. Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have been given orders of 50 lakh vaccines each. Besides them a global tender should be floated to purchase 4-5 crore vaccines. This should be taken forward," Adityanath had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-floats-tenders-for-purchase-of-4-crore-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-982614.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||3 killed, 6 injured in explosion while refilling oxygen cylinder in Lucknow||Three labourers were killed and at least half a dozen others were injured in a blast at an oxygen plant on the outskirts of the state capital of Lucknow on Wednesday. Police sources said that the blast occurred while refilling an oxygen cylinder. According to the eye witnesses, the blast was so powerful that its impact was felt by the residents living nearby. They said that several labourers suffered serious burn injuries in the blast. While two labourers died on the spot, another succumbed to his injuries in the hospital, police said adding that the condition of some of the injured labourers was 'critical'. Fire tenders rushed to the spot to douse the flames after a fire broke out in the plant, sources said. Relief and rescue operations were continuing. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered a probe into the incident, official sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-killed-6-injured-in-explosion-while-refilling-oxygen-cylinder-in-lucknow-982623.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh announces 10-day lockdown to check Covid-19||The Himachal Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to impose a lockdown in the state from May 7 to May 16 to check the spread of Covid-19, an official said here. The decision to impose the lockdown was taken at a state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, the spokesperson added. The meeting was held to review the current Covid-19 situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-announces-10-day-lockdown-to-check-covid-19-982636.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||UP panchayat poll results set alarm bells ringing for BJP||With the rival Samajwadi Party (SP) edging past even in saffron bastions, the results of the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh have set alarm bells ringing within the BJP. The results, barely seven months before the state assembly polls, have come as a shot in the arm for SP, which bagged 760 out of the total 3,050 seats in the Zila Panchayats. BJP-backed nominees, on the other hand, could win 750 seats while BSP and Congress-supported candidates bagged 381 and 76 seats respectively. The Independents won 1,083 seats. For the BJP, which had claimed that it would sweep the panchayat polls, the results came as a ''rude shock''. The party-backed nominees were made to bite the dust even in saffron bastions of Kashi, Mathura, Ayodhya, Lucknow, Kanpur, Agra and many other places. Although state BJP leaders sought to put up a brave face and continued to claim success in the panchayat polls, sources in the saffron party said the alleged 'mishandling' of the Covid 19 situation cost the party dearly in the polls. ''In the eastern and central regions, we had to face the anger of the people due to the scarcity of oxygen and a large number of deaths, while in the western region, the protests against farm laws went against us,'' confided a senior UP BJP leader while speaking to DH on Wednesday. He saidthe results would force the party to go back to the drawing board and revisit its electoral strategy. While the panchayat polls results came as a welcome relief for the SP, which was nurturing hopes to oust the BJP in the next assembly polls, the Congress too managed to double its tally as compared to the last polls and fared well in its bastion of Rae Bareli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-panchayat-poll-results-set-alarm-bells-ringing-for-bjp-982650.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||‘No less than genocide’: Allahabad HC slams UP govt over deaths due to oxygen shortage||Terming the deaths of Covid-19 patients owing to shortage of oxygen in the hospitals a "criminal act", the Allahabad High Court, virtually lambasting the UP government, said that it was "no less than a genocide by those who have been entrusted the task to ensure continuous procurement and supply chain of the liquid medical oxygen". A division bench comprising justice Siddharth Verma and justice Ajit Kumar made the observation while hearing a PIL on the spread of Covid in the state and situation at the quarantine centres. "How can we let our people die in this way when science is so advanced that even heart transplantation and brain surgery are taking place these days," the bench said directing the state government to take immediate remedial measures. The court also expressed serious concern over the apathetic attitude of the medical staff toward the patients at hospitals.  "Stories of hoarding of oxygen cylinders and harassment meted out to those poor citizens who were begging for an oxygen cylinder to save the life of their near and dear ones, both at the end of district administration and police administration are being viralled in social media," it said. The court also directed that the confiscated oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir injections and Oxymeters be made available to the hospital for use by the patients.  Earlier also the Allahabad high court had rapped the state government over its handling of the Covid situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-less-than-genocide-allahabad-hc-slams-up-govt-over-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-982656.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||Lockdown-like restrictions in Sikkim till May 16 over Covid-19, borders to be sealed||Lockdown-like restrictions were imposed in Sikkim till May 16 amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, as per an official order issued on Wednesday. The restrictions, which include the imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CRPC, will come into effect on Thursday, it said. Rangpo, Melli and Ramam borders will be sealed and all travel across these border points stopped for the next ten days. Inter-district travel has also been restricted, it added. Army, police, medical emergency vehicles and vehicles carrying essential commodities have been exempted from the purview of the partial lockdown. All public gatherings such as weddings will not be allowed during the period. Special permits for funerals and other emergencies will be provided by the respective Block Development Officers and SDMs, the order said. All business establishments throughout the state will be allowed to remain open from 10 am to 4 pm and will remain completely shut on Saturdays and Sundays. Pharmacies, shops selling essential commodities and milk outlets will be allowed to remain open. Curfew will be imposed from 5 pm to 9 am, as per the order. All government offices will also remain closed till May 16, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-like-restrictions-in-sikkim-till-may-16-over-covid-19-borders-to-be-sealed-982684.html
05-05-2021||North and Central||With 4,716 new cases, Jammu and Kashmir sees record spike in Covid-19 infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported the highest spike in Covid-19 cases with over 4,700 fresh infections and 52 deaths on Wednesday. The new 4,716 positive cases recorded in the last 24 hours pushed the cumulative tally in the union territory (UT) to 1,96,585. The fatalities also rose sharply on Wednesday, taking the death toll in Jammu and Kashmir to 2,510. This was the second day in a row that over 4,000 cases were recorded in a day in the UT. According to a daily media bulletin, a total of 2,338 people were discharged during the day, taking the count of recoveries in the UT to 1,54,447. Active cases in Jammu and Kashmir have reached 39,628. In the first five days of this month, the active cases have increased by 11,269. The UT has also recorded 227 deaths in the first five days of May. Health experts blame the mutant virus type for the rising number of cases and deaths. While the Kashmir division reports the major portion of positive cases, the Jammu region has more number of deaths compared to the Valley. Among the 52 deaths recorded today, 28 were from the Jammu region and 24 from Kashmir. On Tuesday, out of 37 fatalities attributed to the virus, 25 patients succumbed in Jammu while 12 in Kashmir. Similarly, on Wednesday, out of a total of 4,716 Covid-19 cases reported in J&K, 3,198 cases were from Kashmir and 1,518 from the Jammu division. On Tuesday, out of a total of 4,650 Covid-19 cases, which was the previous highest in a single day, 3,187 cases were from the Kashmir division and 1,463 from Jammu. In the wake of the huge surge in Covid-19 cases, authorities in the UT ordered deferment of all elective and routine surgeries in government as well as private health institutions. In view of the trend in Covid-19 positive cases, the positivity rate and the cases per million, the coronavirus curfew in the four districts of Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam, and Jammu, which was in force till 7 am on Thursday (May 6), has been extended till 7 am on Monday (May 10). Strict restrictions on the movement of people remained in place as the Covid-19 curfew entered its seventh day. Officials said scores of vehicles were seized and cases were registered against those found violating the lockdown. Since April 29, more than 2,400 people have been fined and over 260 others have been arrested for violating Covid-19 curfew and other guidelines in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-4716-new-cases-jammu-and-kashmir-sees-record-spike-in-covid-19-infections-982695.html
05-05-2021||Oasis||We are what we think||Modern psychological research shows that there are three major parts of the human mind. They constitute the human mind since birth, and they are - the conscious mind, the subconscious mind, and the unconscious mind. Experience tells us that once a thought enters our mind, it becomes a part of the mind forever. This means that once a thought enters our mind, it becomes a part of our personality. A positive or negative thought might enter our conscious memory and when we go to sleep at night, following a natural process the thought travels further by itself from the conscious mind and enters the subconscious mind. When this happens, we have only partial conscious control over the thought. When we go to sleep the next time, the thought travels further and enters our unconscious mind. When this happens, the thought seethes and is not in our conscious control and becomes the source of moulding our personality. Positive thoughts create a positive personality, and negative thoughts create a negative one.  Now, the question arises how can we build a positive personality? If we reflect on the issue in the light of both religious teachings and findings of psychology, we will find a clear, practical way to do so. Whenever a negative thought enters our mind, at the very first instance, we should try to resolve it by converting it into a positive aspect. For example, if we are angry with someone, we should try and forgive them at once so that our anger does not assume the form of revenge. This way one will prevent a feeling of revenge which is very harmful. One should practice this method with every negative thought that enters the conscious mind, and make use of the consciousness completely to convert it to their advantage. Generally, people do not practice this and pay a terrible price. Every person must adopt this method and make it an integral part of their daily life. To receive blessings or knowledge from god, a believer must develop a positive personality. A positive mind will not engage in conflicts and would remain free of revenge, hatred, and negative thoughts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/we-are-what-we-think-982439.html
05-05-2021||Panorama||Data synergy can go a long way in tackling the pandemic globally||A distinctive feature of industrial revolution 4.0 is the generation of huge volumes of data and their application in every aspect of human life. Data science techniques have gained significant traction in solving some of the common but complex problems. The new developments in computing huge data sets have led to solving the relatively simple problem of finding traffic-less routes in urban cities to dealing with complex public policy matters such as climate change, poverty, migration and disaster management. The value of data and its intensive usage have come into sharp focus during the Covid-19 pandemic. Governments across the globe are the biggest repositories of public’s data sets; naturally, they will continue to play the primary role in generating new data and the application of existing ones in their policy processes. Almost every country has its own Covid-tracking systems. Many non-government entities have utilised this data to tackle the pandemic and show the way forward to monitor and report future outbreaks. Globally, data has determined the way non-government and government entities have responded to the crisis. Non-government entities such as research institutions and communities have played a critical role during the pandemic in data generation, their application and publication of results. Their role is crucial as governments generally are not open to sharing data. Even when they do, they are uncleaned and in a format not amenable to analysis. The challenging part of dealing with government data is to get it manually from multiple sources like reports and media bulletins. In the initial stages of the outbreak, institutions looking for primary data on China were dependent on the Chinese medical community, which aggregated data from multiple sources and made them available in real time. Making government data accessible is an issue which needs to be addressed. These gaps sometimes are filled by the active role of non-government communities. Supported by purpose-specific algorithms and new-age computational developments, some of them — like the Covid-19 dashboard of Johns Hopkins University and the Oxford Covid-19 Government Response Tracker (OxCGRT) — played a key role in providing daily and real-time analytics on the status of infections and government responses. Knowledge-sharing and community network is essential to deal with public healthcare crises. The i2b2 tranSmart Foundation is playing an important role in developing a Covid data warehouse in collaboration with organisations around the world. Many non-government institutions have been successful in bridging the information and knowledge gaps in data access and analysis. These institutions have also made their data sets available to the general public, researchers and public health authorities on platforms such as GitHub repository for further research, and also published them in journals. For instance, OxCGRT has published its research paper ‘A global panel database of pandemic policies (Oxford Covid-19 Government Response Tracker)' in the journal Nature Human Behavior; Johns Hopkins Covid dashboard published its work titled ‘An interactive web-based dashboard to track Covid-19 in real time’ in the journal The Lancet. It is significant to note that the pandemic, for the first time, created a feedback loop for policy formulation and evaluation. Evidence-based policies are not fancy terms; being non-cognisant of feedback in policy-making will obviously come at the cost of human life.  The World Development Report 2021 acknowledges that realising the full value of data will depend on substantial commitment and effort, and it will be difficult. 'But the cost of failure is a world of missed opportunities and greater inequities.’ Data utilisation Data-based decisions and policy-making took a backseat in some instances of Covid-19 management and was evident in certain moves made by countries. India’s decision that forced migrants to return to their home states was more due to knee-jerk reactions and not based on available migrant-related data, which led to a humanitarian crisis. The US government, in the early stages, was less receptive to scientific evidence on the nature of infection spread, thereby delaying timely and stringent measures. This lag in data utilisation could be due to purely technical reasons and infrastructural limitations, or due to other exogenous factors (political, administrative) and one's approach towards using data in general for decision-making. India, on the other hand, was initially quick to use call data records (CDR) to effectively track and trace people suspected to have been infected by Covid. India’s CDR strategy was highly successful and could have had a role in containing initial infections. But the US struggled to adopt an effective CDR strategy due to privacy concerns and the federal structure of the government. There needs to be a caveat on generalisation and making a causal linkage between CDR's role and the containment of infection, as more evidence is needed on this front. But it certainly helped in tracking and tracing. The role of non-government entities and governments, and their interactions need to be further documented for the generation of knowledge. As we tackle the Covid second wave in the country, this documentation will pave the way for effective participation and coordination in data generation, understanding, and its application systematically. The mutual synergy between public and private stakeholders on public healthcare outbreaks could be based on the idea of a ‘new social contract’, as mentioned in the World Development Report 2021. The contract envisages the ‘integrated national data system’ to generate high-quality data to ‘safely share’ with multiple stakeholders. It is based on the principle of trust, equity and value. There is a space for both public and private entities to actively collaborate in using data for predicting and managing outbreaks related to healthcare and mutually complement in their unique ability for tackling pandemics. (The writer is Research Fellow, Ramaiah Public Policy Center, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/data-synergy-can-go-a-long-way-in-tackling-the-pandemic-globally-982436.html
05-05-2021||Panorama||A request from frontline workers||Early this morning, I woke up to a call informing me that we had lost yet another officer to Covid-19. Assistant Sub Inspector Nanjappa had been hospitalised after being diagnosed with Covid, but his condition worsened last week and he passed away.   We, as a society are caught up in the same nightmare yet again. When we thought the worst was over and we had left it behind last year. The present incarnation of the virus is frightening and has resulted in helplessness all around us.   The same helplessness surrounds us frontline workers involved in the same duty of requesting people to follow Covid-19 protocols. We thought we were better equipped this time since we knew what the disease was as well as the methods to prevent infection. With a renewed focus on preventing the spread of the disease, we thought we could focus on getting the general populace vaccinated. Yet the devastation has returned with a vengeance taking lives at will. I lost several officers to Covid in Ballari in 2020 and I was determined this time not to lose any more officers.  Yet, that is easier said than done as we are the frontline workers. We have to be on our toes, on the road. We still have to convince people to wear masks and cover their nose. We still have to request people to stay indoors and step out only if absolutely necessary. We still have to convince the millions out there to take this pandemic seriously. Because when you are careless, a frontline worker gets infected. Because when you do not pay heed, a family is bereaved. No one can replace ASI Nanjappa as the son, brother, father, husband and bread earner for the family. For his near and dear ones, it is a permanent, irreparable loss. Until a week ago he was on duty at one of the check posts flagging people for not wearing masks and practising social distancing. The next day he was down with the virus. The best possible treatment was provided to him, yet the virus got the better of him. In less than a week he was gone.   There are many like him who are out there. If in the police department, we are on night rounds to ensure safety as the city sleeps, while some miscreants are awake. We have to ensure order in crowded places like hospitals or vaccine queues, which brings us dangerously close to the infection. Similarly, other frontline workers like sanitation department staff who clean up after people or pick up the garbage strewn around. There are health workers nursing patients round the clock. Many work out of compulsion, while many genuinely like to serve people. ASI Nanjappa is not the only one who has died while trying to save people from getting infected. There are many unknown faces, many faces whose name we never cared to ask for.   The millions out there whom he served, for whom he risked being exposed to the deadly virus and stood on duty, will not even care that he passed away while trying to convince you to wear a mask and practice social distancing. What irks me the most is the callous attitude of the people who defy rules and spread the virus. As frontline workers, we do not have the luxury of working from home. We are a handful of us trying to keep millions of you safe. We need your cooperation. We are here to serve, but remember we are humans too. Remember, we too have families who have lost their lives, are gasping for breath, looking for a bed, and asking for oxygen; while we stand on duty till our last breath. We do not ask for much. All we are asking is for responsible behaviour to save yourself and your dear and near ones. It will save your life and not let the sacrifice of Nanjappa and a hundred others before him, be in vain. Be responsible for yourself and your fellow citizens. We are all in this together. We will survive only if YOU are careful. We all will perish if you lower your guard. Each one save one.  (The writer is DCP (North East))||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-request-from-frontline-workers-982438.html
05-05-2021||Right in the Middle||The gift of sight||To be born blind or lose your vision later, after a few decades of living and seeing. Which is worse?  A few years back, I went through an incident personally that answered the conundrum – at least for me. The event that I experienced was a severe illness and this ailment caused the partial loss of vision in both eyes; not complete blindness fortunately but enough that my eyes were next to useless for a long period. This, naturally, caused me ample pain and adversity. To lose one of the six senses and that too an important one like sight was nothing short of a catastrophe. All activities that involved seeing something – and believe me, more than 90 per cent of our daily routines require the use of our eyes – were curtailed. Thankfully, I finally recovered and was able to see properly again.  That’s when the question crossed my mind – would I rather be born blind or lose my eyesight later? If I had to really choose between these two options, I would choose being born without sight. Why you may ask! Won’t it be better to see the world for at least a few years? See your parents, your family, and friends? And, also get the chance of seeing some of the beauty that is in this world – snowclad mountains, majestic white clouds, the star-studded night sky? And if fortune allows – maybe some manmade wonders like the Taj Mahal, the Great Wall, the Giza Pyramid? If one is born blind, there’s no chance to see all this. I agree. All the above is worth seeing – especially the faces of your near and dear ones. Yet, imagine that you see all this every day. You take your vision as given. And then, one sudden dreadful day, all this is stolen away. Where there was once light, now there is eternal darkness. Where you once saw your mother’s or brother’s or son’s face – now there is only emptiness. Where you earlier perceived the dewdrops on the green grass, the rainbow in the sky – the everyday things you once took for granted – all that is replaced with complete blackness. Being born visually impaired is again terrible but, at least then, you have not experienced the beauty of the world. You have not seen how your family looks. You were born to darkness and your mind has adapted from the first day to work within those confines. Giving someone freedom (of sight), and then cruelly snatching it away one day… that hurts. That really hurts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-gift-of-sight-982437.html
05-05-2021||Second Edit||15-year norm too liberal||The decision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to cap the tenure of senior executives of private banks is a welcome step intended to ensure that entrenchment of personal and private interests at the top level do not work against the interests of the bank’s customers. The bank regulator has decreed that the post of MD and CEO of a private bank cannot be held by the same individual for more than 15 years and, in the case of promoter CEOs, the tenure should not exceed 12 years. Reappointment as CEO or whole-time director can be considered only after a three-year break. The age limit for these positions remains at 70 years, but banks are free to bring it down. For non-executive directors, the maximum tenure has been kept eight years and the age limit is 75 years.  These norms are badly needed as the operations of private banks have steadily increased in the country and they have an important role in the financial system. Private banks may be private legally and technically, but they are public institutions that handle large amounts of money belonging to the public. So they need to have sound norms of governance in public interest. There have been cases of diversion of funds for personal use and misuse of power to sanction loans and deployment of funds in dubious ventures. Ultimately, these irregularities work against the interests of the customers. Some of the private banks in the country have had their MD or CEO serving for decades. Such a long tenure is likely to make some of them consider the bank as their personal fiefdom. There have been examples of banks coming to grief because of the decisions and actions of such CEOs. Rana Kapoor, who is in jail now facing charges of receiving kickbacks to the tune of Rs 4,300 crore, was at the head of Yes Bank from 2003 to 2019.  There may be a view that the 15-year stipulation is too liberal. A term of five years may be too short a period for a chief executive to get used to the environment in the company, formulate and implement policies and make an impact. The regulator has decided that 15 years may be the maximum tenure, and that it is not too long a term. This may be true especially in the case of young companies. The limitation on tenure will encourage banks to groom younger leaders for the top position. However, it should be noted that a person at the top needs much less than 15 years to do harm to an institution. So effective internal checks and regulatory oversight by the RBI are crucial to ensure the health of a bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/15-year-norm-too-liberal-982434.html
05-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Governor invites DMK Chief MK Stalin to form govt, oath-taking ceremony on May 7||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Wednesday invited DMK President M K Stalin to form the government in the state following his party's comfortable win in the just-concluded Assembly elections. Purohit's invitation came hours after Stalin met him with senior leaders and staked the claim to form the government by submitting a resolution electing him as leader of the DMK Legislature Party. Stalin will be sworn in as chief minister on Friday at 9 am in a simple ceremony at Raj Bhavan. “We submitted the resolution passed at the DMK Legislature Party on Tuesday and staked claim to form the government,” DMK Rajya Sabha MP and organising secretary R S Bharathi told reporters. Hours later, officials from the Raj Bhavan met Stalin and discussed the swearing-in ceremony. Invitations for the ceremony are being sent out to VVIPs. Sources said Stalin is likely to firm up the names for his Cabinet by Wednesday or Thursday, with party leaders hoping that the ministry will be a mix of young faces and experienced seniors. The DMK is coming to power in Tamil Nadu after a gap of 10 years and there is intense lobbying for ministerial positions in the party. Party IT wing chief P T R Thiaga Rajan, Anbil Mahesh, who hails from a traditional DMK family and shares an excellent rapport with Udhayanidhi Stalin, and former Chennai Mayor Ma Subramanian are some of the leaders who are likely to be made ministers for the first time. Seniors like K Ponmudy, K N Nehru, I Periyasamy, and former ministers Thangam Thennarasu, and Geetha Jeevan are also likely to be inducted into the cabinet. The DMK has won 133 seats on its own, while its allies have emerged victorious in 26 seats. Since the DMK government will assume office during a pandemic, there will be no time to settle down – Stalin has already begun chairing Covid-19 review meetings with Chief Secretary Rajiv Ranjan and other officials.  The new government has a multitude of issues to contend with like controlling the spread of Covid-19, ramping up vaccination drive, attending to the poor fiscal health of the state, and fulfilling a slew of promises made in the election manifesto. Keeping Covid-19 cases under check, swinging into action to keep the medical infrastructure ready for any third wave and accelerating the vaccination drive – Tamil Nadu has one of the lowest numbers – would be the biggest challenges for the new dispensation. The state added over 21,000 cases on Tuesday and hospital beds, including those created during the pandemic, are filling up fast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-governor-invites-dmk-chief-mk-stalin-to-form-govt-oath-taking-ceremony-on-may-7-982521.html
05-05-2021||South||Mar Chrysostom dies at the age of 104||Metropolitian Emeritus of the Malankara Mar Thomas Syrian Church Philipose Mar Chrysostom died at his native place, Pathanamthitta, in Kerala in the early hours of Wednesday. He was 104. Christostm was suffering from age-related illness. Funeral rites will be held on Thursday. My heartfelt condolences for the passing of His Grace the Most Rev. Dr. Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan Thirumeni. A recipient of the Padma Bhushan in 2018, Chrysostom served as bishop for over 65 years and was considered to be one of the longest-serving bishops. Despite his old age, he remained active till recently and enjoyed a personal rapport with those in the socio-cultural and political fields. He was also well known for his humour sense. After his priesthood studies at the United Theological College in Bengaluru in 1940s, he was ordained in 1944. He stepped down from official responsibilities in 2007. Saddened by the demise of His Grace The Most Rev. Dr. Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan. He will be remembered for his rich theological knowledge and many efforts to remove human suffering. Condolences to the members of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church. Condoling over the death of Chrysostam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that he would be remembered for his rich theological knowledge and efforts to remove human suffering. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other prominent leaders also condoled the death of Chrysostam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mar-chrysostom-dies-at-the-age-of-104-982535.html
05-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu election results 2021: Smaller parties swayed outcome in many seats||MK Stalin-led DMK will be returning to power after a hiatus of 10 years, defeating the ruling AIADMK in the Tamil Nadu assembly elections on May 2. Around 85 percent of the vote share in Tamil Nadu were bagged by DMK and AIADMK, while the smaller parties failed to win a single seat. Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) and TTV Dhinakaran’s Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) bagged 2.52 percent and 2.35 percent vote share respectively. However, they managed enough votes to swerve the results in several seats. AMMK drew its votes from the traditional AIADMK vote bank. This hurt the incumbent party's prospects, especially in close contests, in 20-odd seats. Even though the AIADMK alliance managed to get a vote share of more than 39 percent this time as against 40.88 percent in 2016, these 20 seats would have improved its position. Tamil nationalist leader Seeman’s Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) failed to win a seat, but improved its vote share to 6.58 percent — up from one percent in the last assembly election and four percent in the 2019 parliamentary elections. The party made a difference in the election as it affected the calculations of both the DMK and the AIADMK in many seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-election-results-2021-smaller-parties-swayed-outcome-in-many-seats-982540.html
05-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis: Four-day lockdown in Hassan district from May 6||After Kodagu district administration announced a five-day lockdown from Tuesday, Hassan district has now announced a four-day lockdown to be implemented from Thursday. This decision has been taken to contain the spread of Covid-19. According to sources, district in-charge Minister K Gopalaiah, who held a review meeting on Covid management in Hassan district on Wednesday, suggested that the district administration toughen the rules and go for a lockdown similar to Kodagu. Following this, the district administration announced a four-day lockdown effective from May 6, until further orders. As per the order, the district will be under lockdown on Saturday, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday. It will be open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. However, shops selling essential items will be open only till 10 am on the three days, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-four-day-lockdown-in-hassan-district-from-may-6-982565.html
05-05-2021||South||Baby girl, born to 71-year-old woman in Kerala, dies of asphyxiation||In a tragic incident, a one-and-a-half-month-old baby girl, born to a 71-year-old woman in Kerala, died of asphyxiation after the infant choked on milk. Elderly couple Sudharma and Surendran, hailing from Ramapuram near Kayamkulam on the suburbs of Alappuzha district, had decided to have a child to recover from the pain of their only son Sujith's death. Sudharma reportedly conceived through assisted reproductive technology and she delivered the baby at the Alappuzha Government Medical College Hospital on March 18. The baby weighed only 1,100 grams and was kept at the neonatal ICU for more than a month. The couple left the hospital with the baby on April 28. On Monday night, the baby was rushed to hospital after she choked on milk. However, hospital authorities declared the infant dead on arrival. The cause of death was ascertained to be asphyxiation. A doctor at the medical college told DH that the baby was quite healthy when she was discharged and this was a really unfortunate incident. The mother had age-related health issues and was informed about the risks in pregnancy. But she was determined to have a baby.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/baby-girl-born-to-71-year-old-woman-in-kerala-dies-of-asphyxiation-982660.html
05-05-2021||South||Around 100 priests contract Covid-19, two die following retreat in Kerala||Around 100 priests of the Church of South India (CSI) were reported to have got Covid infection after participating in a retreat of the South Kerala diocese that was conducted by flouting social distancing norms. Two of the infected were also reported to have passed away. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that it was unfortunate that such gatherings were being organised despite frequent alerts by the government. It would be enquired into and further actions would be initiated, he said. Around 400 priests reportedly participated in the three-day retreat from April 13 to 17 at a church in Munnar, a high-range tourist destination in the Idukki district. While there were reports that the bishop of the South Kerala diocese Dharmaraj Rasalam was also got infected, the church authorities were not available for giving formal comments on the allegation that the retreat was conducted flouting Covid norms. Some church officials were also maintaining that the cause of death of two vicars of churches in Thiruvananthapuram was not due to Covid as they died after recovering from the infection. A section of the CSI church had already submitted petitions to the state government seeking action against the diocese authorities for conducting the event flouting social distance norms. CSI Trust Association secretary Jacob Mathew said that from the pictures of the retreat it was evident that social distancing norms were hardly followed at the retreat. . The church members were also reportedly taken to the retreat centre in buses with everyone sitting too closely. He also said that a retreat of the central Kerala diocese and election of the Kochi diocese was called off owing to the Covid situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/around-100-priests-contract-covid-19-two-die-following-retreat-in-kerala-982665.html
05-05-2021||South||Stalin asks Tamil Nadu chief secy to set up 'war room' for coordination of Covid-19 efforts||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister-elect M K Stalin on Wednesday asked the Chief Secretary to immediately set up a “war room” to help coordinate efforts to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The state, he said, was facing “medical emergency-like” situation. In a statement issued hours after Governor Banwarilal Purohit appointed him as chief minister, Stalin also appealed to private hospitals in the state to “fully commit” themselves to save lives by allotting additional beds for those infected with Covid-19, apart from the 50 percent mandatory allocation. He also asked private hospitals to subsidise the treatment as far as possible. Stalin, who held a review meeting with top government officials on Tuesday, said Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan had been asked to set up the war room immediately. The new set-up will have details about the number of beds needed, stock of vaccines, and oxygen needs and current stock, as well as steer the efforts both district-wise and state-wise. He also appreciated the efforts of healthcare workers, including doctors, in the government sector in saving lives round-the-clock, and stressed the need for private hospitals to step up by by allocating more beds for those infected with the virus. “This has become a medical emergency. The private hospital should commit themselves fully to save people,” Stalin said. Noting that private hospitals have already allotted 50 percent of beds to Covid-19 patients, Stalin asked them to provide more beds to such patients due to an increase in the number of cases. The CM-elect also asked private hospitals to publish details of availability of normal beds, and beds with oxygen facilities on their websites. Stalin will be sworn in as chief minister on Friday at a simple ceremony in Raj Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-asks-tamil-nadu-chief-secy-to-set-up-war-room-for-coordination-of-covid-19-efforts-982667.html
05-05-2021||South||Activists urge M K Stalin to not allow reopening of Sterlite Copper plant||Sixty-seven prominent personalities, including popular actor Vijay Sethupathi, and ace filmmaker Vetri Maaran, on Wednesday, wrote to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister-elect M K Stalin demanding not allowing reopening of the Sterlite Copper plant, and scrapping the eight-way lane between Chennai and Salem. In a petition, they said that directors of Vedanta, owner of Sterlite Copper, should be prosecuted for their “environmental crimes”, while demanding scrapping of the Chennai-Salem highway, Kanyakumari International Container Terminal, the Chittoor-Thachur six-lane Expressway, and setting up of four additional nuclear reactors in Koodankulam. They also asked the new government to withdraw the erstwhile administration’s request for the denotification of Vedanthangal Sanctuary, and for the reduction of protective buffers for the Pulicat Sanctuary. They also wanted Tamil Nadu to prohibit the use of Genetically Engineered seeds, and appealed the new administration to bring in a comprehensive groundwater legislation with stringent norms to limit commercial extraction and use. “Evolve comprehensive policies against the forced eviction of economically-disadvantaged urban communities to distant and often environmentally-vulnerable areas, and for environmental and water body restoration that is socially inclusive and prioritises the urban aspirations of the city’s poor,” the petition signed by 67 prominent personalities said. Besides enacting state-level laws to strengthen and realise the objectives of the CRZ and EIA Notifications, the petition called on the government to strengthen and build capacity among panchayat- and ward-level committees to monitor and act against environmentally degrading practices within their jurisdiction. They also nudged the government to strengthen the pledge against hydrocarbon exploitation in the delta by including all delta districts and all hydrocarbon activity, including refining and processing. “Promote decentralised, small-scale renewable energy systems and announce an end to all proposed and in-the-pipeline coal thermal power projects in the state,” they further wrote. The petition began with the signatories congratulating Stalin for steering the DMK to a victory and expressed happiness that the “spirit of Dravidianism, inclusivity, and social justice have prevailed over religious majoritarianism, caste politics, and linguistic purism.” The signatories include Carnatic singer T M Krishna, educationist V Vasanthi Devi, D Hariparanthaman, former judge of the Madras High Court, environmental activist Nityanand Jayaraman, retired bureaucrat M G Devasahayam, and G Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/activists-urge-m-k-stalin-to-not-allow-reopening-of-sterlite-copper-plant-982676.html
05-05-2021||South||VIT Engineering Entrance exam 2021 to be held online||The VIT Engineering Engineering Entrance Examination (VITEEE) 2021 for admissions into the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) will be conducted as online remote proctored examination on May 28, 29, and 31, 2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The applications will be closed on May 20, 2021. Candidates are requested to complete the application at the earliest and take the examinations in a safe environment, the VIT said in a statement on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vit-engineering-entrance-exam-2021-to-be-held-online-982677.html
05-05-2021||South||M K Stalin appointed Tamil Nadu Chief Minister||Governor Banwarilal Purohit appointed DMK president M K Stalin as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu after he submitted a letter on his election as legislature party leader, the Raj Bhavan said on Wednesday. Stalin called on Purohit at the Raj Bhavan and "submitted a letter intimating of his election as the leader of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Legislature party." Governor Purohit appointed him as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and invited him to form the ministry and to have the swearing-in-ceremony on 7 May at 9 am at Raj Bhavan, an official release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-appointed-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-982688.html
05-05-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala asks Centre to allot 1,000 MT oxygen||With the requirement of oxygen for Covid care in Kerala increasing, the state government urged the Centre to allot at least 1,000 MT from the oxygen being imported to the country. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. He urged that as the Covid patients in Kerala was increasing drastically the demand for oxygen had also gone up and hence the state required the Centre's support. The state sought 500 MT from the initial import and another 500 MT from later on. The state also sought oxygen supply from any of the nearby steel plants. The daily fresh Covid cases in the state crossed the 40,000 mark on Wednesday with 41,953 fresh cases being reported and the test positivity rate remained at 25.69 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-asks-centre-to-allot-1000-mt-oxygen-982691.html
05-05-2021||State||People are dying: HC slams Centre over oxygen shortage||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the Union Government to submit by Wednesday whether it can ad hoc increase the quota of oxygen to the state. The counsel representing the Centre, however, said a decision can be taken only after consultation, as there was more than one ministry involved. “Keep aside your process, people are dying. When will you increase the quota,” a special bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar asked the Union government.  “We are putting the central government on notice that the prayer for issuing directions for increasing the quota will have to be considered tomorrow (May 5) at 10.30 am,” it said. The state government had submitted that while the quota was increased from 802 tonnes to 865 tonnes, the actual requirement, as on May 5, stands at 1,792 tonnes per day. The special bench advanced the hearing of Covid-19 matters by a day after noticing media reports about acute shortage in oxygen supply. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi submitted that assuming that 17 per cent of the active cases will require oxygenated beds and 3 per cent will require ICU beds, the number of active cases may reach 3.95 lakh and thus, the requirement is likely to go up to 1,792 tonnes by May 5, 2021. He said that through a letter dated April 30, the state has informed the Union Commerce Secretary that it would require at least 1,162 tonnes oxygen supply per day. Meanwhile, it was submitted across the Bar that the allocation of oxygen by the Centre was discriminatory. They said some states with less number of cases have been allocated more quota than Karnataka. The bench asked the Centre if there was any justification, and asked the advocates to place on record data on positive cases, active cases and quota of oxygen allotted to each state. Remdesivir requirement The state informed the high court that it has placed a request for 4-5 lakh remdesivir injection vials for the period from May 1 to May 15. As projected, if the cases go up to 4,47,000 per day by May 10, the daily requirement will be 44,500 vials. According to the state government, the Centre has allotted 3,01,300 vials for the period between April 21 and May 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/people-are-dying-hc-slams-centre-over-oxygen-shortage-982429.html
05-05-2021||State||Karnataka appoints retired HC judge to probe Chamarajanagar deaths||The BS Yediyurappa administration on Wednesday appointed retired Karnataka High Court judge BA Patil to enquire into the death of two dozen patients in Chamarajanagar.  In a notification issued by the Home Department, this one-man Commission of Inquiry is required “to inquire into the circumstances and events leading to the death of Covid-19 patients in District Hospital, Chamarajanagar on May 3, 2021, reportedly due to the scarcity of oxygen and any further similar incidents...” The order says the Commission of Inquiry should submit its report within one month.  Justice Patil’s appointment comes a day after the Karnataka High Court said the Chamarajanagar tragedy, where 24 patients died due to oxygen shortage, is a fit case for an enquiry by a retired HC judge.  Soon after the incident, the state government appointed IAS officer Shivayogi Kalasad for an inquiry. He is due to submit his report.  The Opposition Congress had demanded a judicial inquiry saying it had no faith in a probe led by an IAS officer.  The Commission of Inquiry headed by Justice Patil will be based out of Mysuru. According to the notification, the Commission of Inquiry “shall exercise all the powers under Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 and under the Code of Civil Procedure to conduct inquiry into the above incidents”.  Deputy commissioners of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar have been asked to “immediately” hand over all documents and material evidence to the Commissioner for Health & Family Welfare, who will submit them to the inquiry commission. The health commissioner has also been asked to make arrangements for remuneration, allowances, office accommodation, mobility, staff and other necessary infrastructure for the inquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-appoints-retired-hc-judge-to-probe-chamarajanagar-deaths-982508.html
05-05-2021||State||Mysuru artist Sudha Venkatesh passes away at 69||Artist Sudha Venkatesh, daughter of Mysore Palace artist M Ramarasaiah. passed away on Monday. She was 69. Sudha was known for her Mysore style of painting and was also a Ganjifa artist. She learnt the skills from her father and has won several awards like the Karnataka Lalit Kala Academy award, the Mysore Dasara award, and several national and state awards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-artist-sudha-venkatesh-passes-away-at-69-982533.html
05-05-2021||State||IT industry veteran Nandan Nilekani helps revamp bed allocation software||Veteren entrepreneur of information technology sector Nandan Nelekani has dispatched a team of experts to redesign the BBMP software for allocating beds to Covid-19 patients, Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya said even as the civic body began a crackdown on errant staffers and officials involved in the alleged scam. Surya said Nilekani, co-founder of Infosys, had dispatched a team of software architects to redesign the BBMP bed allocation software. “The team will redesign the bed booking software to make it efficient, transparent, and minimise manual intervention,” he said. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who ordered an investigation into the scam alleged by the MP, welcomed the move. The BBMP is investigating 12 individual cases in detail. “Along with the individual cases, we are also collecting logs and other information, to determine those involved in the malpractice,” said BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. We will analyse these to determine how many of them were bonafide cases and which were not, he said. He added that a preliminary report would be ready soon. Meanwhile, the redesigning of the software will be complemented by changes on the ground. At the management level, every BBMP war room will now be managed by a government official along with a KAS officer. The officials will supervise the process and prevent the entry of unauthorised persons into the system. Speaking about the software, the Chief Commissioner said that as a first step, they plan to implement strict login conditions. “Authorisation will be provided to limited persons and their logins will be strictly mapped to BBMP machines. We will make sure they cannot login from any outside machines,” Gupta said. “We will improve the software to make it robust and transparent. If need be, we will implement a new software,” he added. According to a senior BBMP official, the civic body is also planning on changing the agency which was roped in to run the bed allocation and war room activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/it-industry-veteran-nandan-nilekani-helps-revamp-bed-allocation-software-982626.html
05-05-2021||State||From the Newsroom: Awaiting directions from PM on full-fledged lockdown, says BSY||In your evening news brief, two of the Indian delegation for G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting test positive for Covid-19; Supreme court asks Centre about the oxygen supply it has made to the national capital since May 3, and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa says he is awaiting directions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on whether or not to implement a full-fledged lockdown.  Here is the top news of May 5, 2021:   Two members of the small delegation accompanying External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to the UK have tested positive for Covid-19, forcing him to rework his official schedule in London. Jaishankar had arrived in London on Monday for a four-day visit at the invitation of UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab to join the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting as one of the guest ministers.   Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to Delhi, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday while it asked the Centre about the supply it has made to the national capital since May 3. Let us ensure lives are saved," it said. The top court is hearing Centre's appeal against Delhi High Court's Tuesday order of issuing contempt notice and seeking personal appearance of its officials for non-compliance with the directions on supply of oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients in the national capital.   Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said he was awaiting directions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on whether or not a full-fledged lockdown should be imposed in the state to bring Covid-19 under control.  Speculation is rife that Karnataka might consider extending its ‘close down’ beyond May 12, when it is scheduled to end.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-awaiting-directions-from-pm-on-full-fledged-lockdown-says-bsy-982632.html
05-05-2021||State||Karnataka achieves one crore vaccinations: K Sudhakar||Karnataka on Wednesday crossed the one crore mark in inoculation of COVID-19 vaccines, Health Minister K Sudhakar said. "Karnataka crossed 1 crore inoculations of Covid-19 vaccine today. K'taka has received 1,05,49,970 doses from Centre & State Govt has procured 3 lakh doses," the Minister tweeted. Karnataka crossed 1 crore inoculations of Covid-19 vaccine today. K'taka has received 1,05,49,970 doses from Centre & State Govt has procured 3 lakh doses. Vaccine is our biggest weapon to defeat pandemic & Govt is leaving no stone unturned to vaccinate everyone at the earliest. Noting that the vaccine is the biggest weapon to defeat the virus, Sudhakar said the government is leaving no stone unturned to inoculate everyone at the earliest. According to the health department officials, these inoculations comprise first and the second doses. On Tuesday alone, the state government has achieved 99.36 lakh inoculations. The Karnataka government had kept the vaccination of people between 18 years and above symbolic as it is awaiting the vaccines to arrive from the manufacturers. The state has decided to vaccinate all those eligible for free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-achieves-one-crore-vaccinations-k-sudhakar-982659.html
05-05-2021||State||MLA M P Renukacharya demands Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar's resignation over Chamarajanagar tragedy||MLA and chief minister's political secretary M P Renukacharya on Wednesday demanded that Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar step down from the post owning moral responsibility for the death of 24 Covid-19 patients for want of oxygen in Chamarajanagar. Speaking to media persons here on Wednesday, he said, "Many Covid patients have died for want of oxygen in Bengaluru and Chamarajanagar. But, the minister has not made any attempt to know the ongoing developments in the department. So, what is he doing as health minister?" Renukacharya said, "Sudhakar obtained two portfolios- medical education and health ministry by forcing the chief minister. But he has failed to maintain healthy ministry. So, how can Sudhakar handle two portfolios?" "Covid deaths are rising every day due to the apathy of the officials in some parts of the state including Bengaluru. Some corrupt officials are looting money by misusing the situation. The leaders of the Opposition party are blaming the government and the health minister's inefficiency was the reason for it," he added. He also questioned the minister for not initiating action against those who are selling beds with oxygen facilities. Some ministers in the Cabinet headed by B S Yediyurappa have failed to discharge their duties effectively and they are tarnishing the image of the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-m-p-renukacharya-demands-karnataka-health-minister-dr-k-sudhakars-resignation-over-chamarajanagar-tragedy-982697.html
05-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Oxygen crisis deepens in Karnataka with 7 deaths in Kalaburagi and Belagavi govt hospitals||Oxygen crisis deepened in certain parts of Karnataka on Tuesday, with the deaths of seven Covid patients in Kalaburagi and Belagavi allegedly due to oxygen shortage. According to sources, four people died in the morning in Kalaburagi government hospital and three in Belagavi government hospital allegedly due to shortage of the life saving gas. However, Mining and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani, who is in-charge of Kalaburagi district, dismissed the allegation saying that those who died had Covid infection at an advanced stage. These incidents came close on the heels of deaths of 24 Covid patients in the last two days in Chamarajanagar district hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage. However, leader of opposition and former chief minister Siddaramaiah, who visited Chamarajanagar district hospital on Tuesday, claimed that 28 and not 23 people had died in the hospital from Sunday morning to Monday morning. He alleged the incident reflected badly on the governance and demanded the resignation of health minister Dr K Sudhakar for the poor handling of the Covid-19 situation. Taking a serious view of the oxygen shortage, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday assigned the Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar to arrange oxygen supply and coordinate with the Centre to get the state's quota of oxygen. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru a few hospitals raised an alarm against the oxygen shortage to treat the critically ill Covid patients. An executive of the Chaitanya Medical Centre in Yelahanka said there was an oxygen crisis on Monday due to which they had to shift all their Covid patients to other hospitals. "Now we have got the stock of oxygen, which would last for two to three days, but yesterday we shifted all our patients to other hospitals as the stock had exhausted," the executive said. Medax Hospitals in RT Nagar here had also flagged the shortage of oxygen. In his letter to the relatives of the Covid patients, the medical director of the hospital Dr Srihari R Shapur wrote that the facility was running out of oxygen and asked them to make necessary arrangements in other hospitals. "This is to inform you that we are running out of oxygen supply. We are unable to provide oxygen care for the patient.We have been informed since May 1 6 pm. We will shortly run out of oxygen by 5 pm on May 3. Kindly arrange for beds in different hospitals. We regret this situation," Dr Srihari stated in the letter. Rajmahal hospital too wrote to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city corporation) stating that the vendor company was not supplying oxygen despite repeated requests. "In this scenario, managing 30 plus Covid patients is becoming a challenge.We need your immediate intervention and assistance to tide over the situation," the manager of the hospital said in the letter. The Bengaluru Rural MP D K Suresh too expressed concern over the paucity of the life-saving gas in Rajarajeshwari Medical College in the city. In his video message on Monday, he asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to arrange oxygen for the Covid patients. Karnataka on Tuesday reported 44,631 new Covid-19 cases and 292 deaths, taking the caseload and fatalities to 16,90,934 and 16,538 respectively, the health department said. The state has 4,64,363 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/oxygen-crisis-deepens-in-karnataka-with-7-deaths-in-kalaburagi-and-belagavi-govt-hospitals-982380.html
05-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Alert staff avert disaster in Mysuru hospital||A major disaster was averted at Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital of the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC & RI), also a Covid Hospital, in the city on Tuesday evening. As the oxygen tank was frozen due to some technical problem, the pipes were blocked and the hospital staff noticed this. They immediately alerted the higher officials. The fire and emergency service department personnel were called. They said they received a call by 8 pm and rushed to the spot. They sprayed water on the pipes and the tank to bring the temperature to normal. The officials said, it is a 6,000- kilo litre capacity liquid oxygen plant and the gas is stored under -16 to -18 degree Celsius. The hospital has 800 Covid patients||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/alert-staff-avert-disaster-in-mysuru-hospital-982416.html
05-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka short of 927 metric tonnes of oxygen per day||Karnataka is short of 927 metric tonnes of oxygen per day, as per projections made for the State, despite the 865 metric tonnes increased allocation it currently receives. In a letter dated April 30, addressed to A Giridhar, Commerce Secretary, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce and Industries, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar stated: “As per GOI norms, oxygen demand for the State of Karnataka is projected assuming that 17 per cent of the total active cases will require oxygenated beds and 3 per cent will require ICU beds. Based on this norm, the requirement is likely to go up to 1,792 metric tonnes by May 5, in case active Covid cases reach 3.95 lakh.” But Karnataka already had more than 4.64 lakh active cases as of May 4. If these numbers are taken into account, the projected requirement is in fact higher than the oxygen requested from the Centre. Just like there is a state-wise allocation of oxygen, there is no district-wise allocation of oxygen. Almost all districts DH spoke with said their requirement exceeds the current supply to the district.  Chamarajanagar District Health Officer M C Ravi told DH, “We need 300-350 jumbo oxygen cylinders daily along with what can be store in our 6,000 litres liquid oxygen tank. We keep a buffer stock of 150 cylinders and distribute the rest to the peripheral health facilities. One cylinder has 7,000 litres of oxygen. We aren’t supplied the entire oxygen requirement for the day at once. It comes in instalments like 100 cylinders or 150 cylinders.” Gopal Rao Bhandari, Assistant Drug Controller, Kalaburagi said, “Out of three metric tonnes of oxygen we need, we are getting only 2.5 metric tonnes. We used to get 100 jumbo cylinders from Raichur district but on the instructions of the district administration there against sending it to other districts, this supply has stopped.” However, on a positive note, Ballari District Health Officer Dr H L Janardhan said due to the proximity to oxygen plants in the district, they always have an excess of 10,000 litres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-short-of-927-metric-tonnes-of-oxygen-per-day-982418.html
05-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Chamarajanagar hospital tragedy fit for probe by retd HC judge'||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday said the Chamarajanagar tragedy, where 24 patients died due to oxygen shortage, is a fit case for an enquiry by a retired high court judge. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka asked Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi to make a submission on this. “Prima facie, we are of the view that considering the seriousness of the incident, this is a fit case where an enquiry will have to be conducted by a retired judge of this court. Similar incidents are happening in other districts as well. We propose to hear the Advocate General on this issue,” the bench said. Earlier, the AG submitted that the state government has taken the issue seriously and senior IAS officer Shivayogi Kalasad has been deputed to the spot and asked to submit a preliminary report. The AG said the report is expected to be filed by Wednesday evening or Thursday morning. He also said that a web portal has been set up wherein hospital authorities place their orders. Subsequently, equitable and fair distribution of oxygen is done. Meanwhile, the advocates for the petitioners pointed out that deaths occurred due to lack of oxygen supply in Kalaburagi. A counsel said that at least 10 hospitals in Bengaluru tried to reach out to the state government on Twitter about shortage. Another counsel said there is a shortage of oxygen supply in Kolar district as well. The bench sought to know the existing guidelines for allocation of oxygen to hospitals in cities/districts. "The state government will have to clarify the mechanism applicable to those districts like Chamarajanagar where there are no bottling plants and cylinders will have to be brought from adjacent districts," the bench said. The court said whether a buffer quota can be maintained at district centres which can be used for emergencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chamarajanagar-hospital-tragedy-fit-for-probe-by-retd-hc-judge-982431.html
05-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Awaiting PM’s directions, says Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa on full-fledged lockdown||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday said he was awaiting directions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on whether or not a full-fledged lockdown should be imposed in the state to bring Covid-19 under control.  “The country’s PM is scheduled to speak...whatever he says and decides, we will have to implement. We’re waiting for his directions. Based on his directives, we will decide in the evening,” Yediyurappa told reporters on the sidelines of former chief minister KC Reddy’s 119th birth anniversary.  Speculation is rife that Karnataka might consider extending its ‘close down’ beyond May 12, when it is scheduled to end. The 2-week ‘close down’, which is akin to a lockdown, prohibits movement of people and essential shops are allowed to operate only for a few hours in the morning. Earlier this week, the Supreme Court asked the Centre and state governments to consider imposing a ban on mass gatherings and super-spreader events, as well as bring about a lockdown, to curb the spread of the coronavirus "in the interest of public welfare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/awaiting-pm-s-directions-says-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-on-full-fledged-lockdown-982495.html
05-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||You may get your Covid test result in Karnataka within 7 hours soon||With Covid-19 test results notorious for delays, the Karnataka government will ensure that they are available within seven hours, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, the Covid-19 Task Force chairperson, said on Wednesday. According to Narayan, Covid-19 test results are delivered within seven hours at the KC General Hospital in Malleswaram, his constituency. "This will be expanded to the entire state," he said. "Earlier it used to take 72 hours to get results after samples reached the laboratory. Faster results will enable early detection of the infection and commencement of treatment," he said. Narayan, in a statement, also said that measures would be taken to conduct blood tests of those in home isolation. The blood test will help to know the condition of the infected patient and find out inflammatory markers, he said. Even as the state is struggling to meet oxygen requirements, the minister said that the Centre had been requested to allow Karnataka to utilise all the oxygen produced in the state. Currently, there is supply of 850 MT of oxygen to the state. If the demand for oxygen increases further, arrangements will be done to get it from other states or from other countries," he stated. As for the antiviral remdesivir, until now the supply was limited to 10,000 vials per day. This will be increased to 20,000 vials per day for the next five days. To curb any black marketing of the drug, the names of the patients for whom it is administered will be recorded and made public to ensure transparency, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/you-may-get-your-covid-test-result-in-karnataka-within-7-hours-soon-982696.html
05-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Never tried to communalise bed-blocking scam, says Tejasvi Surya||BJP’s Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya has rejected allegations that he ‘communalised’ the issue of irregularities in Covid-19 bed-blocking in Bengaluru.  There is outrage on social media over a video of Surya reading out a list of Muslim names, which has gone viral. The Opposition Congress said Surya chose to target Muslims.  “Two days before I went to the war room, the Joint Commissioner informed me that he had removed a few people and gave me the list. That list had all these names. I merely read out those names and asked how they were appointed, on what basis and by which agency. I never made any allegations against any of them. But, when have facts ever been important to the Congress or to journalists who sympathise with them?” Surya told DH.  “They are now trying to portray that I got them removed. But, they had been removed already. To say that those people were sacked because of me is factually wrong,” Surya, the BJP Yuva Morcha national president, added.  Earlier in the day, BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta corroborated this. “According to the information I have, these 15-17 people were sacked a couple of days ago. They were hired through a company, a contracting agency. All staff in the Covid-19 war rooms are temporary,” Gupta said.  Surya also said that other statements that were made during his visit to the war-room on Tuesday “were not mine”.  Surya, along with MLAs Ravi Subramanya (Basavanagudi), Satish Reddy (Bommanahalli) and Uday Garudachar (Chickpet) visited the BBMP South war room Tuesday and went public with their claims, for which they showed specific examples as proof, on irregularities in blocking beds for Covid-19 patients.  After their visit, the list of the 17 Muslims whose names Surya read out began circulating on social media along with that of BBMP Joint Commissioner Sarfaraz Khan.  While Khan clarified that he had nothing to do with the war room, Surya called him up to clarify. “(Khan) had written a Facebook post. I called him up as a goodwill and genuine gesture. I told him I never brought up his name and that he need not feel that he was being targeted,” the MP said.  “Others may want to divert attention, but my focus remains only and only on the beds scam that is costing the lives of the people of Bengaluru,” Surya said. "As we speak, we're trying to build a new software for bed allotment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/never-tried-to-communalise-bed-blocking-scam-says-tejasvi-surya-982699.html
05-05-2021||West||Over 400 get jabs in Mumbai's first drive-in vaccination centre||As many as 417 persons were administered Covid-19 vaccine jabs at a drive-in inoculation center set up by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on the first day, a civic official said on Tuesday evening. The civic body on Tuesday launched the city's first drive-in vaccination center where specially-abled people and senior citizens can get vaccine doses while sitting in a vehicle, without standing in a queue. The facility has been set up in a parking lot at Kohinoor Tower in Dadar area for inoculating those above the age of 45 years. There are two booths where 50 vehicles each can wait in a queue before vaccination, and some 100 vehicles can be parked during post-vaccination observation period, the official said. If a person who has received a jab develops any adverse reaction, he or she can sound the horn. Eight doctors and 18 nurses have been deployed at the center, and if sufficient stock of vaccine doses is available, it has the capacity to vaccinate around 5,000 persons a day, the official said. The BMC has set up over 135 vaccination centers across Mumbai since the inoculation drive began on January 16 this year. As of Tuesday evening, a total of 24,86,827 vaccine doses had been administered in the city, according to the civic body. The BMC informed in a release that it was expecting to receive one lakh vaccine doses by late Tuesday night, so vaccination of those above 45 will take place between 12 noon to 5pm on Wednesday. Registration will be mandatory for those taking the first dose, while those taking the second dose can walk in without registration, the civic body said. Those in the 18 to 44 age group will be administered vaccine doses only at five existing centers between 9 am to 5pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-400-get-jabs-in-mumbais-first-drive-in-vaccination-centre-982449.html
05-05-2021||West||WR sets up Covid-19 isolation coaches in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh||As the Covid-19 crisis worsens, the Mumbai-headquartered Western Railway has set up isolation coaches in Maharashtra and neighbouring Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Isolation coaches have been made available by WR at Nandurbar and Palghar stations in Maharashtra; Sabarmati and Chandlodiya stations in Gujarat; as well as Tihi station near Indore in Madhya Pradesh – following requests from respective state governments. According to WR’s Chief Public Relations Officer Sumit Thakur,  a total of 386 isolation coaches have been prepared by Western Railway out of which 128 isolation coaches are available in Mumbai Division. Recently, a 21-coach rake has been made available at platform no. 3 of Palghar railway station in Maharashtra, in which the patients brought by the district administration will be kept in isolation for treatment.  Earlier, 21 isolation coaches were made available at Nandurbar railway station from 18 April, for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Till May 4, a total of 97 patients were admitted to these coaches, out of which 66 were discharged and currently 31 patients are undergoing treatment in these coaches. 'In Ratlam Division, 20 isolation coaches have been made available on platform no. 1 of Tihi railway from April 30 – and 15 patients are admitted in these coaches as on 4 May. Similarly, on 3 May, 19 isolation coaches have been provided in Ahmedabad region in Gujarat, wherein, 13 coaches have been placed on platform no. 5 of Sabarmati station while six coaches have been placed on platform no. 2 at Chandlodiya railway station. The 21 isolation coaches at Palghar station can accommodate 378 patients. Two oxygen cylinders are provided in each coach. Special care has been taken for maintaining cleanliness in these coaches. The windows on either side of the coaches are covered with mosquito nets. Bedrolls and Dustbins are provided for each patient. One bathroom and three toilets are available in each coach. All coaches have been provided with water and electricity. To beat the summer heat and to control the temperature inside the coach, the roofs of the coaches are covered with jute bags which are sprinkled with water regularly. There is a separate coach for doctors and medical staff who will attend and nurse the Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wr-sets-up-covid-19-isolation-coaches-in-maharashtra-gujarat-madhya-pradesh-982472.html
05-05-2021||West||Maharashtra: Now comes VaccineOnWheels||At a time when people are running helter-skelter for vaccines, here comes VaccineOnWheels. The initiative has started running in Pune, the cultural capital of Maharashtra, and, one of the worst Covid-19 hotspots of India. While five such set-ups are running in the areas under Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), 15 such are set to be commissioned by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The project runs on a public-private partnership model. “The Covid-19 pandemic has already affected many lives and unfortunately we are being hit by a second wave that is spreading fast. Currently the best remedy available is to get everybody vaccinated at the earliest. With this new initiative, we aim to accelerate the immunization rate for PMC and the state of Maharashtra by helping people to get vaccinated,” said PMC’s Additional Municipal Commissioner Rubal Agrawal. “Ours is a doctor-based Mobile Vaccination Clinic service. Our PPP model will enable stakeholder collaboration across industries, government, and NGOs to share a commitment in making available vaccination services even at grassroot levels,” says Jignesh Patel, Founder & CEO, VaccineOnWheels. “The first unit was rolled out on 17 April at PCMC and so far this unit has immunized more than 2,000 people at an average of more than 200 immunizations per day. By the end of May, we would have all the 20 VaccineOnVehicles running in Pune with each vehicle capable of providing 200-plus doses every day,” he said. According to VaccineOnWheels spokesperson Suchita Thakare the unit comprises a van/mobile ambulance, one doctor, two nurses, healthcare assistant, social worker and a driver.  “We need to have a proper set up which include three clear marked sections – area for registrations, vaccination area and waiting/observation area…it has to be done as per protocols,” she said, adding that the VaccineOnWheels can go anywhere – a school, gram-panchayat office or primary health centres. VaccineOnWheels also partnered with the Rotary Club of Pune Central to bring together NGOs and CSR partners to fund various resources for mobilization of the units. “Several companies and donors have expressed interest,” Patel said, adding that they are also in touch with Mumbai's Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal to start a similar initiative in the financial capital. “We would also be working in Telangana,” he said, adding that the plan is to introduce 100 such units across the country. Its unique PPP model will undertake a complex orchestration of multiple activities – from procurement to deployment, awareness to mobilization, registration to inoculation with support of multiple stakeholders. The partnership between stakeholders is built to enable transparency, ease of access, and equity that will collectively accelerate a return to normalcy. The organization aims to immunize over 1 million Indians in a span of 8 to 12 months in partnerships with various state governments across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-now-comes-vaccineonwheels-982494.html
05-05-2021||West||This headmaster takes on various avatars to remove Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy||Amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic crisis, one also gets to witness great efforts done by ordinary people. Meet Sachin Patki, a 42-year-old school headmaster from Nandurbar, who has taken up the role to eradicate vaccine hesitancy from this remote tribal district. Sachin dresses up as Vasudev, Lord Shiva, Lord Krishna, policeman, government official, and doctor to drive across his point - vaccine is the 'Ram-baan' answer to the Coronavirus pandemic. He roams in the village in various 'avatars' to ensure participation in the inoculation drive. "There is a lack of awareness and I am trying to reach out to people to ensure that they take vaccines," Patki told DH over the phone from Biladi in Nandurbar district. A teacher by profession, Patki is the Principal of Biladi Zilla Parishad Primary School. Popularly known as 'Sachin Sir', his efforts have been praised by Nandurbar District Collector Dr Rajendra Bharud. "Through folk art, he is telling people about vaccines in rural and Adivasi areas...he is doing a great service," said Dr Bharud. Patki, dressed in a new attire daily, goes around the village and its periphery - dancing, singing, reciting folktales and creating awareness. Because of the lockdown, the schools are shut and his school has been converted into a part quarantine facility, part vaccination centre. "We saw that not many people turned up when the first camp was held," he said, adding that this gave him the idea to educate people. "Some social workers and Anganwadi workers were driven out of the villages when they wanted to tell people about the vaccination camp," he said. Teachers assigned for the camp job — Sarla Patil and Sachin Bagal — would just kill time as very few turned up on the vaccination days. "I go from door to door and talk to people individually or very small groups," Patki said, adding that he also tells people about the importance of wearing masks, washing and sanitising hands, and physical distancing. Patki, who is accompanied by two teachers — Shantaram Wadile and Smita Budge — carry banners and posters. Besides, they also distribute sanitisers and masks. "The village has a population of over 1,800 persons...in the neighbourhood there are other villages...in the first camp just 35 people turned up...now the latest camp has seen 140 people coming in," said Patki noting that the initiative is yielding results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/this-headmaster-takes-on-various-avatars-to-remove-covid-19-vaccine-hesitancy-982514.html
05-05-2021||West||Over Rs 54 crore collected for mask violations in Mumbai in one year||The civic authorities in Mumbai have collected fines to the tune of over Rs 54 crore in the last one year from 26.87 lakh citizens who violated the Covid-19 mask rule in public places during the pandemic, an official said on Wednesday. As per the data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), as many as 4,314 people were caught without masks on Tuesday, of which 1,478 were nabbed by the city police. A total fine of Rs 5.67 lakh was collected from these offenders during the day, it stated. The BMC had made wearing masks or covering the mouth mandatory in public places in April 2020 due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, and violators were slapped with a fine of Rs 200. The civic body has deployed marshals to enforce mask rule at public places. Mumbai, one of the worst-affected metropolises in the country, has so far recorded 6,61,420 infections and 13,470 casualties. According to the civic body data, of the 26,87,339 violators of the mask rule, 23,50,159 were caught by the BMC, 3,13,289 by the police and 23,891 by the railway authorities. Of the total fine of over Rs 54 crore collected from the violators, Rs 47,36,62,800 were collected by the BMC, Rs 62,65,7,800 by the police and Rs 50,39,200 by the railway authorities, the release stated. The highest number of 1,36,707 violators were fined in K-East ward, which covers Andheri (east) and Sakinaka, followed by 1,34,159 from L ward that includes Kurla and parts of Sakinaka, it was stated. The least number of 36,337 citizens were caught from M-East ward that includes Chembur and Anushka Nagar, the release revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-rs-54-crore-collected-for-mask-violations-in-mumbai-in-one-year-982539.html
05-05-2021||West||Gujarat couple raises Rs 16 crore for treatment of son's genetic disorder||A couple from Gujarat has raised Rs 16 crore with the help of a crowdfunding platform to buy a gene therapy injection for the treatment of their 5-month-old son suffering from spinal muscular atrophy, a rare genetic disorder. The child was administered the injection at a private hospital in Mumbai on Wednesday, his father Rajdeepsinh Rathod told PTI. The spinal muscular atrophy is a genetic disorder in which a person cannot control the movement of muscles due to loss of nerve cells in the spinal cord and brain stem. This causes muscular weakness and affects breathing as well as movement of limbs. Rathod said he and his wife Jinalba managed to raise Rs 16 crore for their son Dhairyaraj's treatment within 42 days of launching the campaign in March this year, and expressed gratitude towards donors from Gujarat and other places, including foreign countries. While the cost of the gene therapy injection, manufactured by Swiss pharma giant Novartis, is Rs 16 crore in India, the Customs duty is about Rs 6.5 crore, which the Centre has already waived on humanitarian ground, said Rathod, a native of Kanesar village near Lunawada town of Gujarat's Mahisagar district. He said the gene therapy injection by Novartis, considered as one of the costliest drugs in the world, is the only treatment for spinal muscular atrophy and it has to be imported after placing the order. "The injection arrived from the US a few days back. We reached Mumbai on Tuesday and admitted our son in the hospital, where he was given the Zolgensma injection on Wednesday. It is a one-time gene therapy to treat children suffering from spinal muscular atrophy," he said. Rathod works at a private company and lives with his wife and son in neighbouring Godhra town of Panchmahal district. The couple learnt about their son's health disorder a month after his birth as he could barely move his hands and legs. "A doctor diagnosed my son with spinal muscular atrophy type-1, a rare genetic disorder which restricts muscular movements and breathing. We were warned that it could eventually prove fatal as the child grows," Rathod said. He said the gene therapy injection by Novartis was the only hope, but its price was too high for them. "Thus, I took the help of ImpactGuru platform for crowdfunding. We launched the campaign in March and managed to raise the money in just 42 days. The Centre also helped and waived the Customs duty of Rs 6.5 crore," he said. Rathod is now hopeful that his son would be able to lead a healthy life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-couple-raises-rs-16-crore-for-treatment-of-sons-genetic-disorder-982541.html
05-05-2021||West||High Court asks Chhattisgarh govt to modify vaccine plan for 18-44 age group||The Chhattisgarh High Court has directed the state government to modify its plan for the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 years and fix the ratio of allotment of vaccines in an equitable manner. A division bench of Chief Justice P R Ramachandra Menon and Justice Parth Prateem Sahu passed the order on Tuesday after hearing a suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL), under which intervention applications were filed challenging the state's order of giving priority in inoculation to economically weaker sections, said Palash Tiwari, advocate for one of the interveners. In an order issued on April 30, the Chhattisgarh government had announced that in the third phase of the vaccination drive, vaccines will be first given to the Antyodaya group (poorest among poor), followed by persons belonging to the below poverty line (BPL) category and then to those from the above poverty line category. Five persons had filed intervention applications challenging the state's order, Tiwari said on Wednesday. Demanding that the order be quashed, the petitioners had contended that prioritising vaccination based on people's 'financial status' is absolutely illegal, illogical and in violation of the constitutional provisions and the Centre's vaccination policy, he said. During the hearing on Tuesday, the state's Advocate General (AG) Satish Chandra Verma argued that as only a limited quantity of vaccine is available, a sub-classification was deemed necessary. The AG further said that the Antyodaya group mostly live in remote areas and are rather illiterate without much knowledge about the pandemic or the need to register for vaccination, as a result of which they are moving around freely, causing the disease to spread much faster. The High Court in its order said, “With regard to the submission made by the counsel for the petitioners that supply of vaccines has to be made on 'first come first serve' basis, according to this Court, this as such may not be appropriate to be implemented when it comes to the case of poor/rural sector that is Antyodaya and BPL groups." “…..if any steps are taken by the state government to have the benefit extended to such people as well, the object cannot be doubted. But, such a step has necessarily to be in conformity with the constitutional mandate and in tune with the guidelines issued by the Central government at the national level. Prima facie, the sub-classification with reference to the 'financial status' alone as now ordered may not be correct or sustainable,” it stated. The court asked the state government to formulate a scheme for the poor and set up help desks for spot registration and administering vaccines, without compromising the right of the other segments who are entitled to have equal treatment with regard to the right to life, Tiwari said. “We are of the view that the state government shall fix a reasonable ratio of allotment of vaccines to the 'Antyodaya Group', the persons belonging to the BPL and APL, with reference to all the relevant aspects, including vulnerability, chance to spread the disease and the number of eligible persons in the group,” the order said. The court has directed the state government to hold a discussion with secretaries of the relevant departments at the higher level to distribute the vaccines in an equitable manner and said the implementation of the state's order stands modified to the said extent, Tiwari said. The matter has been posted for next hearing on May 7, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/high-court-asks-chhattisgarh-govt-to-modify-vaccine-plan-for-18-44-age-group-982557.html
05-05-2021||West||Women take out religious procession to 'thank God' for saving them from Covid-19, 23 booked||At least two dozen men and women, including the village sarpanch, were arrested for holding religious processions in large numbers to "thank" their deity for "protecting from the coronavirus" in two separate FIRs Ahmedabad district police registered on May 3 and May 4. They were booked for breaching the social distancing guidelines and illegal assembly, disaster management act and the epidemic diseases act. The FIRs stated that the cases were registered after video footage of the religious processions and "jalabhishek" ceremony with DJs at the temples went viral. In the gathering, hundreds of women, carrying water pots on their heads, marched to the temples of their community's deity in Navapura under Changodar police station and in Nidhrad village under Sanand police station area. In both the case, a total of 23 persons have been booked. According to police, the persons from a particular community had taken out the procession in order to thank the god for "protecting them from coronavirus infection" for the fifteen days. "The events were organised in belief that the deity of this particular community had protected them from the covid-19 infection for the last fifteen days and hence women and men took out the procession to offer jalabhishek ritual, breaching all the guidelines of social distancing and illegal assembly. We registered the FIRs and arrested over two dozen people involved in the events that included village sarpanch," Ahmedabad rural Superintendent of Police Virendra Singh Yadav told DH. He added that for the past two days, the police have been holding meetings with village heads for counselling them not to take out such events. All the accused have been booked for violating police notification regarding public gatherings under section-188 of the Indian Penal Code, disaster management act and epidemic diseases act. Only a day before, the Gujarat government extended night curfew, from 8 PM to 6 AM, to seven more cities - Deesa, Ankaleshwar, Vapi, Modasa, Radhanpur, Kadi and Visnagar-in the state to stop the spread of Covid-19 infection. With this, a total of 36 cities are under restrictions. On Tuesday, state recorded over 13,050 new cases and 131 deaths, taking the total cases to 6,20,472 and death toll to 7,779.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/women-take-out-religious-procession-to-thank-god-for-saving-them-from-covid-19-23-booked-982572.html
05-05-2021||West||Goa, India's sun and sand tourist destination, has country's highest Covid-19 infection rate||India's Goa state, a hugely popular tourist destination on the western coast, has the highest rate of Covid-19 infections in the country, with up to one in every two people testing positive in recent weeks, government officials said on Wednesday. Leaders of the small state, ruled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's right-wing BJP party, were being blamed by the opposition and medical experts for ignoring pandemic protocols and allowing entry to tens of thousands of tourists this year in a bid to generate revenue. Two government-appointed medical officials working at the state's Covid-19 data collection centre in the capital Panaji said the positivity rates in tests since April were between 40% to 51%, the highest in the country. "The rate at which positive cases have increased represents the true picture of how fast the virus has spread," said one state official, adding that a complete lockdown and strict ban on entry of all tourists was the only way to slow down the surge. Nationwide, India has recorded over 2 crore infections since the start of the epidemic, the second-highest in the world after the United States, and over 2,25,000 deaths. Goa had been relatively spared the devastation but Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said the situation now was "grim". "Its true that Goa's positivity rate is very high and we are now seeking fresh allocation for medical oxygen and life-saving devices," said Rane. "A strict lockdown is the only way to limit the pandemic," he said, adding the tourism-led economy will only be able to withstand the crisis if the vaccination drive is accelerated. Runa Aggarwal, a volunteer at Covid Care Goa, a citizen initiative, said the group was requesting people who have recovered from Covid-19 to volunteer in government hospitals. "Given that so many of the hospital staff are stretched and there is just not enough bandwidth to attend to all the patients...at least volunteers can help with walking with them to the restroom, make them eat," said Aggarwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-indias-sun-and-sand-tourist-destination-has-countrys-highest-covid-19-infection-rate-982580.html
05-05-2021||West||Jolt to Maharashtra govt as Supreme Court strikes down Maratha reservation||Rattled by the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down the reservation to the Maratha community in Maharashtra, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government had decided to approach the National Commission for Backward Classes and asserted that the lawful fight for reservation will continue. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urged President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene. “In a way, the Supreme Court order indicates that the state has no right to provide quota but it is the right of the Central government and the President… It is my sincere request to the Prime Minister and the President to take an early decision on the Maratha reservation. In the past, the Centre has swung into action and took prompt actions in the Shah Bano case, the Atrocities Act, and cancellation of Article 370 by amending the Constitution of India. The Centre needs to show a similar urgency in case of Maratha quota,” Thackeray, the Shiv Sena President, said. Even as Thackeray pacified the Maratha community and the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress leaders went into a series of huddles, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis lashed out at the MVA dispensation for lack of coordination. “The Supreme Court turned down the law because of the MVA government,” he said. State BJP President Chandrakant Patil said, “It was the Fadnavis government which had appointed the Backward Class Commission, got its report and law approved in the state legislature and then convinced the High Court, which upheld the law. However, the MVA government could not ensure that law would be upheld in the Supreme Court.” However, all the political parties in Maharashtra described the Supreme Court verdict as “unfortunate”. “The Supreme Court verdict is unexpected and disappointing,” said Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP. Senior Congress leader and Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan, who steered a committee on the Maratha reservation, said that it is the same law that was passed when Fadnavis was the Chief Minister. “The law was passed unanimously in the Maharashtra Legislature,” he said, pointing out that the MVA government continued with the same set of lawyers as the previous BJP-led government.   The Maratha community, its organisations, politicians, and community leaders like Chhatrapati Udyanraje Bhosale and Sambhaji Chhatrapati – the descendants of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj – have been demanding reservation. Thackeray further pointed out that Sambhaji Chhatrapati has been demanding a meeting with the Prime Minister. "Why did he not get the appointment? This question is asked as providing quota to the Maratha community is a decision to be taken by the Prime Minister.” Meanwhile, Sambhaji Chhatrapati said, “The Supreme Court’s decision on Maratha reservation is unfortunate for the community. It is the duty of the government at both State and Centre to find a path forward, which will ensure Maratha reservation is granted in an uncontested manner.  Our demand is non-negotiable.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jolt-to-maharashtra-govt-as-supreme-court-strikes-down-maratha-reservation-982609.html
05-05-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray launches Mission Oxygen||As India prepares to combat the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday launched 'Mission Oxygen' to scale up the medical oxygen production from 1,200 MT to 3,000 MT over the next few weeks. “We have to prepare for the third wave…I spoke about it a few days ago…now the Centre has also warned,” Thackeray said in a webcast to the people of the state. According to him, the state now has an installed capacity of 1,295 MT whereas the need is around 1,800 MT. “We are working at the tehsil, district, and division levels,” he said, adding that oxygen is saving lives. The state is also working on launching an 'oxygen on wheels' concept. "The bottom line is very clear...we have to be self-sufficient in oxygen before the third wave hits us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-launches-mission-oxygen-982708.html
05-05-2021||West||Disclose correct data on Covid-19 testing facilities: Gujarat High Court to state government||After pulling up the state government for not disclosing real data on the availability of RT-PCR laboratories in districts and cities and overall testing figures, which is declining, the Gujarat High Court ordered the government to "provide clear and transparent data with regard to the availability of RT­-PCR test, as well as, facility at the district level." The court also directed the government to "disclose the true and correct data through public media with regard to the testing facility available in each of the town and primary health centers so as to enable the public at large to avail the facility of RT­-PCR test at the earliest." The order was passed on Tuesday which was made available on Wednesday. The special bench of justice Vikram Nath and justice Bhargav Karia, hearing suo moto litigation on the overall Covid-19 situation in the state, had on Tuesday questioned the government for the decline in the number of daily Covid-19 testing. The bench questioned the government over the decline but the state couldn't give any clear answer. On April 24, the state had tested a total of 1.85 lakh samples, the number came down to 1.31 lakh on May 3 and 1.40 lakh on May 4. Earlier too, the special bench had raised suspicion over the data of positive cases and deaths and had told the government to release accurate figures. The bench noted in the order that although the government has taken various steps to break the chain of coronavirus, "the same is not enough in the present situation and further steps to break the chain is also required to make the public at large aware about the pandemic and its grave effect on the society by imposing further restrictions as may be thought fit in the   present situation." The court, however, refrained from giving any direction in this regard. Hours after the bench passed the order, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani extended the restriction of night curfew to six more cities in Gujarat. The state has been refraining from imposing a complete lockdown citing economic hardship for people. The bench directed the state to file a detailed affidavit on the distribution of Remdesivir injections received from the central government to districts against demand in the past 15 days to "justify pro-rata allocation." Similarly, the state has to provide details and data on the distribution of oxygen supply and its date-wise demand and supply as well as projected demand. The court has also sought information on when the 900-bed Dhanvantri hospital, set up by DRDO with the state government in Ahmedabad, will be fully functional. Meanwhile, the state reported 12,955 new cases, taking the Covid-19 tally to 6,33,427, while the death toll rose to 7,912 with 133 fresh fatalities in 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/disclose-correct-data-on-covid-19-testing-facilities-gujarat-high-court-to-state-government-982725.html
05-05-2021||West||Don’t let guard down despite downward trend in Covid-19 cases, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said people should not be complacent just because there is a downward trend in coronavirus cases in the state. “We are preparing for the third wave of the virus,” Thackeray said addressing the state on social media. Thackeray said the Supreme Court has appreciated Mumbai municipal corporation’s work to contain coronavirus spread. “The Centre’s scientific panel has warned about a third coronavirus wave. We have been preparing for this since last month,” he said. Many districts are witnessing a decline in cases even as cases are rising in some other districts, he said. Thackeray said the state will have to increase oxygen generation capacity to 3,000 MT and has started working on it. “We generate 1,200 MT oxygen every day but our consumption is 1,700 MT,” he said. Terming the Supreme Court's decision to strike down reservation for the Marathas as unfortunate, Thackeray said he will write to the Centre, requesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind to step in and provide relief to the community. Thackeray also appealed people of the state not to be misled by those wanting to create unrest over the Maratha quota issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/don-t-let-guard-down-despite-downward-trend-in-covid-19-cases-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-982726.html
05-05-2021||West||Veteran actor Dalip Tahil’s son arrested in drugs case||The anti-Narcotics Cell of Mumbai police has arrested veteran actor Dalip Tahil son’s Dhruv in a drugs case on Wednesday. Dhurv is a model and aspiring actor. According to the ANC’s Bandra unit, the police had arrested one drug peddler on April 20, Muzammil Shaikh and recovered 35 grams of Mephedrone from him. On extraction of his cell phone records and WhatsApp chats, the police found that Dhruv had made demands for narcotics drugs several times from Shaikh. Besides, Dhruv had also deposited money in Shaikh’s account with the Bank of India through his Yes Bank account six times for purchasing drugs. Police said Dhruv has been in touch with Shaikh from March 2019 till now and after his involvement became clear, he was arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/veteran-actor-dalip-tahil-s-son-arrested-in-drugs-case-982727.html
