06-05-2021||First Edit||Court-monitored probe needed||Bengaluru South MP Tejaswi Surya and three BJP MLAs Satish Reddy, Ravi Subramanya and Uday Garudachar have claimed to have busted a Covid bed-fixing scam involving Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), but what they have really exposed is the failure or perhaps even complicity of their own party government which has allowed the racket to run unhindered for so long. It is also unbelievable that Surya and his team came to be aware of the racket only 10 days ago, as the issue was red-flagged by many NGOs in the past. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta had himself smelt a rat and had appointed a three-member committee headed by IAS officer V Punnuraj to inquire into the “non-transparent and arbitrary manner in which beds are allotted” and to suggest remedial measures. Elected representatives, be it MPs or MLAs, are supposed to have their ears to the ground and it is shocking, rather intriguing that not one of them, including senior ministers from Bengaluru, had any inkling of the scandal that was thriving for about a year, right under their noses. Their collective ignorance has raised many eyebrows. The modus operandi was simple. BBMP officers, in connivance with volunteers, touts and hospitals, would block beds in the name of asymptomatic patients convalescing at home. These beds would then be sold to symptomatic patients for Rs 30,000-40,000 or even more depending on the seriousness of the case. Critics attribute various motives to Surya’s belated action. While some describe it as a publicity stunt, others believe that the aim was to embarrass Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa at the behest of his detractors within  BJP. But the fact remains that following the ‘raid’,  the bed availability which was zero in the afternoon had gone up to 1,500 in the evening. However, the MP’s motive has once again come into question as he sought to give a communal angle to the episode by releasing the names of 17 people who belong to particular community as if only they were responsible for the scandal. This led to a vicious campaign by trolls against the community,  including a senior officer who had nothing to do with bed allotment. Politics aside, the racket has led to denial of beds to several deserving patients and their subsequent death. This is a crime against humanity and the culprits deserve to be tried for manslaughter for their act of cruelty. The inquiry ordered by the government will lead nowhere considering that some big names may be involved. Only a  court-monitored probe will ensure that the ends of justice are served.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/court-monitored-probe-needed-982767.html
06-05-2021||In Perspective||Green steps to heal earth amid the virus||Earth Day, celebrated every year on April 22, saw more than one billion people participate in various activities around the world to draw attention to environmental degradation and the need for immediate action to tackle issues including loss of biodiversity, increasing pollution, etc. The theme this year is 'Restore Our Earth', and its focus is on natural processes, emerging green technologies and innovative thinking that can restore the world's ecosystems. This year, the observation of the day is more significant since the world continues to be in the grip of the deadly pandemic. The year-long struggle against a virus has taught us humans to never take our beautiful planet for granted. It showed us that the overall wellness of humans is not limited to material wellbeing, but some fresh air, water, food and adequate sunlight within a safe space. The pandemic, therefore, is a stark reminder of the vulnerability of humans and the planet in the face of global-scale threats. The consequences of our reckless actions are already apparent from the rise in human sufferings caused by drastic climate change, spread of pandemic, economic losses and the accelerating erosion of life on earth. Such unchecked damage to our environment needs to be addressed. And restoring our earth becomes more urgent against this backdrop. The United Nations Environment Programme 2021 report titled ‘Making Peace with Nature’ underlines that saving precious lives and livelihoods should be the top priority of any nation. But by exposing humanity’s vulnerability, the pandemic can also help make 2021 a turning point towards a more sustainable and inclusive world. The report claims that we have the ability to transform our impact on the world. A sustainable economy driven by renewable energy and nature-based solutions will create new jobs, cleaner infrastructure and a resilient future. An inclusive world at peace with nature can ensure that people enjoy better health and the full respect of their human rights, so they can live with dignity on a healthy planet. As a country, we need to focus more on building an economy that is more resilient, diversified and attractive. An ideal balance needs to be achieved between making a living and protecting the environment, and it is never so simple. Serious efforts should be put in to bring in some balance among economy, ecology and equity. Sustainable opportunities created by the pandemic — like avoiding unnecessary travels, more use of bicycles, less dependence on office space and promotion of work-from-home culture, increased dependence on local food stores and local businesses — should also be encouraged. Making people adopt even simple practices could enhance sustainability and reduce carbon footprint to a considerable extent. Besides, people have already started looking for a little inspiration on how to protect and restore earth and its environment. An almost 4,550% increase was reported in Google searches related to 'how to live a sustainable lifestyle', since the lockdowns began. The pandemic and the subsequent threat to survival have forced people to think about mending their lifestyles. There are a few immediate things that must be given due importance as we tide over the pandemic crisis. First, recognise that Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are even more relevant today, especially in the context of Covid-19. The response to such global emergencies has to stem from action on SDGs. Achieving SDGs will not only help us out of the current crisis but also help us find ways to replenish the fast deteriorating natural world. Countries that have frameworks in place to achieve SDGs and simultaneously meet the obligations under Paris agreement will see a rapid decline of global emissions and restored ecosystems. Second, promote and adopt green technologies, especially by a country like ours that is already facing serious environment problems in industrialisation. We need to ensure that our production process contributes to efficient use of resources, materials and energy, as well as reduce waste emissions.  Third, keep working on technology and market innovations to enable small and medium enterprises to turn their business model sustainable without losing profitability. Finally, always remember that nature provides lots of opportunities and it is everyone’s responsibility to effectively utilise them and encourage fellow citizens to adopt sustainable activities. We should learn to use this crisis to encourage greater action, collaboration and knowledge sharing among stakeholders for large public good. Apart from these initiatives, if we also strive to restore our greenery and forests that play a crucial part in global climate and sustainable development solutions, then we do have a significant opportunity in the immediate future to celebrate Earth Day as a day when humanity embraces mother earth. (George Cheriyan is Director and Simi T B, a Policy Analyst at CUTS International, Jaipur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/green-steps-to-heal-earth-amid-the-virus-982768.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Summer vacation for state board schools||The primary schools affiliated to the state board will remain closed for summer vacation till June 14. The high school students will have summer vacation from April 27 to May 31, said a communication from the department of primary and secondary education. High school teachers have been asked to conduct revision classes for SSLC students during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-summer-vacation-for-state-board-schools-982762.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three killed, 2 injured in lightning strike in Vijayapura||Three persons were killed while two others sustained serious burns in a lighting strike near Takke Masjid in Vijayapura city on Wednesday. Ashokram Karjol (48), Bashasab Karajagi (40) and Javed Jaalgeri (33) were taking shelter from rain near masjid when the lightning struck them. All three were killed on the spot. Sabeena and an unidentified man have suffered serious burns in the incident. Nine goats were struck dead by lightning while grazing under a neem tree at Hadali of Nargund taluk, Gadag district. Meanwhile, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Gadag and Belagavi districts continued to experience showers with lightning and thunder. While the thundershowers brought much-needed relief from the soaring heat in north Karnataka districts, the incessant showers with strong winds have left farmers in the central districts worried. The farmers Mayakonda and surrounding villages in Davangere district were hit hard by evening showers. Rains, coupled with strong winds, have brought down scores of arecanut and coconut trees at Donkenahalli. Also, ready for harvest paddy on vast tract of land has been damaged. Belthangady taluk in Dakshina Kannada experienced heightened thunder activity in the evening. Electrical and electronic equipment at Marodi village was damaged in lightning strikes. A buffalo was struck dead by lightning in the cattle shed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-killed-2-injured-in-lightning-strike-in-vijayapura-982776.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka signs MoU with Harrisburg University||The Karnataka State Higher Education Council has signed a MoU with Pennsylvania Global and Education Hub, Harrisburg University.  The Karnatak University, Dharwad, and Maharani Cluster University, Bengaluru will benefit from these MoUs. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said that these MoUs would contribute in improving the academic skills of the teaching staff.  Dr Peter Garland, executive vice-chancellor, Emeritus, Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education (PASSHE) and chair, Penn HUB Advisory Board said, “the MoUs would help to share the academic excellencies between universities in Karnataka.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-signs-mou-with-harrisburg-university-982780.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bagalkot DHO pleads for boosting oxygen supply to district||Bagakot District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Ananth Desai has pleaded with the District In-charge Minister Umesh Katti to supply oxygen "before the situation goes out of control". “On average, we need 18 kilolitres (KL) of oxygen per day for Covid-19 patients in the district where the supply is only 8 kl. Please arrange for oxygen supply before situation goes out of hand,” the DHO told the minister in a meeting for reviewing Covid-19 situation in Bagalkot district on Wednesday. Umesh Katti visited Bagalkot for the first time after his appointment as district in-charge minister.  Deputy Commissioner Dr K Rajendra, who intervened, said that the district hospital faced an oxygen shortage on Tuesday evening. “A disaster would have happened in about half an hour, but for the timely help by legislator Veeranna Charanthimath. He arranged oxygen cylinders from Hangal Kumareshwara Hospital of which he is the working president. Therefore, we need an additional supply of oxygen at the earliest,” the DC said. Leader of the Opposition in the Council S R Patil said that Katti is an influential minister in the government and he should use his good offices for ensuring oxygen supply to the district. However, Katti replied: “We need your’s (Opposition) cooperation too for addressing the issue. Let there be no politics in this issue. I will speak to the chief minister for enhancing oxygen supply to the district on an emergency basis.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bagalkot-dho-pleads-for-boosting-oxygen-supply-to-district-982784.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two flying schools to come up in Kalaburagi soon||Here is a good news for pilot aspirants of Kalyana Karnataka region. Two companies have successfully bid to establish permanent training institutes at Kalaburagi Airport and they are likely to set up the school by the end of this year. Kalaburagi Airport Director Jnaneshwar said that two companies have won the bid and the formalities are under process. If all goes well, GMR Pilot Training Academy and another institute will establish schools by the end of this year.” He said that the temporary training institute which was shifted to Kalaburagi a few months ago due to the poor visibility in north India, was shifted back to its main base in the last March after the visibility improved. Flight service  Despite the current surge in Covid cases across the nation and the 14-day curfew in the State, flight services from Kalaburagi to Bengaluru, Tirupati, and Hindon have continued but the number of passengers has reduced by 50%. In and out passengers are hardly 100 per day. Despite the less movement of passengers, the flights are being operated. “We have taken all precautionary measures at the airport premises following the spike in Covid cases in the second wave,” he explained.  The terminal is being sanitised after the flight takes off from the airport. Body temperature is being checked with the thermal gun for the passengers. The middle seat of the benches at the passenger lounge has been blocked to ensure social distancing while sitting. Contact-less check-in facility had been introduced Security personnel have been provided with PPE kits. The staff do not demand RT-PCR negative report from the passengers as they fill it in the form while booking the seats online, the director informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-flying-schools-to-come-up-in-kalaburagi-soon-982797.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru auto drivers provide free services to Covid-19 patients||A group of autorickshaw drivers, under the aegis of Yashodha Auto Union, has launched a free autorickshaw service for Covid-19 patients and also for other patients who require immediate admission in hospitals in Udupi. “I started the service soon after the announcement of lockdown to serve the people in need. During the previous lockdown, two to three patients, whom I knew, had lost their lives after failing to reach the hospital within the golden hour. To avoid such a situation, I begun free services in Kadekar and Kidiyoor gram panchayat jurisdictions with my auto,” Diwakar Poojary told DH. Other members of the Union have also joined hands to serve people in times of distress. A total of 36 auto drivers, under the guidance of Yashodha Auto Union President Krishnamurthy Acharya, are engaged in serving the people. “We have divided ourselves among the wards and the rural areas that can be covered in our limits to help patients in reaching hospitals. From morning till 10.30 am on Wednesday, I have received two calls to rush two patients to hospitals in Manipal and Udupi,” he said. The service is available round-the-clock. “We earn our livelihood from 6 am to 10 am daily. After 10 am, we serve the patients by helping them to reach hospitals in quick time,” said Diwakar. Our priority is to those who are poor and have no vehicle facilities. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha too has supported our initiative by giving permission letter, along with a sanitiser, to operate during the lockdown period, he added. “The Union has distributed face shield, mask, sanitiser and gloves to all drivers to ensure the safety of self while shifting Covid-infected patients. We receive calls daily not only to reach the hospitals but also to buy medicines from local pharmacies,” said Poojary. All 36 autos have mounted a banner mentioning the phone numbers to reach out. The banner also creates awareness on the need to wear a mask and maintain social distance to check spread of Covid-19. People can contact on 99165 09190. In Mangaluru Bajarang Dal and Vishwa Hind Parishat (VHP) have launched a free autorickshaw service for the needy in Mangaluru. Members also arrange food, buy medicines and offer free cremation services. For free auto services in Mangaluru, contact 8884884549.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-auto-drivers-provide-free-services-to-covid-19-patients-982813.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four more Covid-19 deaths, record 1,529 fresh cases in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada district reported a record 1,529 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the highest single-day spike in the district since the outbreak of pandemic. Previously, the district had reported 1,205 cases on April 30. Total positive cases in the district have risen to 50,345. With 608 patients, who had recovered, being discharged on Wednesday, the total discharges increased to 40,246. The district has 9,331 active cases with patients undergoing treatment in hospitals and in home isolation. Four more persons have succumbed to the infection in the district, thus taking the death toll to 768. Violations DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that 54 vehicles were seized in connection with the violation of curfew. As many as four cases have been booked under Epidemic Diseases Act while nine cases under National Disaster Management Act. As many as 402 people were fined for not wearing masks in public places in Mangaluru City police jurisdiction. Dakshina Kannada SP Rishikesh Sonawane said that three FIRs pertaining to Covid violations had been registered in the district and 341 persons were fined for not wearing masks||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-more-covid-19-deaths-record-1529-fresh-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-982853.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Central Sahitya Akademi awardee Mayya no more||Well-known writer Dr G Bhaskar Mayya died of Covid 19 complications at a private hospital in Brahmavar in the district on Thursday. He was 70. Prof Mayya had served as a lecturer at Bhandarkar's College in Kundapur and Mulki college for over four decades. He was the recipient of the Kendra Sahithya Akademi award (2004). Though he taught English and Sanskrit, he shot to the limelight for his mastery over Hindi literature. He had obtained his doctorate degree in Hindi from the University of Mysore.  He had translated many popular articles of Hindi literature into Kannada. In the field of rational and progressive literature, he had written more than 50 books. His book 'Ajanabeepan Aek Saiddanthik Anushilan”  had won the national award. He is survived by his wife, a son, and a daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/central-sahitya-akademi-awardee-mayya-no-more-983159.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belthangady farmer opens his doors for labourers stranded by lockdown||As many as 20 migrant labourers who had nowhere to go as the lockdown set in have been offered free shelter at a farmer’s house at Mundaje village in Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada district. Nearly 50 days ago, Kerala-based contractor Naufal had engaged 20 labourers to rebuild the embankments for a water channel in Kapu village as it had been damaged in floods. After the lockdown came into being, the contractor who had arranged accommodation for the labourers could not visit the sites. Initially, six labourers staying in a rented house were evicted by the owner, informs the genial farmer Sachin Bhide.  Soon, the remaining 14 labourers, including women and children, were asked to vacate the rented houses by the respective owners. Bhide proved to be the saviour for these stranded labourers by offering them all accommodation at his own sprawling tiled house at Dumbettu, 4 km from Belthangady. “Some of the migrant labourers hailed from as far as Nippani in Belagavi district and they had no money to make the return journey before the lockdown set in,” Bhide said. The farmer realised that if the labourers were to abandon the works, nearing completion, all of it worth Rs 50 lakh would be washed away when it rains.  Bhide had tents built in front of the house to accommodate some of the labourers. He and his family are staying in another house a km away from the Dumbettu house. “Labourers have enough rations to last for a week. I am buying the medicines that they need,” he said.  The labourers walk on foot to the work site, half a kilometre from the house. Though the chances of the labourers contracting Covid 19 are remote, necessary precautionary measures have been taken, Bhide said. The farmer, not content with providing the labourers free shelter for 30 days, hopes to meet Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja and tahsildar. “The works will be completed in the next three days. With the help of the MLA, I am keen on engaging a KSRTC bus to ferry back all the 20 migrant labourers to their villages,” Bhide said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belthangady-farmer-opens-his-doors-for-labourers-stranded-by-lockdown-983163.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere DC saves the day by arranging oxygen at hospital||Davangere Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi conquered the hearts of the people of the district by taking initiative in arranging the much-needed oxygen for patients, who are battling for life in District General Chigateri hospital in the city and saving their lives. Sources in the hospital stated that a tanker truck ferrying medical oxygen was supposed to arrive at the District General Hospital in the city from Toranagallu plant in Vijayanagar district on May 6 at 8:00 am. But it did not arrive on time and this created panic among the staff in the hospital. The issue was brought to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner. The officer immediately consulted private hospitals and agencies in the district and arranged jumbo cylinders. Superintendent of Police Hanumantaraya created a zero traffic zone for the arrival of the truck ferrying medical oxygen. At last, it reached the hospital four hours late. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said as many as 300 Covid-19 patients and 102 non-Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment in the hospital. Doctors alerted that they may face a shortage of oxygen. "We took necessary steps to ensure that patients do not face a dearth of oxygen. The tanker arrived at the hospital four hours late as oxygen was not filled on time in the plant. Now, the truck arrived in the hospital and there is no crisis," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-dc-saves-the-day-by-arranging-oxygen-at-hospital-983191.html
06-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress demands arrest of Tejasvi Surya, BJP MLA Sathish Reddy over bed scam||The opposition Congress on Thursday stepped up the attack on the ruling BJP in Karnataka and demanded the arrest of party MP Tejasvi Surya and a party MLA, alleging they were behind the scam involving blocking of hospital beds meant for Covid patients in the city. Surya, the Bengaluru South BJP MP and Yuva Morcha president, Bommanahalli BJP MLA M Sathish Reddy and Basavanagudi MLA Ravi Subramanya on Tuesday made claims about the bed blocking scam in Bengaluru and doubted the involvement of a few Muslims, who were deployed at the Covid War Room of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). As the expose went live on Tuesday and Surya read out their names, Subramanya screamed at the BBMP officials, "Have you appointed these people for Madrassa or the Corporation (BBMP)?" To this, Reddy was seen saying there was an intention behind hiring them and these people were behind it. The Congress mounted the attack citing reports in a section of the media alleging Reddy's involvement. "It's like pot calling the kettle black. The truth has come out now that the BJP leaders are behind the bed blocking scam," the Congress tweeted. "Arrest Satish Reddy who has been operating the bed booking scam with the help of his supporters, and the young MP (Tejasvi Surya) who accompanied him, and carry out a detailed investigation," the party added. Satish Reddy was not available for his comment. Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh slammed the Congress for attacking Surya. "After @Tejasvi_Surya exposed the hospital bed booking scam of BBMP, all were silent for a while. Suddenly everyone started shouting realising that the names were from a single community. Their secularism was in danger. @INCKarnataka leaders are bankrupt both in thoughts & action," the senior BJP leader said. Meanwhile, the agency, which had hired these 17 Muslims said they were among the 214 people deployed at the War Room. An executive of the firm told PTI requesting anonymity that caste and religion are not the consideration for them to hire people. "We told them (Muslim employees) that till the time the police inquiry is on, they will not be placed at the war room but we have not fired them either. They will remain our employees till they are found involved in some wrongdoings," the executive said. In view of the rising Covid cases and fatalities in the state, the government ordered that private hospitals should also reserve 80 per cent of the beds for Covid patients. However, many people complained that they were not getting beds without paying bribes and purchasing drugs at an exorbitant price in the black market. The police have arrested seven people so far in connection with the alleged bed scam and 90 people for selling Remdesivir in black. Karnataka is seeing a steep rise in Covid cases. There were over 50,000 infections and 346 deaths, which were single-day high on Wednesday. There are about five lakh active cases in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-demands-arrest-of-tejasvi-surya-bjp-mla-sathish-reddy-over-bed-scam-983064.html
06-05-2021||Main Article||Moral dilemma of Covid||In any disaster, whether it's natural (floods, droughts, heat, cold, tsunamis or earthquakes) or manmade (pandemics, communal clashes, riots, demonetisation or scarcities), the worst-hit in the urban landscape are usually the daily breadwinners of various hues — small-time vendors and tradesmen in the unorganised sector. The second wave of the pandemic this year is threatening to overwhelm most systems — healthcare, logistics, transportation, education, entertainment and more. We are witnessing various states of lockdowns, and in many parts of the country, as small and unorganised businesses shut down, the working classes apprehensive of their livelihoods are once again being uprooted and commencing their march towards their rural homes. They can expect little succour from an overwhelmed state, which at the best of times is not overly caring of their interests, except for electoral handouts. This is a human tragedy at an unprecedented scale. The situation presents a very real moral and ethical, and seemingly game-theoretic, dilemma before us. On the one hand, as individuals, our own safety and that of our loved ones reigns uppermost in our thoughts. Accordingly, we feel the need to isolate ourselves strictly from strangers and outsiders. So, threatened by the pandemic, it has become standard practice for most functioning gated communities to prevent outsiders from entering their properties —­ small vendors, workmen, delivery men and even domestic staff. Even those who live in non-gated colonies consider it prudent to postpone all maintenance work relating to painting, carpentry, repairs, leakages, plumbing, electricals, so that the footprint of strangers and outsiders in their homes and premises is eliminated. Fair enough. From purely one’s personal view point, this looks like sound reasoning and the right thing to do, at least in the short run. On the other hand, as we do so, we deprive many daily wage workers — painters, masons, plumbers, electricians, carpenters, small vendors and in some cases, even domestic staff who do not get paid or earn on the days they do not work — their meagre livelihoods. The families of such daily wage earners have to go hungry when the breadwinner of the family has no work. And lack of reasonably assured livelihood is what is driving millions of such working class, proud people, back to their distant and unwelcoming villages, where they are regarded as a non-earning burden on extended families. They are assuredly moving from a rock to a hard place. So what is the right course of action? Should we be concerned about the welfare of our immediate families or be more concerned about larger humanity? And therein lies the dilemma. What’s the right thing to do? Some of us perhaps won’t see a dilemma here, for we are unambiguously clear that safety of our families comes first, second and third. Others may see and feel the dilemma, but may yet opt for their family’s safety above the well-being and livelihoods of strangers. So what would be the best way to address the dilemma, which could maximise the interests for both parties? It is not as if we were blind to the plight of the migrating workers, even the first time around. But for the most part, we blamed — and not without some justification perhaps — the governments, whether in the states or the Centre, for not having thought through the plight of the migrant labour and the inhuman challenges they face(d) amid Covid.  What about this time around? Their situation will get worse as more and more of us urban citizens postpone our day-to-day maintenance tasks or mini-projects, as work dries up for small vendors who employ these workers. So perhaps, not postponing our painting, wiring, carpentry or plumbing works could be the little drop that we need to add to this misery of ocean, in these surreal times.  But would that not compromise the safety of our households? Well, it does not have to. Safety and security of ourselves and our loved ones has to remain our top priority, but not our sole priority. Perhaps we should continue to safeguard ourselves and our loved ones, even as we continue to keep the small businesses alive and ticking by going that extra mile. We could take a little extra care, exert ourselves more to ensure that the workers are allowed to carry on their regular tasks with a bit of handholding, say, with masks, sanitisers, or even clean clothes if one thinks a particular worker is not cleanly clothed; taking some extra precautions ourselves; and maybe even offer the workers a cup of tea or a minimal meal or a minor takeaway for their families to make their lives a tad easier in these difficult times. Maybe housing societies could ask regular vendors and others to carry a Covid-negative proof just as the ones we carry for our travels. True, allowing such strangers and workers to come closer to our homes would entail a marginal increase in risk (of contracting Covid), but nothing that cannot be countered by intelligent handling, even as we do a world of good to a large segment of humanity. In these times, unless we give business to small-time vendors (kiranas and their errand boys rather than e-commerce giants maybe?), small businesses will dry out. After all, in the long run, do we seriously expect our society to meaningfully survive without these workers and micro-entrepreneurs who smoothen our lives every day in a million different ways? They already are drying out. As a matter of fact, even if we wanted our house painted, our plumbing fixed or a cabinet built, perhaps we will get no vendors today, as the workers have gone away. But it is this vicious circle that we need to break, slowly and steadily. As more enquiries keep coming, vendors would be better placed to retain their labour. Wisdom of the crowds can do as much wonder as stupidity of crowds can wreak havoc. (The writer is Adjunct Professor, Schulich School of Business, York University, Toronto)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/moral-dilemma-of-covid-982769.html
06-05-2021||Mysuru||72-year-old Covid-19 positive woman dies in car as 30 hospitals deny admission in Mysuru||A 72-year-old Covid-19 positive woman died in a car on Thursday as she did not get admission for two days in any of the hospitals in the city. According to her son, he took his mother to nearly 30 hospitals, including K R Hospital, and the hospitals denied admission claiming no oxygen and bed, he said. “Initially, my mother was not positive for Covid-19 but she tested positive on Wednesday. No hospitals admitted her and she finally died in a vehicle on Thursday,” he said. “The beds and oxygen are available for rich people but, no facilities are available for people like us. I have been visiting the hospitals for three days but, nowhere the doctors allowed us,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/72-year-old-covid-19-positive-woman-dies-in-car-as-30-hospitals-deny-admission-in-mysuru-983188.html
06-05-2021||National||30 districts showing rising trend in number of Covid cases for two weeks, most in south||Thirty districts in the country are showing a continued rise in the number of coronavirus cases for the last two weeks, of which 10 are in Kerala, seven in Andhra Pradesh, three in Karnataka and one in Tamil Nadu, the Centre said on Wednesday. Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said Bengaluru (Urban) has recorded 1,49,241 cases over the last one week, followed by Chennai, which has recorded 38,379 cases. He said in Kerala, Kozhikode, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Alappuzha, Palakkad, Thiruvananthapuram, Kannur and Kollam districts have recorded a continued rise in the number of cases for the last two weeks. Kerala reported the highest single-day spike of 41,953 coronavirus cases on Wednesday. It had recorded 37,000 cases on Tuesday. East Godavari, Chittoor, Srikakulam, Guntur, Visakhapatnam, Anantpur and Kurnool districts of Andhra Pradesh have also recorded a rise in the number of cases in the said period, Agarwal told a press briefing here. Besides Bengaluru (Urban), Mysuru and Tumakuru districts of Karnataka, Solapur and Satara districts of Maharashtra have recorded a high number of cases over the last two weeks, he said. Scientists at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology had on Tuesday said the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus is fast replacing the N440K variant in south India. In the north, Gurugram and Faridabad districts in Haryana and Dehradun district in Uttarakhand have recorded a spike in the number of cases over the last two weeks, Agarwal said. Indore and Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh have also been showing a rising trend in the number of cases, he added. "We are working with the states on how to control this infection," Agarwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-districts-showing-rising-trend-in-number-of-covid-cases-for-two-weeks-most-in-south-982764.html
06-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Rs 8L cr package needed to support lower income groups, says report||The government will need to roll out a relief package worth Rs 8 lakh crore to contain hardships being faced by lower-income groups due to the economic impact of Covid-19, a report by Azim Premji University said on Wednesday. The report is based on inputs from Consumer Pyramids Household Survey, Azim Premji Foundation, and many other civil society organisations. As per the calculations based on CMIE-CPHS data, the report said, around 23 crore people are estimated to have fallen below the national minimum wage poverty line due to the impact of Covid-19 on the economy and around 1.5 crore workers remain jobless by the end of 2020, the report titled State of the Work 2021 said. The study found that nearly half of formal salaried workers moved into informal work, either as self-employed (30 per cent), casual wage (10 per cent) or informal salaried (9 per cent) workers, between late 2019 and late 2020 and there was a decline in their income level as well. In April and May, the poorest 20 per cent of households lost their entire income and the richer households suffered losses of less than a quarter of their pre-pandemic incomes, the report said. To bring relief for the people suffering hardships of Covid-19 impact, the Azim Premji University report on Wednesday recommended measures that would cost the government an additional expenditure of around Rs 8 lakh crore. "The measures that we have proposed will bring the spending by the government of India to 4.5 per cent of overall GDP between this year and last or about Rs 8 lakh crore. We think that is not even internationally comparable to what other countries have done, but really what India needs to do," Azim Premji University associate professor of economics Amit Basole said while releasing the report. According to the report, around 30 per cent of people in some states did not get ration as per Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana, which needs to be investigated. "Something like 30 per cent of PDS priority ration cardholder, unfortunately, did not receive the extra grains, at least in these two states (Karnataka and Rajasthan) and this number of 30 per cent we find broadly similar also in few other states that we have done as part of our other Covid livelihood survey," Basole said. According to the report, the public distribution system has a wider reach than Jan Dhan Yojana, and free rations under the PDS should be extended beyond June, at least till the end of 2021. In Karnataka and Rajasthan, out of those having women-owned Jan Dhan accounts, 60 per cent received one or more transfers, around 30 per cent did not receive any transfers and 10 per cent did not know about the fund status in their account, it added. The university report has recommended a cash transfer of Rs 5,000 for three months to as many vulnerable households as can be reached with the existing digital infrastructure, including but not limited to Jan Dhan accounts. It has suggested expansion of MGNREGA entitlement to 150 days and revising programme wages upwards to state minimum wages. This needs to expand the programme budget to at least Rs 1.75 lakh crore, according to the report. It has also recommended launching a pilot urban employment programme in the worst-hit districts with a focus on women workers, increasing the central contribution in old-age pensions to at least Rs 500, a Covid hardship allowance to 25 lakh Anganwadi and ASHA workers of Rs 30,000 and automatically enrolling all MGNREGA workers who do construction work as registered workers under the building and other construction workers (BoCW) Act. "The survey has been supported crucially by various organisations including Azim Premji Foundation and Azim Premji Philanthropic initiatives, Initiative for What Works to Advance Women and Girls in the Economy as well as many civil society organisations have contributed in bringing the information that we have been able to collect," Basole said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rs-8l-cr-package-needed-to-support-lower-income-groups-says-report-982820.html
06-05-2021||National||Over 16.24 cr Covid vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far stands at 16,24,30,828, the health ministry said on Wednesday. It said 2,30,305 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received the first dose of the vaccine on Wednesday across 12 states and Union territories. The total number of people in this age group who have been inoculated against the viral disease stands at 9,02,731, the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 16,24,30,828, according to a provisional report compiled at 8 pm. The beneficiaries include 94,79,901 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose, 63,52,975 HCWs who have received the second dose, 1,36,49,661 frontline workers (FLWs) who have taken the first dose, 74,12,888 FLWs who have received the second dose and 9,02,731 in the 18-44 age group who have taken the first dose. Besides, 5,37,95,272 and 48,29,091 beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group have taken the first and the second dose of the vaccine respectively, while 5,31,09,064 and 1,28,99,245 beneficiaries above 60 years of age have been administered the first and the second dose respectively. As on the 110th day (May 5) of the ongoing nationwide inoculation drive against Covid-19, a total of 18,90,346 vaccine doses were administered -- 8,66,423 beneficiaries vaccinated for the first dose and 10,23,923 for the second dose, the ministry said, adding that the final report for the day would be compiled by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from the viral disease continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said. The nationwide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with HCWs getting inoculated first. The vaccination of FLWs started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for those aged above 45 from April 1.   The implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination to inoculate those in the age group of 18-44 years started from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1624-cr-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-982823.html
06-05-2021||National||Donors race to aid India during Covid-19 surge||The catastrophic wave of Covid-19 in India has prompted donors to send millions of dollars to the country, which on Tuesday crossed the grim mark of more than 20 million cases of the killer disease. “The situation is desperate,” says Ashish Shah, senior director for philanthropy and community engagement at Indiaspora, a global network of people of Indian origin who work for social change. “We need to get the funds and deploy them because after a month, it'll be too late.” During the last week of April, Indiaspora reactivated its ChaloGive website. “Chalo” means “let's go” in Hindi. In April of 2020, donors gave nearly $1.2 million through the site to several organizations vetted by Indiaspora. The group had planned to have a giving month later this year, but decided to do it sooner because of the deteriorating situation in India. Over the past two months, Indiaspora members heard directly from family and friends in India about the unfolding humanitarian crisis. The organisation started receiving unsolicited donations as the situation became more dire. To respond quickly, Indiaspora relaunched the site early. Within two days, more than $1 million in donations rolled in. The site allows donors to give to a slate of nonprofits working to construct makeshift hospitals and health centres, provide food and direct services, or give cash grants to individuals. Shah says the vast majority of donors have chosen an option provided by Indiaspora to spread their gift out among all three areas. “We knew that the community was ready,” Shah says. “We knew that there was no time to wait till later in the year.” Large institutional grant makers, family foundations, and rich donors have expressed an interest in providing emergency relief to India over the past week, says Regine Webster, vice president at the Centre for Disaster Philanthropy. Webster expects initial findings on the volume of COVID-related giving to organisations working in India to be available this week. Vinod Khosla, co-founder of Sun Microsystems, added a $10 million match to his previous commitment to GiveIndia to procure much-needed oxygen equipment and encourage others to give. The Rockefeller Foundation last week approved $3.5 million in grants to help expand coronavirus testing and tracing and support emergency medical relief. That figure is on top of the $10 million Rockefeller previously committed in pandemic response in India. The Silicon Valley Community Foundation has seen a growing interest among its donors to support pandemic relief in India. Last fall, the Indian government placed restrictions on international giving to organisations in the country. Since then, the community foundation has directed interested donors to organisations that have successfully navigated the rules and delivered assistance where it is needed, according to Chau Vuong, a spokeswoman for the grant maker. She cited CARE and the American India Foundation as examples. In late April, a donor, whom Vuong declined to identify, gave $3 million to the American India Foundation. Smaller donors have also been active. Texas philanthropists Raj and Aradhana Asava on April 29 offered to match up to $25,000 in donations to support pandemic relief in their native India. So far, the couple, who have long given to programs in India but more recently emphasized the need to support US food banks, have raised about $10,000. The India Development and Relief Fund, a nonprofit founded by Vinod Prakash, a retired World Bank economist, has raised more than $350,000 for Covid-relief efforts in India since April 26. Webster, at the Centre for Disaster Philanthropy, fears that the flow of money will begin to ebb. People are motivated to give when they see human suffering, and in India right now, Covid is inflicting more suffering than one can fathom, she says. But the duration of the pandemic has made it more difficult for fundraisers to sound the alarm to a public that may be becoming inured to the hardships the coronavirus crisis has created. “For the past 15 months, essentially, the mantra has been give more, give more, give more, give more,” she says. “Regrettably, if the same message is being presented for 400 days in a row, it ultimately makes the case more challenging.” Steve Stirling, executive director of MAP International, a global health nonprofit, shares Webster's concerns. The hurricane season, usually a busy time for the relief work MAP International supports, is drawing near, and Stirling worries about overwhelming his donor base with calls for support. Donors are responding, however. The nonprofit has received around $50,000 in cash gifts in the past few weeks; most of its support comes in the form of medical equipment and supplies. Stirling is hopeful that more money will arrive from donors who give around $25 dollars at a time. What is more concerning is how long it may take for MAP International to get supplies of personal protective equipment into the hands of medical workers in India. Early this year, the American India Foundation was turning its attention to what happens after a deadly pandemic. One new programme provided online learning courses to students who had been shut out of their schools during lockdown. Another was going to link migrant workers to digital-payment programs so they could begin to rebuild their lives. Those efforts have been postponed, and the foundation has switched back to providing direct relief, primarily through the supply of oxygen equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/donors-race-to-aid-india-during-covid-19-surge-982825.html
06-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 6||A record 3,980 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India taking the death toll to 2,30,168, while 4,12,262 new coronavirus infections were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A bed-blocking scam jolted the Karnataka government, as a shortage of medical supplies and oxygen continued to hurt the country. The top scientific advisor to the Centre said a third wave of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is “inevitable” given the high level of circulation of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,10,77,410 as of May 6, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,30,168 as of May 6, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 1,69,51,731          Total Vaccination: 16,25,13,339 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-may-6-982833.html
06-05-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases see highest rise yet: 4.12 lakh more infections; 3,980 deaths is another grim record in 24 hrs||New Covid-19 cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 35,66,398 comprising 16.92 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.99 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,72,80,844, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,67,75,209 samples have been tested up to May 5 with 19,23,131 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 3,980 new fatalities include 920 from Maharashtra, 353  from Uttar Pradesh, 346 from Karnataka, 311 from Delhi, 253  from Chhattisgarh, 181 from Haryana, 180 from Punjab, 167 from Tamil Nadu, 155 from Rajasthan, 141 from Jharkhand, 133 from Gujarat, 127 from Uttarakhand and 103 from West Bengal.  A total of 2,30,168 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 72,662 from Maharashtra, 18,063 from Delhi, 16,884 from Karnataka, 14,779 from Tamil Nadu, 14,151 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,847 from West Bengal, 9,825 from Punjab and 9,738 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-see-highest-rise-yet-412-lakh-more-infections-3980-deaths-in-24-hrs-is-another-grim-record-982860.html
06-05-2021||National||Indian-origin immunologist Sankar Ghosh elected to National Academy of Sciences||An eminent and award-winning Indian-origin immunologist has been elected to the prestigious National Academy of Sciences in recognition of his "distinguished and continuing achievements in original research". Sankar Ghosh is the Silverstein and Hutt Family Professor of Microbiology and Chair of the Department of Microbiology & Immunology at the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University. He was among the 120 newly elected members announced by the Academy last week, a statement by Columbia University Irving Medical Center said. It said Ghosh’s research examines the connection between the immune system and various diseases, from cancer to sepsis to diabetes and more. He has a deep interest in deciphering the complexities of transcriptional regulation -- the ways by which a cell regulates the conversion of DNA to RNA -- to better understand the mechanisms of the immune system and the pathological changes that occur to its pathways in many diseases, the statement added. Ghosh and members of his lab recently uncovered new clues to sepsis that may speed diagnosis. "Their findings suggest the two microRNAs could inform a test to help physicians classify patients into those with milder infections versus others with organ failure who are at high risk of sepsis and death,” it said. Ghosh joined Columbia in 2008 and was previously a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator. He is also a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The National Academy of Sciences is a private, nonprofit institution that was established under a Congressional charter signed by President Abraham Lincoln in 1863. It recognises achievement in science by election to membership and - with the National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Medicine - provides science, engineering and health policy advice to the federal government and other organisations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-immunologist-sankar-ghosh-elected-to-national-academy-of-sciences-982865.html
06-05-2021||National||Locked ICU with dead Covid patients, staff missing at hospital in Gurgaon: Report||At least six Covid patients allegedly died at a hospital in Gurgaon, with three of them in the ICU, due to oxygen shortage. At Kirti Hospital in Gurgaon, viral videos showed families of Covid-19 patients entering the hospital to no staff including doctors. Upon entering the ICU, they found only bodies. Reports claim these videos from 5-6 days ago. The video has someone say "dead, dead..." while focusing on the patients laying still in the beds.   Angry relatives are seen in the video who see no staff around but were greeted by empty desks instead.   OXYGEN MURDERS continue across India Two days back, it was 24 ppl in Chamarajanagar & 2 in Bengaluru In Gurgaon's Kirti Hospital, every patient was found dead as they ran out of Oxygen "Neither the doctor is here, nor the chemist... no one at the reception. There is not even a guard," a voice in the clip is heard as saying. DH could not independently verify the video or claims. In another video, angry relatives are seen arguing with policemen asking them how doctors abandoned patients in the time of need and leave them to die. "How can you allow doctors to run away like this? Only someone who loses their loved ones can understand how we feel," said a man to two policemen who apparently just arrived. Hospital Director Swati Rathore told the publication that government officials had been informed about lack of oxygen from 2 pm onwards.  "We had informed relatives of the patients from 4 pm to shift their patients due to the oxygen crisis. But no help came and there were six casualties around 11 pm," Dr Rathore said. She claims that the staff had been told to hide in an effort to save their own lives as a few days prior, the hospital staff was attacked and assaulted by  families of patients. "I feared that my staff would lose their lives this time. The staff never left the hospital that night. They hid temporarily to save their lives," she said. However, claims over why the hospital took in Covid patients in the first place has also raised alarm. The Gurgaon administration has claimed that the hospital is not a Covid hospital and they would conduct an enquiry into the deaths.  "Two-three facts are very clear, which were preliminary reported to me by the Chief Medical Officer. The hospital was not registered as a Covid centre with the CMO so it should not have taken Covid patients in the first place - because we monitor Covid hospitals very closely. So this hospital was not under that scrutiny. Secondly, the number of admitted patients was much higher. So whether it was sick patients who died or whether it was the oxygen crunch. At what time the SOS was raised and how the situation was handled will only come out in the inquiry report," said Yash Garg, Deputy Commissioner of Gurgaon told the agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locked-icu-with-dead-covid-patients-staff-missing-at-hospital-in-gurgaon-report-982900.html
06-05-2021||National||Media has freedom to report court proceedings: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said there can't be any gag on real time reporting of the court proceedings, which is an extension of freedom of press and principles of open court. "This court stands as a staunch proponent of the freedom of the media to report court proceedings. This is integral to the freedom of speech and expression of those who speak, of those who wish to hear and to be heard and above all, in holding the judiciary accountable," a bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The top court dismissed a petition by the Election Commission against the Madras High Court's oral remarks on April 26 blaming it for Covid-19 surge, as it was not a part of the official judicial record. Moreover, it said, "formal opinion of a judicial institution is reflected through its judgements and orders, and not its oral observations during the hearing." The court, however, found the Madras High Court's oral remarks as "harsh" and "inappropriate", saying "a degree of caution and circumspection would have allayed the grievance" raised in the matter. The poll panel said the reporting by media of the observations dented its reputation built over the years. The court pointed out with the advent of technology, real-time updates on social media and other platforms of its proceedings, is not a "cause for apprehension but a celebration of our constitutional ethos".  "Freedom of speech and expression extends to reporting the proceedings of judicial institutions as well...Citizens have a right to know about what transpires in the course of judicial proceedings, the bench said. It said the US Supreme Court, the UK Supreme Court, the Court of Appeal of the UK and the International Criminal Court enable public viewership of proceedings through live streaming. The Gujarat High Court also did so in a bid to enhance public participation in the dispensation of justice. So, the bench said, it would be retrograde to shield the daily operations of the High Courts and this court from the media in all its forms, by gagging the reporting of proceedings. Lauding the role played the High Courts during Covid-19 pandemic, the court, however, said judges need to "exercise caution in off-the-cuff remarks which may be susceptible to misinterpretation". "Language, both on the bench and in judgements, must comport with judicial propriety. Language is an important instrument of a judicial process," the court stressed. However, the oral remarks by the Madras HC in the case did not intend to attribute culpability to the EC for the Covid-19 pandemic, it clarified. The court said it was tasked to balance two independent constitutional authorities. During the pandemic, the High Courts across the country have shown commendable foresight in managing the public health crisis. The EC, on the other hand, facilitated free and fair conduct of polls in seven decades and its independence and integrity is essential for democracy to thrive, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-has-freedom-to-report-court-proceedings-supreme-court-982901.html
06-05-2021||National||Indian-American doctors’ group in talks with Canada to send 5,000 unused ventilators to India||A powerful Indian-American doctors’ group has initiated talks with the Canadian government to urgently donate to India as many as 5,000 ventilators that it had purchased last year at the peak of their Covid-19 wave and are now unused. Dr Sudhakar Jonnalagadda, president of the American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin, said: “We're working with Canada and the government. They have about 5,000 ventilators." "It is with the Red Cross of Canada. We are urging the Canadian Government to donate this to India through the Red Cross to address the current Covid-19 crisis,” he told PTI in an interview. Jonnalagadda, said AAPI doctors working on this are hoping that the Canadian Government would agree to their request to donate it free to address the major health crisis in India. Describing the current situation in India as horrible, he said that thousands of Indian-American doctors have come forward to help their motherland. It ranges from raising funds to providing voluntary counselling services. Dr Anupama Gotiumukula, AAPI’s president-elect, said they had a call with the Canadian Government over the matter on Wednesday. “They have 5,000 ventilators which they want to send to India in collaboration with AAPI,” she said, hoping that these lives saving ventilators would soon be shipped to India. Indian-American doctors, she said, are very motivated to help India. According to Dr Gotiumukula, AAPI doctors are now working with the Indian Government to urgently develop a platform through which Indian-American doctors can provide free health care services and tele-health to patients in India. A meeting over the matter was held on Tuesday. The meeting was attended by Dr Anurag Mairal, an Adjunct Professor of Medicine and the Director, Global Outreach Programmes at Stanford Byers Center for Bio design, Stanford University; Ayesha Choudhury Officer on Special Duty (OSD), Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India and Dr Vijay Raghavan, Principal scientific adviser for the government of India and Dr Prasad Garimella from Atlanta. “So, we had a very productive teleconference last night to discuss the development of a tele-health platform for the Indian government with the help of US technology. Hopefully, that will become live pretty soon,” Dr Gotiumukula said. During this crisis, two telehealth platforms – eglobaldoctirs.com and MdTok.Com -- have been offered free to AAPI doctors for the short term. But the one being developed by the Indian Government in association with US technology would be permanent in nature and would include liability coverage and clear them of all legal hurdles, she said. Such a platform would address the crisis of the severe shortage of doctors in India. AAPI is also conducting zoom sessions for Indian doctors. New coronavirus cases and deaths in India on Thursday hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168. The active cases have increased to 35,66,398.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-american-doctors-group-in-talks-with-canada-to-send-5000-unused-ventilators-to-india-982902.html
06-05-2021||National||HC asks MHA procedure for deporting foreigners without documents||The Delhi High Court has asked the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) what procedure it follows for the repatriation of foreign nationals who are in India without any documents. Hearing a plea on behalf of three Bangladeshi youths, including a minor, who were allegedly abducted from their country and brought here in March and want to return home, Justice Prathiba M Singh directed the MHA to place on record the procedure as well as the time period and formalities to be completed for the repatriation/deportation of such foreign nationals. If there is any communication from the Bangladeshi High Commission in connection with the request letter for deportation served upon it, it should also be placed on record, the court said on Tuesday. If the procedure to be adopted along with the timelines is not filed along with an affidavit by May 13, a senior official of the MHA shall remain present on the next date of hearing on May 17, it said. On April 12, the court had issued notice to the ministries of Home and External Affairs, the Bangladesh High Commission, the Delhi government, the Border Security Force and the police, seeking their stand on the plea from three youths to send them back home. According to the petition filed on behalf of the three youths, they had gone to see the Indo-Bangladesh border on March 4, 2021, along with an acquaintance who had given them some food after reaching close to the border. After eating the food, the three lost consciousness and woke up on a platform of the New Delhi Railway Station on March 10, the petition, filed through advocates Kamlesh Kumar Mishra, Ritu Maity and Abhishek Anand, has said. Subsequently, the three went to the nearby Kamla Market Police Station and narrated their story. The policemen gave them some money for food, the petition said, adding that they were later shifted to a homeless night shelter. They made representations to the Bangladesh High Commission and government agencies of India and Bangladesh with the help of social activist Sunil Kumar Aledia, but received no response, the petition added. Besides their safe return home, the plea has said they should not be arrested for lack of passport or visa and be provided food and shelter till they are sent back to their country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-mha-procedure-for-deporting-foreigners-without-documents-982913.html
06-05-2021||National||India’s struggle to track new Covid variants could worsen crisis||The good news is that the vaccines work against a new virus strain circulating in India that’s spread to several other countries. The bad news is it won’t be only the new version of the pathogen to emerge from an outbreak of this scale, underscoring the urgency of mapping other possible variants that may be currently racing through India’s tightly-packed population of 1.4 billion people. As infections surge by more than 300,000 cases for 15 straight days, pushing India’s tally past 21 million, the country’s limited ability to track new mutations emerging from its outbreak is a growing concern for scientists. India reported a record 412,262 new infections and 3,980 deaths Thursday. Second- or even third-generation versions of the variant known as B.1.617 could already be circulating in India and some may be more dangerous, said William Haseltine, a former Harvard Medical School professor who now chairs think tank Access Health International. “India has the necessary genome sequencing capabilities but it needs to have a mass surveillance program,” Haseltine said. “I’ll be on the lookout for more and newer variants, given the opportunity the virus has had with such a massive outbreak.” Variants are already outracing vaccination progress in many parts of the world, fueling bigger outbreaks that spread faster. While some rich nations that secured effective vaccines early have seen their epidemics wane, the virus is still spreading like wildfire in developing economies, prolonging the pandemic. Super Mutant DebunkedMutations occur when the virus replicates, and India’s unprecedented surge is driving new cases to global records, even as richer economies like the U.S. and Israel re-open quickly. Fearing an influx of infections and mindful of B.1.617, Singapore, the UK and Tanzania are among countries that have curbed travel to and from India. Australia has banned its citizens from returning from India and imposed penalties of roughly $50,000 and five years imprisonment for violators. The India strain has been called a double mutant because of the presence of two changes in the virus’s genome, called E484Q and L452R. Both affect a portion of the spike protein, called the receptor binding domain, that’s key to the virus entering cells. Some researchers estimate that the B.1.617 variant is as transmissible as the B.1.1.7 variant that emerged in the UK, thought to be as much as 70 per cent more transmissible than earlier versions of the virus. Yet initial analyses indicate that the India version, now classified a variant of interest by the World Health Organization, poses a limited threat and doesn’t appear to be more dangerous. Covaxin, the inactivated-virus vaccine being made by India’s Bharat Biotech International Ltd., and AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine, called Covishield in India, are effective against the strain in preventing serious illness, said Rakesh Mishra, director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad, one of the labs analyzing virus samples. Data is still being gathered about the response to Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, Mishra said, but it’s likely to be effective. BioNTech SE Chief Executive Officer Ugur Sahin said he was confident the mRNA shot it’s making with partner Pfizer Inc. would work against the India mutant though testing is still ongoing. “The Indian variant has the same mutation that we’ve already investigated and against which our vaccine was also effective,” he said last week. Singapore, which tightened social distancing restrictions this week after findings cases linked to the India variant, has also seen vaccines hold up well to prevent serious illness, said Kenneth Mak, director of medical services in city-state’s health ministry. But “vaccination does not prevent you from getting infected 100 per cent,” he said in a Tuesday briefing. Ravindra Gupta’s team at the University of Cambridge recently studied the two mutations that appear on the receptor binding domain of the India variant’s spike protein. The team tested viruses made to simulate the variant against serum from nine people who had already received a single dose of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine. “We wanted to know whether this double mutant really is a double whammy,” said Gupta, a professor of clinical microbiology at Cambridge’s Institute for Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Diseases. What they found was that while each of the mutations could partly evade neutralizing antibodies, the two mutations didn’t combine to create an even greater ability to evade immune protection. “They don’t combine to make a super mutant,” Gupta said. “It kind of debunks this view that this double mutant is doubly evading neutralizing antibodies.” While the findings ease concerns around B.1.617, researchers are turning to the next set of variants as India’s outbreak continues to rage. Genomic surveillance can provide crucial information on the new forms of this shape-shifting virus -- critical in preventing subsequent waves and developing the next generation of vaccines. In the U.S., recent studies published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that a variant that caused concern when it emerged in New York isn’t more dangerous than earlier strains, while a pair of mutants that surfaced in southern California “might more frequently cause discernible and severe illness than do nationally circulating lineages overall.” The WHO has been monitoring variants through a global working group of laboratories, said Maria Van Kerkhove, the agency’s technical lead officer. Information about new variants is coming in “fast and furious,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-struggle-to-track-new-covid-variants-could-worsen-crisis-982914.html
06-05-2021||National||Delhi HC seeks CCI stand on Facebook, WhatsApp appeals against single judge order on privacy policy||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against a probe ordered into the messaging app's new privacy policy. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the CCI that had ordered the probe and sought its response by May 21, the next date of hearing. The single judge on April 22 had said though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi HC against WhatsApp's new privacy policy, but not doing so would not make the regulator's order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-cci-stand-on-facebook-whatsapp-appeals-against-single-judge-order-on-privacy-policy-982915.html
06-05-2021||National||Research models predict India's Covid-19 toll may double in the coming weeks||The coronavirus wave that plunged India into the world’s biggest health crisis has the potential to worsen in the coming weeks, with some research models projecting that the death toll could more than double from current levels. A team at the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore used a mathematical model to predict about 404,000 deaths will occur by June 11 if current trends continue. A model from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington forecast 1,018,879 deaths by the end of July. While coronavirus cases can be hard to predict, particularly in a sprawling nation like India, the forecasts reflect the urgent need for India to step up public health measures like testing and social distancing. c The US currently has the largest number of fatalities at around 578,000.  India reported a record 3,780 deaths on Wednesday for an overall toll of 226,188, along with 382,315 new cases, taking its outbreak past 20.6 million infections. In recent weeks, the scenes on the ground, with long lines outside crematoriums and hospitals turning away ambulances, have painted a picture of a nation overwhelmed by the crisis. “The next four to six weeks are going to be very, very difficult for India,” said Ashish Jha, the dean of Brown University School of Public Health. “The challenge is going to be to do things now that will make sure it is four weeks, not six or eight, and that we minimize how bad things will get. But in no way is India anywhere near out of the woods.” A spokesperson for the health ministry couldn’t immediately be reached. The ministry said on Monday that in about a dozen states, including Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, there are early signs that the number of daily new infections are starting to plateau. The Indian rupee has declined about 1% this quarter in Asia’s worst performance as investors turned cautious ahead of an unscheduled speech by India’s central bank governor Wednesday. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex Index is down about 2% as foreign funds sold about $1.7 billion of the nation’s stocks. Economic Impact A prolonged crisis has the potential to dent the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as slow or reverse India’s recovery from last year’s economic recession. Bloomberg Economics lowered its growth projection for the year ending March 2022 to 10.7% from 12.6%, and even these numbers are flattered by a low base as activity ground to a halt due to a strict lockdown last year. India’s central bank, meanwhile, has announced new loan-relief measures for small businesses and promised to inject 500 billion rupees ($6.8 billion) of liquidity to support the economy. For public health researchers, a key concern is the relative dearth of coronavirus testing, which many scientists believe is causing a sharp undercounting of cases. “It could honestly get a lot worse, which is hard to imagine given how staggering the impacts have already been when you see 400,000 new cases each day and you know that that’s probably an underestimation,” said Jennifer Nuzzo, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security in Baltimore, Maryland. The main metric that officials are watching is the test positivity rate, which is the percentage of people with positive test results. The overall positivity rate is 20% in India now, and in some parts of the country, it tops 40%, a shockingly high number that indicates as many as three-fourths of infections are being missed, said Jha. The World Health Organization considers anything above 5% too high, saying that governments should implement social distancing measures until positivity rates are below that level for at least two weeks. “Despite scaling up testing considerably, it’s still not enough to capture all the infected people,” said Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the World Health Organization, speaking on Bloomberg TV. “So the numbers, while very high, are likely an underestimate of the true numbers of infections,” she said. “It’s a grim situation.” Social Distancing The goal is to run enough tests that a large number of infected people aren’t going undiagnosed. If only the sickest patients are tested, many people with milder disease or no symptoms at all may continue to unwittingly spread the disease. “There are reports of tests being considerably delayed and of patients delaying having to go to hospital as much as they can, given the stresses on the health system,” said Gautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University, who also works on modelling outbreaks. “We don’t know enough about Covid-19 spread away from the major cities, in the rural heartland of India, although reports from there suggest that the situation is dire.” The U.S. government, as part of a package of supplies for India, pledged last week to send one million rapid tests to India. There are several other things that could be done quickly to try to help staunch the outbreak. High on the list is wearing masks, a crucial element for disease control, said Catherine Blish, an infectious disease specialist and global health expert at Stanford Medicine in California. Major cities in India already require people to wear masks, but such rules can be harder to implement in crowded slums and rural areas. Several states have introduced lockdowns, although Modi has resisted a national effort after one imposed by him last year fueled a humanitarian crisis with migrant workers fleeing the cities on foot and in some cases bringing the virus with them. Lockdowns The Indian Institute of Science has estimated that with a 15-day lockdown deaths could be lower at 300,000, falling to 285,000 with a 30-day lockdown. IMHE estimates a lower death toll of around 940,000 by the end of July with universal mask-wearing. Vaccines will be the big way to remove risks, although it will take time to get there, public health experts say. It takes several weeks for immunity to build after someone has been vaccinated. The process is even longer with those that require two shots, stretching the process out from six weeks to two months. “The vaccines are working,” said Kim Mulholland, an Australian paediatrician and leader of the infection and immunity group at the Murdoch Children’s Research Institute in Melbourne. “They just haven’t got the capacity.” Ultimately, cases will come down, it’s just a matter of when, said Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, and an adviser to US President Joe Biden. Scientists still don’t have a good understanding of why Covid-19 comes in sudden, roller-coaster-like changes, he said. “It will eventually burn itself through the population,” Osterholm said. “Within several weeks to a month and a half, you will see this peak come back down, and it’s likely to come down quickly.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/research-models-predict-indias-covid-19-toll-may-double-in-the-coming-weeks-982919.html
06-05-2021||National||Second wave of Covid-19 has hit India 'like a tsunami' says Kiran Mazumdar Shaw||The second wave of Covid-19 has hit India "like a tsunami", Biocon founder Kiran Mazumdar Shaw has said, attributing the unprecedented spike in coronavirus cases to the recent state elections and religious festivals in the country. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. “This time around the second wave has hit like a tsunami. And the unfortunate part is it has not spared any part of our country,” Mazumdar said during a virtual panel discussion on global vaccine equity organised by One Share World. “This time around both urban India and more frighteningly it is rural India that has also got infected because we did have a bunch of state elections and a number of religious festivals that have really, really added to this horrific surge,” she said. India had Assembly polls in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry in March and also there was a religious congregation in Haridwar during that time. Because of the surge of the infection and this virus, it has created an enormous demand on hospital infrastructure. “So hospital beds and oxygen, we don't have enough human resources to manage the kind of numbers we're seeing today. We don't have enough medicines to treat patients with. We don't have enough medical supplies of most types to deal with this pandemic,” she said. “Above all, we don't even have enough vaccines to vaccinate people fast enough,” she said adding that the enormity of the population makes it more challenging. She welcomed the global community coming forward to help India with Covid-19 assistance. Over 40 countries have committed to provide India urgently required medical supplies like oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines to help it deal with an unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said in New Delhi last week. “If India is not safe, I can tell you the world is not safe,” Mazumdar said. GAVI chief Seth Berkley said that the India crisis has made it difficult for the availability of vaccines. “Part of the problem is with the India situation, India is one of our major suppliers. They wanted to make sure vaccines could focus on the needs in India. So right now we have a shortage of vaccines and one of the challenges is how do we get countries to now share,” he said. “What's interesting is the wealthy countries, because we didn't know at the beginning, whether any of these vaccines were going to work or which ones have bought a whole portfolio of vaccines like we have. What that means is that already it's estimated that there's more than 1.5 billion excess doses that will exist in high-income countries,” he said. Berkley said the challenge is can they get those high-income countries to donate those vaccines and make them available. India at the start of this year, felt so complacent and confident that it was in fact, even donating vaccines to certain parts of the world before this second wave hit the country, said Mazumdar. “And now of course, we just need to ramp up vaccine production as much as we can to deal with this crisis,” she said. WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom said that global supply of vaccines is limited. “We have an ethical, epidemiological and economic imperative to deploy vaccines as equitably as possible. Vaccine nationalism will only problem the pandemic, the economic turmoil it causes the restrictions on travel and trade and increase the chances of a variant emerging that evades vaccines,” he said. New coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-wave-of-covid-19-has-hit-india-like-a-tsunami-says-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-982923.html
06-05-2021||National||US lawmaker proposes travel of a mercy ship to India to help address Covid-19 challenge||A top American lawmaker has proposed sending a mercy ship to India to help the country which is struggling to deal with a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The situation in India is so dire that the US must organise and collaborate to provide the aid India needs, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee said after the United Memorial Medical Center in Houston announced sending Covid-19 assistance to India. “Today, we announced humanitarian help to India and proposed travel of a mercy ship to India to help with the devastation of Covid-19,” Jackson Lee said on Wednesday, as several lawmakers came forward appealing for more assistance to India. Congresswoman Katherine Clark said that the United States must continue to do everything it can to end the crisis in India and other countries and protect people from infection and the deadly impact of Covid-19. “Our work as a nation is not over until the pandemic has been stopped in all corners of the world,” she said. Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi had a virtual meeting with India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, during which he extended full support to India in its fight against Covid-19. “I thanked Congressman for his strong support for India during these challenging times,” Sandhu said in a tweet. Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester praised the Department of Defence for flying Covid-19 assistance to India. “Wonderful to see this support making its way to #India. Sending my prayers to the entire country as they face down this wave of Covid-19,” she said. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. A record 3,780 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India taking the death toll to 2,26,188, while 3,82,315 new coronavirus infections were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 2,06,65,148. Over 40 countries have committed to provide India urgently required medical supplies like oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines to help it deal with an unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said in New Delhi last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-lawmaker-proposes-travel-of-a-mercy-ship-to-india-to-help-address-covid-19-challenge-982925.html
06-05-2021||National||British Airways flies aircraft with emergency aid to Delhi||British Airways on Thursday said it operated a Boeing 777-200 aircraft carrying emergency aid, including oxygen cylinders and concentrators, to Delhi amid the country battling with rising coronavirus cases. While IAG Cargo and British Airways have maintained a vital air link between London and India throughout the pandemic and sending aid on scheduled flights, this airlift was done through a special charter. It was fully-funded by the two companies, according to a release. British Airways said it commissioned a special project team to organise the flight (BA257F), which landed in Delhi at 5.45 am (local time) on Thursday. The aircraft was loaded with more than thousand items from the Indian High Commission and charities. It included hundreds of urgent life-saving oxygen cylinders and shipments of oxygen concentrators, respirators and blood oxygen saturation monitors. Besides, the airline is donating care packages for families in need. "The British Airways family has been deeply affected by the terrible scenes in India of the deepening humanitarian crisis that has impacted the lives of many of our people. We are fortunate to be in a position to help transport aid and I am so proud of the volunteers from across the airline and IAG Cargo who have stepped up to make this happen," British Airways' CEO Sean Doyle said. He said British Airways will continue to stand with its friends in India as the country endures one of the "worst crises" it has ever known. British Airways is working in partnership with the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC), which is organising the UK's humanitarian response. DEC's CEO Saleh Saeed said DEC brings together 14 leading UK aid charities to respond quickly and effectively to disasters, with the fantastic support of partners in the corporate sector, including British Airways. "We are hugely grateful to British Airways for springing into action to support our emergency appeals, enabling us to provide life-saving humanitarian assistance to people in India and elsewhere across the world when disaster strikes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/british-airways-flies-aircraft-with-emergency-aid-to-delhi-982929.html
06-05-2021||National||10 states account for 72% of new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi are among 10 states that account for 72.19 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. New coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168. The ministry said that Karnataka, Kerala, Haryana, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan are among the other states in the list of 10. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 57,640, followed by Karnataka at 50,112. Kerala reported 41,953 new cases. Besides Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Jhakhand account for 75.55 per cent of the new deaths.  Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (920). Uttar Pradesh follows with 353 daily deaths. "The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.09 per cent," the ministry said. India's total active caseload has reached 35,66,398 and now comprises 16.92 per cent of the country's total infections. A net incline of 79,169 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of  24 hours. Twelve states cumulatively account for 81.05 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 16.25 crore. The ministry said 9,04,263 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine across 12 states and UTs. These states are Chhattisgarh (1,026), Delhi (1,29,096), Gujarat (1,96,860), Jammu and Kashmir (16,387), Haryana (1,23,484), Karnataka (5,328), Maharashtra (1,53,966), Odisha (21,031), Punjab (1,535), Rajasthan (1,80,242), Tamil Nadu (6,415) and UP (68,893). Cumulatively, 16,25,13,339 vaccine doses have been administered through 29,34,844 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 94,80,739 HCWs who have taken the first dose and 63,54,113 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,36,57,922 FLWs who have received the first dose and 74,25,592 FLWs who have taken the second dose and, 9,04,263 beneficiaries aged 18-44 who have taken the first dose. Besides, 5,31,16,901 and 1,29,15,354 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively while 5,38,15,026 and 48,43,429 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the first and second dose. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.87 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. More than 19 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on Day-110 of the vaccination drive (May 5), 19,55,733 vaccine doses were given. Across 15,903 sessions, 8,99,163 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 10,56,570 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,72,80,844 with 3,29,113 recoveries being registered in a day. Ten states account for 74.71 per cent of the new recoveries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-account-for-72-of-new-covid-19-cases-982945.html
06-05-2021||National||Treat as representation PIL against overcharging for cremations, ambulances: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Delhi government to treat as representation a PIL alleging there was overcharging for cremations and ambulance services going on in the national capital during the prevailing Covid-19 crisis. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said the representation be decided in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case. The court said the decision be taken as early as possible and practicable and with the observation disposed of the plea by NGO Distress Management Collective. Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the bench that municipal bodies be also asked to treat the NGO's plea as a representation as they are also running crematoriums. A similar plea, by a lawyer, with regard to over charging by ambulances was not entertained by the court as it was of the view that it had been filed without doing any research. The bench said it would dismiss the petition with costs or it can be withdrawn by the petitioner -- Nimesh Joshi. Subsequently, the plea was withdrawn. The NGO, represented by advocates M P Srivignesh, Robin Raju and Deepa Joseph, in its plea had contended that "there is a dire need for a policy to regulate the charges levied for cremation and burials during these difficult Covid times".  "It is seen that due to the lack of such policy, the caretakers and other private parties involved with the functioning of the crematoriums and burial spots specifically assigned for Covid deaths, are charging for cremations and burials as per their own whims and fancies," it had said. The NGO had also said that ambulance service providers across Delhi were charging unjustified fares for even a short distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treat-as-representation-pil-against-overcharging-for-cremations-ambulances-hc-to-delhi-govt-982954.html
06-05-2021||National||Centre makes it mandatory for disability certificates to be issued online||In a relief for people with disabilities, the Central government has now made it mandatory for disability certificates to be issued online. The Ministry of Social justice and empowerment has issued a gazette notification for this on Monday. "Mandatory for all states/UTs to grant certificate of disability through online mode only using UDID portal with effect from June 1. States/UTs have been advised for compliance," the ministry's disability affairs department tweeted. The sector had been demanding such a move, especially during the coronavirus crisis where people with disabilities were unable to get their certificates due to the prevalent restrictions. For people with disabilities, a disability certificate is a necessity as they can avail the benefits of different government schemes by furnishing the document.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-makes-it-mandatory-for-disability-certificates-to-be-issued-online-982958.html
06-05-2021||National||Covid-19 swab sticks packed in unhygienic conditions in slum; supplier booked||A case has been registered against a supplier of swab sticks used for collecting nasal and throat samples for Covid-19 testing, after a video allegedly showed that the items were being packed in unhygienic conditions at a slum in neighbouring Thane district, police said on Thursday. Earlier this week, a video surfaced on social media, which showed that swab sticks were being packed at a slum in Sant Dnyaneshwar Nagar in Ulhasnagar, an official said. Following this, officials from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), local civic body and police visited the slum and recovered packets of swab sticks from a few households on Wednesday, he said. A case has been registered against the supplier, who had hired labour from the households, under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Epidemic Diseases Act, he said, adding that so arrests have been made so far. The video showed women and children packing swab sticks that are used in Covid-19 tests, without wearing any gloves or masks, it was stated. Some sticks were also left lying on floor mats and children handled them with their bare hands, the official said. Women were being paid Rs 20 for packing 1,000 swab sticks in plastic packets, the official said, adding that further probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-swab-sticks-packed-in-unhygienic-conditions-in-slum-supplier-booked-982960.html
06-05-2021||National||UK Covid-19 variant dominates north India, double mutant found mostly in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, says NCDC chief||The UK strain of coronavirus is currently dominating parts of north India while double mutant could be found mostly in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat, Sujeet Singh, Director of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has said. He, however, added that the B1.1.7 lineage of SARS CoV-2 (UK variant) is declining in proportion across the country in the last month and a half. Addressing a press briefing on Wednesday, Singh said the UK strain is dominating parts of north India including Punjab (482 samples) and Delhi (516), followed by Telangana (192), Maharashtra (83) and Karnataka (82). He said 10 top government laboratories and institutions have been sequencing the genomes of coronavirus since December. A total of 18,053 samples have been sequenced so far, he added. Singh said the information on genome sequencing has been shared with the states twice in February, four times in March and again four times in April. He said in the video-conferencing with states, the Health Ministry also informed about the current status of variants of concern and new mutants and stressed on increased and stringent public health interventions. The double mutant variant, also known as B.1.617, is mostly dominating Maharashtra (761), West Bengal (124), Delhi (107) and Gujarat (102), Singh said. The South African variant, also known as B.1.315, was predominantly found in Telangana and Delhi. Brazilian variant (P1) was only found in Maharashtra in a negligible proportion, he said. Singh said there is a frequent written communication on the variants by the Health Ministry and the NCDC to all states and UTs. He said states/UTs are advised to keep strict surveillance in the districts reporting new variants of concern where they can take up stringent public health measures including contact tracing, genome sequencing of positive samples of persons having history of international travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-covid-19-variant-dominates-north-india-double-mutant-found-mostly-in-maharashtra-gujarat-karnataka-says-ncdc-chief-982965.html
06-05-2021||National||Include journalists in 'Covid warriors' category, Press Council tells Centre, state governments||The Press Council of India on Thursday reiterated its recommendation to the Centre and state governments that journalists be included in the category of 'Covid warriors' and also given insurance cover. In a statement, the print media watchdog commended the governments of Odisha, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh who have considered journalists among "frontline workers for their hard work in this pandemic situation" and have extended financial help to them. The Press Council of India (PCI) reiterated its recommendation to the Centre and state/Union territory governments regarding insurance of journalists and for including journalists in the category of Covid-19 Warriors. While reiterating its resolution of September last year, the PCI urged all state governments, Union territories and the central government to frame and implement a group insurance scheme for the journalists on the lines of the policy framed by the Haryana government. The Council also recommended to the central, state governments and the Union territories to include the journalists in the category of 'Covid warriors' like doctors, confer them with the same benefits and give immediate financial assistance to the families of all those journalists who died due to Covid-19. The Council, therefore, urges the central government as well as state/UT governments to take necessary steps for the welfare of journalists, the statement said. Fresh coronavirus cases and fatalities in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the tally of cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/include-journalists-in-covid-warriors-category-press-council-tells-centre-state-governments-982971.html
06-05-2021||National||PM Modi says lockdowns shouldn’t affect Covid-19 vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said lockdowns in states should not hamper the vaccination drive even as he reviewed the Covid-19 situation across the country. Modi, during a meeting attended by senior ministers including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, was briefed about the states having high caseload and positivity rates. According to the health ministry, 16 states and Union Territories (UTs) have a test positivity rate of 20% and more with Goa topping the list with a 48% positivity rate. Test positivity rate in Haryana is 37%, West Bengal (33%), Delhi (32%), Puducherry (30%), Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan (29% each), Karnataka (28%), the health ministry said quoting ICMR report for April 26 to May 2. The prime minister noted that an advisory was sent to the states to identify districts of concern where case positivity was 10% or more and bed occupancy was more than 60% on either oxygen-supported or ICU beds. Modi also reviewed the progress of the vaccination drive and the roadmap for scaling up the production of vaccines in the next few months. “Citizens should be facilitated for vaccination despite lockdowns and healthcare workers involved in vaccination must not be diverted for other duties,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. At least 26 states and UTs have either imposed strict curbs on the movement of people or lockdowns. The review of the Covid-19 situation came on a day when India breached the 4-lakh daily new cases mark yet again. As many as 4,12,262 fresh infections were reported from across the country on Thursday morning, while the daily death toll was at 3,980. The prime minister was given a detailed picture of the Covid-19 outbreak in various states and districts, and was informed about the 12 states which have more than one lakh active cases, PMO said. The prime minister also reviewed the availability of medicines and was briefed about the rapid augmenting of production of medicines including Remdesivir, the PMO said. PM also reviewed the availability of medicines. He was briefed about the rapid augmenting of the production of medicines including Remdesivir. PM reviewed the progress on vaccination and the roadmap for scaling up production on vaccines in the next few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-lockdowns-shouldn-t-affect-covid-19-vaccination-drive-982973.html
06-05-2021||National||Centre can't shirk responsibility of universal Covid-19 vaccination, says C Rangarajan||The Centre needs to take the responsibility of vaccinating all the people in the country as part of the measures to control the Covid-19 pandemic and it cannot shirk its responsibility, former Governor of RBI C Rangarajan said on Thursday. Speaking at the inaugural session of a virtual conference organised by ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education here, he said it involves a lot of expenditure, the Centre has to take up universal vaccination while states need to spend on other medical infrastructure such as improving hospitals, recruiting more medical staff. "Vaccination is important. It has to be universal. Therefore it is the responsibility of the government and I would say the central government to take on itself the expenditure which areto be incurred in terms of vaccinating the people," theformer Chairman of the Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Councilsaid. "I think the responsibility of the government is very clear or the government of India is very clear and it should not shirk this responsibility. I know this will involve a great deal of expenditure that has to be borne and that is the responsibility clearly of the government of India," hesaid. Later, talking to PTI, he said that since vaccination should be the Centre's responsibility, the question of different pricing of vaccines for different sectors would not arise. Currently there are three levels of pricing fixed by the Covid-19 vaccine makers-central, state government and private supplies. "I am saying the vaccination is the responsibility of the central government. The Central government should bear all the cost. Let them negotiate and let them get a price and distribute it," he added. Rangarajan said in order to revive the slumped economy, the governments both centre and states need to increase their expenditure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-cant-shirk-responsibility-of-universal-covid-19-vaccination-says-c-rangarajan-982982.html
06-05-2021||National||India footballer CK Vineeth again comes forward to help Covid-hit people||Known as much for his helping nature as his skills upfront, India footballer CK Vineeth has once again come to the aid of people hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and is urging everyone to do their bit. As a deadly second wave of the pandemic rages across the country, Vineeth, using his social media presence, has come forward to help people in their hour of need. "As a human being, I believe it must be in our nature to help others who are in need. Right now, I feel it's important to step in and do whatever I can," Vineeth, popularly referred to as CK, said. "Over the years we have managed to build a community of football players, management staff, and supporters on social media, especially Twitter, that has grown exceptionally strong despite all the club rivalry. "I felt I needed to join in and help -- in whatever small way possible," the Kerala-based SC East Bengal striker told the All India Football Federation (AIFF) website. Apart from the oxygen requirements, blood banks have also appealed to citizens to donate before they get vaccinated. And the nimble-footed winger has urged everyone to come forward and assist in this drive. "I think it's increasingly important that those who can donate blood should do so before they get vaccinated. Amidst the second wave, there's no doubt that there will be a shortage of blood and plasma in the blood banks in the coming months, as more and more people in younger age groups are all set to get vaccinated. "The period after which a vaccinated person can donate blood is too long, and people need to understand that they can save lives by doing something as simple as visiting a blood bank," he said. The forward from Kannur had made headlines last year when he was seen working as a volunteer at a Covid-19 helpline centre back home during the nationwide lockdown. "I don't consider it as social work. I consider it my duty as a citizen to give back to our community that has given me so much over the years," CK said "Throughout my career I have realised that I don't want people to see me as just a footballer, but also as someone who wants to make a difference and aims to affect a change in the mind-set of the community." He also urged everyone to come and support each other in every way possible to help them fight the dreaded virus. "What is happening on twitter is visible. But it's also equally important that we take care of people who may not have access to social media. "Whether it is by calling up one another just to check in on them, looking out for our elderly neighbours who may need help but are scared to venture out, or taking care of animals on the streets during the lockdown -- there are so many different ways by which we can make a difference," he expressed. "In the football community, some of us have only a few thousand followers, while others have over a million, but the truth is that every single call made or a tweet posted or shared makes a difference," he said. Vineeth also urged people to speak up as and when necessary. "If you spot someone not wearing a mask, tell them to. If you feel someone is making a wrong decision, let them know. The virus doesn't discriminate between the rich and poor or the young from the old," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-footballer-ck-vineeth-again-comes-forward-to-help-covid-hit-people-982984.html
06-05-2021||National||Govt issues guidelines for expeditious Covid-19 vaccination of aviation personnel||The Centre on Thursday issued guidelines to facilitate expeditious Covid-19 vaccination of aviation personnel working in government as well as private entities. A dedicated vaccination facility will be established by the airport operators in their respective airports to facilitate expeditious vaccination of staff, the guidelines issued by the Civil Aviation Ministry stated. Priority during vaccination should be given to the air traffic controllers (ATCs), cockpit and cabin crews of the airlines as well as mission-critical and passenger-facing staff, it said. India has been badly hit by the second wave of coronavirus infections even as hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of vaccines, oxygen, drugs, equipment and beds. The guidelines stated that the operator should immediately contact the state governments or private service providers (hospitals), which are willing to set up Covid-19 vaccination centres at the airports. There can be more than one service providers at any airport depending on the number of personnel working in the aviation ecosystem," it stated. The airport operators must establish facilities like drinking water, help desk, ventilation, fans, washrooms, vaccination counters and segregated waiting area, it said. The cost per vaccination dose can be decided by the airport operator with the service provider and it will be the same for aviation personnel, it mentioned. The focus of major airports could be on tying up with private service providers, it noted. "For the smaller airports – where the numbers to get vaccinated are less and private players do not find it viable – the airport operators can approach the district or local administration for extending the vaccination programme," it added. The facilities created by the airport operator would be available for all aviation personnel in the first phase and can be extended to the family members subsequently, it mentioned. "All airport operators are advised to designate a nodal officer -- and the alternative nodal officer may also be kept in readiness -- for coordinating the efforts," the guidelines noted. "Chairman of Airports Authority of India (AAI) will hold regular meetings to review the progress and coordinate with the Civil Aviation Ministry, and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will address issues or challenges," it said.  The AAI owns and manages more than 100 airports across the country. "This is the broad framework to facilitate expeditious vaccination of the civil aviation community in the country," the guidelines said. New coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 35,66,398 comprising 16.92 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.99 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-issues-guidelines-for-expeditious-covid-19-vaccination-of-aviation-personnel-982992.html
06-05-2021||National||Australia's Victoria state to send 41 million dollar worth of aid to India to tackle Covid crisis||The Australian state of Victoria on Thursday announced 41 million dollar worth of aid and medical equipment, including 1,000 ventilators, for India to assist it to curb the devastating second wave of Covid-19. The donation will be made to the Commonwealth medical stockpile. "We are working with the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) to deliver this support to India as the country works to manage the second wave of coronavirus and treat those infected," according to an official statement. "The 1,000 ICU Ventilators are currently owned by the Department of Health and will be donated to India for humanitarian purposes and the state was also preparing to send a range of supporting equipment like connectors and humidifiers, with the total package valued at over 41 million Australian dollars. Announcing the support package, the state's acting Premier James Merlino said: ''The situation in India right now is devastating and shows that the fight against this pandemic is not over – we have a responsibility to help where we can and that’s exactly what we’re doing.'' Minister for Multicultural Affairs Ros Spence said: ''Our thoughts are with everyone impacted by this unfolding tragedy and we hope this package will go some way to addressing the challenges India is facing right now.'' New coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. Expressing solidarity with India and the people, Kaushaliya Vagghela, the first Indian born MP elected to the Victorian Parliament, said ''at this painful and difficult time, all Victorians stand side by side with our Indian community, both here and abroad." She said she had also expressed her concerns about India and requested the state government to support India and Australians in India during this crisis. "I stood up in Victorian Parliament to urge the federal government to explore all options possible to safely bring back Australians currently in India,'' she added. Victoria has the highest number of migrants from India followed closely by New South Wales.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australias-victoria-state-to-send-41-million-dollar-worth-of-aid-to-india-to-tackle-covid-crisis-982995.html
06-05-2021||National||Punjab CM, Shiromani Akali Dal chief condole death of RLD leader Ajit Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday condoled the demise of former Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Chaudhary Ajit Singh. Ajit Singh, 82, passed away at a Gurgaon hospital on Thursday morning battling Covid-19, his family said. In a condolence message, the Punjab chief minister described Ajit Singh as a "messiah of farmers", who always played a proactive role in championing the cause of peasantry. ''His enormous contribution towards the farmers' welfare would be ever remembered by one and all," said Amarinder Singh. With the death of Ajit Singh, a void has been created in the arena of national politics, which was difficult to be filled, the CM added. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal in a tweet said, "Saddened to hear about the demise of RLD chief & former union minister Ch. Ajit Singh Ji. A champion of farmer's rights, Chaudhary Sahib fought various battles for the welfare of country's 'annadata'. My condolences to @jayantrld, family & followers." A prominent farmer leader and the son of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, Ajit Singh was diagnosed positive for Covid-19 on April 20, his family said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-shiromani-akali-dal-chief-condole-death-of-rld-leader-ajit-singh-983000.html
06-05-2021||National||Centre moves Supreme Court against Karnataka High Court order on oxygen allocation||The Union government Thursday approached the Supreme Court against the Karnataka High Court May 5 order to enhance daily liquid medical oxygen (LMO) allocation for the state to 1200 MT, saying it would have a "cascading effect resulting into a total collapse of the system" in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre said the High Court's order was to be set aside as it "would ultimately lead to mismanagement of resources and create a further chaotic environment in an already overburdened system". It said the issues transcended the boundaries of a particular state, as one or more states would be competing for the limited resources during the time of the pandemic, at the expense of others, ultimately requiring the top court's intervention for a comprehensive national plan. Maintaining that since the entire nation is affected by the second wave of the pandemic, limited resources have to be put to judicious use, keeping in mind the overall situation. The Centre said it had already increased the allocation of oxygen supply to Karnataka by 100MT per day, which meant an increase in the total allocation to 962 MT per day. The Union government said the High Court failed to consider the rationale behind the allocation of oxygen and passed an order which would have a cascading effect resulting into a total collapse of the system. "The country is in the middle of a major once-in-the-century pandemic, with a virulent rapidly spreading the second wave... and all state governments have been working in a most professional, coordinated and efficient manner for Covid-19 management," it pointed out. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned the matter before a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah seeking urgent stay on the order. He said Karnataka was being supplied 962 MT LMO presently and the order needed to be stayed urgently. Mehta also submitted that the Centre would resolve the matter with the state. The bench said the court did not have papers and it could not pass any order without reading the petition. The matter should be mentioned before the Chief Justice, the bench also said. The Karnataka High Court had asked the state government to send an immediate representation to the Centre with a projected estimate of oxygen required for a week. Till it was done, the oxygen supply cap should be raised to 1200 MT per day with immediate effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-moves-supreme-court-against-karnataka-high-court-order-on-oxygen-allocation-983005.html
06-05-2021||National||Centre slow in clearing essential items imported by Maharashtra, says Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday claimed the Centre's Department of Pharmaceuticals was slow in granting clearance to essential items imported by the state government in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases. Talking to reporters here, Tope said he held a meeting with state health officials on Thursday and asked them to grant necessary approval and clearances from their end to make every district self-sufficient in oxygen, medicines and other medical equipment before the third wave of Covid-19. "The (Centre's) Department of Pharmaceuticals is not giving speedy approval for various essential items that we have ordered from abroad," he said. "The Union government's procedure is taking more time. It takes various clearances and approvals before the items are dispatched to the state," the minister said. Tope said the state is expecting around 3.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir, the key anti-viral drug, from abroad in the next one or two days. The minister also said he has asked district collectors to facilitate more beds and oxygen supply machinery at the earliest. He said a few days back, the state government floated a global tender to purchase various items, including oxygen tanks and oxygen generators, and it has received proposals from many countries. "I have asked the state task force to expedite the process of approval, like technical clearance for oxygen generators. We cannot sit on the proposals for five-eight days. Once the approval is given, we can airlift the items and bring them here," he said. The state is planning to buy around 40,000 oxygen generators, he added. Tope recently said the state could witness the third wave of Covid-19 in July or August. On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 920 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 72,662, while 57,640 new cases pushed the overall infection count to 48,80,542, as per the state health department||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-slow-in-clearing-essential-items-imported-by-maharashtra-says-rajesh-tope-983007.html
06-05-2021||National||Not even 24 hours of new govt...: Mamata Banerjee on Central team||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday blamed the BJP leaders for the spread of Covid-19 cases in the state.  Stating that she hasn't got any reply till now from PM Modi over the issue of free vaccination, Mamata said, "Their leaders should visit Covid-19 hospitals, instead of going places. Their leaders are coming and spreading Covid-19." "If ministers come, they have to get an RT-PCR negative report, even for special flights. The rule should be the same for all. Covid is increasing because of BJP leaders coming here again and again," she said.  The chief minister also slammed the Centre for sending a fact-finding team, tasked with looking into reasons for the post-poll violence in West Bengal.  "A team had come, they drank tea and went back, though Covid-19 is on. Now if ministers come, they've to get an RT-PCR negative report, even for special flights. The rule should be the same for all," she said.  She further said, "BJP leaders are roaming around, they are provoking. It's not even 24 hours of the new government, they are sending letters, teams and leaders are coming. They are actually not ready to accept the mandate. I request them to accept people's mandate."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-even-24-hours-of-new-govt-mamata-banerjee-on-central-team-983016.html
06-05-2021||National||Atrocities FIR: HC says Param Bir Singh can move vacation bench||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh can approach the vacation bench of the HC in connection with his plea seeking to quash an FIR registered against him by Thane police in connection with an atrocities case. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale could not take up Singh's plea for hearing on Thursday due to paucity of time. "You (Singh) can move the vacation bench if there is any urgency," the court said. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, appearing for the government, said there was no urgency in thematter. Singh's counsel Mukul Rohatgi said the petitioner would decide if there was an urgency or not. The HC then said it cannot hear the plea on Thursday and the petitioner has the liberty to move the vacation bench. Singh in his petition had sought quashing of the FIR registered against him under the Prevention of Atrocities Act last month. The FIR was based on a complaint by police inspector Bhimrao Ghadge posted at Akola in Maharashtra. Ghadge in his complaint had made a series of allegations of corruption against Singh and other officers, in the period when Singh was posted with the Thane police. The Akola police had registered a Zero FIR (mode of lodging FIR in any police station irrespective of the offence committed in that area or any other area) and it was later transferred to the Thane police for investigation. Ghadge, who was posted in the Thane police commissionerate during 2015-2018, had alleged that Singh pressured him to drop the names of some persons from a case and when he refused to do so, Singh embroiled him in false cases. The case has been lodged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for criminal conspiracy and destruction of evidence and sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atrocities-fir-hc-says-param-bir-singh-can-move-vacation-bench-983019.html
06-05-2021||National||Nadda condemns attack on Muraleedharan's car in WB, says 'TMC-sponsored' violence at its extreme||BJP president JP Nadda on Thursday condemned the attack on Union Minister V Muraleedharan's convoy in West Bengal and claimed that "TMC-sponsored" violence was in full swing in state after the assembly poll results were declared. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan's car was vandalised at Panchkuri village in West Midnapore district on Thursday while he was visiting the area following alleged post-poll violence on saffron party workers. Muraleedharan alleged in a tweet that "TMC goons" were behind the attack on his convoy. Condemning the attack, Nadda alleged that law and order has completely collapsed in West Bengal. "If an Union minister can be attacked then what would be the condition of common man?" he posed. "TMC-sponsored violence is in full swing in West Bengal after assembly elections in the state," the BJP president alleged. He also claimed, "Murderous attacks on BJP workers, rapes happening in West Bengal and people in thousands are fleeing to save lives."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-condemns-attack-on-muraleedharans-car-in-wb-says-tmc-sponsored-violence-at-its-extreme-983024.html
06-05-2021||National||Nationwide lockdown only option left to check Covid-19, says Gehlot||Endorsing Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's call for a nationwide lockdown, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said it can help in breaking the chain of Covid-19 if planned properly. There is already a shortage of oxygen, medicines and other equipment, and the country might soon face a shortage of medical staff as well, he warned. "I fully endorse the call given by @RahulGandhi ji that national lockdown is the only option left. For more than one year – our doctors, medical staff have been performing under excessive workload for the nation. We have lost many of them," the chief minister said. "The second wave is staring us in the face- Experts and doctors believe that how much ever we prepare we are already facing shortage of oxygen, medicines and other equipment, soon we may run short of medical staff as well," he added in a series of tweets. A lockdown planned properly to avoid hardships and misery to the poor and the migrant workers may be helpful in breaking the chain of the virus, Gehlot added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nationwide-lockdown-only-option-left-to-check-covid-19-says-gehlot-983027.html
06-05-2021||National||50-bed private Covid-19 hospital with oxygen plants opens in Greater Noida||A 50-bed private hospital for Covid-19 patients with its own oxygen generation plants opened on Thursday in Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district, the facility said. Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP is one of the worst-hit districts in the state with an official death toll of 261 and over 8,300 active cases of the coronavirus. Hit hard by the pandemic, local people have been claiming that there is a shortage of healthcare resources like medicines, oxygen and hospital beds, even as the district administration refuted them. The multi-specialty Asclepius Hospital is located at Haldoni Mod in Greater Noida and is admitting patients from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Delhi, a statement said. The hospital's managing partner, Amit Jaiswal, said they installed dedicated pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants to overcome the oxygen crisis being faced in the Delhi-NCR. “We are producing 9,000 litres of oxygen every 90 minutes,” Jaiswal claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-bed-private-covid-19-hospital-with-oxygen-plants-opens-in-greater-noida-983028.html
06-05-2021||National||Indian archers to miss Swiss World Cup||India's Olympic-bound archers will not get to compete in the Stage 2 World Cup in Lausanne as their short-term visa application has been rejected by the Switzerland Embassy. India has been battling a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that has forced many countries to ban travellers from India. The Indian archers will now directly compete in the Stage 3 World Cup in Paris which will be the last Olympic qualification event for the Indian women's recurve team. The seven-day competition will begin on June 23. "Swiss Embassy did not allow any short term Visa and we had little time for the Stage 2 World Cup (May 17-23). Our focus is solely on the Paris World Cup now," Archery Association of secretary general Pramod Chandurkar told PTI. India so far have men's team and women's individual berths for Tokyo. The national federation may also seeking a relaxation in the 10-day quarantine rule for its archer when they reach Paris. "We are mulling to write to the French federation to allow the archers to travel at least for practice during the 10-day quarantine," he said. Chandurkar further said that the federation would also send the compound team to Paris. The team had missed out on World Cup Stage 1 following their head coach's "false positive report". "Compound archers are short on tournament exposure for a long time so we want to have a full strength participation in World Cup Stage 3," Chandurkar added. In the absence of the compound team, the recurve archers came up with their best ever show in a World Cup, winning three gold medals and one bronze in Guatemala City last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-archers-to-miss-swiss-world-cup-983032.html
06-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Supreme Court hails High Courts' role during Covid-19 pandemic||In your evening news brief, Supreme Court lauds the role played by the High Courts during Covid-19 pandemic; European Union willing to discuss a proposal to waive intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi directs that states should be given help and guidance about leading indicators to ramp up healthcare infrastructure.  Here is the top news of May 6, 2021: The Supreme Court on Thursday said there can't be any gag on real-time reporting of the court proceedings, which is an extension of freedom of press and principles of open court. Lauding the role played the High Courts during Covid-19 pandemic, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, however, said the Madras High Court's oral remarks for slapping murder charges against the Election Commission for failing to control huge rallies during the campaigning of Assembly polls was harsh and inappropriate. The court passed its judgement on the EC's petition against the oral remarks by the Madras High Court on April 26 blaming it for Covid-19 surge. The poll panel said the reporting by media of the observations, which did not form part of the High Court's April 26 order, dented its reputation built over the years.   The European Union is willing to discuss a proposal, now backed by the United States, to waive intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines, European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said on Thursday. The head of the EU executive said the bloc's vaccination effort was accelerating, with 30 Europeans inoculated per second, while exporting more than 200 million vaccine doses to the rest of the world. The United States said on Wednesday it supported the waiver.   PM Narendra Modi on Thursday directed that states should be given help and guidance about leading indicators to ramp up healthcare infrastructure. The direction came after the prime minister reviewed the public health response to Covid-19 and took stock of the state-wise and district-wise situation. During the review, PM Modi discussed the need to ensure quick and holistic containment measures. Source: DHNS/Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-supreme-court-hails-high-courts-role-during-covid-19-pandemic-983035.html
06-05-2021||National||Oil PSUs commit Rs 100 crore for redevelopment of Hindu shrine Badrinath Dham||India's top oil PSUs - IOC, ONGC, GAIL, BPCL and HPCL - on Thursday committed Rs 100 crore for the redevelopment of Badrinath Dham, one of the holiest shrines of Hindus, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. "It is a matter of great pride for our oil PSUs to be associated with the redevelopment of one of the holiest shrines of Sanatan Dharma. We are committed to the development of Badrinath Dham in alignment with PM @narendramodi's vision of retaining the pilgrimages spiritual legacy," Pradhan tweeted. Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), GAIL (India) Ltd, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) "have committed Rs 100 crore towards the Badrinath development master plan and will be undertaking several works for the beautification of the temple & its surroundings, including pilgrim and environment-friendly amenities, water supply, sewage management, among others," he said. This is perhaps the first time top PSUs under one administrative ministry have committed funds for developing a religious shrine. "The holy Badrinath Dham is not only a centre of faith for crores of Hindus across the world it is also a major centre of India's pilgrimage economy with a great potential to facilitate regional economic development, generate employment and improve quality of lives," he said. An official statement issued by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, which was verbatim issued by IOC as well, said a memoranda of understanding (MoUs) were signed between oil and gas PSUs - IOC, BPCL, HPCL, ONGC and GAIL and Shri Badrinath Utthan Charitable Trust for construction and redevelopment of Shri Badrinath Dham as a Spiritual Smart hill Town. The MoUs were signed in the presence of the Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, Pradhan and Uttarakhand Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj. "As per the MoUs, the oil and gas PSUs will be contributing Rs 99.60 crore in the first phase of the developmental activities, including river embankment work, building all-terrain vehicular path, building bridges, beautifying existing bridges, establishing gurukul facilities with accommodation, creating toilet and drinking water facilities, installing streetlights, mural paintings etc," the statement said. Pradhan said that Char Dham is close to millions of Indians, due to spiritual, religious and cultural reasons. "The oil and gas PSUs will not only contribute to the development work of the Badrinath but are also part of the development of Kedarnath, Uttarkashi, Yamunotri and Gangotri." "Oil & gas PSUs have pledged Rs 100 crore to the Badrinath development master plan and will undertake works for development and beautification of the pilgrimage centre, including water supply, sewage management and facilitating environmental-friendly pilgrim facilities, among others," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oil-psus-commit-rs-100-crore-for-redevelopment-of-hindu-shrine-badrinath-dham-983038.html
06-05-2021||National||Over 89 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states, UTs, says Centre||More than 89 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and over 28 lakh vaccine doses will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The Centre has so far provided more than 17.15 crore (17,15,42,410) vaccine doses to states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,26,10,905 doses, as per the official data made available at 8 am. "More than 89 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses (89,31,505) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to the armed forces," the ministry said. Furthermore, more than 28 lakh (28,90,360) vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states and UTs within the next three days, it said. The central government is leading the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in collaboration with the states and UTs through a “Whole of Government” approach, the ministry said. Vaccination forms an integral component of the five-point strategy of government of India of containment and management of the pandemic (including Test, Track, Treat and Covid Appropriate Behaviour), it said. The ministry said implementation of the ‘Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy’ of Covid-19 vaccination has started from May 1. Registration for the new eligible population groups has commenced since April 28. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on the Co-WIN portal or through the Aarogya Setu app, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-89-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-says-centre-983040.html
06-05-2021||National||Current Covid-19 surge may see a decline by middle to end of May, says Dr Gagandeep Kang||The current surge in coronavirus cases may go down by the middle to the end of May, noted vaccinologist Gagandeep Kang has said. She said there could be one or two more peaks of coronavirus cases but they may not be as bad as the current one. Right now it's doing a "world through" in areas it did not do last year, in the middle-class population, in the rural areas and there is going to be "very little fuel" for the virus to continue to go through, she said. Allaying fears about vaccines, she said they are efficacious and emphasised the need to ramp the inoculation drive. She also expressed concern over the declining number of coronavirus tests. The proportion of cases is actually much larger than the tests reveal but in absolute numbers in "what we track and count", Kang said. "Best case estimates from a number of models are somewhere between the middle and the end of the month. Some models have it going into early June but based on what we are seeing, right now middle to end of May is a reasonable estimate," she said in response to a question in a webinar organised by the Indian Women Press Corps. On forecasting waves of virus, she said one can definitely use the characteristics of the strain, characteristics of a pandemic in a particular place to predict what is going to happen in that location if the data is available at that level for mathematical modelling. She said there are few infectious disease modellers in the country. "And all the ones that exist will tell you that their models are as good as the data they have and the models are accurate up to two weeks. You cannot expect a prediction for three months or six months or two years from now as yet. We don't know enough about the virus. We don't know enough about how it is going to," he said. On being asked about the prospects of coronavirus, she said this will become like "a really bad flu virus". "This will become seasonal, like a really bad flu virus. It will be something like becoming more seasonal, that will settle down, that people will acquire a certain level of immunity because of repeated immunity and vaccinations," she said. Kang added that people will acquire a certain level of immunity because of repeated infections and vaccinations. "It may be imperfect in immunity, so we may need boosters if we keep having enough virus replications to have new mutants that have immune escape, but I am pretty sure that we are not going to have in this situation that we are in today too many more times. At least, not with this virus," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/current-covid-19-surge-may-see-a-decline-by-middle-to-end-of-may-says-dr-gagandeep-kang-983048.html
06-05-2021||National||3,000 oxygen concentrators received as foreign aid dispatched, no pendency with Customs: Centre||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said no oxygen concentrator, received as aid from abroad, is lying with the customs authorities at any port of import as these consignments are being cleared swiftly, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. In all, 3,000 oxygen concentrators have been received as global aid to support the Central government's efforts and that of the states and Union Territories in their collective fight against the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, it said in a statement. China has sent 1,000 oxygen concentrators, Ireland 700, the UK 669 in four consignments, Mauritius 200, Uzbekistan 151, Taiwan 150, Romania 80, Thailand 30, and Russia 20, the ministry said. Some news reports have claimed that oxygen concentrators are lying at Customs warehouses awaiting clearance. "The news is totally incorrect, not based on facts and without any basis. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs has clarified that there is no such pendency with Indian Customs. The Indian Customs is swiftly clearing all consignments and no such figure of pendency exists across any port of import," the health ministry said in the statement. The oxygen concentrators are either delivered to the identified tertiary care institutions or been dispatched for delivery. The relief material has been dispatched by road and air too, it said.  "There are no oxygen contractors lying in the warehouse of the Customs Department, it is clarified." The Indian Customs is sensitive to the need for availability of Covid-related imports including oxygen and oxygen-related equipment and are working round-the-clock to fast track and clear the goods on arrival expeditiously within hours, the statement said.  The goods are given high priority for clearance by the customs systems. While the nodal officers get alerts on email for monitoring and clearance, monitoring by senior officers for the pendency of Covid-related imports is also being undertaken, it said. Recently, the issue of 3,000 Oxygen concentrators reportedly lying with the customs authorities came up in the Delhi High Court and the same was clarified by the government counsel that presently no such consignment is pending. The Ministry of finance also clarified the matter through an official release on May 3 in response to allegations on social media about 3,000 oxygen concentrators allegedly lying with the customs authorities. It stated, "We have again checked with our field formations and there is no such consignment lying with the customs. However, since a photograph has also been put on Twitter, if anybody has information as to where it is lying, the same may be informed to us and we will take immediate action."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3000-oxygen-concentrators-received-as-foreign-aid-dispatched-no-pendency-with-customs-centre-983049.html
06-05-2021||National||Covid-19 pandemic drove 23 crore Indians into poverty, finds study||Around 23 crore Indians fell into poverty due to the pandemic last year with young people and women the hardest hit, and the current second wave threatens to make matters even worse, a new study has said. India's stringent months-long lockdown from last March put around 10 crore people out of work, the report by the Bangalore-based Azim Premji University said, with around 15 per cent unable to find jobs even by the end of the year. Women were especially worse-off, with a staggering 47 per cent of female workers unable to secure employment even after virus restrictions were lifted, according to the study published on Wednesday. The report, which defined people in poverty as those living on less than 375 rupees ($5) per day, said, "Though incomes fell across the board, the pandemic has taken a far heavier toll on poorer households." Asia's third-largest economy was in the throes of a prolonged slowdown even before Covid-19 struck, but the pandemic untraveled years of gains. An estimated 5 crore Indians were expected to climb out of poverty last year, instead the poorest 20 per cent of households saw their entire income vanish in April and May as business ground to a halt. "Needless to say, the second wave is going to make things worse," said Amit Basole, one of the report's authors. Many families coped with the income losses by spending less on food and taking on debt, with an alarming 20 per cent of respondents revealing that their food intake had not improved even six months later. Last year's lockdown sparked a huge exodus of millions of migrant workers who headed home to their villages, with many planning to return after the economy reopened for business. But one in three people aged under 25 failed to find work even by the end of the year after losing jobs in the lockdown, the study said. As a vicious second virus wave overwhelms hospitals and triggers fresh curbs on economic activity in most of the country, crores of Indians whose lives are already precarious are likely to see their condition worsen. "We find that additional government support is urgently needed now for two reasons - compensating for the losses sustained during the first year and anticipating the impact of the second wave," the study said. The report's authors urged New Delhi to expand its fiscal stimulus by providing free groceries and cash transfers to the most vulnerable households as well as launch an employment programme in the worst-hit districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-drove-23-crore-indians-into-poverty-finds-study-983051.html
06-05-2021||National||Finance Ministry releases Rs 9,871 cr as revenue deficit grant to 17 states||The Finance Ministry on Thursday released the second monthly instalment of revenue deficit grant of Rs 9,871 crore to 17 states. With the release of the second instalment, a total amount of Rs 19,742 crore has been released in the first two months of the current financial year as Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the states, the ministry said in a statement. The Centre provides the Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the states under Article 275 of the Constitution. The grants are released as per the recommendations of the Finance Commission in monthly instalments to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the states post-devolution. “The Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance today released the 2nd monthly instalment of Post Devolution Revenue Deficit (PDRD) Grant of Rs 9,871 crore for the year 2021-22 to 17 States,” the statement said. The 15th Finance Commission has recommended Post Devolution Release Deficit grants to 17 states based on the gap between the assessment of revenue and expenditure of the state. The states recommended for Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant are: Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. The 15th Finance Commission has recommended a total Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant of Rs 1,18,452 crore to 17 States in the financial year 2021-22. The grant is released to the states in 12 monthly instalments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-ministry-releases-rs-9871-cr-as-revenue-deficit-grant-to-17-states-983059.html
06-05-2021||National||Defence organisations engaged in mitigating people's sufferings amid Covid-19 surge: Rajnath||The Indian armed forces, as well as organisations like Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and National Cadet Corps (NCC), are engaged in mitigating the sufferings of the people amid the Covid-19 surge, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday. In a blog post on his website, Singh enlisted the steps -- including mobilisation of health professionals and setting up of new Covid facilities -- taken by the defence ministry's organisations to deal with the surge. India has been badly hit by the second wave of coronavirus infections and hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of vaccines, oxygen, drugs, equipment and beds. Singh said emergency financial powers have been granted to the armed forces so that commanders can establish and operate quarantine facilities and procure items that are required to fight against the pandemic. Various defence organisations such as the DRDO, Cantonment Boards, Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) have established Covid hospitals and facilities in various cities including Delhi, Lucknow, Bengaluru and Patna, he mentioned. The AFMS has deployed additional doctors, including specialists, super specialists and paramedics, at various hospitals, Singh noted. "My ministry has granted an extension to short service commissioned doctors of AFMS till December 31, 2021, which has augmented the strength of AFMS by 238 more doctors," he said. Singh also talked about the steps taken by the Indian Army to assist the civil administration to deal with the pandemic. He said the Army has provided 100 beds each to Lucknow and Allahabad, set up a 40-bedded isolation facility at Sagour in Madhya Pradesh and established a 50-bed isolation facility at Namkum in Jharkhand. Army medical persons have been deployed at Ahmedabad and Patna, and battlefield nursing assistants have been provided to the Patiala administration for hospital management, the minister noted. He also talked about the logistics support that is being provided by the Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Indian Navy in bringing required medical supplies including oxygen cylinders from outside India or in transporting these supplies from one place to another within the country. Indian naval ships including Kolkata, Kochi, Tabar, Trikand, Jalashwa and Airavat have been deployed for shipment of liquid medical oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and associated medical equipment from various countries in the Middle East and South-East Asia, he noted. The DRDO has also initiated fabrication of 500 medical oxygen plants with allocation received from PM Cares Fund, he said. New coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-organisations-engaged-in-mitigating-peoples-sufferings-amid-covid-19-surge-rajnath-983063.html
06-05-2021||National||Delhi government caps prices of private ambulance services amid Covid-19 pandemic||Amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi government on Thursday fixed charges levied by private ambulance services in the range of Rs 1,500- Rs 4,000, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal warning strict action against violators. In a tweet, the chief minister said some private ambulance operators are charging "illegitimately" amid a rush of Covid-19 patients to secure beds in hospitals. "It has come to our notice that private ambulance services in Delhi are charging illegitimately. "To avoid this practise, Delhi govt has capped maximum prices that private ambulance services can charge. Strict actions will be taken against those who violate the order," Kejriwal tweeted. It has come to our notice that private ambulance services in Delhi are charging illegitimately. To avoid this practise, Delhi govt has capped maximum prices that private ambulance services can charge. In an order issued by special secretary and director of Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS), charges of patient transport ambulances (PTA), basic life support ambulances (BLS) and advanced life support (ALS) ambulances, have been capped. For each type of ambulance service, the maximum charges will include oxygen, all ambulance equipment, PPE kit, gloves, mask, shield, sanitisation, driver, emergency medical technician and doctor, stated the order. The maximum charge for PTA will be Rs 1,500 per call for up to 10 kilometres, followed by Rs 1,00 per extra kilometres, it said. For the BLS category, the maximum charge will be Rs 2,000 per call for up to 10 kilometres followed by Rs 100 per extra kilometres, said the order. The maximum charge of ATS will be Rs 4,000 for up to 10 kilometres and Rs 100 per extra kilometre, it added. "It has come to notice that some private ambulance drivers, service providers are charging exorbitant rates in Delhi during the Covid 19 pandemic for transporting patients which is a matter of serious concern," read the order. The CATS provides 24X7 free ambulance service in Delhi through a single toll free number 102. "If any instance of charging rates higher than the aforesaid maximum comes to the notice by any private ambulance driver, service provider, operator or owner, strict action as per applicable laws shall be taken," said the order. The action can be cancellation of driving license of ambulance driver, cancellation of registration certificate of ambulance and impounding of the vehicle, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-government-caps-prices-of-private-ambulance-services-amid-covid-19-pandemic-983066.html
06-05-2021||National||Railways cancels trains with poor occupancy||With several states announcing lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19, Indian Railways has started cancelling trains, including Rajdhani and Shatabdi, in some routes due to poor occupancy. Northern Railways on Thursday announced the cancellation of 28 pair of trains which includes Vande Bharat Shatabdi, Duronto, Rajdhani and Expresses till further orders. Some of the cancelled trains include New Delhi- Bhopal Shatabdi, New Delhi- Kalka, New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi, Nizamuddin-Pune Duronto, Nizamuddin-Chennai Rajdhani Express, New Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat Express. The Railways also cancelled some of the long distancing mail and express trains due to poor occupancy. On Wednesday, Eastern Railways cancelled 17 trains from May 7th including Howrah–Ranchi Special trains. Even earlier South Western Railways also cancelled around 23 trains due to poor occupancy. Earlier, Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said that Railways continue to operate trains to cater needs of passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-cancels-trains-with-poor-occupancy-983073.html
06-05-2021||National||Railways inducts 100th high-speed electric locomotive||The Indian Railways on Thursday inducted its 100th 12000 HP WAG 12 B locomotive manufactured by Madhepura Electric Locomotive Pvt. Ltd. (MELPL).  "Built in one of India’s largest integrated greenfield manufacturing facilities, these are the Nation’s most powerful ‘Made-In-India’ Electric Locomotives. The locomotive has been produced under the Make in India programme," Indian Railways said in a statement. "These WAG 12B e-Locos have already clocked over 4.8 million kilometres hauling a wide range of commodities across 17 States & 2 Union Territories," said the statement. '"These superior electric locomotives built under the ‘Make-in-India’ initiative, are playing a key role in revolutionising the freight movement in the country. It will help to decongest the saturated tracks by allowing faster, safer and heavier freight trains to move across the country, as well as improve the loading capacity," the statement said. So far, these e-locos have traversed across all railway divisions and are performing well. We look forward to more such delivery milestones, it said. These locomotive are proving to be a game-changer for further movement of coal trains for the Dedicated Freight Corridor. The Indian Railways has entered into a Procurement-cum-Maintenance Agreement with Madhepura Electric Locomotive Pvt Ltd (MELPL). The first 12,000 HP Made in India Locomotive, manufactured by Madhepura Electric Loco Factory situated in Bihar, was put into operation by Indian Railways from Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction Station on May 18, 2020, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-inducts-100th-high-speed-electric-locomotive-983075.html
06-05-2021||National||Talk of third Covid-19 wave distracting us from what must be done now, says virologist||As frantic calls for beds, oxygen and medicines continue to amplify amid the looming second wave of Covid-19, the fear of a third wave is fuelling the anxiety of an overwhelmed nation. On Wednesday, the government had announced that the third wave of Covid-19 is inevitable.   “As we are reeling under the burden of the second wave, talking about a future third wave -- that we do not know will come at all or its magnitude -- is distracting attention away from what the government must do now,” points out Dr T Jacob John, eminent virologist and retired professor, CMC (Vellore). "If the government can do justice with vaccination, even the unlikely probability of a third wave can be mitigated.  In other words, with vaccines available since January 3, 2021, the third wave can be and must be prevented with vaccination," he said. But if the third wave occurs, he said the main factor could be a lack of sufficient vaccination. "Emergence of highly transmissible variants could be another factor. However, the two waves would have created high "herd immunity" and topped up with even a moderate level of vaccination will surely avert the third wave." As the second wave continues to lash unabated, Dr Jacob explains what went wrong in controlling it. "The letting down of guard too fast and too wide (for religious events and for elections) contributed to the rapid spread and bringing fast-spreading variants that would have reached West Bengal and UP very slowly had there not been these two events, ” he said. By all means, Covid has brought to light a broken public healthcare system and Dr Jacob points out that India's health management system is woefully inadequate even during normal times. “For one thing, India does not have public health infrastructure -- for which reason pandemic control was entrusted with National Disaster Management Agency, a frank admission of lack of public health." “As for healthcare we have been working under grossly inadequate bed strength, doctors and nurses -- so we did not have surge capacity when needed. The first wave grew very slowly and India (Karnataka included) barely managed. The second wave was too much too fast and the healthcare infrastructure was overwhelmed.  This pandemic is an oxygen consumer and sudden expansion of demand could not be met,” Dr Jacob said. With the public patiently waiting to get inoculated amid a short supply, Dr Jacob attributes vaccine shortage to “bad management, wrong prediction of need, lack of advance order and lack of willingness to take legitimate risks for protecting human lives”. “If Indian companies cannot meet demand, we must import vaccines from any source,” he said. As far as extending the lockdown is concerned, he avers that the right time for a humane and effective lockdown is long past.   “Anyway, lockdown is not the panacea. Now the wave is racing towards the peak, which in my estimation, is round the corner. The wave itself will slow down the spread from early next week itself. If at all, a short, a maximum of one week and a well-planned lockdown with full information to the public may be justified,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talk-of-third-covid-19-wave-distracting-us-from-what-must-be-done-now-says-virologist-983084.html
06-05-2021||National||Need to be prepared for third Covid-19 wave, children will be affected, Supreme Court tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to spell out its plan to tackle a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic while emphasising the need to create buffer stock for oxygen and undertake vaccination process at a larger scale. The court also felt that the Centre's formula of oxygen distribution to state governments, particularly to the national capital, was a "gross underestimate". "The third surge which is around the corner, according to experts, will affect children. What is the problem in enhancing the supply (of oxygen)?" a bench comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. It will save from oxygen panic and create a buffer, it added. Elaborating on the third wave, the bench said that when a child goes to a hospital, the mother and father will also have to go. “That is why vaccination will have to be over for this group of people. We need to plan for this in a scientific way and thus, make arrangements," the court said.  It said that if preparations were made right away, we may be able to tackle the third wave for which scientific planning to vaccinate persons would be needed.  "We need to deal with the third surge in a scientifically planned manner," Justice Chandrachud said.   “When the third wave comes, how will you deal with it? We are in stage two of the pandemic. Stage three might have very different parameters,” the bench said. The court also said the Centre's current formula on the“oxygen-for-bed” arrangement for Covid patients “needed a relook.”  “When you prepared the formula, not everybody who went to ICU needed oxygen. But now many home isolation patients need oxygen. Your formula does not take into account ambulances, Covid care facility, etc,” the bench said. The court also directed for a complete audit of the distribution system so as to give it a pan-India view that fixes accountability once stocks are released. It also decided to form a committee of experts for oxygen audit, as sought by the Union government. The matter came up before the top court out of the contempt notice issued against its officers by the Delhi High Court for failing to provide 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi as per top court order.  The top court had on Wednesday stayed the High Court order, saying contempt will not help salvage the oxygen situation. During the hearing, it suggested forming a committee of experts for oxygen audit as sought by the Union government. The Centre, for its part, claimed that although it had supplied 730 MT oxygen on Wednesday, that much was not required in Delhi.  The court, however, maintained that the supply has to be maintained as per the order of April 30. The Centre informed the top court that oxygen supplies may dip to 560 MT in the next two days. But the top court said supplying 700 MT daily would help Delhi build buffer stock and remove panic among people.  Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted that the government must have a solution thereby to have a minimum fault-prone formula. “We are not saying that formula is cast in stone. We will revisit the formula”, Mehta added.   The bench also noted that under these pressing times, the services of doctors who have completed MBBS and waiting to enroll for PG courses could prove crucial for the third wave.  "If we prepare today, we may be able to handle it," the bench said, asking the government to explore the possibility of utilising their services. "Today we have 1.5 lakh doctors who have finished the medical course but waiting for the NEET exam. How do you tap them? 1.5 lakh doctors and 2.5 lakh nurses are sitting at home,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-be-prepared-for-third-covid-19-wave-children-will-be-affected-supreme-court-tells-centre-983085.html
06-05-2021||National||Plea in Bombay HC seeks Z-plus security for SII CEO Adar Poonawalla||A petition filed in the Bombay High Court has sought Z-plus security for Adar Poonawalla, Chief Executive Officer of the Serum Institute of India (SII) which manufactures the Covishield vaccine against Covid-19. The Union government has already granted `Y' category security to the Pune-based industrialist. Advocate Datta Mane, the petitioner, also sought a direction to the police to register FIR and carry out a probe into alleged threat to Poonawalla over the supply of vaccine. If vaccine makers felt unsafe, it could affect vaccine production, the petition, filed on Wednesday, said. "If Adar Poonawalla is out of India due to threat to his life, then it (his company) will be a ship in a storm without its captain," said the plea. Poonawalla had said in a recent interview to The Times that he left for the United Kingdom due to threats and pressure from `powerful people' seeking vaccine doses on priority. Mane further said in the petition that he has approached the Commissioner of Police, Pune and Maharashtra Director General of Police with a complaint about alleged threat to the SII CEO. The high court should direct the police to register FIR and ask the government to provide higher-level security to Poonawalla, the petition said. It will come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-bombay-hc-seeks-z-plus-security-for-sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-983111.html
06-05-2021||National||PM Modi talks to 4 CMs, 2 LGs on Covid-19 situation||Hours after getting a briefing about 12 states with more than 1 lakh active cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Chief Ministers and LGs of over half a dozen states over the prevailing Covid-19 situation and the remedial measures being taken there. The late evening telephonic call was made by the Prime Minister individually to the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha and Jharkhand, and LGs of Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir about the Covid-19-related situation in their states and UT, sources in the government said. Modi had in an earlier meeting in the day undertaken a comprehensive review of the Covid-19-related situation in the country and discussed measures including the need to identify districts of concern where case positivity is 10 per cent or more and bed occupancy is more than 60 per cent on either oxygen supported or ICU beds. Modi personally spoke to the CMs and LGs after having reviewed the state-wise and district-wise Covid-19-situation and giving directions for help and guidance to the states about leading indicators to ramp up healthcare infrastructure. While Andhra Pradesh is among the ten states/UTs accounting for over 70 per cent of new daily cases reported in the country, Jharkhand is among the ten states/UTs that collectively account for over 75 per cent of deaths reported in a day. Modi telephoned Andhra Pradesh CM Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy as the state reported more than 20,000 new cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours again. Karnataka and Kerala are already contributing in large to the southern surge in Covid-19 cases. Odisha, on the other hand, saw its Covid-19 tally crossing the five-lakh mark on Thursday with 10,521 fresh cases -- the highest so far in a single day -- pushing the tally to 5,00,162, while 17 fresh fatalities raised the toll to 2,121.  Jharkhand reported 141 new Covid-19 fatalities taking the death toll to 3,346, while 5,770 new positive cases pushed the state's tally to 2,63,115. Telangana reported 6,026 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to over 4.75 lakh while the death toll stood at 2,579 with 52 more casualties. Puducherry logged 1,510 fresh coronavirus cases during the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 66,627.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-talks-to-4-cms-2-lgs-on-covid-19-situation-983115.html
06-05-2021||National||Centre gets 1.92 lakh public grievances since March 30 last year||The Centre received around 1.92 lakh public grievances since March 30 last year, of which 1.66 lakh were redressed, according to an official statement issued on Thursday. While the central ministries/departments redressed 1.16 lakh public grievances, the states/UT’s redressed 0.50 lakh cases, it said. From March 30, 2020 to May 3, 2021, the Centralised Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) portal of the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) received 1.92 lakh public grievances cases of which 1.66 lakh cases have been redressed, the statement issued by the personnel ministry said. Between March 1, 2021 and May 3, 2021, the CPGRAMS portal received 14,137 public grievances of which 9,267 cases have been redressed, it said. Secretary DARPG Indevar Pandey on Thursday chaired two review meetings with grievance officers of 84 central ministries/departments and the grievance officers of state/UT governments. He highlighted the policies adopted by the Union government to ensure time-bound grievance redressal in the pandemic time, the statement said. These include operationalisation of a dedicated Covid-19 portal for monitoring citizen grievances related to the pandemic, each grievance being assigned a unique identification number, classification of grievances into 11 categories, bringing down the grievance redressal time from 60 days to 3 days, auto-generated e-mail reminders and daily report generation for considered analysis, it said. Secretary DARPG said the roadmap ahead lay in the expeditious implementation of CPGRAMS reforms, integration of state portals with CPGRAMS, integration of district portals with CPGRAMS, analysing the root cause of grievances and bringing systemic reforms and effective operationalisation of the appellate authority system, the statement said. He urged all grievance officers to focus on citizen centrality in providing grievance redressal in the pandemic period, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-gets-192-lakh-public-grievances-since-march-30-last-year-983117.html
06-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Daily deaths and new infections hit record highs again||India's Covid-19 cases hit another record high with over 4.1 lakh new infections as of this morning. The number of deaths was another grim record with 3,980 reported. The overall death toll crossed 2.3 lakh, according to Union Health Ministry data. As the demand for medical oxygen continues to grow, three Indian warships left the Persian Gulf with oxygen supplies and are headed for Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-daily-deaths-and-new-infections-hit-record-highs-again-983118.html
06-05-2021||National||Explained | SC order Maratha quota may trigger demand for OBC census, third backward classes commission||The Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down Maharashtra’s quota for Marathas in government jobs and educational institutions, and also refused to revisit the 50 per cent cap on quotas. The SC order is likely to trigger demands for an OBC census and for setting up the third backward classes commission. Already, for several years now, and with a handful of dominant castes among OBCs (other backward classes) cornering job opportunities arising out of the reservation policy, it’s been argued that the Karpoori Thakur (KT) formula of Bihar would have been philosophically more appropriate, and superior for practical reasons than the Mandal Commission scheme as announced by VP Singh in 1990. The KT formula provided 20 per cent reservation on the basis of caste, and the rest seven per cent was subdivided on economic and gender criteria. The Mandal Commission formula has caste as the basis for the entire 27 per cent reservation. The SC reaffirming the cap on quotas at 50 per cent, as laid down in the landmark Indra Sawhney v Union of India judgment in 1992, puts a question mark on the 10 per cent reservation for EWS (economically weaker sections), which is currently under challenge. The SC has queered the pitch for the Centre by asking the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) to expeditiously publish a fresh list of SEBCs (socially and educationally backward classes), the official nomenclature for OBCs. It has upset the states by stating that the Centre, and not the states, has the power to identify backward class after the 102nd constitution amendment. Opposition parties have demanded the Centre amend the 102nd amendment to restore the power of the states on the issue. But the conundrum, apart from the impact on reservations for Jats by Rajasthan or Kapus in Andhra and other such groups, is more complex. How will the NCBC prepare a fresh list of SEBCs? This is where an OBC census as part of the decennial census exercise, which kicked off last year but is delayed because of the Covid-19 spread, could have been useful. The decennial Census already enumerates categories such as SCs, STs and General. The Mandal Commission had guesstimated the population of OBCs to be 52 per cent, but the exact size of the OBC population is not known. In 2018, the then home minister Rajnath Singh had promised an OBC census as part of Census 2021. However, the government did not keep its word after the 2019 Lok Sabha win. This when the NCBC had recommended it, so had the parliamentary standing committee on the welfare of the OBCs, and some of the state governments. The enumeration of OBCs as part of the Census would provide demographic information for each caste in the category - data on their economic conditions, including assets and occupation, and on backwardnesses, like level of education, sex ratio and life expectancy. This would make the NCBC’s task easier, add empiricism to the exercise, and possibly pave the way for setting up the third backward classes commission to revisit the quantum of reservation for castes based on their respective population. Will the SC judgment make the Centre heed NCBC’s demand for an OBC census? Or will fears of opening a proverbial Pandora’s box on caste assertion dissuade the Centre yet again?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-sc-order-maratha-quota-may-trigger-demand-for-obc-census-third-backward-classes-commission-983120.html
06-05-2021||National||Jaishankar-Raab bilateral talks focus on 2030 Roadmap to India-UK FTA||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday concluded bilateral discussions with his UK counterpart, Dominic Raab, which focussed on both sides implementing the ‘2030 Roadmap’ of the India-UK Enhanced Trade Partnership (ETP) to pave the way for a Free Trade Agreement (FTA). Jaishankar, who conducted the talks virtually after he had withdrawn from face-to-face meetings in the wake of possible coronavirus exposure within the Indian delegation, said the two ministers also discussed Indo-Pacific cooperation and global health challenges in some detail. “Just concluded the bilateral Foreign Ministers’ Meeting with British counterpart Dominic Raab. Focussed on our responsibility for implementing the 2030 Roadmap. Confident that we will see early progress on many fronts,” Jaishankar tweeted following his interaction via video link. Also explored our strategic convergences across regions. Discussed the Indo-Pacific, global health challenges and UN cooperation in some detail. “Also explored our strategic convergences across regions. Discussed the Indo-Pacific, global health challenges and UN cooperation in some detail,” he said. The bilateral meeting follows a virtual summit between UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this week, when the two leaders agreed the ‘2030 Roadmap’ as part of an ETP with trade and investment deals worth around GBP 1 billion. The ETP, signed between Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and UK International Trade Secretary Liz Truss soon after, sets the goal for FTA talks to kick-start within months. Jaishankar is in London at the invitation of Raab as a guest at the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting, which concluded on Wednesday. The meeting is related to the UK’s G7 Presidency goals ahead of the Leaders’ Summit in Cornwall in June, to which Prime Minister Modi has been invited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-raab-bilateral-talks-focus-on-2030-roadmap-to-india-uk-fta-983134.html
06-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Indian Railways cancel slew of premium trains till further advice||With several states announcing lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19, Indian Railways has started cancelling trains, including Rajdhani and Shatabdi, in some routes due to poor occupancy. The Northern Railways on Thursday announced the cancellation of 28 pair of trains including Vande Bharat Shatabdi, Duronto, Rajdhani Expresses till further orders. New Delhi- Bhopal Shatabdi, New Delhi- Kalka, New Delhi -Amritsar Shatabdi, Nizamuddin-Pune Duronto, Nizamuddin-Chennai Rajdhani Express, New Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat Express have been cancelled.  The Railways also cancelled some of the long-distance mail and express trains due to poor occupancy. On Wednesday, the Eastern Railways had cancelled 17 trains from May 7 including Howrah–Ranchi Special trains. Earlier, the South Western Railways also cancelled around 23 trains due to poor occupancy. Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma had earlier said that Railways continue to operate train services to cater to the needs of passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-railways-cancel-slew-of-premium-trains-till-further-advice-983138.html
06-05-2021||National||Bangladesh sends subtle message to BJP by lauding TMC for 'upholding religious harmony'||Dhaka subtly sent out a message to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s government in New Delhi as Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government lauded the Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for upholding the principle of religious harmony in the state. After her landslide victory in the state assembly elections, Banerjee received a congratulatory letter from Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen, who lauded her for upholding Bengal’s long-cherished values – principle of religious harmony and brotherhood, which ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the founding father of the neighbouring nation espoused. Momen’s congratulatory letter to Banerjee apparently came with a subtle dig for the BJP, which the Trinamool Congress defeated in the just-concluded assembly elections in West Bengal. Banerjee and her Trinamool Congress had accused the BJP of pursuing a communal and divisive campaign to win the elections and come to power in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah led the BJP’s poll-campaign in West Bengal. The Trinamool Congress on several occasions blamed the BJP of making attempts for religious polarisation in the state in order to reap electoral dividends. Shah’s remark on infiltration from Bangladesh to India during electioneering in West Bengal emerged as the latest irritant in the relation between the two neighbours, with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government in Dhaka conveying to New Delhi its displeasure over the statement. He told a news portal of West Bengal that poor people from Bangladesh infiltrated into India as they found not enough food for them in their own country. The union Home Minister made the statement amid his extensive campaigning for the BJP in West Bengal, where the saffron party made alleged influx of illegal migrants from Bangladesh to India a major poll-plank. His comment, however, triggered sharp reaction from Momen. “I would say his (Shah’s) knowledge about Bangladesh is very limited,” said the Foreign Minister of Bangladesh. This is not the first time that the remarks made by Home Minister of India upset the Bangladesh Government. His December 2019 statement about religious persecution of minority Hindus in Bangladesh had also irked Dhaka. He had made the statement while piloting the controversial; Citizenship (Amendment) Act through the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Hasina had then tacitly conveyed her displeasure to New Delhi as two of her ministers had cancelled proposed visits to India Momen had then termed Shah’s remarks as “unwarranted” and “untrue”. Shah had in 2018 also compared people allegedly infiltrating from Bangladesh to India as ‘termites’. Even as he was on a visit to Bangladesh on March 26-27, Modi left no stone unturned to woo the Matuas – a community that holds sway in several assembly constituencies in West Bengal. He not only visited and paid obeisance at a sacred shrine of the Matuas at Orakandi in Bangladesh, but also pledged to upgrade a local middle school for girls and build a new primary school. He eulogized the Hindu Vaishnavite sect’s founder Harichand Thakur, who was born in a nearby village in 1812, but spent most of his life and died at Orakandi in 1878. He also recalled his meeting with the community’s late matriarch, ‘Boro Ma’ Bina Pani Devi, at Thakur Nagar in West Bengal ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-sends-subtle-message-to-bjp-by-lauding-tmc-for-upholding-religious-harmony-983139.html
06-05-2021||National||Row as Centre moves SC against Karnataka HC order on oxygen supply order||The Centre on Thursday approached the Supreme Court against the May 5 Karnataka High Court’s order enhancing the state's medical oxygen allocation to 1,200 tonnes, even as Covid-19 patients in the state face a severe shortage of the life-saving gas. This took a political turn with the Congress chiding the BJP, which is in power in both Karnataka and the Centre. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned the matter before a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah seeking urgent stay on the High Court order. The matter has been fixed for hearing on Friday. Karnataka's allocation has been enhanced to 962 tonnes against the state’s requirement of 1,471 tonnes that might go up to 1,792 tonnes. The Centre argued that the High Court’s order would have a "cascading effect resulting in total collapse of the system" during the raging pandemic. It sought the High Court order to be set aside as it would "ultimately lead to mismanagement of resources and create a further chaotic environment in an already overburdened system". The High Court failed to consider the rationale behind oxygen allocation and that limited resources have to be put to judicious use given the overall situation, the Centre contended. This "transcended the boundaries of the particular state", the Centre said, "especially issues wherein one or more states would be competing for the limited resources during the time of the pandemic." The Centre said the high court "erred" because oxygen supply "essentially requires a comprehensive national approach". Former Congress chief minister Siddaramaiah said he was “shocked” the Centre moved the top court. He said: “Will the CM and BJP ever fight this decision? Is Narendra Modi blind to Karnataka's needs? Karnataka has elected 25 BJP MPs to Lok Sabha. Where are they hiding? Have they lost their spine to stand up against Modi?” However, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, in charge of oxygen supply, said things would get better. "Our minimum requirement is 1,200 tonnes. We hope our current allocation of 965 tonnes will be increased by an additional 150 tonnes. So, we will get around 1,115 tonnes. We will be in a comfortable position in the next two-three days," he told DH. He added that 60 tonnes supplied to Maharashtra from the Ballari Jindal plant was allocated to Karnataka "because of our petitions". Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda defended the Centre thus: "Karnataka's allocation was increased to 965 tonnes as cases increased. Allocation is being done on the basis of active cases."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-as-centre-moves-sc-against-karnataka-hc-order-on-oxygen-supply-order-983140.html
06-05-2021||National||Maharashtra reports 62,194 new Covid cases, 853 deaths||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 62,194 new Covid-19 cases, taking its cumulative tally to 49,42,736, while 853 more deaths pushed the toll to 73,515, an official from the state health department said. Compared to Wednesday, Maharashtra's Covid-19 caseload increased by 4,554 in the last 24 hours, but the fatality count dropped by 67. Out of the 853 deaths, 331 occurred in the last 48 hours, 247 in the past one week and the remaining 275 in period before last week, but were added to the toll now as part of data reconciliation exercise, the official said. Fresh recoveries were slightly more than the new infections. He said 63,842 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, raising the number of recovered cases to 42,27,940. The state now has 6,39,075 active cases, the official said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate currently stood at 85.54 per cent, while the fatality rate was 1.49 per cent, he said. According to the official, 2,77,086 more Covid-19 tests were conducted in the state, taking the tally of samples examined so far to 2,86,61,668. He said Mumbai reported 3,028 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 6,68,085, while the toll increased to 13,580 with 69 fresh fatalities. After Mumbai, 14 patients died in Panvel city followed by 12 in Navi Mumbai and 10 in Thane city, among other areas. The larger Mumbai administrative division, including the financial capital and its satellite towns, reported 8,525 cases 124 deaths due to Covid-19, he said. This increased the regions caseload to 14,24,093 and the fatality count to 24,296, the official said. Outside Mumbai, more coronavirus cases are coming from rural areas, indicating the spread of the infection beyond urban centres. Compared to municipal corporation areas of Pune, Nashik, Kolhapur and Sangli, more cases were reported from rural pockets of these districts. For instance, the Nashik administrative division reported 13,982 fresh cases, of which 6,239 were from rural parts of Nashik district. Nashik city reported 2,318 cases and 58 deaths, while Ahmednagar district registered 3,081 cases and 15 deaths, the official said. The Pune administrative division reported 14,453 cases and 154 deaths of which Pune rural accounted for 4,153 infections and 42 fatalities. Pune city reported 3,164 cases and 34 deaths, while Solapur district recorded 2,126 infections and 30 fatalities, the official said. The Kolhapur administrative division reported 4,704 cases and 65 deaths. Kolhapur city reported only 345 cases but 1,142 infections came from rural areas of the district. Similarly, 367 fresh cases came from Sangli-Miraj- Kupwad Municipal Corporation areas, but 1,760 infections were added by the rural parts of the district, he said. Out of the 65 deaths in the division, 14 were from Kolhapur rural and 19 from Sangli district, the official said. The Aurangabad division added 2,809 cases and 43 deaths, while the Latur division reported 3,991 fresh Covid-19 cases and 131 more fatalities. In the Aurangabad division, Beed district reported 43 deaths followed by 29 in Nanded, the official said. The Akola division's caseload increased by 5,020, while 64 more patients succumbed to the coronavirus infection. The Nagpur division reported 8,710 new cases and 105 deaths. Of the deaths in the division, 31 occurred in Nagpur city followed by 21 in Wardha and 19 in Chandrapur, the official said. Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 49,42,736; new cases 62,194; total deaths 73,515; recoveries 42,27,940; active cases 6,39,075; tests conducted so far 2,86,61,668.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-reports-62194-new-covid-cases-853-deaths-983151.html
06-05-2021||National||Air ambulance makes belly landing after losing a wheel during take-off||An air ambulance with five persons on board made a belly landing at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Thursday night after the aircraft lost a wheel during take-off from Nagpur. The Beechcraft VT-JIL aircraft on the way from Nagpur to Hyderabad declared a full emergency and made a belly landing at 9:09 pm, officials said. According to Mumbai International Airport Ltd officials, the non-scheduled aircraft, VT-JIL was carrying 2 crew members, a doctor, a paramedic, and a patient. Soon after takeoff, the nose-wheel of the aircraft fell off forcing a diversion to Mumbai where it landed at 21:09 hours amidst full emergency preparedness. “The airport's emergency response team, including the fire and rescue responders, follow-me vehicles, CISF, medical team amongst many others, was activated instantly, and was on standby to provide immediate assistance to ensure the safe evacuation of the passengers,” officials said.   As a precautionary method, CSMIA also foamed RWY 27 in order to avoid the aircraft from catching fire. All passengers were evacuated safely and flights operating in and out of CSMIA remain on schedule. The aircraft is a Turboprop operated by Jet Serve and was piloted safely down by Captain Keshri Singh. In a tweet, Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said, "A Jet Serve ambulance with a patient onboard lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur. Showing immense presence of mind Capt Kesari Singh belly landed the aircraft on foam carpeting in Mumbai. All onboard are safe." He also praised the CSMIA and DGCA. Singh also tweeted a video of the incident and lauded the efforts of the crew and ground professionals. "This video captures the crucial moments after belly landing of the ambulance flight on foam carpet in Mumbai after it lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur. All onboard are safe. Kudos to the crew & ground professionals," he tweeted.  This video captures the crucial moments after belly landing of the ambulance flight on foam carpet in Mumbai after it lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur. All onboard are safe.Kudos to the crew & ground professionals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-ambulance-makes-belly-landing-after-losing-a-wheel-during-take-off-983155.html
06-05-2021||National||1.3 lakh people in 18-44 age group vaccinated in three days: CM Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said around 1.30 lakh people in the 18-44 age group have been vaccinated against coronavirus since the inoculation of this category started on May 3. He also said the entire population of the capital can be vaccinated in three months, but only if adequate doses are available. "In the last three days, around 1.3 lakh people (in the 18-44 age group) have been vaccinated. I hope more will be vaccinated in the coming days. We want to increase the scale of vaccination, but there is a problem … vaccine is in short supply," he said during a virtual press conference. The chief minister said more than 35 lakh people have been vaccinated in Delhi so far. Of this, 28 lakh have taken the first dose, and over 7.5 lakh have taken both the doses, he said.   "As I had promised earlier, we can vaccinate the entire (population of) Delhi within three months if there's adequate supply. We will open up more centres if we get more doses in a timely manner," he said. The chief minister requested all those aged above 18 to take the jabs compulsorily. "At the end of the day, one has to get vaccinated. Vaccination is the only solution to this problem," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-lakh-people-in-18-44-age-group-vaccinated-in-three-days-cm-kejriwal-983173.html
06-05-2021||National||Inter-state gang kingpin arrested from Kerala||An inter-state gang that had duped many businessmen of crores of rupees in various parts of India, including Karnataka, was busted with the arrest of the kingpin recently from Kovalam in Kerala, police said on Thursday. According to police, Hari Gopalakrishna Nadar, who hailed from Tirunelveli along with his accomplice Rajith Panikker had recently contacted Venkat Mani Sastry, a Bengaluru based businessman and promised him a loan of Rs 360 crore at an interest rate of six per cent. They invited him to a five-star hotel in Kerala and showed him a demand draft of Rs 360 crore, which was fake. They told Sastry that he would have to pay them two per cent as the service charge to get the loan, police said. Trusting Nadar, Sastry paid Rs 7.2 crore to him but the loan amount was not released, police said and added that when Sastry enquired with him, Nadar allegedly threatened him. Based on Sastry's complaint, a case of cheating, forgery, threatening and connivance was registered. On May 4, Hari Nadar was arrested from Kovalam and police seized Rs 3.8 kg gold and Rs 8.76 lakh, police said. Ranjit panicker was arrested on May 7 and gold, cash and vehicles were recovered from his possession. Police said Nadar had duped many businessmen from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat using the same modus operandi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inter-state-gang-kingpin-arrested-from-kerala-983178.html
06-05-2021||National||Invoke compulsory licensing for vaccines for all: Jairam||As the US supported the demand for waiver of intellectual property rights protection on Covid-19 vaccines, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Thursday asked the Modi government to invoke the provisions for compulsory licensing. Ramesh said the Union government must issue a notification under Sections 92 and 100 of the Patents Act to freely license all patents necessary for vaccine and drug production, including for equipment and all raw materials for vaccines, hospital equipment and drugs to treat Covid-19. “Issue of the amount of royalties can be decided in due course as laid out in the Patents Act, but that should not come in the way of immediate licensing by the government,” the former Union Minister said. Ramesh also said that the Union government must provide all full support to those companies and institutions which have facilities to scale up vaccine production. He said the Indian industry has well-respected expertise and capability to rapidly manufacture raw materials, consumables and equipment necessary to produce drugs, vaccines and medical devices if Intellectual Property barriers are removed. “Hope you will give this your serious consideration, Piyush Goyal. It is a logical consequence of the stance we have taken at the WTO,” Ramesh said. Earlier, former prime minister Manmohan Singh had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to invoke compulsory licensing provisions to make vaccines available to all. Last October, India and South Africa had submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/invoke-compulsory-licensing-for-vaccines-for-all-jairam-983179.html
06-05-2021||National||Foreign Covid-19 aid received up to May 5 allocated to states, UTs: Centre||The Health Ministry on Thursday said as many as 1,841 oxygen concentrators, 1,814 oxygen cylinders, nine oxygen generation plants and more than 2.8 lakh Remdesivir vials received as foreign aid have been delivered to 31 states and Union Territories so far. "All items received up to 5th May 2021 have been effectively allocated and promptly dispatched to the states/institutions. This is an ongoing exercise," the ministry said in a statement. It said the Empowered Group No 3 met Thursday under the chairmanship of NITI CEO Amitabh Kant to discuss ways and means of expediting the distribution of material aid received from abroad. The meeting was attended by Union Secretary (I&B) Amit Khare, Union Secretary (Expenditure) Dr T V Somanathan, Additional secretary (MEA) Shrir Dammu Ravi, and Additional Secretary (Health) Arti Ahuja. Additional Secretary (MEA) told the meeting that as and when they come to know about the relief material leaving offshores, the information is sent to the Union Health Ministry which then works out the distribution plan. Additional Secretary (Health Ministry) said the distribution plans of material received from abroad are already in place by the time it lands in India. The Centre has been receiving international donations and aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries/organisations, the ministry said. The ministry said, "1841 Oxygen Concentrators; 1814 Oxygen Cylinders, 09 Oxygen Generation Plants; 2403 ventilators/ Bi PAP/ C PAP; more than 2.8 L Remdesivir vials delivered so far." On receiving the consignment of Covid-19 equipment as part of international aid, Dr N N Mathur of Delhi's LHMC Hospital said, "The equipment has already been deployed in the hospital." The Centre has designed a streamlined and systematic mechanism for effective allocation and distribution of the support supplies received, the health ministry statement said. A dedicated Coordination Cell has been created in the Health Ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign Covid relief material as grants, aid and donations which started functioning from April 26, it said. A Standard Operating Procedure has been framed and implemented by the Health Ministry since May 2, the statement said. It said the cargo clearance and deliveries are facilitated without delay in coordination with various agencies and it is being comprehensively monitored by the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. This will help to supplement the medical infrastructure of the tertiary care institutions and 31 states and UTs, and strengthen their clinical management capacities for prompt and effective clinical management of the hospitalised Covid19 patients, the statement said. The major items received till May 5 include, ventilator/Bi PAP/C PAP (1,056) Oxygen Concentrator (43) from Australia, RDK (40,300), Remdesivir (about 1.56 lakh) and PPE kits and additional other items from the USA, and Liquid Oxygen Container (02) from Bahrain, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-covid-19-aid-received-up-to-may-5-allocated-to-states-uts-centre-983187.html
06-05-2021||National Politics||Former Union Minister and RLD chief Ajit Singh dies due to Covid-19||A crusader for farmers’ rights, former union minister and RLD chief Ajit Singh breathed his last on Thursday morning after battling Covid-19. He was 82. Singh, a prominent Jat leader who was influential in the large swathes of western Uttar Pradesh, died at 8:20 am at a private hospital at Gurugram in Haryana where he was admitted after contracting the infectious disease on April 20. “As our nation confronts this horrific pandemic, it is our humble request to all those who with to pay their respects, to please stay at home as far as possible,” former Lok Sabha member Jayant Chaudhary, the late leader’s son, said in a statement. Ajit Singh’s last ritles were carried out maintaining Covid protocol on Thursday morning. The son of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, Ajit Singh was one of the few IIT graduates who had turned to politics in the 1980s. After a B-Tech from IIT-Kharagpur, Ajit Singh pursued higher studies at the Illinois Institute of Technology and worked with IBM in the 1960s as systems expert before returning for the aid of his aging father in 1981. Ajit Singh was first elected to the Rajya Sabha in 1986 and made his debut in the Lok Sabha in 1989. He was a seven-term Lok Sabha member and held diverse portfolios in the Council of Ministers of prime ministers V P Singh, P V Narasimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, NCP chief Sharad Pawar among others condoled the death of Ajit Singh. He lost the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Baghpat to BJP candidate Satyapal Singh, a former Mumbai Police Commissioner, against the backdrop of the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 that led to a split in the famed Jat-Muslim unity in western Uttar Pradesh. Ajit Singh was also instrumental in the Kairana model where SP leader Tabassum Hassan had contested and won the Lok Sabha bypoll from Kairana as a RLD candidate against BJP’s Mriganka Singh by a record margin. However, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Ajit Singh had to face defeat at the hands of BJP candidate Sanjeev Balyan from Muzaffarnagar. Singh had made an emotional appeal to the electorate to consider it as his last election. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, NCP chief Sharad Pawar among others condoled the death of Ajit Singh. “He always raised his voice in the interest of farmers. As a peoples’ representative and a minister, he left a distinct mark on politics in the country,” Kovind said. राष्ट्रीय लोकदल के प्रमुख और पूर्व केन्द्रीय मंत्री चौधरी अजित सिंह के निधन की सूचना से दुख‌ हुआ। उन्होंने किसानों के हित में हमेशा आवाज उठायी। जनप्रतिनिधि व मंत्री के रूप में उन्होंने देश की राजनीति पर अलग छाप छोड़ी। उनके परिवार और शुभचिंतकों के प्रति मेरी शोक संवेदनाएं Modi also hailed Ajit Singh as a leader devoted to the interests of the farmers. पूर्व केंद्रीय मंत्री चौधरी अजित सिंह जी के निधन से अत्यंत दुख हुआ है। वे हमेशा किसानों के हित में समर्पित रहे। उन्होंने केंद्र में कई विभागों की जिम्मेदारियों का कुशलतापूर्वक निर्वहन किया। शोक की इस घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएं उनके परिजनों और प्रशंसकों के साथ हैं। ओम शांति! Offering his condolences, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "The news of the untimely demise of Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Ajit Singh ji is sad. My condolences to his family and loved ones." राष्ट्रीय लोक दल प्रमुख अजित सिंह जी के असमय निधन का समाचार दुखद है। National Conference president Omar Abdullah tweeted, "Shocked to hear of the demise of Ajit Singh ji. I can’t begin to imagine what you are going through @jayantrld. I join my father, who had a long & warm association with your father, in sending our condolences & prayers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-union-minister-and-rld-chief-ajit-singh-dies-due-to-covid-19-982859.html
06-05-2021||National Politics||His struggle for farmers will always be remembered: Congress on Ajit Singh's demise||The Congress on Thursday condoled the death of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader and former Union minister Ajit Singh and said his struggle for the cause of farmers will always be remembered. Singh passed away at a Gurgaon hospital on Thursday morning battling Covid-19, his family said. He was 82. Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, said, "Got the sad news of the demise of popular leader, former Union minister and farmer-friendly leader Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji. Chaudhary Sahab's demise is an irreparable loss for society and politics." She offered her deepest condolences to Ajit Singh's son, Jayant Chaudhary. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the news of the demise of the RLD leader is saddening. He offered condolences to Singh's family members. The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, condoled Singh's demise and said his struggle for the cause of farmers will always be remembered. The Congress family's condolences are with the family members and loved ones of the leader in this difficult time, the party said. पूर्व केंद्रीय मंत्री और राष्ट्रीय लोकदल के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष चौधरी अजित सिंह जी के आकस्मिक निधन का समाचार दुःखद है।किसानों के लिए उनके संघर्ष को सदैव याद किया जाएगा। Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also condoled the demise of Singh and described him as a sympathiser of the farmers and a son of the soil. "The voice of the farmers has suffered a huge loss in the country today," he said. किसानों के हमदर्द और धरती पुत्र, चौधरी अजित सिंह के देहांत की दुःखद ख़बर से मन अति व्यथित है। किसान की आवाज़ को देश में आज भारी क्षति हुई है। खेतिहर के हर संघर्ष में साथ निभाने वाले अनथक योद्धा सदैव हमारी स्मृति में रहेंगे। Singh, the son of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, was diagnosed positive for Covid-19 on April 20, the family said in a statement. "Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji was diagnosed as COVID+ on the 20th April. He battled his condition till the very end and breathed his last today morning, the 6th of May, 2021," his son Jayant Chowdhury tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/his-struggle-for-farmers-will-always-be-remembered-congress-on-ajit-singhs-demise-982912.html
06-05-2021||National Politics||Congress 'shocked' by Centre moving Supreme Court against High Court order to hike Karnataka oxygen supply||The Congress expressed "shock" over the Centre moving to the Supreme Court on Thursday against an order of the Karnataka High Court order asking to increase daily liquid medical oxygen (LMO) allocation for the State from the present 965 MT to 1200 MT for treating Covid-19 patients. Projected demand in Karnataka is 1,471 MT but Central allocation is only 865 MT, President of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee D K Shivakumar claimed, and said he was "shocked" by the Centre's move in the apex court. "Will CM @BSYBJP & BJP MPs remain mute spectators when people are dying of Oxygen shortage?" he tweeted. Shocked to see the Central Govt moving the SC challenging the Karnataka HC order to supply 1200 MT of Oxygen to the state Projected demand is 1471 MT but central allocation is only 865 MT A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the State is being supplied 965 MT LMO presently and the order needed to be stayed urgently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-shocked-by-centre-moving-supreme-court-against-high-court-order-to-hike-karnataka-oxygen-supply-983083.html
06-05-2021||National Politics||Political row over foreign aid for Covid-19 patients||A political row broke out over aid rushed to India by countries across the world to help deal with the ferocious second wave of Covid-19 with the Opposition accusing the Modi government of letting the life-saving equipment gather dust at airport terminals. Congress alleged lack of transparency in distribution of foreign aid and sought to know which states or institutions had received it. The party also cited reports claiming that several oxygen concentrators were lying unattended at cargo facilities at airports. “Questions about Covid foreign aid: What all supplies has India received? Where are they? Who is benefitting from them? How are they allocated to states? Why no transparency? Any answers, GOI,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. The Modi government rejected claims of any delay in clearing foreign aid. “The Indian Customs is swiftly clearing all consignments and no such figures of pendency exist across any port of import,” an official statement said. “All items received so far are allocated to the states/institutions and substantial part of it stands delivered,” it said adding that 1,764 oxygen concentrators, 1,760 oxygen cylinders, seven oxygen generating plants, 450 ventilators and more than 1.35 lakh Remdesivir vials have been delivered so far. Union Minister Smriti Irani hit out at Gandhi and demanded that he rise above “petulant politics” in the time of the pandemic. “Time to rise above petulant politics Mr. Rahul Gandhi. Information regarding allocation to 38 institutions across 31 states/UTs was available in the public domain before you tweeted. If you care for the truth as you proclaim, do share,” said Irani, who defeated Gandhi in the Lok Sabha elections from Amethi. Irani also said that AIIMS, Rae Bareli was also among the 38 institutions that received foreign aid. “Not that you would know, hence for your information,” she said adding that the Modi government had started the Covid facility in Rae Bareli. Congress President Sonia Gandhi represents Rae Bareli in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-row-over-foreign-aid-for-covid-19-patients-983094.html
06-05-2021||National Politics||Gujarat BJP protests against Mamata Banerjee, TMC||The Gujarat BJP on Thursday held protests against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her party Trinamool Congress over alleged attacks on BJP workers in that state after Assembly elections. In Ahmedabad, Rajya Sabha member Narhari Amin and state BJP general secretary Pradeepsinh Vaghela were among those who took part in demonstrations. Gujarat Municipal Finance Board Chairman Dhansukh Bhanderi led a sit-in in Rajkot city while local Mayor Hemali Boghawala joined in the protest in Surat. Vaghela, who had campaigned in West Bengal, alleged that 11 BJP workers were killed there after the elections. "In Gujarat, the BJP has been in power for the last 25 years. But we never attacked anyone from opposition Congress," Vaghela told reporters. He also alleged that the TMC was getting support from "illegal Bangladeshi immigrants". Bhanderi said protests were held by following coronavirus guidelines and maintaining social distancing. Banerjee "is silently watching" the violence in her state, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-bjp-protests-against-mamata-banerjee-tmc-983125.html
06-05-2021||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi to discuss Covid-19 situation with party MPs||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has convened a meeting of all MPs of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha on Friday to discuss the second wave of coronavirus and evolve a political strategy to deal with the situation, sources said. They said Gandhi will address the virtual meeting and will hear out the view of all its MPs in both houses of Parliament on the Covid situation in the country. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh will also be part of the virtual meeting. This is also the first meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP) after the budget session of Parliament that ended in March. This will be her first internal meeting with party MPs after the Congress party's drubbing in recent assembly polls in five states, where it failed to wrest back Kerala and Assam and scored a zero in west Bengal. The country has seen, for the first time, a record over 4.12 lakh cases in the last 24 hours and around 400 deaths, even as many states are currently under lockdown. The Congress has been highly critical of the government in its handling of the Covid situation during the second wave which has caused a large number of deaths across the country and patients are scurrying for ICU beds, oxygen and life saving drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-with-party-mps-983164.html
06-05-2021||National Politics||Failure of PM, zero strategy of Centre pushing India towards complete lockdown: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that the failure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and zero strategy of the Centre is pushing the country towards a complete lockdown. Gandhi said he was against a total lockdown and urged the government to provide a financial package for the poor. "Last year's unplanned lockdown was a fatal attack on the people and that is why I am against a complete lockdown. "But the prime minister's failure and zero strategy on part of the central government are pushing the country towards a complete lockdown," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "In such a situation, it is essential to immediately provide a financial package and all kind of help to the poor people," he also said. In an other tweet, Gandhi hit out at the government over the hike in petrol and diesel prices, saying elections are over and the loot has started again. The Congress leader has been calling for a financial package for the poor and has asked the government to provide Rs 6,000 into their accounts to tide over the current crisis. Gandhi had on Wednesday said that imposing a total lockdown is the only solution in the current situation. India has seen a record number of 4.12 lakh cases and around 4,000 deaths in the last 24 hours and most states have imposed restrictions or imposed a lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/failure-of-pm-zero-strategy-of-centre-pushing-india-towards-complete-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-983186.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||False alarms put strain on system, says Delhi HC; lays down norms for oxygen SOS calls||False alarms regarding oxygen shortage should not be made by hospital management as they disturb the system and unnecessarily strain the already stressed government machinery, the Delhi High Court said on Wednesday and laid down guidelines on when such SOS ought to be raised. The court said that when a hospital has oxygen stock of six hours or less, it should first contact its supplier. If no action is taken, then it should be escalated to the nodal officer and if even then no supply is received and stock is good for only around three hours, then the amicus curiae -- senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao -- or senior advocate Rahul Mehra or Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam can be contacted, it said. The bench made it clear that the said lawyers would not be contacted without first making an attempt to get supplies from the designated supplier or refiller. "Even earlier, we have observed that false alarms should not be raised regarding supply of oxygen by management of hospitals. Such alarms, which are false, disturb the complete system and put unnecessary strain on the already stretched government machinery," a bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said. The order came while hearing the plea of a patient admitted at IBS Hospital in Lajpat Nagar who claimed that the management circulated a message saying they do not have sufficient oxygen and would have to start discharging patients. However, when the court asked the Delhi government to look into the matter, one of the officials handling oxygen distribution in Delhi said the hospital management informed him that they had sufficient oxygen for 24 hours. In view of the submission made by the official, the bench said it was not going to interfere in the matter and laid down the guidelines about raising alarms and making SOS calls. The amicus, during the hearing, said there was a need for more hands on deck to attend SOS calls at night. About this, Mehra said the Delhi government plans to have a dedicated number with several lines for handling SOS calls and it will be made operational soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/false-alarms-put-strain-on-system-says-delhi-hc-lays-down-norms-for-oxygen-sos-calls-982757.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||No supply schedule of vaccine shared by SII despite payment of Rs 10.37 cr: Punjab govt||The Punjab government paid Rs 10.37 crore to the Serum Institute of India (SII) on April 26 for procurement of around 30 lakh doses of anti-COVID vaccine but no schedule for supply has so far been received, officials claimed on Wednesday. Chairing a virtual cabinet meeting, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh directed the health department to explore all options for the supply of the vaccine. Though the state government had made a payment of Rs 10.37 crore to the SII for procurement of around 30 lakh doses on April 26, no schedule for supply has so far been received from them, Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed the state cabinet. The state government hospitals in the state have not yet started the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group due to non-availability of anti-coronavirus vaccine doses. Only some private hospitals, which had placed direct orders for the vaccine, have commenced the inoculation drive of those aged 18 and above, the participants of the meeting were informed, according to an official statement. For the state government, SII has only indicated that the availability of Covishield will be known in about four weeks' time, said the health secretary. The cabinet was informed that in the present circumstances, vaccination of 18-44 age group could not be launched in government hospitals, nor was there any clarity on when the process could begin. Meanwhile, the cabinet approved one-time relaxation in Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Rules, 1964 for transfer of 5 acres of panchayat land in Mohali to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for establishment of National Institute of Virology for north zone. The institute has been sanctioned by the central government on a proposal by the Punjab government. The cabinet authorised deputy commissioner, Mohali to complete all necessary formalities to transfer the land in Mullanpur Garibdas village in SAS Nagar. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the construction of the institute would start by the end of this year. There is no provision in the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Rules, 1964 for gifting panchayat land to the central government, but Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 provides that the power to make rules includes the power to amend or relax the rules. The cabinet noted that the institute will be for the welfare of the residents of Punjab, the cabinet noted. It further stressed that the institute would be of vital importance in view of the pandemic. Meanwhile, the chief minister virtually launched an online citizen portal to provide all property related services in a seamless manner. Lauding the people-friendly initiative of the Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA), the chief minister said it would hugely benefit people across the state and enable them to avail all services regarding property matters in a smooth and transparent manner, thus eliminating inordinate delays and corrupt practices in the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-supply-schedule-of-vaccine-shared-by-sii-despite-payment-of-rs-1037-cr-punjab-govt-982821.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Inform about oxygen requirements 24 hours in advance: U'khand govt to hospitals||Hospitals in Uttarakhand have been asked to inform the administration about their oxygen requirements 24 hours in advance so that it could be supplied to them on time, state Health Secretary Amit Negi said on Wednesday. Five Covid-19 patients, including a woman, died at a private hospital on Tuesday in Roorkee in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar district allegedly due to disruption in oxygen supply to the facility for around 30 minutes. Talking to reporters, Negi said apart from this, district magistrates have also been asked to conduct an audit of oxygen being used by hospitals. He said efforts are underway to create additional oxygen-supported and ICU beds, and the state will soon have 1,400 more of them. Three lakh vaccine doses meant for people above 45 years have been received, while Rs 100 crore have been released from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund for buying vaccines for people above 18 to 45 years. A portal has been created for plasma donation, while those in home isolation are getting treatment via e-Sanjivani portal, he said. Private hospitals have also been asked to use Remdesivir injections in the treatment of Covid-19 patients as per the standard operating procedures, Negi said.   Tocilizumab, administered in rare Covid-19 cases, should also be used judiciously, he said. Inspector General Amit Sinha, who was also present at the press conference, said steps are being taken to stop the black-marketing of Covid-related medicines and equipment. Over the last two days, four persons have been arrested from Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar, Dehradun and Haridwar districts for their involvement in the black-marketing of Covid-related medicines and equipment, Sinha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inform-about-oxygen-requirements-24-hours-in-advance-ukhand-govt-to-hospitals-982822.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt sets up web portal to streamline oxygen distribution||Amid an acute shortage of medical oxygen in the national capital, the Delhi government has set up a web portal to streamline distribution of the life-saving gas to coronavirus patients in home isolation, non-Covid hospitals, and nursing homes, an official order said on Wednesday. The portal -- delhi.gov.in -- will go live on May 6 and those requiring oxygen can apply with a valid photo id, Aadhar card details, Covid positive report and other documents like CT scan report if available, the order said. According to the order, district magistrates shall identify "dedicated dealers/depots to distribute such cylinders to individuals who shall not be redirected to refilling plants under any circumstances". "The district magistrates shall ensure that adequate number of office personnel are assigned to scrutinise all incoming applications and issue e-passes quickly as time is of essence in such cases,” the order said. “This may be accorded top priority. The DMs shall ensure that the dealers regularly get their cylinders refilled from the designated refilling plants," the order added. Based on the stock availability, the district magistrates will issue a pass having the date, time and address of the dealer/depot from where the oxygen cylinder can be issued/exchanged, it said. Before issuing the pass, the district magistrates must ensure that filled oxygen cylinder is available as per the pass issued, it added. The district magistrates will ensure that the distribution of lump sum allocation is done "judiciously and equitably between individuals, non-Covid hospitals, nursing homes, ambulances and SOS cylinders of Covid hospitals running on LMO (liquid medical oxygen)", the order said. The order said a provision of lump sum allocation of oxygen (to be given through cylinders) for individuals, non-Covid hospitals, nursing homes , ambulances and SOS cylinders of Covid hospitals running on LMO had already been made against re-fillers with each district being assigned a re-filler. This portal has been created "to streamline the entire system of distribution of the lump-sum allocation under the supervision of district magistrates and also in order to facilitate the public to access these cylinders with certainty", the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-sets-up-web-portal-to-streamline-oxygen-distribution-982824.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai laid to rest at his ancestral village in J&K||Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chairman Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai was on Thursday laid to rest at his ancestral village in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir as per Covid protocol, officials said here. Sehrai, who was arrested and booked under the Public safety Act last year, died at a Jammu hospital on Wednesday while in custody. The separatist leader's Covid test reports were negative. "Burial of separatist leader late Ashraf Shehrai completed as per Covid protocol in presence of family members at his native place," Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said in a tweet. Sehrai's demise while in preventive detention under the PSA led to widespread calls for the release of other political prisoners from Jammu and Kashmir who are held in various jails within and outside the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/separatist-leader-ashraf-sehrai-laid-to-rest-at-his-ancestral-village-in-jk-982851.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Three militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian, one surrenders||Three local militants, who had been recruited into militancy recently, were killed while one surrendered during an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir's Shopian district on Thursday. Police said the militants were killed after they refused to surrender and opened fire on being trapped and surrounded in the Kanigam area of the district during the wee hours of Thursday. “During the search operation as the presence of terrorists got ascertained they were given an opportunity to surrender. Family members of the trapped terrorists were also called to the encounter site to motivate and persuade them to surrender,” a police spokesperson said. He said after utmost patience and repeated surrender appeals with the help of their family members, one of the trapped militants, Tausif Ahmad, surrendered and laid down his arms. “The surrendered terrorist later also appealed to his trapped companions to surrender, however, they turned down the offer and fired indiscriminately which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” the spokesperson said. In the ensuing encounter, he said, three militants identified as Danish Mir, Umer Bhat and Zaid Bashir Reshi, all residents of Shopian, were killed. Police said the militants were newly recruited and affiliated with proscribed militant outfit Al-Badr. The lifespan of militants in Kashmir has shrunk considerably over the last three years with 65% of the ultras surviving less than a year after joining militancy. Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar once again made an appeal to the youth who have joined militant ranks to shun the path of violence “and return to mainstream as the society needs them and most importantly their parents.” “We will welcome and accept them with open arms,” he said in a statement after the gun battle. The latest encounter came two days after two militants, including a Pakistani, were killed in a similar gun battle in north Kashmir’s Sopore town on Tuesday. Pertinently, 43 militants have been killed in J&K so far this year and most of them belong to Shopian district.   Last year, 203 militants, including 166 locals were killed by security forces across the valley. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-shopian-one-surrenders-982852.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Intruder shot dead along border in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba||An intruder was shot dead by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the International Border (IB) in Jammu's Samba district on Thursday.  A BSF official said that on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, troops deployed on a forward post along the IB in Samba sector shot dead the intruder.  "The intruder was moving inside our territory and did not stop when challenged. Subsequently, he was shot dead," he said. The body is still lying there and a search operation is going on in the area, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intruder-shot-dead-along-border-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-samba-982880.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Tour guides, travel operators in Agra stare at uncertain future due to Covid-hit tourism sector||With the tourism sector taking a hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the livelihoods of several people associated with this industry have been severely affected in Agra. Tour leader Mahendra Soni, who was living a comfortable life before the pandemic struck, has been forced to take a loan to fulfil the financial needs of his family. "I am living on borrowings. I have been a tour leader for 34 years, but since the beginning of the pandemic, my profession was affected and I was forced to opt for tiffin delivery service, but that too did not work," he told PTI. With the temporary closure of the Taj Mahal due to a rising number of Covid-19 cases, tour guides like Soni are struggling to make ends meet. Shamsuddin Khan, the president of the Approved Tourist Guides' Association, said there are about 2,500 tour guides in this Uttar Pradesh town, of which 400 are approved by the department of tourism, 700 are approved by other departments of the state government and the rest are working on stay permits. Besides, there are 5-10 lakh people in Agra who are dependent on the tourism sector either directly or indirectly. With the sector taking a hit, the livelihoods of the tour guides, tourist photographers, travel operators, taxi drivers, emporium employees, hotel and restaurant owners and several others have been affected. "My earnings have been hit since last year. I did not get any assignments since then and was forced to choose another job to feed my family," Narendra Lawania, who used to work as a French-language tour guide before the outbreak of the pandemic, told PTI. "I opened a garments shop, but due to the lockdown, even that is now closed. I do not see any good job prospect in the future as I have no idea when the tourism sector would revive," he said. Another French-language tour guide, Subodh Kumar Saraswat, said for the last 13 months, he has been running a grocery shop. "Every day I struggle to arrange the basic necessities at home. If things do not improve in the tourism sector in Agra, my future is bleak," he said. Sharing his ordeal due to the lockdown, a foreign-language tour escort said, "I have taken a loan from the bank for a car, but now I am unable to pay the installments because I am not earning enough.... Most of the time (since the pandemic broke out), I have been unemployed." "When the Taj Mahal was open, I used to earn about Rs 1,800 daily but within a year, everything is ruined," he lamented. Demanding financial help for the tour guides, Khan said, "Expenses are high these days and the income is low, so both the Centre and the state government should support the tour guides, who are facing a crisis."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tour-guides-travel-operators-in-agra-stare-at-uncertain-future-due-to-covid-hit-tourism-sector-982908.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Supplied 730 MT oxygen to Delhi on May 5, Centre tells SC||The Centre Thursday told the Supreme Court that it has complied with its order and instead of 700 MT oxygen, it ensured a supply of 730 MT to Delhi for treating Covid-19 patients. The apex court, while staying contempt proceedings initiated by Delhi High Court against central government officials for non-compliance of direction to supply 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi, had sought an answer from the Centre on Thursday morning. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that a survey was conducted in 56 major hospitals of the national capital on May 4 and it revealed that they had significant stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). While granting the stay on contempt against the officials, the top court on Wednesday had made clear that it was not stopping the high court from monitoring Covid-19 management related issues. It had also directed a meeting, even virtually, between officials of the Centre and Delhi government by last evening to discuss various aspects of augmenting the oxygen supply to the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supplied-730-mt-oxygen-to-delhi-on-may-5-centre-tells-sc-982931.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Prisoners need to be released on bail, parole in view of alarming Covid situation in Delhi: Commitee||A high powered committee constituted to decongest jails to prevent spread of Covid-19 has said there is a need to release prisoners on interim bail for 90 days or eight weeks parole in view of the "alarming" and "threatening" situation of the pandemic in the national capital. The committee, headed by Justice Vipin Sanghi, observed that the entire country was "engulfed" in the second wave of Covid-19, which according to the medical and expert opinion is more virulent and fatal in comparison to the last year's strain and in a matter of few weeks has left everyone "gasping for air". "It has led everyone to struggle to breathe or with asphyxia, which is the most terrifying human experience. Breathing fresh air which one takes for granted and used to do more than a dozen times every minute, in the present circumstances has turned into an ordeal. "Right to Life under Article 21 is the most precious Fundamental Right of every citizen of India. It unconditionally embraces even an undertrial/convict walled off from the society," the committee said while laying down the criteria for release of around 4,000 undertrial prisoners (UTPs) on interim bail for 90 days. The committee, which has been constituted on the directions of the Supreme Court, has also said that since its last meeting in February this year, the situation "has taken a 360 degree turn and is becoming alarming with each day". "Accordingly, there is an imminent and urgent need to take affirmative and effective steps to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19 inside jails and for ensuring social distancing inside prisons by identifying and determining the class/categories of prisoners who can once again be released on interim bails/paroles," it has said. It has further said that according to statistical data of Covid-19 cases in the national capital the situation was "not only alarming but threatening" as not only the positivity rate but the death rate in Covid-19 positive cases was also "spiking sharply". The committee has said that in such a situation, which was much more dangerous than last year, and with the prisons in Delhi holding almost double their capacity of prisoners, it has not only stressed the jail administration but has also "jeopardised the necessity of observing social distancing, which is the need of the hour to prevent the spread of virus amongst the inmates". The committee has laid down 11 categories of UTPs like those in civil imprisonment, senior citizens who are facing trial for offences with a max punishment of 10 years in jail, those who are suffering other serious illnesses and are facing trial for offences with punishment ranging from 10 years to life, who would be eligible for grant of 90 days interim bail on furnishing of a personal bond. With regard to release of convicts on parole, Director General of Prisons told the committee that a letter was sent to the Delhi government on April 26 to grant emergency parole of 8 weeks to those prisoners who surrendered after expiry of emergency parole granted to them last time during the first wave of the pandemic, The committee then recommended grant of emergency parole to eligible convicts and the Principal Secretary (Home), Govt. of NCT of Delhi assured the panel that necessary efforts shall be taken to get the needful done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prisoners-need-to-be-released-on-bail-parole-in-view-of-alarming-covid-situation-in-delhi-commitee-982936.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||BSP performance encouraging despite official machinery misuse in UP Panchayat polls: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday said that despite misuse of official machinery and use of money power by rival parties in the Uttar Pradesh Panchayat polls, the performance of the party has been "encouraging". "Despite the misuse of power and official machinery and use of money power by rival parties, the performance of BSP is encouraging and the results will infuse new energy and enthusiasm in people for the Assembly elections," she said in a statement issued here. Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled to be held in 2022. Congratulating the party workers, Mayawati said that most of the independent candidates who have succeeded in defeating rival party candidates are those backed by the BSP. These candidates fought elections on their own capacity, especially in the absence of consensus on the reserved seats, she said. "Overall, in the districts where a consensus was reached for the BSP-supported candidate, the party's result was good. There was not much loss to the party in the general seats because the one-sided voting by dalits benefitted the BSP candidates," Mayawati said. "On reserved seats, due to more candidates, the benefit went to rival parties. Taking a lesson from this, now the party workers will not make such a mistake in future," she said. The BSP chief further said that the party's performance has been quite good in most of the districts. In districts including Agra, Mathura, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Saharanpur, Moradabad, Hapur, Kanpur, Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Mirzapur and others, BSP has got very good results, she claimed. "Had everything took place in an independent and fair manner in the elections and if multiple BSP candidates did not contest from one seat, then definitely BSP's performance would have been better," she added. In her statement, Mayawati, however, did not give a break-up or number of seats won by the party in the panchayat polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-performance-encouraging-despite-official-machinery-misuse-in-up-panchayat-polls-mayawati-982942.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Srinagar lags in vaccination race despite being a Covid-19 hotspot||Despite being a Covid-19 hotspot in Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar district has emerged as one of the worst performers in the Union Territory in terms of vaccinating its citizens against the deadly virus. A district-wise mapping of J&K’s vaccination coverage against Covid-19 revealed that Srinagar figures at the 19th position out of the 20 districts of the UT vis-à-vis percentage of the population above 45 years of age. According to the data, only 31.42% of the population aged above 45 years has been vaccinated in Srinagar. North Kashmir’s frontier Kupwara district figures at the bottom with only 28.84% of the population in the said age group vaccinated. South Kashmir’s Shopian district topped the list with 96.07% of its population above 45 years vaccinated. Jammu district, another hotspot of the Covid-19 pandemic in the UT, had vaccinated 91.66% population above 45 years till May 5. Of the total 1,96,585 Covid-19 positive cases detected in J&K since the outbreak of the pandemic last March, 49,220 cases have been reported from Srinagar. As many as 580 Covid-19-related deaths have also taken place in the district.  The data also revealed that out of 15,783 persons vaccinated in the age group of 18-45 in J&K, only 129 have been vaccinated in districts other than Srinagar and Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-lags-in-vaccination-race-despite-being-a-covid-19-hotspot-982944.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Fasting Muslim driver cremates Hindu Covid victim in J&K’s Rajouri||The Covid-19 pandemic may have brought endless miseries to the world, but at the same time it has also brought communities closer to deal with the crisis. In one such example, a Muslim ambulance driver, Mir Ahmad, in remote border area of Mendhar in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir cremated a homeless woman on Wednesday. The woman had died of Covid-19 in Mendhar sub-district hospital. The unidentified woman who was reportedly mentally unsound was found suffering with respiratory distress on a road in Mendhar on Monday and was taken to a hospital by Ahmad where she was under treatment before she died on Wednesday morning. “I saw a frail woman, who was writhing with pain, on a roadside and decided to take her to hospital in my ambulance. At the hospital she tested positive and for the two days I was taking care of her besides doing my duty,” Ahmad, who works as a driver in Jammu and Kashmir health and family welfare department, told DH over the phone. After she died on Wednesday, he said, nobody came forward to cremate her body due to the Covid-19 scare. “I motivated my other three friends – Adil Majeed, Shakeel Ahmad and Munner Ahmad – safai wallas (sweepers) in the hospital to accompany me to the crematorium so that we can perform her last rites,” Ahmad said. After motivating his friends and providing them protective gears, the other challenge before Ahmad was to arrange wood for the cremation. The local administration helped them in arranging the required things for the cremation. Ahmad, who was fasting, said every religion teaches to help each other. “It doesn’t matter whether I help a Hindu, a Muslim or a Sikh who is in need of help. We are humans and humanity is the biggest religion,” he added. In the prevailing pandemic situation when even performance of the last rites of Covid-19 victims is getting difficult, it is corona warriors like Ahmed, who are winning hearts of people through their selfless work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fasting-muslim-driver-cremates-hindu-covid-victim-in-jk-s-rajouri-982956.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Curfew in 3 Uttarakhand districts extended till May 10||In view of the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, curfew has been extended in the three heavy caseload districts of Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar in Uttarakhand till May 10.  The district magistrates of Dehradun, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar are directed to enforce the curfew throughout the district from May 6 to May 10 (till 5 am), Chief Secretary, Om Prakash, said in an order.  The curfew, which was imposed in the last week of April, was earlier scheduled to end this morning. The order asked the DMs of the remaining 10 districts to assess the situation in their areas and impose curfew from May 6 to May 10 (till 5 am), if required.         However, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods during the period, the order said.    All industries, goods, vehicles, construction work and other essential services will be allowed to operate during the curfew, it said.          Ration shops will open on alternate days, while milk booths and vegetable shops will be allowed to operate till only 12 pm  daily.          All district magistrates are authorised to issue district-specific guidelines as per their assessment.         All government offices shall be open during the period.          All concerned are directed to ensure compliance of the guidelines and direct all authorities concerned for its strict implementation, the order said.  Uttarakhand recorded its highest caseload in a day with the detection of 7783 fresh infections on Wednesday with Dehradun reporting the highest number of 2,771 cases, Udham Singh Nagar 1043 and Haridwar 599. As many as 127 other infected people have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-curfew-in-3-uttarakhand-districts-extended-till-may-10-982959.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||HC questions Delhi govt logic not to take over 150-bed closed down private hospital||The Delhi High Court on Thursday questioned the logic behind Delhi government's decision not to use a 150-bed multi-speciality hospital, closed down due to insolvency resolution process against its parent company, when its services and that of its medical team were being offered by the doctor who established it. The high court exhorted the Delhi government to "think out of the box" in view of the severe second wave of Covid-19 pandemic as "we are not in normal times" and there was a shortage of beds for patients in the national capital. "150 beds are there. We are struggling to find beds everyday. We are fighting for it everyday and you are saying you will not touch it (hospital). We do not understand the logic here," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said to the Delhi government. The court further said, "The water has already gone over our heads. He (petitioner-doctor) is offering his hospital, he is ready to bring in his medical team, what else can you ask for?" Delhi government standing counsel Santosh K Tripathi said the hospital was not functional at the moment and the government has no policy to take over a private hospital. "We are not in normal times. You have to think out of the box. How can you let go of a 150-bed hospital? You do not have to spend any money. He is bringing his own team of doctors. Impose any condition on him," the court said and asked the Delhi government to file a reply by the next date of hearing on May 12. The court said the reply will contain the conditions that need to be imposed on the petitioner with regard to running of the hospital. The bench was hearing a plea by Dr Rakesh Saxena seeking permission to operate the Febris Multispeciality Hospital to cater to Covid-19 patients in the national capital during the prevailing pandemic. Saxena, who set up Febris Multispeciality Hospital under the parent company Durha Vitrak Pvt Ltd, said that considering the serious situation in the national capital -- grappling with a huge surge in Covid-19 infections and shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines -- his hospital be used to help people. He has said the Centre or Delhi government can take over the hospital closed since 2019 and use the facilities there for Covid-19 patients. In his petition, he has urged the court to direct renewal of the license of the hospital in view of the prevailing emergent situation on the ground. The corporate insolvency resolution process was initiated against the company on an application filed before the National Company Law Tribunal by the LIC Housing Finance Ltd, a creditor of Durha Vitrak Pvt Ltd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-questions-delhi-govt-logic-not-to-take-over-150-bed-closed-down-private-hospital-982961.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Restrictions tightened in Jammu and Kashmir over Covid-19 surge, Mohammad Ashraf Sehra's death||Normal life remained affected in many areas in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday with the imposition of the lockdown in the wake of an alarming surge in coronavirus cases, even as the restrictions were tightened in the Valley due to the death of separatist leader Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, officials said. “Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people continued to remain imposed in many districts of the UT in the wake of the lockdown announced by the government," the officials said. They said while curfew was in place across the Kashmir valley and in the Jammu district, restrictions on the assembly of people were also imposed in many areas of the Jammu division. The restrictions were tightened in many areas of the valley following the death of Sehrai, who passed away at a hospital in Jammu on Wednesday, the officials said. Sehrai was under PSA detention at Udhampur jail wherefrom he was shifted to a hospital after his health deteriorated. He was buried at his ancestral village in the Kupwara district of north Kashmir in the early hours of the morning as per Covid-19 protocol. The officials said security forces put barricades on roads at many places in the city here as well as in other district headquarters of the valley to prevent the movement of people. They said while the restrictions were being implemented strictly, essential and emergency services were allowed. The officials said shops, fuel stations and other business establishments were shut across the valley, while public transport was off the roads. On April 29, the Jammu and Kashmir administration imposed a curfew in 11 districts in a bid to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, which was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day. The curfew, which was supposed to end at 7 am on May 3, was extended in the twin capitals of Jammu and Srinagar besides Budgam and Baramulla till 7 am Thursday. However, the authorities in other districts of the valley also ordered an extension in the restrictions till Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-tightened-in-jammu-and-kashmir-over-covid-19-surge-mohammad-ashraf-sehras-death-982968.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees over 1,349% jump in Covid-19 containment zones in past 1 month||The national capital has witnessed a staggering 1,349 per cent jump in the number of its Covid-19 containment zones in the past one month, with South Delhi accounting for the maximum 21,172 such zones out of the total 47,704, according to official figures. Northeast Delhi has 600 containment zones closely followed by East Delhi (504) which has the lowest number of such zones. Delhi had 3,291 containment zones on April 6. The number shot up to a staggering 47,704 -- an increase of over 1,349 per cent -- by Tuesday. According to data from the city government's revenue department, south Delhi has the maximum number of 21,172 containment zones -- nearly 45 per cent of the total -- followed by central Delhi (7,114), New Delhi (4,946) and southwest Delhi (3,238). Out of the 11 districts in the national capital, seven have less than 3,000 containment zones. These are North Delhi (2,801), West Delhi (2,525), Southeast Delhi (2,027), Northwest Delhi (1,487), Shahdara (1,290), Northeast Delhi (600) and East Delhi (504). Since the beginning of the pandemic, Delhi has had a total of 65,527 containment zones, with South Delhi recording 22,546, the highest in the city. Of these, 17,823 have been de-contained. There are 42,244 active containment zones in the city. In compliance with the Union Health Ministry regulations, an area or building is marked as a containment zone when three or more Covid-19 positive cases are reported there. To prevent further contamination, more stringent restrictions are imposed in these areas. Delhi recorded 20,960 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday and 311 related fatalities which pushed the total number of cases in the city to 1,253,902 and the death toll to 18,063.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-over-1349-jump-in-covid-19-containment-zones-in-past-1-month-982975.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||7 die after taking homoeopathy medicine as substitute for liquor in Chhattisgarh||Seven persons died, while five fell ill in the last two days after allegedly consuming an alcohol-based homoeopathy medicine as a replacement for liquor in Chhattisgarh's Bilaspur district, police said on Thursday. The deaths were reported from a locality in Kormi village under Sirgitti police station area, an official said. Of the seven victims, four died at their homes in the village late on Tuesday night, while three others succumbed in two hospitals on Wednesday afternoon, Bilaspur superintendent of police Prashant Agrawal said. As per preliminary investigation, Kamlesh Dhuri (32), Akshya Dhuri (21), Rajesh Dhuri (21) and Samru Dhuri (25) had consumed Drosera-30, a homoeopathy syrup with about 91 per cent alcohol content, on Tuesday night, following which their condition deteriorated and they died, he said. Suspecting that they died of Covid-19 infection, their families performed their last rites the next morning without informing the authorities, he said. Khemchand Dhuri (40), Kailash Dhuri (50) and Dipak Dhuri (30) had also consumed the same medicine and were taken to different hospitals in Bilaspur, where they died during treatment, the official said. On being alerted about the deaths, a police team rushed to the village on Wednesday evening, and found that five other locals, who had consumed the syrup, were in a critical condition, he said. Four of them were shifted to the Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) Bilaspur and another to a private hospital, Agrawal said. A probe revealed they had got the syrup from a homoeopathy practitioner near the village, he added. "Prima facie, it seems like the deceased had consumed the syrup in excess as a substitute for liquor. However, the exact cause of the deaths will be known once the post-mortem report arrives," the official said. A case has been registered and further investigation is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-die-after-taking-homoeopathy-medicine-as-substitute-for-liquor-in-chhattisgarh-982978.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 335 deaths, over 19,000 Covid cases in a day; positivity rate below 25%||The national capital recorded 335 Covid-19 deaths in a day and 19,133 new cases even as the positivity rate dropped below 25 per cent for the first time since April 18, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department on Thursday. This is the third time in the last four days that the number of new cases remained below 20,000. Delhi had reported 20,960 cases on Wednesday, 19,953 on Tuesday, 18,043 on Monday, 20,394 cases on Sunday, 25,219 on Saturday, 27,047 on Friday, 24,235 on last Thursday and 25,986 on Wednesday last week. At 24.29 per cent, the case positivity rate is its lowest since April 16, when it was 19.7 per cent, according to government data. It was 24.6 percent on April 17. The national registered a positivity rate of 26.4 per cent on Wednesday, 26.73 per cent on Tuesday, 29.56 per cent on Monday, 28.33 per cent on Sunday, 31.6 per cent on Saturday, 32.7 per cent on Friday and 32.8 per cent on last Thursday. On April 22, a positivity rate of 36.2 percent, the highest so far, was recorded. The city had witnessed 311 deaths on Wednesday, 338 on Tuesday, 448 on Monday, the highest so far; 407 on Sunday, 412 on Saturday, 375 on Friday, 395 on last Thursday and 368 on Wednesday last week. It has so far recorded 12,73,035 cases, of which over 11.64 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 18,398, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-335-deaths-over-19000-covid-cases-in-a-day-positivity-rate-below-25-983006.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi needs 700 MT oxygen supply daily: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal thanked the Centre on Thursday for supplying Delhi with 730 metric tonnes of oxygen and requested hospitals to increase Covid beds that they had to cut down due to shortage of the life-saving gas in the past few days. If 700 MT of daily oxygen supply is ensured by the Centre, Delhi government can set up around 9,000-9,500 more oxygen beds, he said. Kejriwal said Delhi received 730 MT of oxygen on Wednesday and the city would require daily supply of 700 MT till the second coronavirus wave lasts. He urged hospitals that were forced to cut down number of oxygen beds due to shortage of the gas in recent days, to increase it now to previous level. This way, he added, 1,000-2,000 more beds will be added, he said. Kejriwal said 35.74 lakh vaccine doses had been administered in Delhi.so far. Around 28 lakh have received single dose and 7.76 lakh both doses of the vaccine, he said. The chief minister cited "enthusiasm" among the youth for vaccines, saying 1.30 lakh people aged 18 years and above have been vaccinated in Delhi in the last three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-needs-700-mt-oxygen-supply-daily-arvind-kejriwal-983021.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal thanks PM after Delhi receives 730 MT of oxygen on May 5||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the national capital received 730 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 5. In a letter, Kejriwal said that it was for the first time the national capital received more than 700 metric tonnes of the life-saving gas. "Delhi has a consumption of 700 metric tonnes of oxygen on a daily basis. We have been urging the Centre on a regular basis to give us 700 metric tonnes. It was for the first time yesterday that Delhi received 730 metric tonnes," he said in the letter in Hindi. He requested the prime minister that the national capital should be given this quantity everyday. "I thank you from the bottom of my heart on behalf of Delhiites. I request you that Delhi should be given at least this much of oxygen on a daily basis and there should not be any reduction in this quantity. The whole of Delhi will be grateful to you," he said. Hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs have been sending out SOS messages on social media about their depleting oxygen supplies. On May 1, 12 COVID-19 patients, including a senior doctor, died at south Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen for around 80 minutes in the afternoon. The tragic incident occurred in less than two weeks of 20 coronavirus patients dying at Jaipur Golden Hospital and 25 at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, amid the oxygen crisis in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-thanks-pm-after-delhi-receives-730-mt-of-oxygen-on-may-5-983022.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar's role under scanner for murder of wrestler in Delhi||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar's role is under scanner after his name emerged in connection with a brawl that led to the death of a wrestler inside the Chhatrasal Stadium complex in north Delhi, police said on Wednesday. Kumar, the county's only athlete to have won two individual Olympic medals, was named in the FIR, they said. According to police, a 23-year-old wrestler died and his two friends got injured after they were allegedly brutally assaulted by other wrestlers inside Chhatrasal Stadium in northern part of city. Police said that on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, information regarding firing inside the Chhatrasal Stadium was received at Model Town police station. Police reached the spot and found five cars parked in the parking area of the stadium. During enquiry, it was found that a quarrel had taken place allegedly between Kumar, Ajay, Prince, Sonu, Sagar, Amit and others in the parking area. Thereafter, police registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act at Model Town police station in this regard, they said in a statement. The injured were shifted to BJRM Hospital for treatment. They were identified as Sagar, a resident of Model Town, Amit Kumar (27), a resident of Rohtak in Haryana, and Sonu (35), a resident of Sonipat in Haryana, they said. "The crime scene as well as all the five vehicles were inspected. During inspection, one double barrel loaded gun with five live cartridges were found in one Scorpio and two wooden sticks were also recovered from the spot. "All the five vehicles and weapons of offence were seized. The crime scene was further inspected by forensic experts of FSL, Rohini," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (northwest) Guriqbal Singh Sidhu said. During investigation, information regarding death of Sagar and injury to Sonu was received from Trauma Centre, Civil Lines, following which sections 302, 365, 120B of the IPC were registered, he said. Several teams have been formed to trace the alleged persons. Technical evidences relating to this incident have been obtained. The details of the recovered vehicles are also being obtained from the concerned authority, police said. One Prince Dalal (24), a resident of Jhajjar in Haryana, has been apprehended in this case, along with one double barrel gun, they said. Police said they have recovered two double barrel guns, seven live cartridges, two wooden sticks and five cars. Official sources claimed that the incident took place due to a property dispute in the Model Town area. "It was not a case of trespassing. The accused took the victims inside the stadium where they assaulted them in the parking area. Sushil Kumar was present at the spot when the incident happened, however, police are investigating his role in the assault," an official source said. However, Kumar did not answer his phone when contacted to comment on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/olympic-medallist-sushil-kumars-role-under-scanner-for-murder-of-wrestler-in-delhi-983033.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Gehlot targets Modi govt over fuel price rise after assembly polls||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government over rise in fuel prices after the completion of assembly elections in five states. He said the central government should reduce the tax on petrol and diesel and give relief to the "already troubled" people. The chief minister stressed that as long as the assembly elections were underway in five states, the Modi government did not make any changes in the prices of petrol and diesel while crude oil prices were changing daily in the international market. "As soon as the results of the elections came, the central government increased the price of petrol and diesel and started putting burden on the people who are already affected by the pandemic," he tweeted. "The Modi government is charging many times more tax on diesel, petrol than the UPA government, due to which inflation is continuously increasing," he said. In one of the steepest increase since daily price revision was started, petrol price on Thursday was hiked by 25 paise per litre and diesel by 30 paise as oil companies raised rates for the third straight day to pass on to consumers the increase in international oil prices. Petrol price in Delhi was increased to Rs 90.99 per litre from Rs 90.74 while diesel rates went up to Rs 81.42 a litre from Rs 81.12, according to a price notification by state-owned fuel retailers. f||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gehlot-targets-modi-govt-over-fuel-price-rise-after-assembly-polls-983036.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Over 1000 teachers on UP panchayat poll duty died of Covid-19 ||More than one thousand primary and upper primary school teachers lost battle to Covid while being on duty in the recently concluded panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh. The claim was made by the Uttar Pradeshiya Prathamik Shikshak Sangh, a representative body of the teachers in the state. ''We have lost more than one thousand teachers, who were engaged in poll related duties in the panchayat elections,'' said Surendra Yadav, joint general secretary of the organisation. While speaking to DH over phone on Thursday, Yadav said that the Sangh was ''collecting information about the dead from different parts in the state and the number may rise further''. The Sangh has sent a list of 706 teachers, who, it claimed, had died during the polls, to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he said. ''We will soon send a revised list to him,'' Yadav added. He rued that despite their repeated requests to the state government and the Election Commission (EC), panchayat polls were held. ''Covid 19 protocols were blatantly violated during the polls and ultimately so many of our colleagues lost their lives,'' he said. Yadav said that the Sangh had demanded a compensation of Rs, 50 lakh to each of the kin of the deceased. An education department official, however, said that the government had no information about the death of so many teachers during the panchayat poll duty.  The Allahabad high court had also rapped the Election Commission (EC) for failing to ensure adherence to the guidelines during the panchayat polls and issued notices to UP State Election Commission to explain as to why it failed in checking non compliance of Covid  guidelines.  The court had also asked the SEC to explain why action may not be taken against it and its officials for the failure and to prosecute those responsible for such violations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-1000-teachers-on-up-panchayat-poll-duty-died-of-covid-19-983058.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan: Four women allege rape by self-proclaimed godman in his ashram||Four women, three from the same family, have accused a self-proclaimed godman of raping them in his ashram in Jaipur, police said on Thursday. The women filed a complaint against Shailendra Mehta, accusing him of raping them when they used to visit Tapasvi Ashram to attend satsang and other activities, Station House Officer, Bhankrota police station, Mukesh Choudhary said. "The victims said they have been visiting the ashram along with their family members for years. The women used to stay at the ashram for a couple of days in the name of service and it was then when the accused used to rape them,” he said. While the three women from the same family registered a case on Tuesday, the fourth woman lodged an FIR on Wednesday. The matter came to light when one of the victims refused her husband to take their daughter to the ashram.   "When she narrated her ordeal, the other two women from her family showed the courage and opened up about what had happened with them, following which the family decided to register a case,” the SHO said. The matter is under investigation and no arrest has been made yet, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-four-women-allege-rape-by-self-proclaimed-godman-in-his-ashram-983076.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||J&K health authorities bar doctors from speaking to media on Covid-19||With doctors speaking out publicly about the shortage of health infrastructure and medicines amid a huge surge in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths, health authorities in Kashmir on Thursday directed its staff to desist from media interactions. While citing the reason, a circular issued by Director Health Services Kashmir, Dr Mushtaq Ahmad Rather, asked Chief Medical Officers/Medical Superintendents/Block Medical Officers of Kashmir division to issue instructions to all the staff under their administrative domain “to desist from media interaction.” The circular claims that “contradictory and confusing messages are being circulated, which misinforms the public and creates unnecessary and avoidable panic.” The officers have been asked to initiate “strict disciplinary action” against staffers found interacting with the media and “report of any disregard of these instructions”. The circular was issued in the backdrop of doctors and health care workers speaking out publicly about the dearth of ICU beds, oxygen and other essential medicines in the valley. A similar warning was issued by Health authorities last year in April when the Covid-19 pandemic had just erupted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-health-authorities-bar-doctors-from-speaking-to-media-on-covid-19-983102.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||J&K crosses two lakh Covid cases, records highest toll||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 4,926 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 2,01,511 while 52 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,562. The single-day record new positive cases came out of 47,401 tests conducted the previous day, the bulletin said. For the third consecutive day, J&K reported over 4,500 cases in a day and equalled its highest death toll due to Covid since the outbreak of pandemic in the northern region. The Union Territory (UT) has been witnessing a spurt in the cases since April 20 when daily cases breached the 2000 mark for the first time. Recording a steep rise, active cases in J&K have reached 41,666. In the first six days of this month, the active cases have increased by 13,307. The UT has also recorded 279 deaths in the first six days of May. On Thursday, out of a total of 4,926 Covid cases reported in J&K, 3,241 cases were reported from Kashmir and 1,685 in the Jammu division. And of the 52 deaths recorded on Thursday, 37 were reported from the Jammu region and 15 from Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is over 16,000 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 15,148. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. In the wake of health infrastructure being stretched due to rising cases, the UT administration and Chinar Corps of Army on Wednesday jointly operationalised a 250-bed Covid healthcare centre for civilians at Rangreth, Budgam. Equipped with a 20-bed state-of-art ‘high dependency unit; and a 230-bed post-critical care ward, the facility augments government medical health infrastructure significantly, a defence spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-crosses-two-lakh-covid-cases-records-highest-toll-983106.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||J&K govt orders reshuffle of 9 top IPS officers; Srinivas posted as DGP Prison||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday ordered reshuffle of nine top IPS officers, including four DGP-rank officers. Dr B Srinivas, commandant general HG-SDRF, J&K, was posted as the new director general of prisons. He shall continue to hold the additional charge of the post of director, fire and emergency service, J&K, till further orders. The transferred officers include four DGP-rank officials and five ADGP officers. V K Singh was transferred from the post of DGP Prisons, J&K, and was posted as commandant general of Home Guards, SDRF, J&K, said an order issued by the principal secretary to government, Home Department, Shaleen Kabra on Thursday. The post of Commandant General HG-SDRF, J&K, is declared to be equivalent in rank and status to that of DGP, till the time it is held by Singh. Similarly, R R Swain, the additional director general of police (ADGP), criminal investigation department (CID) J&K, upon his promotion to the grade of DGP, is designated as special DG, CID, J&K, it said. A K Choudhary, ADGP J&K, upon his promotion to the grade of DGP, is transferred and posted as Special DG Crime, J&K. The post of ADGP Crime, is declared to be equivalent in rank and status to that of DGP till the time it is held by the officer, it said. S J M Gillani, ADGP Coordination, Police Headquarter, J&K, is transferred and posted as ADGP Armed, J&K, while Abdul Gani Mir, will be the new managing director, J&K Police Housing Corporation. Mukesh Singh IGP Jammu, upon his promotion to the grade of ADGP, shall continue in the present position, with the post declared equivalent in the rank and status to that of ADGP till the time it is held by the officer, it said. M K Sinha, IGP Crime, J&K, upon his promotion to the grade of ADGP, has been transferred and posted as ADGP PHQ, J&K against an available vacancy. Danesh Rana, IGP Armed Jammu, upon his promotion to the grade of ADGP, is transferred and posted as ADGP Coordination, PHQ, J&K, order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-orders-reshuffle-of-9-top-ips-officers-srinivas-posted-as-dgp-prison-983110.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||J&K HC directs admin to provide details about availability of Covid-19 treatment||Jammu and Kashmir High Court has directed Union Territory (UT) administration to submit complete details within two weeks about the number of hospitals and beds available for Covid-19 treatment and quantity of Remdesivir allotted, received and used with the corresponding figures of the requirement. A division bench of the HC comprising Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Sanjay Dhar directed the Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo, to nominate nodal officers for each city with contact number so that Covid patients or their attendants can approach them with proper medical prescription for the supply of oxygen. “The shortage of oxygen, medicines including Remdesivir or of doctors is not born out from any material on record. Therefore, it is not appropriate for the Court to enter into the aforesaid arena at this stage,” the Court observed and left it upon Dulloo to come out on affidavit within two weeks with complete details of the number of hospitals both government and private available for Covid treatment, number of beds available thereof, district-wise/city-wise, quantity of Remdesivir allotted to the UT. The DB also said that Dulloo is expected to explore the number of infectious diseases specialists available throughout the country and the possibility, if any of them is willing to serve the UT, if such service of an expert is genuinely needed. In an affidavit, Dulloo submitted that there is no shortage of supply of oxygen in the UT and that drugs are also available in adequate quantities to tackle Covid-19 pandemic. The affidavit further states that there was no shortage of beds in any hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-hc-directs-admin-to-provide-details-about-availability-of-covid-19-treatment-983119.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi's popular autorickshaws become Covid-19 ambulances||It's not the most conventional way to get to hospital, but with Delhi running short of ambulances, authorities have turned some of the city's ubiquitous three-wheeled autorickshaws into makeshift ambulances to ferry Covid-19 patients. Actual ambulances are hard to come by as a devastating surge in cases overwhelms the healthcare system. Families have had to make their own arrangements including paying exorbitant amounts to private ambulance operators to take the sick to hospital. The Delhi government, in association with a non-profit organisation, has kitted out more than a dozen autorickshaws with hand sanitizers and face masks, while oxygen cylinders are provided on a need basis. The service, which began officially on Tuesday, is free. Autorickshaw driver Raj Kumar has taken patients to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Delhi's largest facility, which is overflowing with Covid-19 patients. "We must all help each other out at this time of need to get out of this situation," said Kumar, who wears a PPE suit. There is a plastic partition between him and the passengers at the back. "If everyone stays home because they are scared, then who is going to help those in need?" Mohit Raj, founder and executive director of the Turn Your Concern Into Action foundation, said the response so far had shown the scheme needed more vehicles. "Now we are getting calls not just of Covid patients but from front-line workers who are unable to find patient conveyance, as well as from people with other ailments," he said. Raj added he has received requests from other parts of the country to start services there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-popular-autorickshaws-become-covid-19-ambulances-983121.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Oximeters, thermal scanners for cows in UP 'gaushalas'||Amid the surge in coronavirus cases, the Uttar Pradesh government is providing oximeters and thermal scanners for cows housed in the state’s ‘gaushalas’. A recent press release from Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s office also said the state government has issued instructions to set up help desks in every district for the welfare of cows, taking forward its cow protection agenda. The government has issued instructions that all cowsheds must strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol, and made wearing masks and frequent thermal screening mandatory there. It is providing thermal scanners and oximeters, apparently to detect early symptoms in animals of Covid-19, which authorities said Thursday had killed 353 people in the state over the past 24 hours. There are reports of hospitals turning away patients and long waits at crematoriums at several places in the state as it battles the second wave of the pandemic. The press release on cowsheds said the ‘gaushalas’ will be “equipped with all the medical equipment such as oximeters and thermal scanners for cows and other animals as well”. "In view of the current Covid situation, a total of 700 help desks for the welfare of cows have been set up across the districts of the state. With this, 51 oximeters and 341 thermal scanners have also been provided to ensure better animal care and testing," it said. The statement said stray cows in large numbers are being given shelter at the 'gaushalas' due to the efforts of the chief minister. The government is also rapidly increasing the number of the existing cow shelters to deal with the stray cattle menace, it said. Giving overall figures, it said 5,268 cow protection centres have ensured the well-being of 5,73,417 animals so far in the state. Apart from these, there are larger cow sanctuaries as well in the state. The statement also referred to “fodder banks”, set up during Adityanath’s tenure. There are 3,452 of them, feeding stray cattle. Under the "Mukhya Mantri Besahara Gauvansh Sahbhagita Yojana", the UP government gives Rs 900 per month to farmers who take care of stray cattle. In 2020-21, the state government gave Rs 38.98 crore to 130 cow shelters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oximeters-thermal-scanners-for-cows-in-up-gaushalas-983143.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi got 730 tonnes of oxygen on May 5, led to significant reduction in SOS calls: Raghav Chadha||Delhi got 730 tonnes of oxygen on May 5, the highest so far, which led to a significant reduction in SOS calls from hospitals, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said on Thursday. He, however, said of the 730 tonnes of oxygen, around 250 tonnes "did not come from our regular sources". "It came from an ad-hoc arrangement. I appeal to the central government to turn this into a permanent one," Chadha, who is also the Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman, said presenting the daily oxygen bulletin. The supply of 730 MT of oxygen led to a considerable reduction in SOS calls from hospitals, he acknowledged. "We received just 16 SOS calls on Wednesday against 40 to 50 calls we had been receiving earlier," Chadha said. The AAP MLA, who has been leading efforts to battle oxygen shortage in Delhi hospitals, said, "We need 976 tonnes of oxygen every day. I appeal to the central government with folded hands to provide 730 tonnes daily."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-got-730-tonnes-of-oxygen-on-may-5-led-to-significant-reduction-in-sos-calls-raghav-chadha-983154.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan CM gives approval to open 48 new courts||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has given approval for the opening of 48 new courts in the state and the creation of 550 posts of various cadres for them. In accordance with the budget announcements, Gehlot has given approval to open commercial courts in Bikaner, Alwar, Bhilwara and Jodhpur, courts of additional district judge in Jalore, Sirohi, Wair, Dungargarh, Nainwan, Sardarshahar, Nasirabad, Kathumar, Sadulshahar, Begun, Anupgarh, Neem Ka Thana and Gangapur City. He also gave approval for the opening of various other courts in other districts. The chief minister has also sanctioned 550 posts of presiding officer, stenographer, reader, clerk, class-4 employee etc. for these courts. "With this decision of the chief minister, people will be able to get justice at the local level itself and cases pending in the courts will be cleared," according to a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-gives-approval-to-open-48-new-courts-983161.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah calls task force to monitor Jammu & Kashmir employees 'assault on rights'||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Thursday termed the formation of a task force to monitor Jammu and Kashmir employees an "assault on their rights", saying termination of some of them in a pandemic is deplorable and callous. Abdullah called the measure of scrutinizing the Jammu and Kashmir employees with a task force an "arbitrary and unwarranted infringement" of labour rights. The termination of employees in a pandemic is deplorable and callous, he added. The NC president said the measure smacks of "a colonial hangover" that gives sweeping powers to the government with minimal safeguards to protect the interests of employees, thus putting them at a disadvantage of being labelled anti-national at the drop of hat. "Such measures might be used against anybody who wounds the vanity of the government or criticises its policies. There is a stark distinction between being anti-national and having an opinion. Such a law was not required at the first place because there are already required service rules that deal with such employees who are involved in any wrong activity," he said. The member of Parliament from Srinagar Lok Sabha constituency said the task force will impede the work culture in government departments as the employees may land up being terminated even by wounding the vanity of the higher-ups. He said the order has further curtailed the space for freedom of speech and expression. "The measure will provide a tool-kit to the government in labelling the employees and snub them on one or another issue. With this sword of uncertainty hanging over their heads, how is the government expecting employees to render their work in a cordial atmosphere? "It is bound to hamper the output as well. I must say such a measure tells a lot about the priorities of the government. I hope the incumbent government will roll back the order in the better interests of the nation and the employees, who are the eyes and arms of any government," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-calls-task-force-to-monitor-jammu-kashmir-employees-assault-on-rights-983167.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||AAP govt to set up 48 oxygen plants in Delhi: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the city government will set up 48 oxygen plants, including 21 that are being imported from France, across the national capital to address the shortage of the life-saving gas. Kejriwal inspected the installation of a new oxygen plant at the Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital. He said the plant can generate 330 litres oxygen, which can fill 50-60 cylinders, and if used directly, 33 patients can be treated 24x7, adding that it will help the 200-bed hospital. "Inspected the installation of the new oxygen plant at Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital. I want to thank the French govt for their support. We are setting up 48 such plants across Delhi to address the shortage of oxygen," the chief minister said in a tweet. Pointing out that Delhi has witnessed an acute shortage of oxygen in the last few days, he said on one hand, the city is taking the life-saving gas from the Centre and on the other hand, it is trying to produce as much oxygen as it can. A total of 48 oxygen plants will be installed across Delhi, of which 21 are being imported from France and the rest are manufactured in India. "Though these are small plants, I feel they will provide a lot of support to the entire system that is under pressure due to a shortage of oxygen," Kejriwal said. The chief minister thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday after the national capital received 730 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 5. In a letter to Modi, he said this was the first time that the national capital received more than 700 metric tonnes of the life-saving gas||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-govt-to-set-up-48-oxygen-plants-in-delhi-kejriwal-983168.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Medical infrastructure exposed, in shambles: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said the existing medical infrastructure in the national capital was badly exposed, and found in shambles, during the pandemic. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli directed the Delhi government to provide the facility for medical treatment required by all residents of Delhi who were suffering from Covid-19. The court made the observations while dealing with a plea for an ICU bed with a ventilator facility for a 52-year-old.   During the hearing, the bench remarked that the moral fabric of people has been “dismembered” to a great extent as instead of coming together to fight the pandemic, they were engaged in hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders, medicines and concentrators. As the coronavirus has mutated and is proving to be lethal, the bench said that in most cases the patient required supervision in ICU and required a ventilator. It is the obligation of the state to provide sufficient infrastructure to save the lives of people, the bench said.  The court noted the Article 21 of the Constitution guaranteed the Right to Life and Liberty to all, therefore, the petitioner could not be turned away on account of lack of medical infrastructure. “We are sworn to protect the fundamental rights of the people. Therefore, we are bound to issue a writ to provide the infrastructure to enable the petitioner to undergo the treatment required to save his life,” it said. The court, however, clarified the order would not give any preferential right to the petitioner over others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/medical-infrastructure-exposed-in-shambles-delhi-hc-983183.html
06-05-2021||North and Central||Officials sitting at home should be assigned some duty: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Thursday told the Delhi government that its officials not on Covid duty during the lockdown cannot sit at home doing nothing and some duty or responsibility should be assigned to all of them. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said that the Delhi government should use its entire potential or force, including forest officers and clerks, and not just depend upon a few IAS and DANIPS officers to deal with the issues grappling the national capital. "Instead of just depending on your IAS and DANIPS officers, you need to use your full potential, the force you have. You have forest officers and then at lower levels you have UDCs, LDCs, etc. "Just because there is a kind of lockdown in place, does not mean these people can sit at home doing nothing. That cannot be. Some of them have to come out. Maybe some of them can work from home. But some duty should be assigned to all of them," the court said. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said that he would convey the court's suggestions to the government. The observations and suggestions by the court came after it was told by several lawyers, including the amicus curiae, that the data regarding beds in the Delhi Corona app or website were not accurate as the numbers were not being updated on real-time. Senior advocate and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao told the court that when he tried to get the correct numbers over the phone from a hospital, the person attending the call did not have the real-time data. Advocate Aditya Prasad, who has filed a petition on the various Covid related issues plaguing the city, told the bench that as the data on the app and the website are inaccurate, people are left running from hospital to hospital and on arriving there they are told no beds are vacant. He said that there should be some government official posted at each of these hospitals, mentioned in the app and website, who can communicate the data on a real-time basis. Prasad said that if the Delhi government cannot show real time data on the app or website, then both would serve no purpose and should be taken down. Taking note of the submissions, the bench said there should be one dedicated person in each hospital to provide real time data about the beds and also attend queries over the phone. The court also told the Delhi government that when it says something to the government or passes an order or makes an observation, the intention is "to set the ball rolling". The bench said it was not an expert, but it wants the experts and officials of the government to apply their minds to the suggestions made by the court. "That is the idea, that is the spirit. We are not telling you, do this, do that. We want you to do something," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/officials-sitting-at-home-should-be-assigned-some-duty-hc-to-delhi-govt-983192.html
06-05-2021||Oasis||Waste not, want not||Once a little boy went to Buddha for a new robe as his old robe was nipped in several places. Whilst one of Buddha’s men went to get a new robe, Buddha wanted to test the boy. “What will you do with your old robe now ?” he asked.The lad replied that he would use it as a bedsheet. To Buddha further probing about use old bedsheet. The juvenile’s response was diligent and prompt that it would replace the old curtain and the curtain would now be utilised as a duster for the tables at the prayer hall. When Buddha further grilled … “What about the old duster?….” The youngster said that they were in tatters and will be turned into wicks, dipped in oil, and used for illuminating the hallways at night. Buddha thought that this boy is enlightened and would become a great teacher one day. Decades back when mother insisted that we throw the eggshells, used tea leaves or vegetable peels in the garden as they become manure, we weren’t interested. Fruit and vegetable seeds were sprinkled in a corner of the kitchen garden. Worn out clothes became dusters while the good ones were handed over to the next sibling. The white paper packets, old calendars were saved under the mattress for lining the cupboard at a later day. We would make fun, watching her do these things. Unfazed by our comments, she went on with what she felt right. Years later, my daughter has taken up the project of constructive recycling. “Think whether it can be made useful to us..?” she asks. Now, several paper bags are used in lieu of kitchen tissues, white paper bags have become my cute notepads for the next grocery list, soft drink bottles have become planters and the huge cartons used by the online deliveries have become dividers in the cupboards for storing different things. My little storeroom is filled with packets, cardboard boxes and old linen waiting to don new avatar. Lessening of waste from home helps save the planet. Do your part and leave it less littered for our future generations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/waste-not-want-not-982774.html
06-05-2021||Opinion||Supreme Court's message to dominant castes seeking quotas||The Maharashtra government’s efforts to reserve college seats and government jobs for the Maratha community have come to a sorry end. A Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court of India in Dr Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil vs The Chief Minister, Maharashtra, has unanimously held that the 2018 Maharashtra law granting a 16 per cent quota for Marathas in educational institutions and government jobs is unconstitutional. In striking down the 2018 Act, the court has relied on the well established jurisprudence around Article 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution. The court found no credible evidence to suggest that the Maratha community is in any way socially or educationally backward and rejected “studies” which claimed otherwise. Rather, the court took the view that the Maratha community was a “socially advanced and prestigious caste”. Another ground for striking down the reservation was that it resulted in more than 50 per cent reservation. The Supreme Court has held that the limit of 50 per cent on reservations in jobs and seats laid down in the Indra Sawhney case, while not absolutely sacrosanct, was justified since it strikes a constitutional balance between equality of opportunity and the needs of equity. While it may be breached in certain exceptional situations as laid down in Indra Sawhney vs Union of India (1994), the SC noted that nothing on the facts of the present case showed why it should be breached for Marathas who were in no way outside the mainstream of the society or so severely deprived of opportunities that such a move was necessary. Even apart from the validity of the 2018 Act, the court was called upon to decide whether the Indra Sawhney case itself was decided correctly in 1994. Specifically, lawyers arguing for the 2018 Act contended that the 50 per cent limit was arbitrary, not founded on the constitutional text and impeded social mobility. The court rejected these arguments as well countering instead that the 50 per cent struck a necessary balance and “[t]o change the 50 per cent limit is to have a society which is not founded on equality but based on caste rule.” The SC striking down Maratha reservations has profound implications for not just other similar caste groups, but also on the so-called reservations for “Economically Weaker Sections” (EWS) (currently under challenge in the court). The SC had earlier struck down reservations for the Jat community in various states across northern India and there is currently a challenge pending to the constitutional validity of the reservations for the Gujjar community in Rajasthan. In this context, just as crucial is the court’s finding (by a majority of 3 to 2) that following the 102nd amendment to the Constitution, states will no longer be allowed to designate which castes and communities are “socially and economically backward” for the purposes of reservations. Reservations were certainly not meant to benefit dominant groups such as the Marathas who not only enjoy numerical strength, but have also controlled land, resources and political power. To this extent, the court’s reasoning is unexceptionable and it has rightly rejected as flawed the basis on which the Maharashtra government and the Bombay High Court concluded that the Maratha community was “socially and educationally backward”. Yet, one does detect a certain note of judicial conservatism in the SC’s upholding of the 50 per cent limit to reservations as laid in the Indra Sawhney case. I have argued elsewhere that the 50 per cent limit unnecessarily limits the transformative power of reservations to reduce inequality and promote opportunity. In the absence of a proper caste census, one could even argue that a 50 per cent limit on reservations inhibits members of disenfranchised and oppressed groups from rightful opportunities. While the court never says so explicitly, it seems to implicitly accept the flawed idea that “merit” and “equality” are somehow opposing values. That said, this elevation of the limit of 50 per cent to a constitutional value (as opposed to merely a judicial test) has serious implications for the validity of the provisions of the 103rd Amendment. In specific, those parts of the amendment that allow the states or Central governments to breach the 50 per cent limit in granting EWS reservations. Following the principle in Kesavananda Bharati vs State of Kerala (1974) that Parliament cannot even amend the Constitution to go against core constitutional values (‘the basic structure’) then the 103rd amendment which allows for the breaching of the 50 per cent limit now stands on immediately weaker footing. It remains to be seen whether the court extends this line of reasoning to the EWS reservations as well when the case comes up for hearing, but as things stand, dominant communities which have used their political muscle to seek and corner reservations at the state and central level will find it much, much harder to do so in the future as a result of this judgment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/supreme-courts-message-to-dominant-castes-seeking-quotas-983114.html
06-05-2021||Panorama||Using abandoned mines to augment water supply||The growing population in our country led to an increase in the demand for natural resources such as water, minerals, land etc. Groundwater supports nearly 50 per cent of agriculture and about 80 per cent of freshwater demand for domestic, industrialisation, green revolution, urban development use etc, and is absolutely essential for the entire world. As a result, there is incessant pressure on the groundwater resources. Karnataka has numerous gold mines functional and dysfunctional. Some of them date back to more than 2,000 years and testify to the widespread nature of the gold mining industry. There are about 400 ancient and modern gold and copper mines in Karnataka. Some of these have reached a depth of average 200 metres. Kolar Gold Mine (KGF) is worked up to 3.20-km depth, and in Hutti Main Gold Mine, it is up to 1.10-km depth. In KGF, all the shafts, drives, cross-cuts, winzes, raises etc put together would run to 1,900 km. There are 55 shafts on the surface and 26 shafts underground. After the closing of mining activities in KGF and in other abandoned underground mines of the state, the equipment, stoped out areas, underground mines excavated areas etc got inundated with water. According to an estimate, 18-20 million cubic metres of water has been accumulated in KGF. During the operations of all KGF mines, an average of 95,40,000 litres of water was pumped out daily. Mangalur Gold Mine in Yadgiri district was suspended due to heavy inflow of groundwater (52,000 ltr/hour). Groundwater inflow plays a significant role in underground mines in both the active and abandoned stages. By nature, underground mines are huge rainwater harvesting and natural recharge structures. In Karnataka, several occurrences of gold and copper have been prospected/explored and for some reason or other were later abandoned. Therefore, it is necessary to integrate the water management system into them to make it beneficial to the industry as well as to the common man. It is a fact that in most parts of the world, mining companies are exposed to some kind of risk related to the availability of water. Either there is a lack of water or the contrary, there is too much water. Both circumstances can cause significant effects on the mining operations and on the environment. The important key factors which need attention from the authorities for mine water management are: An understanding of hydrogeological and hydrological processes within the aquifer system embedded in the mining zone. Capacity building on mine water management with the approaches of mathematical and physical modelling etc. Data monitoring on groundwater occurrence, distribution, groundwater level and quality of water and development of a database to share with like-minded organisations so that water management strategy can be developed for each mine with reference to different stages of the mining process. Integration of water balance of different operations by taking into account both mine area, surrounding environment and management to process control system of the mine. Feasibility studies on the utilisation of underground mine water by studying the old maps, plans and sections of the underground mines. Statutory and safety clearance for the utilisation of underground mine water. Detailed studies on the water-rock–mineral interaction, suitability of underground mine water for various sectors should be tested/established using standard tools (MoEF, CPCB, CGWB etc) i.e. treatment, reuse, re-cycle, and monitoring of the quality of mine water. The use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) helps to deploy the application for water exploration, exploitation, quality and management. The utilisation of underground mine water for hydroelectric/thermal power generation. Installation of motors/pumps of higher capacity in mine and design of Canal Network. Safety, eco-friendly and sustainability with the state-of-art technology in utilisation of underground most precious resource, the mine water. As it is well-known fact that the underground excavations behave as large natural sinks and create a hydraulic gradient towards the mine. In response to the differential pressures, water flows toward the mine. The inflow is directly proportional to the mine depth, underground excavations, aquifer parameters, hydro-meteorological factors etc. With the underground mine water harvesting and aquifer development, the mine area gets converted into a sustainable groundwater resource zone. By adopting detailed feasibility studies and adopting proper quality measures, about 400 abandoned underground mines can be converted. The existing water sources like rivers and wells are proved to be insufficient to meet the water demand. An alternative is the underground mine water which can be one of the perennial sources. This will lead to the development and protection of mine water and will benefit the socio-economic status of the mining community and will form the base for the uplift of the local populace. Abandoned underground mines located in various districts of Karnataka where the mine water storage and distribution can be adopted are as follows: BELLARY: Ettinahatti; BIJAPUR: Ilahal; CHICKMAGALUR: Jalagargundi, Siddarhalli, Nandi, Ajjampur, Bukkambudi; CHITRADURGA: Halekal, Honnemaradi, Gonur, Bodimaradi, Nalabaigudda, Mallebennur, Dindivara, Ingaldhal-Kunchiganhal, G R Halli; DHARWAD and HAVERI: Chinmulgund, Jalligeri, Hirevadvatti, Ganjur, Karjgi & Mangalgatti; GULBARGA & YADAGIRI: Manglur, Higgandoddi, Godigira, Naganur, Mudgota, Thintanni and Mangihal; HASSAN: Yelvari, Kempinkote, Gollarhalli, Karadihalli, Kalyadi and Aladahalli; MANDYA: Nagamangala, Kalinganahalli, Bellibetta, Karimuddanhalli, Sonnahalli, Amble, Woolargiri, Porsedyke and Hadabanatta; RAICHUR: Kadoni, Wondalli, Buddinni, Hutti Main Mine, Topaldoddi, Chincherki, Maski, Ramaldini, Udbal, Sonbal, Uti, Hira-Buddinni, Hirenaganoor, Kallur, Machanur and Chikhonnakuni KOLAR: Champion, Mysore, Mannighatta, Balaghat, Nandidurg, Oorgum & Bisnatham GADAG: Hosur-Shirunj, Yelisirur-Venkatapura, Nagavi-Beldadi-Nabhapur, Kabuliyatkatti-Attikatti and Mysore-Sangli; SHIVAMOGA: Honnali, Kudrekonda, Palavanhalli, Honnehatti and Tambadihalli; TUMKUR: Ajjanhalli, Javanhalli, Bellara, Honnebagis. Treatment and reuse of abandoned underground mine water are essential to meet the ever-increasing water demands. (The writer, a former executive director, Hutti Gold Mines Co. Ltd., is currently with National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/using-abandoned-mines-to-augment-water-supply-982771.html
06-05-2021||Panorama||Do not ignore signs of TB||In the past year, the Covid-19 virus grabbed much of our attention. The collateral damage that it caused in one year is unimaginable. But did you know Tuberculosis (TB) kills a greater number of people in India every year than the lives Covid-19 has claimed over a year? Tuberculosis continues to inflict a large quantum of socioeconomic cost on our nation. Although TB is curable and great strides have been made by our government to improve diagnosis and drug delivery mechanisms, our war with this deadly disease continues. All we need today is increased efforts to reduce the TB burden intensely. Well, the best approach to this is to sensitise people to the growing burden of TB and empower them enough to identify symptoms, report them early, undergo timely diagnosis, and adhere to treatment. What is Tuberculosis? TB is an infection caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium Tuberculosis and spreads through the air from one person to another when an infected person coughs, sneezes or laughs. Even though the bacteria travel easily, it’s not easy to be infected by TB. Most often, it’s spread between family members, close friends, and people who live or work together. TB most commonly affects the lungs but it can affect other parts of the body as well like lymph glands, abdomen, spine, joints, etc. There are two kinds of TB infections - latent TB and active TB disease. What is latent TB? In most healthy people, the body’s natural immune system kills the bacteria and there are no symptoms. Sometimes, the immune system cannot kill the bacteria but manages to prevent it from spreading in the body. You will not have any symptoms, but the bacteria will remain in your body. People with latent TB are not infectious to others and do not feel ill. This usually happens to children. But sometimes, this dormant TB gets activated when the body’s immune system is extremely low; say in the case of HIV, cancer, diabetes, etc. This may occur like a normal fever and can go unnoticed. In India, we do not treat latent TB, as most people would have been exposed to the bacteria at some point in time. What is active TB? When the immune system is unable to kill or contain the bacteria, Active TB develops. Active TB disease of the lungs is contagious, which means it can be spread from one person to another. It is most often spread through the air; these bacteria may enter the air when a person with TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs. People nearby may breathe in the bacteria and get infected. What are the risk factors? Being in close contact with a person with Active Lung TB disease is highly risky Being in contact with any groups known for passing on TB, such as the homeless, intravenous drug users and persons with HIV/AIDS is risky You might be at risk if you are living or working with people who are at high risk for TB, such as those in hospitals, homeless shelters, prisons, slums, or refugee camps Major signs and symptoms that you shouldn’t ignore: A cough that lasts 2-3 weeks or more Pain in the chest, with cough or at rest Coughing up blood or thick mucous Night sweats Feeling weak or tired Weight loss Not wanting to eat Fever, mostly in the evening Swollen neck lymph-gland(s) The longer people wait, the TB disease worsens. Although the stigma associated with TB has gone down significantly, there is a need for people to be alert, aware, and responsible when it comes to identifying symptoms and getting treated early. TB is treatable and curable. Treatment for drug-sensitive TB is a combination of antibiotics for six months. People with drug-resistant TB will need longer treatment with at least 5-6 drugs under expert supervision. (The writer is Consultant-Pulmonologist & Sleep Medicine Expert at a hospital in Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/do-not-ignore-signs-of-tb-982772.html
06-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Memories of bygone summers||During summer holidays, coastal children’s exuberance for life would reach its pinnacle as the most exciting things happened during then. Besides freedom from school, it was the time for fairs in every temple which brought varieties of entertainment, unique toys and food, unique only to temple fair markets. It was also when the trees would be treasures as they bore fruits. We loitered around the trees, chewing fresh leaves of mango, cashew, guava or tamarind trees, and progressed as we collected and consumed their tender produce to satisfy our cravings. We could climb trees or prepare long bamboo sticks with wooden hooks to procure jackfruits or other produce. We catered to orders for tender cashews and their fresh kernels to supplement the taste of their payasam. We were also entrusted with bringing tender or raw mangoes, hog plums or tamarind for chutneys for pickles. These tasks needed unique expertise in tree climbing and carefully handling them to avoid skin burns due to their corrosive sap.  As summer progressed, the produce from the trees would start ripening. We would shake the Kokam tree to land its fruits on the ground. Coastal mango trees give a small variety of mangoes that they shed every day. Some branches would be shaken with bamboo sticks to increase our collection if they are in reach. We sat under mammoth mango trees with some books in hand to read, waiting for a strong wind, which would sway the higher branches and drop some fresh additions to our bounty. A moderate ten to fifteen per cent of the collection would typically be diverted to satisfy our urges and support our metabolic process. During the summers, we would only eat mangoes, hog plums or kokum fruits. They complemented the digestion process of other hard fruits like jackfruits and guava. The weather did not affect us. We have no memories of avoiding the sun or not being outdoors for any part of the day. Excelling in academics or becoming a professional was never an expectation from our parents. They probably did not foresee the forthcoming changes and challenges in society, requiring us to move to the cities in search of jobs, leaving small precious land to the seniors born before us. The expectation was to be happy in life and to be ethical, loving and kind. There was always affection and support even if someone failed in school or made a mistake in life. It was always attributed to unfavourable fortunes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/memories-of-bygone-summers-982770.html
06-05-2021||Second Edit||Supreme Court’s welcome warning||The Supreme Court did well to issue a directive to state police chiefs not to take action against citizens for their posts on social media on matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic. It has told them that it should not proceed against people who complain about "shortage of beds, oxygen shortage, conditions of Covid care centres and hospitals etc during the pandemic’’. The court issued the order obviously in response to the warning issued by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that those who spread "disinformation’’ and "rumours’’ about the Covid situation would be hauled up under the National Security Act (NSA) and their property would be seized. The police in the state have actually taken action accordingly and registered cases. Similar actions have been taken by the police in some other states too. The court warned that such actions would be considered contempt of court.  In the first place, the order upholds the fundamental right to freedom of expression of citizens. Secondly, it underlines the fact that this freedom has a special significance and is more important in times of distress of individuals and of society. Citizens’ rights are not adornments in good times but instruments and even weapons in difficult times. Free dissemination of information is an important tool to deal with social calamities like famines and pandemics. The court recalled that free dissemination of information had helped to contain the famine in 1970. Social scientists have always highlighted the need for free flow of data in crisis situations. Governments have a tendency to hide facts in order to show that situations are not bad and to make out that they are being handled well. This is counter-productive, and to prevent people from sharing their experiences and expressing their views is much worse.  In UP, the police lodged a case against a young man, who had appealed on Twitter for an oxygen cylinder for his ailing grandfather, for spreading "false information’’. There are many messages on social media asking for blood, oxygen etc, and many people have benefitted from posting such messages. To punish people for such messages is certainly wrong. They actually help the government to get a clear view of the situation and to keep the officials to their on their toes, reminding them of their responsibilities to the public. Governments can better understand the shortcomings of their policies and decisions if the people freely air their views and grievances. A petition before the Allahabad High Court said that "filing criminal cases against families of critical patients issuing SOS calls is a gross misuse of the powers… to present a fake picture that everything is hunky dory in the state’’. The Supreme Court’s stiff warning is therefore welcome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/supreme-court-s-welcome-warning-982766.html
06-05-2021||South||Lockdown in Kerala from May 8-16 as Covid-19 cases rise||Kerala government on Thursday announced a lockdown from May 8 to 16 in view of the Covid surge. Already a partial lockdown was in place in the state from Tuesday till Sunday. The Chief Minister's office informed that the lockdown was being imposed from 6 am on May 8. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier indicated that a lockdown would be required if the Covid scenario worsened. Doctors were also urging the government to impose total lockdown to contain the surge. While the daily Covid cases in Kerala crossed the 40,000 mark on Wednesday, experts had alerted the government that the numbers would peak further. Test positivity rate was also remaining above 25 per cent over the last several days. Most worrying factor is the drastic increase in number of active cases, which reached 3.75 lakh by Wednesday. Even as 90 percent of the patients were not having serious medical issues, the state also started feeling hospital bed scarcity and high demand for oxygen. The Chief Minister had also urged the centre for more oxygen allocation. The only relief for Kerala in this grim scenario is the comparatively low death rate of 0.32 percent. The good health care system in Kerala is said to be the key reason. However as the patient load factor increases, the effectiveness of the health sector would also suffer, experts pointed out. Even as a total lockdown will be imposed in the state from May 8 to 16, various exemptions have been given. Apart from essential services, some other sectors like construction, ecommerce, agriculture, fisheries, and vehicle service would be allowed. Shops selling vegetables and food items would be allowed to function till 7.30 pm, while banks and other financial services will be allowed only from 10 am to 1 pm for the public. Government offices, except those involved in essential and emergency services, will remain closed. While road and water transport services would be suspended, private vehicles would be allowed only for emergency purposes. Only 20 persons would be allowed at marriages and funerals. The government warned of action under Disaster Management Act and Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance against those violating the norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-in-kerala-from-may-8-16-as-covid-19-cases-rise-982887.html
06-05-2021||South||New 'very infectious' Covid-19 strain spreading fast among younger age group, says Andhra Pradesh govt||The Andhra Pradesh Health Department on Thursday said that B.1.617 (known as Indian double variant) and B.1 were the major Covid-19 strains identified in the positive samples from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana in April this year. “These are very infectious and spreading in the younger age groups too,” said Andhra Pradesh Covid-19 Command Control Centre Chairman Dr Jawahar Reddy, who served as special chief secretary (health) during the Covid-19 first wave, citing the Center for CSIR-Cellular and Molecular Biology research data. The Andhra Pradesh Health Department officials have refuted the alarming reports in a section of the media claiming that the N440K (B.1.36) variant was 10-15 times more virulent and that it could be fueling the Covid-19 wave in certain regions like Andhra Pradesh. The spread of N440K was detected in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana, in June last year.  N440K is an old variant of Covid-19 prevalent till February and its share in positive cases now is minimal, Dr Reddy said. The Hyderabad-based CSIR-Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has also clarified that “though in controlled cell culture, N440K replicates more, it does not necessarily mean it can compete with other variants the same way in a real-life pandemic where new variants keep coming up.” Like the other viruses, SARS-CoV-2, the Covid-19 causing virus, is also mutating over time to thrive, taking different forms known as variants.  “Our genome studies say that N440K is now diminishing. Our main focus as a community should be on reducing the spread of coronavirus. The more it spreads, the more variants come up, the more mess we create by increasing uncertainties and fear,” CCMB said in a tweet. 2. Though in controlled cell culture this variant makes more copies, it does not necessarily mean that it can compete with other variants just the same way in a real life pandemic where new variants keep coming up. Our genome studies say that N440K is now diminishing(2/3)More👇🏾 “The N440K strain was prevalent in December 2020 and January to February 2021. However, N440K strain cases dropped down drastically in March and its share among the positive cases is very minimal,” Dr Reddy said. The official pointed out that WHO epidemiological updates have only mentioned lineage B.1.617 as the Variant of Interest from India. “If variant N440K is of such public health concern as reported, it should have by now found a place in WHO and ICMR reports. Hence, it is clarified that research data so far does not establish N440K as very virulent,” Dr Reddy said Posted as TTD executive officer later, Reddy was brought back last month by CM Jaganmohan Reddy to lead the Covid-19 mitigation measures in the wake of a more lethal second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-very-infectious-covid-19-strain-spreading-fast-among-younger-age-group-says-andhra-pradesh-govt-983052.html
06-05-2021||South||Baby's tragic death showcases need for upper limit for ART pregnancies||The tragic death of a 45-day-old baby born to a couple aged over 70 in Kerala highlights the need to impose an upper age limit for women undergoing Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) treatments like In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF). Apart from the health of the prospective mother, the ability of aged parents to take care of babies and the future of the child are the major concerns. Many aged couples who go for ART treatment for babies often face non-cooperation and resistance from relatives. Experts working in the field said that even as there are ICMR guidelines discouraging infertility treatment on women above 50 since it was not banned by law many hospitals were still resorting to such practices which earn huge revenue also. If it is a 71-year old woman who lost her 45-year old baby girl due to aspiration reportedly after milk stuck on her throat the other day, Kerala had witnessed a similar instance in 2004. A 62-year-old woman gave birth to a baby boy through ART and it had then hit the headlines as ART was only gaining popularity in Kerala those days. But the child died at the age of two after falling into a bucket of water. That incident had also triggered the need for imposing upper age limits for women to undergo ARTs and some major hospitals are learnt to be discouraging women aged above 50 from undergoing ARTs. Dr Sabine Sivadas, who has been carrying out infertility treatment for quite a long time, told DH that at least the age limits prescribed for adopting children should be made applicable for ARTs. The age limits for adoptive parents are quite a rationale as it was fixed to ensure the ability of parents to take proper care of children. Since there is no age limit fixed for ART treatment, private hospitals also often come under pressure to provide ART treatment to aged women, he said adding that he often discourages women above 50-55 years from pursuing it. A doctor of the Alappuzha Medical College who was among those who took the delivery of the 71-year-old woman said that after the news of her delivery got wide publicity there were severe criticisms, especially concerns over the child's future. The doctor also said on the condition of anonymity that since the couple were in their 70s and having age-related health issues, they could have limitations in taking care of a newborn. The woman did ART treatment at some private hospital. Dr Sivadas also said that in many cases he had noticed a lack of cooperation of relatives of aged couples who turned up for ART treatment. It could be not just due to social stigma, but also due to concerns over the arrival of new inherent for the wealth of the aged couple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/babys-tragic-death-showcases-need-for-upper-limit-for-art-pregnancies-983054.html
06-05-2021||South||Kamal Haasan's key aide R Mahendran resigns from MNM over poor poll results||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) Vice-President Dr R Mahendran, one of the first to join actor Kamal Haasan when he plunged into politics, resigned from the primary membership of the three-year-old party. He pinned the blame on Kamal Haasan, an agency that he hired to oversee the Assembly election, and another aide for his resignation. Hours later, Kamal hit back at Mahendran calling him a “betrayer” who would have been the first person to be thrown out if there was an exercise to weed out betrayers. “He (Mahendran) is trying to hide his failures, incompetency, and dishonesty by shifting the blame on others,” Kamal said. Mahendran's resignation from the party came as senior leaders of MNM resigned from their positions after the party's drubbing in the just-concluded Assembly elections. The party not just failed to win any seats but also saw a sharp decline in its vote share – Kamal lost his Coimbatore South seat by a slim margin. In a 12-page explanation that accompanied the resignation letter, Mahendran blamed Kamal's decisions like hiring Sankhya Solutions and allowing his friend Mahendran, who worked with a popular Tamil entertainment channel, to take decisions on behalf of the party by ignoring seniors who had built the party from the scratch since 2016. He also said Kamal and his PR team unilaterally decided that he contest from Coimbatore (South) and alleged that party men were not consulted. “You will recall that many of us in MNM, including me, had suggested that you should contest from a Chennai constituency (like Velachery) if it was the only constituency you are contesting in,” Mahendran said. DH had on December 16, 2020, reported that MNM senior leaders suggested Kamal to contest from Velachery. In the letter, Mahendran blamed Kamal for handing over the campaign to his PR team, ignoring him who hails from Coimbatore and knows the geography of the city well. He suggested that advice or suggestions from party men were ignored, which led to Kamal's defeat by a slender margin in the constituency. “I resign as Vice President of MNM and as a primary member of the MNM because in the last one month after Assembly election, I had lost all hope for any semblance of change in how the party is being run over the past one-and-a-half years,” Mahendran said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasans-key-aide-r-mahendran-resigns-from-mnm-over-poor-poll-results-983068.html
06-05-2021||South||Rangasamy to be sworn in as Puducherry CM on May 7||AINRC Chief N Rangasamy will be sworn in as Chief Minister of Union Territory of Puducherry at a brief ceremony here on Friday. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan would induct Rangasamy as Chief Minister at a brief session on the precincts of Rajnivas here. Official sources said Rangasamy alone would be inducted as Chief Minister tomorrow although he would be heading an NDA dispensation which has the BJP as the other constituent. According to party sources, the swearing in of other ministers, including those from BJP will take place in the next few days. Usually, the strength of a ministry in Puducherry would be six including Chief Minister. There is however a reported move to have one Deputy Chief Minister now although there is no precedent in this regard. A Namassivayam, who joined the BJP in January after quitting the Congress is tipped for the post of Deputy Chief Minister. The concurrence of the Centre is awaited for the appointment of Deputy Chief Minister, BJP sources said. The AINRC bagged 10 seats out of the 16 it contested in the April 6 polls while the BJP garnered six out of the nine seats it contested. The total strength of the Assembly is 30 and sixteen is the magic number for formation of a government. The AINRC and BJP has a combined strength of 16. There are six independents elected to the House and they are by and large supporters of Rangasamy. The DMK has emerged victorious from six segments out of 13 seats it contested. The Congress fared poorly by annexing only two out of the 14 seats it contested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rangasamy-to-be-sworn-in-as-puducherry-cm-on-may-7-983078.html
06-05-2021||South||Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala: What's allowed, what's not||A partial lockdown is currently in place in the state from Tuesday till Sunday. Here is what is allowed during the lockdown, and what's not: What is allowed: 1. Shops including ration shops (under PDS) dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy products, meat and fish, animal fodder, poultry, and cattle feed, bakeries will be open. However, district authorities may encourage and facilitate home delivery to minimise the movement of individuals outside their homes. All shops must be closed by 7:30 PM. 2. Banks, insurance, and financial services will be open from 10 AM to 1 PM. 3. Movement of volunteers connected with Covid-19 activities will be permitted. 4. Delivery of all essential goods including food, pharmaceutical, medical equipment through ecommerce, and home delivery will be allowed. 5. Petrol pumps, LPG, petroleum, and gas retail and storage outlets will be allowed to remain open. 6. Use of taxis and auto-rickshaws including Uber, Ola, etc will be permitted only for procurement of essential commodities, medicines, and for attending to medical emergencies as well as transport from/to airports and railway stations (with proof of ticket). 7. Print and electronic media will be allowed to operate. 8. Telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting, and cable services will continue. 9. IT and IT-enabled services will remain open.  What's not allowed: 1. Offices of the Government of India, its autonomous and subordinate offices, and public corporations will remain closed, with certain exceptions. 2.Offices of the Government of Kerala, its autonomous and subordinate offices, and public corporations will remain closed, with certain exceptions. 3. Industrial establishments will remain closed, with exceptions to manufacturing units of essential commodities, production units that require continuous process 24x7, and units manufacturing medical supplies including medical oxygen cylinders. 4. All roadways and waterways transport services will remain suspended. However, air and rail services (except metro) will remain operational. 5. Hospitality services will remain suspended, with certain exceptions. 6. All educational, training, research, coaching institutions, etc will remain closed. 7. All places of worship will be closed for the public. 8. All social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious gatherings will be barred. The government said that exceptions to the containment measures have been allowed, the organisation/employers must ensure necessary precautions against Covid-19, as well as physical distancing measures as advised by the Health Department from time to time. In order to implement these measures, the District Collectors will deploy Sectorial Magistrates and Incident Commanders in the respective local jurisdictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-in-kerala-whats-allowed-whats-not-983091.html
06-05-2021||South||Alagiri wishes Stalin, deputes son, daughter to attend swearing-in ceremony||Expelled DMK leader M K Alagiri on Thursday wished his younger brother and Chief Minister-elect M K Stalin for his new assignment. Alagiri, who had been opposed to Stalin's elevation in the party when their father M Karunanidhi was alive, wished his brother the best of luck. “I wish my younger brother all the best. I am sure he will be a good Chief Minister,” Alagiri said. Though Alagiri will not attend the swearing-in of Stalin on Friday, his son Dayanidhi Alagiri, and daughter Kayalvizhi will be present as their uncle takes the oath of office and secrecy. Alagiri was expelled from the DMK in 2014, and his efforts to reach a truce with his brother failed after their father's death in 2018. However, Alagiri, who was speculated to play a major role this election, met his fans in January and gave mixed signals. At the meeting, he had vented his anger at Stalin saying he could never become the Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alagiri-wishes-stalin-deputes-son-daughter-to-attend-swearing-in-ceremony-983144.html
06-05-2021||South||Covid-19: Andhra govt sends oxygen SOS to Centre||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday sent an SOS to the Centre seeking an enhanced supply of medical oxygen as the demand is expected to touch 1,000 tonnes by May 15, officials said. While the central government has now allotted 480 tonnes of medical oxygen to the state from various sources, the maximum consumption per day touched 550 tonnes (including government and private hospitals). The state currently has a storage capacity of 515 tonnes. There are about 25,000 Covid-19 patients on oxygen and ventilator support in hospitals across the state now. At a high-level review meeting here on Covid-19, Medical and Health Department officials informed Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy that distress (for oxygen) was generally observed in Kurnool, Vijayawada, Ongole, SPS Nellore and Chittoor districts. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant would not be able to supply more than 100 tonnes of medical oxygen after May 15, the officials told the CM. "To that extent we need to ensure additional sources for oxygen. The current allocation of quantities was completely illogical, as also the distance (from where the oxygen is sourced)," they pointed out. They said lifting oxygen from Angul/Rourkela (in neighbouring Odisha) was proving difficult as it required a huge number of tankers to be diverted from the existing system. Subsequently, the Chief Minister wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking increased allocation, from INOX Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu, to 200 tonnes per day from the present 25 tonnes. Similarly, allocation from Bellary in Karnataka too should be increased to 200 tonnes per day from 63 tonnes. Meanwhile, the health authorities were in the process of finalising bids for supply, installation, testing and commissioning of PSA oxygen generating plants in 53 hospitals across the state. Bids have been finalized for procurement of 15,000 oxygen concentrators, 10,000 D-type oxygen cylinders while a purchase order has been issued for 250 new ventilators, highly-placed official sources said. "We are also issuing purchase order for procurement of 25 cryogenic oxygen tankers (20 KL containers) with the vehicle from abroad. We are also initiating the process for procurement of 25 more cryogenic tankers of varying capacities," the sources said. Three oxygen storage tanks with a capacity of 125 KL each would also be procured. The tender process for selection of agencies for supply of liquid medical oxygen was underway, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-andhra-govt-sends-oxygen-sos-to-centre-983146.html
06-05-2021||South||Telangana CM rules out lockdown, says it cripples public||Telangana has no plans to impose a lockdown in the state as it will cripple public life as well as the economy, Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao said on Thursday. He further said the past experience reveals that lockdown is not effective in controlling Covid-19. According to Rao, Telangana is the most happening state, about 25 to 30 lakh migrant labourers are earning their livelihood in the state and their lives were ruined during the first spell of lockdown in 2020. "If these people (workers) are dislocated once again it will be a huge loss to the state as Telangana needs a huge number of workers during the harvesting season. What will happen to farmers (if they dont get labourers)? By imposing lockdown, the government itself would be creating havoc," an official release quoted Rao as saying. However, the state government will take preventive measures such as setting up micro-level containment zones wherever the number of cases are high, it noted. "Keeping in mind the past experiences, the state government has decided not to impose lockdown," it added. The CM appealed to people to be self-disciplined and adhere to the Covid-19 rules to prevent the spread of the disease. Meanwhile, Rao spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone seeking the allotted quota of antiviral drug Remdesivir to be released to the state immediately. Rao said the state was receiving only 4,900 injections of remdesivir and the same has to be increased to 25,000. He also sought to enhance the oxygen supply to the state to 500 tonnes. Similarly, Telangana uses 2 to 2.5 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses per day and the supply of the antidote needs to be maintained from the Centre accordingly, he said. KCR also spoke to Union Minister Piyush Goyal, who assured him of necessary supplies to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-rules-out-lockdown-says-it-cripples-public-983181.html
06-05-2021||State||CCB arrests two doctors in bed-blocking scam||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths on Wednesday arrested two doctors in the bed-blocking scam. The arrested are Dr Rihan and Dr Shashi were working as incharge of the BBMP war rooms in the South and Bommanahalli zones, respectively. After registering a case on Tuesday, the Jayanagar police had arrested two people - Nethravathi and Rohit Kumar. Subsequently, City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant transferred the case to the CCB. Senior officials in CCB told DH that two FIRs have been registered.  “A total of four persons have been arrested so far. We are also questioning four others suspects. Our officials conducted extensive searches in all the eight zonal war rooms,” a CCB officer explained. A total of eight teams, led by two ACP-rank officers, raided the zonal war rooms and verified records. The police have reportedly collected data pertaining to zone-wise bed availability, allocation  etc and have detained several persons for interrogation. It is learnt that the doctors were giving 10% commission to Nethravathi and Rohit on booking of each bed. Nethravathi had reportedly ‘sold’ two beds at a private hospital in Jayanagar for Rs 50,000 each. Rohit, a neighbour of Nethravathi, helped her in reaching out to the patients, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ccb-arrests-two-doctors-in-bed-blocking-scam-982789.html
06-05-2021||State||Bid to give communal tinge to BBMP bed scam||Following Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya’s expose of a ‘bed blocking’ scam, a controversy has erupted over the BJP leader’s apparent dog-whistling that was shared widely on social media. In a video shot during his visit to the BBMP South Covid-19 war room, Surya is seen reading out names of 17 Muslim employees. “How were they employed here,” Surya is seen questioning those in charge of the war room where 205 staffers worked in three shifts. Soon after, a list of 16 names was shared widely on social media as “list of terrorists working in BBMP WAR ROOM killing thousands of Bengalureans”. BBMP Joint Commissioner Sarfraz Khan was also held responsible. The Karnataka BJP’s Twitter handle took it a step further, calling the scam a handiwork of ‘medical terrorists’. “...These terrorists have crept inside in the name of service and industry and have taken lives without exploding bombs,” it said. Meanwhile, Khan took to Facebook to clarify that he did not have a role in the war room. “My job is to take care of BBMP Covid Care Centres and Solid Waste Management...I am completely pained because a communal angle is given to this issue,” he wrote. Khan later filed a complaint with the city police commissioner to identify the culprits behind the scam. In a call to Khan, Surya is heard acknowledging that Khan was being targeted based on his religion. “I never took your name. I have received very good feedback about you,” Surya tells Khan. Surya said he merely read out the names and inquired how they were appointed. “I never made any allegations.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bid-to-give-communal-tinge-to-bbmp-bed-scam-982801.html
06-05-2021||State||Pilikula Biological Park ups caution to keep Covid away||Close on the heels of eight Asiatic Lions in Hyderabad Zoo testing positive for Covid 19, Pilikula Biological Park, located outside Mangaluru city, have initiated precautionary measures to check the spread of Covid-19 among animals in its enclosures. The management is aware that animals in the zoo would get infected by the transmission of virus from enclosure keepers. Thus Covid test is carried out on the caretakers of the animals at Pilikula zoo. Caretakers sanitise their hands and legs before moving near the enclosure of the animals. “We are monitoring the health of the caretakers as well. Wearing masks also has been made mandatory,” Park Director H Jayaprakash Bhandary told DH. The enclosures and surrounding areas are also sanitised. The Biological Park has remained closed for the general public since the day lockdown was announced by government as a measure to check the spread of virus. The health of animals is monitored frequently. No symptoms have been detected so far. Further, all caretakers have registered for Covid-19 vaccine. Efforts will be made to administer vaccines to them at the earliest, he said. The Covid-19 also had cast a shadow on the animal exchange programme of Pilikula Biological Park. “If everything had gone as according to our plan, white tigers and other animals would have reached Pilikula Biological Park by now,” Bhandary said. To a query on maintenance of the Park, Bhandary said that animal adoption programmes have been helping in the maintenance of the park. The Park earns around Rs 2.5 crore to Rs 3 crore as entry fee from the visitors. But the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the gate collection. Earlier, 4,000 to 5,000 visitors would visit the Biological Park during weekends. After Covid-19, number of visitors have come down drastically, Bhandary rued. About Pilikula Biological Park Pilikula Biological Park is one of the major attractions of Dr Shivarama Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama located on banks of Gurupura river. The park has an area of 150 acres and houses about 1200 animals of 120 species of mammals, reptiles and birds. The Central Zoo Authority of India (ZAI) has recognised the park as a major zoo. As per modern zoological practices, the animals are kept in spacious enclosures closely resembling their natural habitat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pilikula-biological-park-ups-caution-to-keep-covid-away-982884.html
06-05-2021||State||Jindal to increase oxygen production: Jagadish Shettar ||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has said that Jindal Steel Limited in Ballari has agreed to increase the production of oxygen from 500 metric tonnes to 1,000 metric tonnes following the request from the government. Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, he said in order to meet the oxygen demand in the state, the government appealed to Jindal company to enhance the production of oxygen. It is likely to prove beneficial for Covid patients in the state.  He said the VISP oxygen plant in Bhadravathi town is producing 150 cylinders of oxygen. The officials have stated that the quantum of oxygen production could be enhanced if a new compressor is installed. He promised that the government would provide the much-needed help to the plant in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jindal-to-increase-oxygen-production-jagadish-shettar-983029.html
06-05-2021||State||Centre releases Rs 135 crore in revenue deficit grant to Karnataka||The Union Ministry of Finance on Thursday released the second monthly instalment of revenue deficit grant Rs 135.92 crore to Karnataka. With the release of the second instalment, a total amount of Rs 271.84 crore has been released in the first two months of the current financial year as Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the states, the ministry said in a statement. The Centre provides the Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the states under Article 275 of the Constitution. The grants are released as per the recommendations of the Finance Commission in monthly instalments to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the states post-devolution. Karnataka among 17 states in the country gets grants from the Ministry of Finance as Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the states, the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-releases-rs-135-crore-in-revenue-deficit-grant-to-karnataka-983174.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Allow locally produced oxygen for state, Shettar appeals to Centre||In an effort to deal with the oxygen shortage in the state, the government has urged the Centre to allow the use of oxygen produced in Karnataka for its needs, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said Wednesday. Speaking to reporters after a high-level meeting, Shettar, the minister in charge of oxygen supply, said, “I have consulted with Union Ministers Piyush Goyal and Pralhad Joshi to reduce the amount of oxygen being shipped from our state to other states and allow its use within the state. Piyush Goyal had responded positively.” The state has increased oxygen production. The government has spoken to Jindal and instructed them to reduce steel production and increase oxygen production. “They have already begun to work on getting more oxygen for the state,” he said. There are 170 oxygen transport tankers in the state currently. Of these, 68 are being supplied to other states. The state needs more tankers. The Transport Department officials have been instructed to speed up converting more tankers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/allow-locally-produced-oxygen-for-state-shettar-appeals-to-centre-982756.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka got Bahrain O2, meant for Maharashtra, to tide over crisis||The 40 MT of oxygen consignment received at the Mangalore port on Wednesday was initially planned by the Union government to be sent to Maharashtra.  However, following a request by the Karnataka unit of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) for oxygen in view of the crisis in the state, the Centre sent the consignment to Mangaluru.  INS Talwar brought the tankers from Bahrain after a 12-day journey.  In a release, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said five empty tankers sent to Bhubaneswar to bring an additional 74 tonnes of oxygen will arrive on May 7 and 8. “The central government has quickly responded to the demand and sent the consignment to Karnataka. Apart from this, Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industries Piyush Goyal has assured us of sending two more containers through Indian Oil Company Limited,” he said. Dr V L S Kumar, vice chairman of IRCS Karnataka, said the timely exemptions and clearances given by the union government helped the process. “We are getting positive response for our SoS calls. More aid will arrive soon,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-got-bahrain-o2-meant-for-maharashtra-to-tide-over-crisis-982758.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hike cap on state’s oxygen quota: HC to Centre||The High Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to immediately increase the cap on the quota of oxygen to the state up to 1,200 MT per day. The court said though the Centre was to ensure buffer stock within four days of the order of the Supreme Court on April 30, it did not even ensure the bare minimum requirement of oxygen to the state. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said the revised daily cap of quota up to 1,200 MT will be in force till the Centre considers the representation submitted by the state government on April 30 for increasing the quota. The bench directed the state government to submit a fresh representation within four days with additional requirements based on the increase in the number of cases of Covid-19. Earlier, the Centre informed the court that it has decided to increase the state’s quota from 865 MT to 965 MT. In the letter dated April 30, the state government has assessed the requirement of 1,792 MT of oxygen by May 5 for an estimated 3.95 lakh active cases. The letter also stated that the state would require a minimum requirement of 1,162 MT. The bench noted that on May 4 itself the state has recorded more than 4.64 lakh active cases with more than 1.60 lakh new cases added in less than a week. The bench said, considering the gravity of the situation in the state, the Centre may consider allowing the state government to lift oxygen, manufactured in the state itself. The advocate general submitted that despite having manufacturing units within the state, it has been asked to lift oxygen from Vishakhapattanam, Odisha, and Kerala. With regard to the allocation and supply of Remdesivir injection vials, the court asked the Centre to take a positive decision. The bench observed that the state is receiving only 1/3 of the actual requirement of the vials. The state government had made a request for allocation of 4-5 lakh Remdesivir injection vials for the period between May 1 and May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hike-cap-on-state-s-oxygen-quota-hc-to-centre-982759.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chamarajanagar tragedy: HC displeased with govt, orders seizure of records||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday expressed displeasure about the manner in which the state government constituted a commission of inquiry into the Chamarajanagar tragedy, in which 24 patients died due to lack of oxygen supply. Observing that the decision was overreaching the order of the court, a special division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, directed the Chief Secretary to seize all records pertaining to the incident. The court also directed a committee, under the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) headed by retired high court judge Justice A N Venugopala Gowda, to peruse the record and submit a report by next Monday. The bench on Tuesday had asked the Advocate General (AG) Prabhuling K Navadgi to make submissions on its suggestion for an inquiry by a retired judge of the High Court under the Commission of Inquiry Act. As the proceedings commenced on Wednesday, AG submitted that the state government has already taken a Cabinet decision on Tuesday evening to appoint the commission headed by retired judge of the High Court Justice B A Patil. The bench orally said that when the suggestion was by the court, in fairness the state should have left the decision to the court. “This is overreaching the order of the court,” the court observed. The bench pointed out at the report filed by the Chamarajanagar District Legal Services Authority on the incident and directed the Chief Secretary to immediately seize the entire records related to the incident. The bench directed the Chief Secretary to seize all records, pertaining to the supply of oxygen to Chamarajanagar, available at the offices of the Deputy Commissioner Chamarajanagar and Mysuru. The KSLSA committee, comprising Justice A N Venugopala Gowda (chairman) and Justice K N Keshavanarayana (member), will now look into the records. The Chief Secretary has been directed to give access of the records to the committee. “Needless to add that the officers of the state government will render co operation to the said committee as the ultimate object of the said committee will be to make fact finding enquiry so that the report of the committee can be very useful for the state government to ensure that such unfortunate incidents do not occur hereafter,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chamarajanagar-tragedy-hc-displeased-with-govt-orders-seizure-of-records-982761.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah mocks Surya over bed-blocking 'scam'||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah on Wednesday asked BJP Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya to conduct a sting operation against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and other BJP leaders. "This whole drama is to protect the image of his political bosses," Siddaramaiah said in a tweet. "BBMP officers and workers are just scapegoats," he said, on Surya's expose of the alleged bed-blocking scam. "It's good what (Surya) did, but as national president of the BJP Yuva Morcha, he shouldn't confine himself to just this," Siddaramaiah said. "Surya should take the lead and go to the PM with other MPs to get the required oxygen to Karnataka on priority because people are dying without it." On the communal angle to the scam, Siddaramaiah said, "Tejasvi Surya, who read out a list of names from one community as if they are behind the scam, should also tell us to which religion the CM and others belong."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-mocks-surya-over-bed-blocking-scam-982773.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bed-blocking 'scam' a drama to cover up Chamarajanagar tragedy: HDK||Former chief minister and JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy said on Wednesday that the BJP leaders were trying to cover up the Chamarajanagar oxygen deaths by exposing the bed-blocking scam in Bengaluru. Kumaraswamy told reporters that the expose was a drama by the BJP leaders to divert the people’s attention, he said. “An MP and an MLA are claiming to have exposed a huge racket. When innocent people are dying due to the pandemic, they are trying to blame a particular community. They are trying to do politics in the name of religion,” Kumaraswamy said. “The government has erred in the Chamarajanagar incident. They are trying to cover up the mistake. By saying that 4,000 beds were illegally blocked, they are trying to create fear among the people. There is a problem to get beds in Bengaluru even today. What did you gain by conducting a raid?” he said. “A CCB probe has been ordered into the incident. But people have lost trust in the investigation agency. What happened to the drugs scandal? Except the arrest of two women, there was no progress. The sleaze CD case has also been closed,” the former chief minister said. “It is said that the woman arrested in connection with the war room case was running an NGO. Who gave her the responsibility of managing the war room. Around 5 to 6% of the staff may have been involved in making money, because you would have taken lakhs of rupees to give them the jobs. The officials should not blame the employees,” he said. Criticising the Congress leaders, Kumaraswamy said distributing 10 kg rice is not important. But protecting lives is more important. “If the Congress had constructed a 30-bed hospital in every gram panchayat limits during their 70 years of power, such a situation would not have arisen,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bed-blocking-scam-a-drama-to-cover-up-chamarajanagar-tragedy-hdk-982777.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Maski bypoll: 15 staffers who took part in counting test positive||More than 15 staffers of the Revenue Department, Town Municipal Council, and teachers, who took part in the counting of votes of the Maski by-election held on Sunday, have tested positive for Covid-19. The staffers were subjected to a rapid antigen test 24 hours before the vote counting began. They tested negative but their RT-PCR report returned as positive on Wednesday. Following this, the Town Municipal Council office and the tahsildar’s office have been sanitised. Medical officer Dr Mounesh said the virus-infected staffers are under home isolation and their contact tracing is on. Their office and residence have been sanitised, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/maski-bypoll-15-staffers-who-took-part-in-counting-test-positive-982785.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PAC should probe Covid-19 spending by the govt, says DK Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Wednesday urged the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) to conduct an inquiry into the money spent by the government on Covid-19 management. The PAC must visit crisis-hit areas and inquire into the accounts. The Committee must compile an interim report and submit it to the state government through the Legislative Assembly Speaker and the Council chairperson, Shivakumar said in a letter to PAC chairperson Ramalinga Reddy. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader H K Patil and Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti wrote separate letters to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressing dismay on the state-of-affairs. "Albeit many warnings from the epidemiologists and virologists, no adequate preparations were made... Leave alone preparations, the union government celebrated victory over corona; it wasn't a victory, it is a monumental folly," Patil said. He pointed out that liquid nitrogen tanks in Prof U R Rao Satellite Centre and the Integrated Satellite Indian Testing Establishment Center (1-SITE) could be utilised for storing liquid oxygen with minor modification in valves. The government must coordinate with multinationals and nonprofits to set up Covid Care Centres in open spaces in the city and use of extra spaces on large campuses of these companies, Horatti said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pac-should-probe-covid-19-spending-by-the-govt-says-dk-shivakumar-982792.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees highest single-day spike of 50,112||Karnataka on Wednesday reported the highest single-day spike of 50,112 new Covid-19 cases. At 346 deaths, it also saw the most number of fatalities reported in a day, with the total toll reaching 16,884. The state’s daily positivity rate has risen sharply to 32.28 per cent. The case fatality rate (CFR) too is on the rise (0.69 per cent).  Bengaluru Urban district continues to lead new cases with 23,106, followed by Bengaluru Rural (1,033), Chikkamagalur (1,009), Dakshina Kannada (1,520) and Dharwad (1,030 followed). Bengaluru alone reported 161 deaths. The state has so far seen 17,41,046 cases. As many as 26,841 people were discharged on Wednesday, pushing the state’s total recoveries to 12,36,854. Karnataka now has 4,87,288 active patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-50112-982798.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||It's BJP vs BJP in Karnataka amid second Covid-19 wave||It’s BJP vs BJP in Karnataka as the B S Yediyurappa administration has come under fire from its own leaders over the handling of the second Covid-19 wave. After BJP general secretary C T Ravi rapped those responsible for the deaths of 24 Covid-19 patients due to oxygen shortage at the Chamarajanagar district hospital on Monday, it was the turn of Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya the following day to expose a bed-blocking scam in the government-controlled BBMP, reflecting poorly on the administration that is already bloodied with criticism. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa holds the Bengaluru City Development portfolio. BJP general secretary N Ravikumar said the alleged bed-blocking scam cannot be blamed on the government as there was no political interference. “It is the responsibility of officials,” he said, rejecting reports that it was part of a ploy to unsettle Yediyurappa. Almost all of CM’s critics belong to that section of the BJP that is seen as loyal to the party’s national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh, who is considered Yediyurappa’s bete noire. As both the state government and BBMP are under BJP rule, the developments have embarrassed the Yediyurappa administration. There are also talks of renewed efforts to unsettle the CM by continuing attacks from within the party ranks. “Ever since the first wave of the pandemic subsided a bit, Yediyurappa has relentlessly come under fire from within the party ranks,” a political observer, under condition of anonymity, noted. While Umesh Katti threatened to rebel last year - he was sulking for not being made a minister - BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has put the CM in a spot of bother with his public outbursts. According to political analyst Chambi Puranik, Surya and other BJP MLAs performed the role of the Opposition by unearthing the scam. “The expose is an embarrassment for the government, but is too unfair to surmise it as hidden agenda,” he said, adding that the expose was against the system itself. Even within the administration, there is said to be ill-will among ministers over handling the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/its-bjp-vs-bjp-in-karnataka-amid-second-covid-19-wave-982805.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||D V Sadananda Gowda joins clamour for Covid-19 lockdown in Karnataka||“Given the situation today, there’s a need to think about it seriously,” Gowda said, on the imposition of a full lockdown. “In Maharashtra, because of a full lockdown, cases in Mumbai fell from 10,000 to 2,000. The Supreme Court has also observed that Mumbai-type lockdowns should be done in different parts of the country where cases are more,” Gowda pointed out. “In my opinion, we need to save lives before livelihoods. So, we need to do whatever it takes to save lives on priority.” Gowda also said that Covid-19 cases were on the rise in the districts after strict lockdown-like measures were enforced in Bengaluru. “Cases are spreading in rural areas,” he said. “We need the same seriousness in the districts as we did in Bengaluru,” he said, lauding Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for giving district ministers full authority to take measures. The clamour for a lockdown is growing in Karnataka. At present, Karnataka’s 2-week ‘close down’ will end at 6 am on May 12. BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje is among several elected representatives favouring a lockdown. “The current janata curfew isn’t helping bring cases under control. If people continue moving about like this with marriages and other functions going on, the virus will spread faster,” she said. Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar lamented that the janata curfew was not effective. “I don’t have to tell you how the janata curfew is being followed in the real sense. It’s not as we expected. I appeal to people, the government alone can’t do it and we need you to cooperate. If cases came down in Mumbai, why not in Bengaluru?” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-v-sadananda-gowda-joins-clamour-for-covid-19-lockdown-in-karnataka-982939.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 49,058 new Covid-19 cases, 328 deaths||Karnataka's active caseload breached five lakh with 49,058 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday, while the toll stood at 17,212 with 328 deaths, the health department said. According to the department bulletin, the infection count is now 17,90,104 whereas there are 5,17,075 active cases in the state. With 18,943 discharges on Thursday, 12,55,797 people have been discharged so far. Bengaluru urban district alone reported 23,706 fresh infections and 139 fatalities. The city has so far reported 8,87,086 infections and 7,145 deaths. There were 3,32,732 active cases. Mysuru and Tumakuru emerged as the next major hotspots in Karnataka with 2,531 and 2,418 infections and 18 and 14 fatalities respectively. According to the bulletin, 1,652 infections were reported in Kalaburagi, 1,526 in Udupi, 1,503 in Hassan, 1,191 in Dakshina Kannada, 963 in Bengaluru Rural and 922 in Ballari. Bagalkote, Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Davangere, Dharwad, Kodagu, Kolar, Raichur, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir were among the districts with over 500 infections. A total of 1,64,441 tests were done on Thursday, including 1,53,370 using the RT PCR and other methods, taking the tally to 2.65 crore, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-49058-new-covid-19-cases-328-deaths-983082.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bed-blocking scam: Congress backs 17 Muslims named by BJP MP Tejasvi Surya||The D K Shivakumar-led Congress on Thursday came out in full support of the 17 Muslims whose names BJP Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya made public during his expose of the alleged bed-blocking scam in the city.  Shivakumar, the Karnataka Congress president, came down heavily on Surya for giving the issue a ‘communal’ tag. The 17 Muslims named by Surya work are among 205 employees of the BBMP south Covid-19 war room. “Muslims are my brothers. We live and die together. This is India. If (Muslims) don’t cut meat, none can eat. If they don’t fix tyre punctures, repair cycles, or do mechanic work, no vehicles will run. Is anyone from Tejasvi Surya’s house a mechanic?” Shivakumar asked, daring the BJP to “throw Muslims out of India if they had the guts”.  According to Shivakumar, it was the BJP workers and legislators who were blocking Covid-19 beds in the city. “I’ve done my own exercise. Let’s see who gets caught,” he said, demanding the arrest of "everyone who tried to make this communal, including the MP." Meanwhile, Chamarajpet legislator BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan said he would employ the 17 Muslims if they got fired. “Right now, they’ve been issued notices. If they lose their jobs, I will employ them. I’ll give them Rs 15,000 instead of Rs 13,000 they’re getting now,” Khan said at a news conference where some of the 17 Muslims were present.  “Look at these innocent people. They were made to go to the police station during this holy month of Ramzan. Surya, will God forgive you?” an angry Khan said. Citing news reports, Khan said it was BJP Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy’s aide Harish who was involved in the bed-blocking scam. He added that Surya raked up the scam to divert attention from the death of 24 patients at Chamarajanagar for want of oxygen.  Senior Congress leader Ramalinga Reddy, who represents BTM Layout, shot off a letter to BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta asking why the civic body was acting against the 17 people without any inquiry. “What about the other 188 people? Are they innocent?” Reddy asked Gupta to investigate allegations that BJP leaders were getting beds blocked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bed-blocking-scam-congress-backs-17-muslims-named-by-bjp-mp-tejasvi-surya-983093.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chamarajanagar: Task force constituted to handle Covid-19||With 15-member Covid task force constituted, the issues related to covid management will be under control said, Chamarajanagar District incharge Minister S Suresh Kumar. At a press conference, on Thursday, Suresh Kumar said, the task force, which comprises all the MLAs of the district, will also monitor the oxygen supply, along with covid management. Each officer has been given a responsibility, he said. Deputy Conservator of Forest V Yedukondalu has been given the responsibility of oxygen supply and DCF Santosh will be incharge of bed allocation. Along with the MLAs, Deputy Commissioner, District Surgeon, District Health Officer, ZP CEO and Chamarajanagar Medical College Dean and Director will be the members of the task force, he explained. Similar task forces has been constituted in taluk level also. The people should also cooperate with the district administration to eradicate covid, by following all safety measures and not neglect the symptoms, he said. As there is no filling point in the district, each cylinder should be taken and filled in Mysuru. It takes around 40 minutes to fill a cylinder and 42 cylinders can be filled at a time. The escorts from our district will be sent to the border to get the liquid oxygen being sent from Dobbaspet, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chamarajanagar-task-force-constituted-to-handle-covid-19-983137.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccine stock details shocking, submit indent to Centre: HC||The High Court on Thursday observed that it is virtually impossible for the citizens in the state to take the first vaccine unless they are either in healthcare or a frontline worker. The court said the stock detail of the vaccine is shocking and directed the state government to submit indent/requisition to the central government with all particulars. The court also directed the Centre to take appropriate steps within three days.  A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, perused the statistics pertaining to the vaccines utilized in the state. The government submitted that out of 1.08 crore (1,08,49,470) doses received, 83.28 lakh (83,28,241) persons have been administered the first dose and 17.44 lakh (17,44,554) persons received the second dose. The government presently has only 7.76 lakh doses. The High Court was informed that from May 1, 2021, 50 per cent of the vaccines are to be procured from the Centre, while the state has to procure the remaining 50% from the manufacturers. “In short, as the situation stands today, it is virtually impossible in the state of Karnataka for citizens to get their first dose of vaccination unless they fall in the category of healthcare or frontline worker. An indent has been submitted by the state government to the manufacturer for procuring the supply of vaccines. We direct the state government to immediately submit the indent/requisition to the concerned authority at the central government for supply of required quantities of doses of vaccine,” the court said. The government submitted that orders for the supply of two crore doses of Covishield and one crore doses of Covaxin have been placed with the manufacturers. So far, three lakh doses of Covishield have been received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccine-stock-details-shocking-submit-indent-to-centre-hc-983157.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||As cases rise, clamour for lockdown grows shriller||The clamour for a complete lockdown along the lines of neighbouring Maharashtra grew on Thursday, with Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda saying that there was a need to think about it seriously owing to a spike in Covid-19 cases. Health Minister K Sudhakar said that the existing measures have not been effective in reducing cases, adding that a decision will be taken after May 12. Meanwhile, Deputy CM and Covid-19 Task Force chief C N Ashwath Narayan said that there was no discussion on the lockdown till date. “Because of a full lockdown in Maharashtra, Covid-19 cases in Mumbai fell from 10,000 to 2,000. The Supreme Court has also observed that Mumbai-type lockdowns should be emulated in other parts of the country where cases are more,” Sadananda Gowda said. Sudhakar batted for more stringent measures to reduce the caseload in Karnataka. “Janata curfew has not been to our expectations,” he said, noting that people were gathering in large numbers despite restrictions. “I request people (to understand) that only government and law cannot bring down the cases. You too should understand your responsibilities,” he said. BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje also favoured a lockdown, noting that free movement of people for marriages and other ceremonies would only aid the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, Narayan said that government would wait till the Janata curfew ended on May 12, before announcing other measures. Right now there is no discussion of a lockdown or extending the Janata curfew, he said. “Based on the Covid situation in Karnataka on May 11, we will take a call on whether to impose more stringent measures or continue the curfew,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-cases-rise-clamour-for-lockdown-grows-shriller-983158.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC directs Karnataka to publicise oxygen helpline numbers||The high court on Thursday directed the state government to ensure that information about the oxygen helplines is available in each and every hospital in the state treating Covid-19 patients. The court observed that there is no centralised data maintained in the oxygen management. A special bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar directed the state government to ensure wide publicity to helpline numbers at the hospitals. “The Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners shall issue immediate directions to communicate the availability of helpline number for oxygen. We direct that this exercise shall be completed immediately as the state government can always send necessary details by email and by use of social media,” the court said. Meanwhile, the state government submitted draft guidelines with protocol to be followed for oxygen management. The state government conceded that as of today there is no exhaustive written protocol for the benefit of district or taluk hospitals about oxygen management. The court also noted that there is no centralised data of location of bottling plants, the capacity of the bottling plants and the availability of oxygen in the bottling plants. The bench said even centralised data of the present requirement of various districts and taluk hospitals is not available. The bench asked the state to take immediate steps in this regard. Advocate General Prabhulin K Navadagi stated that the state government has been allowed to lift 60 MT per day from units in Ballari. He said 40 MT will be lifted from Kalinga in Odisha. The central government has allotted a quota of 20 MT of oxygen which has been received from Bahrain and 20 MT from OIC.  In regard to setting up of Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA), the court was informed that by end of May the state will ensure production at 68 units will be made, including 28 units permitted by the central government. The AG submitted that each unit has the maximum production of 500 litres oxygen per minute, which will cater to 15-20 beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-directs-karnataka-to-publicise-oxygen-helpline-numbers-983165.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre releases Rs 135 cr to Karnataka||The Union Ministry of Finance on Thursday released the second monthly instalment of revenue deficit grant of Rs 135.92 crore to Karnataka. With this, a total amount of Rs 271.84 crore has been released so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-releases-rs-135-cr-to-karnataka-983166.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two weeks after mom’s demise, India eves cricketer Veda loses her sister to Covid-19||India eves cricketer Veda Krishnamurthy’s grief-stricken family suffered another loss on Wednesday. Two weeks after Veda’s mother died of Covid-19, her elder sister Vatsala Krishnamurthy (42) lost her battle with the infection in the early hours of Thursday. Vatsala, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar in Kadur, was admitted to a private hospital in Chikkamagaluru after she tested positive for Covid-19. On Wednesday night she was shifted to the general ward after her condition improved. However, Vatsala died hours later. Vatsala had lost her husband in an accident a few years back. She is survived by her son, two sisters including Veda and a brother. Last rites of Vtasala were performed as per the Covid-19 norms at Birur farm of the family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-weeks-after-mom-s-demise-india-eves-cricketer-veda-loses-her-sister-to-covid-19-983169.html
06-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Stop communal hatred, civil society group tells BSY||A day after Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya received flak for ‘targeting’ BBMP staffers from a minority community, historian Ramachandra Guha on Thursday said the chief minister should step in and prevent the spread of communalism. In an online press conference, intellectuals and civil society organisations while welcoming the efforts to expose the bed-blocking scam, demanded the MP along with MLAs Satish Reddy, Ravi Subramanya and Uday Garudachar to apologise for disturbing the communal harmony. During his visit to the BMBP war room, the MP had questioned the appointment of 17 staffers from minority community, a video clip of which was used to spread hatred and fake news across social media. Calling the pandemic the ‘greatest crisis the country is facing after the partition,’ Guha urged the senior politicians from all the parties to come together to fight the pandemic. “All our attention should be on containing the crisis and the state cannot afford communal violence at this point of time,” he said and demanded that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa should step in to prevent the spread of communalism. Leo F Saldanha of the Environment Support Group said that the whole episode seemed like a “well-calibrated approach to divert attention.” He stressed that to contain the pandemic, the state government should use the powers available under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, instead of following the Epidemic Diseases Act. Abdul Suhaib from the Student Islamic Organisation pointed out that the communal comments have created an atmosphere of pain and anguish among the volunteers in the community. “Many in the community are scared to even call the BBMP now,” he said. The activists said that the staffers were sacked from duty after the MP’s intervention and the activists have demanded that along with an open apology, Surya should also provide monetary compensation to the workers. Human rights advocate Maitrayi Krishnan said a complaint had been registered with the Siddapura police station for incitement of hatred. She demanded the police to register an FIR at the earliest and take strict action against anyone who attempts to spread communal hatred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stop-communal-hatred-civil-society-group-tells-bsy-983170.html
06-05-2021||West||Mumbai: Man converts his rickshaw into an ambulance||Mumbai resident Dattatraya Sawant, an English teacher by profession, drives a rickshaw to make ends meet. But amid the tragedies of Covid-19, he has taken up another job and converted his autorickshaw into an ambulance of sorts to ferry Covid patients for free. The rickshaw bears a board at the rear mentioning the services he provides along with his phone number. Every time Sawant takes a patient to a hospital, he says it is like visiting a temple and seeking God's blessings. Sawant, a 47-year-old Ghatkopar resident, is a part-time English teacher at Gyansagar Vidya Mandir School and runs an auto in the Mumbai Suburban district. “This is a national crisis and we all need to contribute a bit. I am driving an autorickshaw for my daily earnings but I thought that I can help people as well,” Sawant told DH. Sawant started on April 15 when strict lockdown-type curbs were enforced in Mumbai. “The lockdown has been extended and I am continuing,” he said. He purchased PPE kits and face guards. “I have sanitizers with me…as soon as I receive a call, I sanitize the autorickshaw…take the patient to the hospital or Covid care centres or from hospitals to home…and then again sanitize the autorickshaw,” he said, adding that till date, he has ferried over 30 to 35 patients. Asked about his routine, he said: “I teach from 7 am to 12.30 pm. Then, I come home and rest for a couple of hours and then, start off in the autotickshaw. I am on call 24x7. Coronavirus is a disease which everyone fears but if everyone starts fearing, who will help people…let us fight together.” “Many of the Covid-19 patients die as they do not get treatment in time. Ambulances are not available or rates are unaffordable…people call me and I am there," he said. Legendary cricketer VVS Laxman tweeted about Sawant. “Dattatraya Sawant, a school teacher by profession and a part-time autorickshaw driver, gives free rickshaw rides to Covid patients. He picks up and drops patients from the hospital without charging them. Hats off to his noble initiative. Pray that we overcome this soon,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-man-converts-his-rickshaw-into-an-ambulance-982842.html
06-05-2021||West||Revive MAPL, demands Maharashtra Congress leader||In a significant step, the state’s Energy Minister and senior Congressman Dr Nitin Raut has demanded revival of Maharashtra Antibiotic and Pharmaceutical Limited (MAPL) to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by setting up a manufacturing unit of drugs and medical oxygen along with a Jumbo Covid Hospital. Raut, the Guardian Minister of Nagpur district, has also strongly suggested that the Maharashtra government should acquire this company. In a recent letter sent to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackerey, Dr Raut has pointed out that the MAPL infrastructure at Nagpur-MIDC was lying idle which could be immediately converted into a jumbo Covid hospital and a large medical oxygen production unit. Also, Remdesivir, a life-saving drug, and Covaxin can be produced in a very short period under the scheme of Atmanirbhar Bharat. The MAPL was started in 1980 at Nagpur Industrial Estate through a joint venture between the Maharashtra Government and Hindustan Antibiotics Limited (HAL), a  Central government entity.  It produced generic and antibiotic medicines. But the company was shut down in 1995-96 due to losses and lack of working capital. Considering the spike and outbreak of Coronavirus in Nagpur and the country, it is possible to produce medical oxygen on a large scale and life-saving drugs and vaccines for corona disease, such as Remdesiver and Covaxine in a short period of time.  At the same time, it is possible to start a jumbo Corona hospital in the company's buildings, said Dr Raut in a letter to the Chief Minister. Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd is a holding company of MAPL. The loss-making MAPL was closed in 1995-96 due to a lack of working capital. The Maharashtra State Industrial and Investment Corporation Limited has a 33 per cent stake in the MAPL while HAL has 59 per cent and IDBI 8 per cent. In a letter, Dr Raut urged the Chief Minister to take an immediate decision on the issue. In 2015, the central government had shown readiness to give Rs 100 crore to HAL for the MAPL revival. Though this was announced by the then Minister of State for Chemical and Fertilizer Hansraj Ahir, the fund was not actually given.  Dr Raut said the revival of MAPL would boost employment generation in Vidarbha. Many ancillary units would be set up to provide raw materials to the revived MAPL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/revive-mapl-demands-maharashtra-congress-leader-982878.html
06-05-2021||West||2 arrested with 7 kg Natural Uranium worth Rs 21.30 crore||In a development that rattled India’s security and nuclear establishment, the Anti-Terrorism Squad of Maharashtra Police arrested two persons and seized over 7 kgs of Natural Uranium from them. The investigations are being carried out by the Nagpada Unit of the ATS. The accused were identified as Jigar Jayesh Pandya (27) and Abu Tahir Afzal Hussain Choudhary (31). A total of 7 kgs and 100 gms of Natural Uranium was seized, ATS officials said, adding that it is valued at Rs 21.30 crore.   On 2 February, the ATS received information that Pandya, a resident of Thane district, was going to sell pieces of Uranium. A trap was laid and he was apprehended. After his interrogation, it was revealed that he got it from Abu Tahir, a resident of Mankhurd in Mumbai who was into scrap business in Kurla area. The Uranium was seized and sent to the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) at Trombay in Mumbai.  “A report was received (from BARC) that the substance is Natural Uranium. It's a highly radioactive and a danger to human life,” the ATS said in a statement A case was registered under Indian Penal Code and Atomic Energy Act and further investigations were in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-arrested-with-7-kg-natural-uranium-worth-rs-2130-crore-982917.html
06-05-2021||West||1,025 babies of Covid +ve mothers born at Nair Charitable Hospital||At a time when India is hit by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic, the BYL Nair Charitable Hospital in Mumbai has created a record of sorts. So far 1,001 pregnant women, who had tested positive for Covid-19, have given birth at this hospital. The Topiwala National Medical College and BYL Nair Charitable Hospital located near the Mumbai Central railway station of Western Railway is one of the biggest hospitals run by BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Of 1,025 safe deliveries so far, there was one set of triplets, and 19 twins and 984 single babies. Of the 1,001 deliveries in the hospital in the last year, 599 were normal births, while 402 were caesarean deliveries. “It is a big achievement at the time of the pandemic for our hospital,” said Nair Hospital Director and Dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal. This achievement comes at a time when the Mumbai model of handling Covid-19 spread is being hailed even as it earned praise from the Supreme Court.  In a press statement, BMC hailed the sheer dedication of the medical, para-medical and support teams at the Nair Hospital – a Dedicated Covid Hospital - under the guidance of Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani, Dr. Ramesh Bharmal, and other top officers. The first delivery of a Covid-19 positive patient was done on 14 April 2020 – and in a year 1,001 women have delivered babies. “They slogged six hours consecutively without even drinking water as they wore PPE kits, did all their duties tirelessly practically 24X7, spending days in the hospital without going home, and dedicated themselves without complaints to the care of the Covid-19 positive pregnant women and their special needs,” BMC officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1025-babies-of-covid-ve-mothers-born-at-nair-charitable-hospital-982977.html
06-05-2021||West||Obituaries flood newspapers in Gujarat, belie official Covid-19 death toll||If any benchmark was needed for the growing menace of Covid-19 in Gujarat, one only has to open the obituary page of local newspapers. With each passing day, the obituary columns are becoming longer and longer to the point that the daily Saurashtra Bhaskar's Bhavnagar edition on Thursday set aside eight of its 16 pages for obituary notices. The burgeoning death notices come amid apprehensions that the number of cases and casualties are being underreported for a variety of reasons. Saurashtra Bhaskar, a popular Gujarati newspaper, carried 238 obituaries on Thursday, a quantum jump from just 28 two months back on March 6. Sandesh, another leading Gujarati newspaper, says 12 coronavirus patients died on Wednesday in the Kheda district of Gujarat, while the state government data says only two Covid-19 patients died in Kheda on Wednesday. Similarly, the Gujarat Samachar newspaper says 25 coronavirus patients died on Wednesday in Gandhinagar, a sharp contrast to the Gujarat government's claim that no one died due to the virus in Gandhinagar on Wednesday. Opposition Congress claims that the BJP government in Gujarat is underreporting coronavirus cases to mask the real death count due to the pandemic. "The Vijay Rupani-led government in the state is suppressing coronavirus death figures to hide the reality from the people," state Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said. Countering the allegations, the state government maintains that if a coronavirus patient with comorbidities dies, his death may not be attributed to the viral infection and every death is categorised as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. As per the state government's data released on Wednesday, Gujarat recorded 133 deaths due to Covid-19 during the preceding 24 hours. This data is in stark contrast with the 141 obituaries published in two major Gujarati language newspapers on Thursday, 85 in Gujarat Samachar and 56 in Sandesh. "The BJP government is hiding the actual death figures to cover up their failures in handling the pandemic. In many villages, the daily death toll is in double figures while the government data shows single figures for the entire district," the state Congress spokesperson said. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani recently denied reports that the state government was hiding coronavirus fatalities. "As per ICMR guidelines, if a comorbid patient dies then a committee of experts decides the primary and secondary causes of the death. If the committee identifies the main cause of the death as a heart attack then even though the patient was infected, such death is not counted as caused by coronavirus. This system is followed in the entire country," the chief minister had said. The Gujarat High Court on Wednesday said the steps taken by the state government to contain the spread of Covid- 19 were not enough and further restrictions need to be imposed while keeping in mind people's welfare. The observation came after the state government informed the court about measures undertaken to stem the spread of the deadly virus. "Steps have indeed been taken by the state government ...but the same is not enough in the present situation and further steps to break the chain is also required to make the public at large aware about the pandemic and its grave effect on the society by imposing further restrictions as may be thought fit in the present situation," the court said. Gujarat government on Wednesday reported 12,955 new coronavirus positive cases in the state even as 12,995 people recovered from the infection and 133 Covid-19 patients died. With the addition of the new cases and the fatalities, the overall Covid-19 tally in Gujarat rose to 6,33,427 and the toll to 7,912, the health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/obituaries-flood-newspapers-in-gujarat-belie-official-covid-19-death-toll-983023.html
06-05-2021||West||Goa government cancels permission for shooting of film, tele-serial||The Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) on Thursday cancelled all permissions granted for film and television serial shootings in the state in the wake of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. ESG is the Goa government's nodal agency which is empowered to give permission for commercial shootings in the coastal state. Several film and TV serial makers from Mumbai and Chennai recently shifted their shootings to Goa in the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases in their respective places, ESG's Vice Chairman Subhash Faldesai told PTI. He said all permissions granted for film shootings in Goa have now been cancelled till the Covid-19 situation in the state comes under control. "We will not allow any shooting of films or television serials in public or private properties," he said. All those currently shooting films and serials in Goa have also been asked to wind up their schedules, Faldesai said. Faldesai said the state government has enforced strict curbs, including imposition of Section 144 of CrPC, which bans assembly of five or more people at one place, due to which shootings cannot be permitted. The ESG will review its decision only after the Covid-19 situation is under control, he said. On Wednesday, Goa reported 3,496 new Covid-19 cases and 71 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 1,04,398 and the death toll to 1,443, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-cancels-permission-for-shooting-of-film-tele-serial-983026.html
06-05-2021||West||Deshmukh's plea against FIR: HC adjourns hearing, refuses to pass interim order||The Bombay High Court on Thursday refused to pass any order on former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's request for interim protection from coercive action in connection with an FIR lodged against him by the CBI on corruption charges. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file its affidavit within a period of four weeks in response to the petition filed by Deshmukh seeking to quash the FIR. Senior counsel Amit Desai, appearing for Deshmukh, sought for an interim order granting protection from any coercive action to the NCP leader. "The CBI can file its affidavit to the petition, but till then the petitioner should be protected," Desai said. CBI counsel Anil Singh, however, opposed it and said the agency was given a copy of the petition only on Wednesday and hence, it requires time to file its affidavit. The court then said the respondent (CBI) should be given an opportunity to respond to the petition. "We cannot pass any orders without hearing the parties concerned. If there is extreme urgency, then you (Deshmukh) can move the vacation bench of the HC. You (Deshmukh) have that liberty," the court said. The bench said if Deshmukh moved the vacation bench, then he shall give 48-hour notice to the CBI. Deshmukh filed the petition in the HC on May 3, challenging the FIR lodged by the CBI on April 21 under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, dealing with illegal gratification obtained by a public servant, and section 120(b)(criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. In the petition, Deshmukh claimed the FIR could not have been registered without the state government's consent. The plea said the FIR was filed with a "biased, dubious and ulterior motive at the behest of those having political or other vendetta" against him. It further said the FIR makes vague allegations and there is no case made out for illegal gratification. The CBI had initiated a preliminary enquiry (PE) against Deshmukh on the HC's order on April 5, based on petitions filed by advocate Jayshri Patil and former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who levelled allegations of corruption and malpractices against the NCP leader. Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in March, alleging that Deshmukh had asked API Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore as bribe from bars and restaurants in Mumbai every month. Waze, currently under suspension, was arrested in March in connection with the National Investigation Agency's (NIA) probe into the case of recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai and the subsequent murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran. Param Bir Singh wrote the letter to the CM after he was shifted from the post of Mumbai police commissioner and appointed as the director general, home guards. The CBI had questioned Deshmukh and conducted searches at his premises. The probe agency had also questioned Singh and others. Deshmukh, who has rejected the allegations levelled against him, resigned as state home minister on April 5 after the HC ordered the preliminary enquiry against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deshmukhs-plea-against-fir-hc-adjourns-hearing-refuses-to-pass-interim-order-983056.html
06-05-2021||West||3 Indian Navy ships leave for Mumbai, oxygen in tow||As the demand for medical oxygen grows, three Indian warships have left the Persian Gulf on Thursday with oxygen supplies and heading for the port city of Mumbai. While INS Kochi and INS Tabar had left Kuwait, INS Trikant had departed Doha - carrying a total of seven 20 tonnes (total 140 tonnes) liquid oxygen tanks and 1,400 oxygen cylinders. Meanwhile, INS Kolkata and INS Airavat are already en route from Kuwait and Singapore, respectively, with more than 4,000 oxygen cylinders, two 20 tonnes (total 40 tonnes) oxygen filled containers and eight oxygen tanks. On Wednesday, INS Talwar arrived at port of New Mangalore in Karnataka with the first consignment of 54 tonnes liquid oxygen tanks from Bahrain. Meanwhile, a 26-member medical team including seven doctors, two nursing officers, two paramedics and 15 Battle Field Nursing Assistants (BFNA) have been deputed from Eastern Naval Command to augment the frontline medical team at Dhanvantari Covid Hospital, Ahmedabad. The medical personnel from various units of ENC were airlifted from Visakhapatnam to Ahmedabad on Thursday. The 26 member team is in addition to 58 doctors, 30 nursing officers, 64 medical assistance and 62 Battle Field Nursing Assistance (BFNAs) deputed earlier by Indian Navy for duties at Covid Hospitals established at New Delhi, Patna, Ahmedabad and Kavaratti island for providing aid to the civil population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-indian-navy-ships-leave-for-mumbai-oxygen-in-tow-983074.html
06-05-2021||West||Imperative for private hospitals in Maharashtra to have oxygen plants, says High Court||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was "imperative" for all private hospitals in Maharashtra to have their own oxygen plants to deal with the increasing cases of Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said as the third wave is likely, private hospitals must have their own oxygen plants to meet their own demands. "Now that the third wave is likely, why must private hospitals not be made to have their own oxygen plants? At least to meet their own demands for active consumption? Afterall, they charge all patients," the bench said. The court referred to a newspaper report from Thursday morning, according to which, a private hospital in Sangli had set up its own oxygen supply to tackle the increasing cases of Covid-19. If a hospital in Sangli can do so, why can't private hospitals in places such as Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune and Aurangabad set up their own oxygen plants? it said. "It is high time. It is imperative that they have their own plant. What does the government feel about this?" the High Court asked the state's counsel Advocate General (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni. The bench directed Kumbhakoni to inform the court by May 11, about how much area would a hospital require on average to set up an oxygen plant, the likely expenses, the nature of equipment required etc. The court was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on various issues pertaining to the Covid- 19 pandemic. The PILs cover issues such as the supply of oxygen, medicines, availability of hospital beds etc., across the state. During the day's hearing, AG Kumbhakoni told the bench that Maharashtra was not getting adequate stock of Remdesivir from the Union government. As per the state's data available on May 1, a total of 8,9,000 vials of Remdesivir were to be supplied, and seven private manufacturers identified by the Centre are supposed to send pre-decided units on a daily basis, he said. At least 51,000 vials are needed in state every day, but it was receiving only 35,000 vials daily, he said. "We don't want a tussle with the Centre. We understand it is under pressure. We are only bringing this to your notice," Kumbhakoni told the court. The state had directed all hospitals and Covid-19 centres to use Remdesivir judiciously. Kumbhakoni further said 1,804 metric tonnes of oxygen had been allocated for Maharashtra, and of this, the state was manufacturing 1,200 metric tonnes by itself. "We are only getting 600 metric tonnes from outside," Kumbhakoni said. To this, the bench said while Maharashtra seemed to be faring better than other states in controlling the number of active infections, supply of oxygen, Remdesivir etc., it must not lower its guard, especially since a third wave of the pandemic seemed inevitable. "Other states are seeing deaths due to lack of oxygen. We don't want to see a single death in Maharashtra on account of want of oxygen," the High Court said. In case the supply of 1,804 metric tonnes does not increase in the future, the authorities must ensure judicious use so that not a single person suffers due to lack of oxygen, it said. The bench also took cognisance of the "alarming situation" in Pune district and suggested that the municipal commissioner of Pune seek "guidance" from the commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on containing the viral spread. It suggested that all other districts with high number of active cases set up a meeting with the BMC commissioner through video-conferencing and "follow the Mumbai model". "If Mumbai is regarded as a model by the Supreme Court for the country, then it should be regarded as a model for other municipal corporations in our state", the court said. The bench also said that the state must consider the court's suggestion on taking aggressive measures, including imposing a complete lockdown for a limited period in districts that were witnessing an exponential rise in infections. Hospitals and medical professionals must not insist on prescribing foreign drugs to treat Covid-19, if medicines manufactured in India were cheaper, more widely available and could be used as alternatives to treat the disease, it said. "There is a discussion in the Supreme Court order on the medicines that are effective. Why is there no advisory to this effect?" the court asked. "If there is any entity which is making profit, the Centre and the State need to put their foot down. India is not a country where these multinational companies can make profit," it said. The High Court is likely to pass a detailed order with specific directions to the state and the Union governments later in the day. It will continue hearing the PILs next on May 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imperative-for-private-hospitals-in-maharashtra-to-have-oxygen-plants-says-high-court-983088.html
06-05-2021||West||Over 80,000 Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra are in a serious condition: Report||Over 80,000 of the total 6.5-lakh-odd active Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra are serious, according to a report prepared by the Public Health Department. As of 3 May, the total number of active patients was 6,53,870. Of these patients, 2,30,955 are admitted to hospitals and undergoing treatment, nearly 35.2 per cent of the total active cases. Among the active patients, 1,48,857 are asymptomatic or mild and are in quarantine centres. Among the patients in hospitals, 82,098 – which is nearly 12.50 per cent are serious. Of these 82,098, 25,265 are in ICUs, including 17,077 on oxygenated beds and 8,288 on ventilators. Another 56,733 Covid-19 patients are also taking treatment on oxygen, but outside ICUs across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-80000-covid-19-patients-in-maharashtra-are-in-a-serious-condition-report-983100.html
06-05-2021||West||Centre has cut Maharashtra's oxygen allocation by 50 MT: Rajesh Tope||The Centre has reduced the supply of liquid medical oxygen to Maharashtra from Karnataka by 50 metric tonnes (MT), a move which will have severe impact on treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday. He said the issue of reduction in liquid medical oxygen supply to Maharashtra, which has the maximum number of active cases in the country, should be raised with the Union health ministry. Speaking to reporters here, Tope said, The Union government today reduced the allocation of liquid medical oxygen from Karnataka by 50 metric tonnes. "It will have severe impact on the ongoing treatment of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra. It is necessary to raise the issue with the Union health ministry and other officials concerned." He said the state government is setting up Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen plants to increase production of the life-saving gas used in treatment of serious coronavirus patients. "Maharashtra is currently consuming 1,750 MT of (medical) oxygen," he said. The only ray of hope for the state is installation of 28 PSA plants. The state has given orders for 150 PSA plants which will commence in the coming days, he said. Tope said liquid medical oxygen is among the key tools needed to deal with the pandemic. If oxygen supply is not resumed, we will face serious shortage. We will have to get more oxygen from the Centre in this period (till PSA plants start functioning), he said. PSA is a technology that is used to separate gas species from a mixture of gases under pressure. A fortnight ago, 22 Covid-19 patients died in a civic hospital in Nashik after oxygen supply to them was disrupted due to a leakage in the storage tank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-has-cut-maharashtras-oxygen-allocation-by-50-mt-rajesh-tope-983101.html
06-05-2021||West||Case filed for objectionable posts against political leaders in Maharashtra||A case has been registered against over a dozen persons for uploading objectionable posts on social media about NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, city police said on Thursday. Some of the posts also contained objectionable comments about historical figures, police said. "We have registered a single case against 12 to 13 people who made these objectionable and defamatory comments and one person has been arrested," said inspector D S Hake of Cyber Cell, Pune Police. Some of these posts used morphed images, he said. Though different persons had uploaded these posts, the police bunched various complaints in a single case under relevant IPC and Information Technology Act sections, he said. "We have got deleted all the objectionable comments and photos, and social media accounts of these people have been deactivated," Hake added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/case-filed-for-objectionable-posts-against-political-leaders-in-maharashtra-983116.html
06-05-2021||West||Make Covid negative certificates mandatory for entering Goa: Bombay HC to govt||Amid a steep surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, the Bombay High Court bench in Goa on Thursday directed the state government to impose restrictions for travellers and also sought detailed affidavits about its Covid management efforts The Court was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations, including one by the South Goa Advocates Association, which has sought transparency in the government's efforts to tackle Covid, as well as a 15-day lockdown in the state to stem the rising tide of Covid-19 cases. The Court has also directed the government to make Covid-19 negative certificates mandatory for people visiting the state from May 10 onwards, while also passing directions to post police personnel at designated Covid hospitals for the safety of medical personnel, several of whom have faced threats of violence from kin of patients who have succumbed to the deadly virus. The Bombay High Court has also directed the Goa government to file affidavits detailing steps taken to control the pandemic, as well as state the availability of essential medical supplies which are required to fight the spread of infection and treatment of patients. With Covid tests results delayed by four to five days on an average, the Court has also directed the government to ensure that test results are returned at the earliest, so that patients could start Covid medication. Other information sought by the High Court from the state government includes, whether "any thought process has gone in respect of a lockdown considering that the situation is out of control" and to place on record "if any patient admission policy has been formulated as per the direction of the Supreme Court". The Court has also directed the Goa government to inform it about the status of the vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18-45 years. A record 3,869 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total count of active Covid-19 cases to 29752. In all, 1501 persons have died in Goa so far due to Covid-19 related complications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/make-covid-negative-certificates-mandatory-for-entering-goa-bombay-hc-to-govt-983142.html
06-05-2021||West||Mumbai to get at least 7 more drive-in Covid-19 vaccination centres||Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday directed officials to set up a drive-in vaccination centre in each of seven administrative regions of the city within 24 hours, a civic official said. The first drive-in centre where people can get a shot of coronavirus vaccine without getting out of their vehicles started in the city on Tuesday in Dadar area. Chahal directed deputy municipal commissioners to set up at least one such centre in their respective regions within 24 hours, the official said. Those above 60 years can get vaccinated at drive-in centres only by appointment, and they shall not drive themselves but will be accompanied by an attendant or a driver, the municipal commissioner said in an order. The decision to open more such facilities came after Chahal's meeting with minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is also guardian minister of Mumbai suburban district. "With regard to the crowding at some of the Vaccination centres and the opening up of more "drive in" vaccination centres across the city, @mybmc Commissioner Chahal ji and I had a discussion this morning and new guidelines would be released soon," Thackeray tweeted. The commissioner said in the order that drive-in centres should be set up in big open grounds like Andheri Sports Club ground, Cooperage, Shivaji Stadium, Oval Maidan and MIG Ground. As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, 25,20,634 persons have received coronavirus vaccine jabs, including 5,40,000 who have received both doses, in the city as of Wednesday evening. Those who want a vaccine dose must register themselves on the Co-WIN portal and book a slot at a vaccination centre of their choice before reaching there, civic officials said. The fresh order came in the wake of chaotic scenes outside BKC inoculation centre on Wednesday due to overcrowding. "Since May 1, after launch of above 18 years vaccination program, all the CVCs are getting overcrowded and it becomes difficult to maintain social distancing and Covid appropriate behaviour," the order said. Those above 45 and due for a second dose of Covaxin in particular will be exempted from advance booking, but they will have to produce the provisional certificate -- digital or hard copy -- of having taken the first dose. Healthcare workers and frontline workers who want to take a first or second dose of both Covaxin and Covishield too need not register in advance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-to-get-at-least-7-more-drive-in-covid-19-vaccination-centres-983152.html
06-05-2021||West||Asaram Bapu moved to Jodhpur hospital ICU after testing positive for Covid-19||Self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, jailed for sexually assaulting a teenage girl, has been moved to the Intensive Care Unit of a hospital here, two days after he tested positive for coronavirus, sources said. They said Asaram, who is in his 80s, has been put on ventilator support at the MG Hospital, where he was rushed last night after he complained of breathing difficulty. "He has been put on ventilator support and his condition is stated to be stable," a source said. Sources at the Jodhpur Central Jail said Asaram's samples were taken for testing along with those of other inmates, and his report returned positive two days back following which his treatment was started. "On Wednesday night, his condition deteriorated as he complained of fever and short-breath. We rushed him to the MG Hospital in the night itself," a jail official said. S S Rathore, the principal of S N Medical College, under which the M G hospital comes, refused to comment. MG Hospital superintendent Raj Shree Behra too did not respond to calls. In several court affidavits, Asaram has said he suffers from multiple ailments, and requested he be granted bail on health grounds. Meanwhile, his supporters and followers assembled outside the MG Hospital in large number after the news of his hospitalisation spread around. Some of them also demanded him to be admitted to the AIIMS, but the hospital administration said there was no such need. They also demanded the hospital administration and police share Asaram's health details with them, while some of them tried to sneak into the hospital in order to get a glimpse of his, but police personnel foiled their bid. Later, two female followers of his were detained by the police for constantly trying to dodge the police, and were taken to the police station. Police also seized some of the vehicles of Asaram's followers, but they stay put awaiting any opportunity to sneak in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/asaram-bapu-moved-to-jodhpur-hospital-icu-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-983171.html
06-05-2021||West||Rajasthan imposes strict lockdown from May 10-24||The Rajasthan government on Thursday announced a strict lockdown in the state from May 10 to 24 under which marriage functions, intrastate movement have also been disallowed. Marriage functions will be allowed only after May 31. The amount given for the booking of marriage gardens, band etc. will be either returned or adjusted later. However, marriages will be permitted only in courts or at home in the presence of maximum of 11 people, according to a state cabinet decision. The decision to impose a "strict lockdown" was taken at a cabinet meeting Thursday night. All MGNREGA works and intrastate movement will be restricted during the period. Many restrictions were already in force in the state under 'Red Alert Public Discipline Fortnight' which have been made stringent on the basis of the suggestions given by a group of five ministers during a meeting of the council of ministers. Barring emergency vehicles, no other vehicle, both private and public transport, will be permitted. Places of worship will be closed, MGNREGA works will be suspended and movement from one city/village to another city/village within the state will be prohibited. Those coming from outside the state will have to produce a negative RT-PCR test report. In case there is no negative report, the person will be quarantined for 15 days. In order to prevent migration of workers, they will be permitted in factories and special buses will be operated for the workers of factories/construction sites. Shops which have been permitted to open as per the earlier guidelines will continue to open. During the meeting, the ministers expressed concern on the shortage of oxygen. It was informed in the meeting that work orders for the purchase of 47,000 oxygen concentrators have been issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-imposes-strict-lockdown-from-may-10-24-983177.html
