07-05-2021||First Edit||Centre, states fail to handle Covid surge||While the second wave of the Covid pandemic is spreading in the country, the multiple challenges in dealing with the crisis at the Central and state levels are growing and becoming more complex. Many states have gone in for severe restrictions on the conduct and movements of people, and are planning to make them more stringent. The pandemic is moving into more areas and regions, exposing the vulnerability of larger populations. The situation in the country with respect to the availability of vaccines, medical oxygen and hospital beds and other critical health services has steadily deteriorated. The Supreme Court had found it a fit case for suo motu attention and made some directions and observations which are not complementary to the government. High courts have also paid attention to the situation.   In spite of all denials from the government, the shortage of vaccines continues to be serious across the country. Barely 2% of the population has been inoculated after the rollout of the vaccines in January. Several states have expressed their inability to start vaccinating citizens in the age group of 18-45 years because of lack of stocks. Production continues to be low, forcing the Supreme Court to ask why the government is unwilling to invoke the provision for compulsory licensing in the Patents Act to enable several manufacturers to produce the vaccines. There are also questions about the poorer sections’ access to vaccines and healthcare, the pricing of vaccines, the government’s refusal to offer vaccines free and the differential pricing scheme which burdens the states.  Much more serious is the problem of lack of medical oxygen which has led to the death of many patients. It is a tragic situation where people choke to death in front of doctors and caregivers. There are several issues that need to be addressed, like inadequate production, hitches in transport, insufficient co-ordination between various agencies and even charges of negligence and obstruction. The fact remains that production facilities were not improved in the last few months and there is a blame game between the Central government and the states. Last week, the Delhi High Court had to set a deadline to the Centre for supplying to Delhi its full share of oxygen, and had threatened to evoke contempt powers for compliance. The Supreme Court later published some guidelines on oxygen supply. The matter should not even have gone to the courts. Hospital beds and other facilities are grossly inadequate and the position is set to worsen. In a macabre situation, dead bodies have to await their turn in crematoriums. The NDA government, led by Narendra Modi, was not only unable to prepare for the second wave but is now proving to be unable to handle it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/centre-states-fail-to-handle-covid-surge-983239.html
07-05-2021||In Perspective||Seeking quota to get difficult||The Maharashtra government’s efforts to reserve college seats and government jobs for the Maratha community have come to a sorry end. A Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court of India in Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil vs The Chief Minister, Maharashtra, has unanimously held that the 2018 Maharashtra law granting a 16 per cent quota for Marathas in educational institutions and government jobs is unconstitutional. In striking down the 2018 Act, the court has relied on the well-established jurisprudence around Article 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution. The court found no credible evidence to suggest that the Maratha community is in any way socially or educationally backward and rejected “studies” which claimed otherwise. Rather, the court took the view that the Maratha community was a “socially advanced and prestigious caste”. Another ground for striking down the reservation was that it resulted in exceeding the ceiling of 50 per cent reservation. The Supreme Court has held that the limit of 50 per cent on reservations in jobs and seats laid down in the Indra Sawhney case, while not absolutely sacrosanct, was justified since it strikes a constitutional balance between equality of opportunity and the needs of equity. While it may be breached in certain exceptional situations as laid down in Indra Sawhney vs Union of India (1994), the SC noted that nothing on the facts of the present case showed why it should be breached for Marathas who were in no way outside the mainstream of the society or so severely deprived of opportunities that such a move was necessary. Even apart from the validity of the 2018 Act, the court was called upon to decide whether the Indra Sawhney case itself was decided correctly in 1994. Specifically, lawyers arguing for the 2018 Act contended that the 50 per cent limit was arbitrary, not founded on the constitutional text and impeded social mobility. The court rejected these arguments as well countering instead that the 50 per cent struck a necessary balance and “[t]o change the 50 per cent limit is to have a society which is not founded on equality but based on caste rule.” The SC striking down Maratha reservations has profound implications for not just other similar caste groups, but also on the so-called reservations for “Economically Weaker Sections” (EWS) (currently under challenge in the court). The SC had earlier struck down reservations for the Jat community in various states across northern India and there is currently a challenge pending to the constitutional validity of the reservations for the Gujjar community in Rajasthan. In this context, just as crucial is the court’s finding (by a majority of three to two) that following the 102nd amendment to the Constitution, states will no longer be allowed to designate which castes and communities are “socially and economically backward” for the purposes of reservations. Reservations were certainly not meant to benefit dominant groups such as the Marathas who not only enjoy numerical strength, but have also controlled land, resources and political power. To this extent, the court’s reasoning is unexceptionable and it has rightly rejected as flawed the basis on which the Maharashtra government and the Bombay High Court concluded that the Maratha community was “socially and educationally backward”. Yet, one does detect a certain note of judicial conservatism in the SC’s upholding of the 50 per cent limit to reservations as laid down in the Indra Sawhney case. I have argued elsewhere that the 50 per cent ceiling unnecessarily limits the transformative power of reservations to reduce inequality and promote opportunity. In the absence of a proper caste census, one could even argue that a 50 per cent limit on reservations inhibits members of disenfranchised and oppressed groups from rightful opportunities. While the court never says so explicitly, it seems to implicitly accept the flawed idea that “merit” and “equality” are somehow opposing values. That said, this elevation of the limit of 50 per cent to a constitutional value (as opposed to merely a judicial test) has serious implications for the validity of the provisions of the 103rd Amendment. In specific, those parts of the amendment allow the states or Central governments to breach the 50 per cent limit in granting EWS reservations. Following the principle in Kesavananda Bharati vs State of Kerala (1974) that Parliament cannot even amend the Constitution to go against core constitutional values (‘the basic structure’) then the 103rd amendment which allows for the breaching of the 50 per cent limit now stands on immediately weaker footing. It remains to be seen whether the court extends this line of reasoning to the EWS reservations as well when the case comes up for hearing, but as things stand, dominant communities which have used their political muscle to seek and corner reservations at the state and Central level will find it much, much harder to do so in the future as a result of this judgement. (The writer is Co-Founder and Lead, The Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/seeking-quota-to-get-difficult-983240.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen tanker meets with an accident near Belagavi||An oxygen tanker met with an accident near Mutnal village in Belagavi taluk on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway on Thursday night. The Oxygen tanker was on its way towards Belagavi when the accident took place. It had been filled with 16.5 metric tonnes of oxygen at JSW's plant in Ballari. It was not known if the tanker collided with another heavy goods vehicle while attempting to overtake the latter. Due to the impact of the accident, the axle of the tanker broke and oxygen in the tank needs to be refilled to another tank to clear the vehicle from road, police said. Hirebagewadi police have registered a case in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-tanker-meets-with-an-accident-near-belagavi-983326.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Get quota fixed from govt to get oxygen’||MP Pratap Simha criticised the district in-charge ministers and deputy commissioner of the neighbouring districts for visiting Mysuru and getting oxygen cylinders refilled. Explaining that Mysuru is also facing shortage, the MP asked them not to create unnecessary problem. Speaking to reporters here, the MP said that Mandya District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda and Chamarajanagar District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar and Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi visited Mysuru along with police escort and got oxygen cylinders refilled. “Is it right to do so. It is unjust authority of power,” he alleged. The ministers should stop this kind of attitude. Let them ask Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to fix a quota and demand the state government to supply required oxygen. They should resolve the issue with the chief secretary and not totally depend on Mysuru for oxygen supply, he said. "We will not tolerate oppression and threats. Taking oxygen with the police force is not right," he warned. “We are not producing oxygen in Mysuru, but only refilling done. Mysuru district itself is facing shortage of oxygen and the neighbouring districts should not trouble us," he said. The cases are likely to be double by the end of May and we are making arrangements for more oxygenated beds. The MP said that he had suggested the state government to fix quota of oxygen to be supplied to Mandya and Chamarajanagar from Mysuru, during a video conference recently. But, no step has been taken, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/get-quota-fixed-from-govt-to-get-oxygen-983530.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Devegowda urges govt to allot oxygen to districts||MLA G T Devegowda expressed displeasure against the state government and said that despite so many deaths due to lack of oxygen in Chamarajanagar, the government is yet to allot oxygen for districts. In an emergency press conference here, on Friday, Devegowda said that the government has not yet fixed the quantity of oxygen to be supplied for the districts and it is leading to disagreements between the district administrations and the officials. “There is disagreement between Mysuru and Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Hassan and Kodagu districts in connection with the oxygen supply. District in-charge ministers, Deputy Commissioners are themselves visiting Mysuru with the police protection to get oxygen cylinders. The government should take immediate measures to avert a major tragedy,” he warned. “The people from other districts are undergoing treatment in Mysuru and the district needs 70 metric tonnes oxygen per day, but we are getting only 30 MT,” he said. Devegowda pleaded the Union government to supply required oxygen to the state.  He also criticised BJP MPs representing the state and suggested Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to take an all party delegation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “We will explain the PM about the worse situation the state is facing,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/devegowda-urges-govt-to-allot-oxygen-to-districts-983531.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Altercation over oxygen supply mars meeting in Mandya||Heated arguments over 2 KL oxygen cylinder supplied by MP Sumalatha, with her money, marred the meeting held to discuss Covid-related issues in Mandya on Friday. Srirangapatna MLA Srikantaiah raised the issue. "When we are not able to get oxygen cylinders, the media and social media reports claim that the MP has supplied oxygen cylinder with her own money. How is it possible for the MP to get jumbo cylinder," he questioned. Replying, Pandavapura Assistant Commissioner Shivanandamurthy said, "The jumbo oxygen cylinder was supplied through the government quota and we have not received any money from the MP for it." The JD(S) legislators said, "The MP, who has come to the district after two months is trying to divert the people. She has been lying that the cylinders were supplied by her for publicity sake. She is trying to do politics even during the crisis." When the arguments heated up, MP Sumalatha walked out of the meeting. Later, speaking to the reporters, she said, "The MLAs are doing politics even during the Covid crisis. This is the reason why I do not like to attend the KDP meetings. After my efforts to get the oxygen cylinders to the district, the people are questioning them." "Their party has MPs, former prime minister, who has the influence of directly calling the PM's office. They can exert pressure on the Union government to get oxygen. I am upset over the petty politics even during such a crisis," Sumalatha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/altercation-over-oxygen-supply-mars-meeting-in-mandya-983533.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Only single entry point to railway station, CFTRI entry closed||As the passenger movement is high at railway stations due to cancellation of bus services due to Covid-19 pandemic, South Western Railway, Mysuru Division, has taken certain measures to ensure safety of the passengers. There has been a gradual increase in the number of passengers both in the unreserved and reserved sector since the operations of interstate bus services have stopped. To keep a close watch on the prevailing situation and as per the directives of Railway Board, Mysuru Division has been following strict protocols for the movement of passengers from Mysuru Railway Station. According to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Dr Manjunath Kanamadi, to restrict face-to-face movement of passengers and to regulate freeway for passengers alighting or getting on to the trains to go to their respective destinations, the existing multiple entries and exit point from platforms of Mysuru railway station are closed until further notice. The west side entry to railway station, from CFTRI or Railway Museum side and sub-way exit on circulating area towards main railway station will also be closed. There will only be a single entry point to the platforms from the portico of the main station building, where the passengers shall be subject to thermal screening and ensured they wear mask or face covers. Only asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to travel and any violation will be dealt with in accordance with the guidelines. Similarly, there will be only a separate single exit point near foot over bridge on Platform 1.  Passengers with wait-listed tickets will not be allowed to enter the railway station. Confirmed ticket passengers should mandatorily carry sanitisers and observe social distancing both during boarding and journey and, adhere to health protocols. The existing policy for non-supply of linen and blankets for passengers travelling in AC coaches will remain in force. All travelling passengers and stakeholders are requested to use the main entry for entering and exiting the railway station and cooperate with the railways in the larger public interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/only-single-entry-point-to-railway-station-cftri-entry-closed-983534.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||CCTV cameras installed at oxygen refilling units||In order to control agents and middlemen in connection with the oxygen supply, the authorities have decided to install CCTV cameras at oxygen refilling units in the city. MP Pratap Simha, also in-charge of oxygen supply, on Friday said that to control the agents of private hospitals, it has been decided to install CCTV cameras at all the eight units. The CCTV cameras will be connected to mobile phones to monitor. There are 102 private hospitals in Mysuru and there are 37 hospitals which has more than 30 beds. Of 37 hospitals, 32 institutions have provided details and quota of oxygen will be fixed for these hospitals. An additional 10% oxygen will be reserved in each facility, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cctv-cameras-installed-at-oxygen-refilling-units-983535.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cong leaders blame govt’s ‘negligence’ for current Covid crisis||Congress party leaders came down heavily against the Union and the state government for poor management of Covid-19. Former MP, also Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president R Dhruvanarayan, former MLA Vasu and Mahila Congress president Pushpa Amarnath charged that the administrative machinery, led by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has totally failed in containing the pandemic. Dhruvanaraya criticised Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and said that the CM has displayed his inefficiency with the total failure of the Home and Intelligence Department. Yediyurappa had said MP Tejasvi Surya took a risk to expose the bed blocking scam and brought it to the notice of the state government. The CM's statement shows his inefficiency. If an MP unearths the scam, what was the Home and Intelligence Departments doing, he questioned. Dhruvanarayan also criticised Surya for targeting the Muslim community and linking madarasa in the scam. The scam should not be communalised and it is not good for the development of the nation, he said. Dhruvanarayan also said that Chamarajanagar district, where 24 deaths were reported allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, will face a worse situation if the government fails to take immediate measures. The cases are rising but, the district lacks facilities. The number of beds have not increased and the district is facing shortage of ventilators and oxygen, he said. He also alleged that the negligence of the government and officials resulted in 24 deaths. Vasu asked what is the need for the government which cannot supply oxygen to the needy patients? The government has failed to utilise the hospitals constructed during the tenure of Siddaramaiah as chief minister, he blamed. The BJP government has failed to manage Covid pandemic situation and is not capable of establishing required facilities. Siddaramaiah took an initiative and released funds for the construction of Jayadeva Hospital, district hospital, Ayurveda Hospital among the others. But, the present government failed to utilise the services, he alleged. Pushpa Amarnath criticised Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar claimed him as a commission minister. The minister collects commission and the state government has failed to control corruption. The 25 MPs representing the state have failed to get needed oxygen from the Union government, she said. The government has never bothered to supply needed oxygen. The Union government is neglecting Karnataka. She challenged the government to release White Paper about the funds raised in the name of Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cong-leaders-blame-govt-s-negligence-for-current-covid-crisis-983537.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Revanna demands probe into black marketing of Remdesivir||MLA H D Revanna alleged that the district administration has failed to control the sale of Remdesivir injections in black market at exorbitant prices. Addressing media persons here, on Friday, Revanna said, "Remdesivir is being sold at Rs 18,000 to Rs 20,000 at private hospitals, which are connived with the political leaders. The district administration should conduct a probe and expose those who are behind the illegal sale of the medicine. The authorities should ensure whether the Remdesivir is reaching the patients." There is a surge in Covid cases in the district, but there are only 1,000 vials of Remdesivir in the district, including government and private hospitals. There is no sufficient supply, he complained. Commenting on the oxygen shortage, Revanna said, "Covid patients are being treated in 22 hospitals including seven government hospitals. There is a need for 672 oxygen cylinders in the district every day. But, there is only one oxygen plant in the district and has the capacity to fill 460 cylinders. There is approximately a shortage of 200 cylinders every day. The figures may go up in future. Though a few patients died of oxygen shortage, the doctors are claiming it to be Covid deaths." Both the Centre and the state government are focused on the elections and neglected the Covid management, which has gone out of control in the country. The government should bear the cost of treatment for the poor, he demanded. Targeting the MPs, he said, "The 26 MPs of BJP are not responding to the problems of the people during the crisis. They have turned into puppets in the hands of Narendra Modi." Commenting on the lockdown, Revanna said, "The roadside vendors and labourers will be affected by it. The government should provide five kg rice, three kg wheat or ragi and a financial assistance of Rs 3,000."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/revanna-demands-probe-into-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-983538.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pros and cons should be considered before lockdown: Minister||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the pros and cons of the lockdown should be considered, before the government announces a total lockdown in the state. Speaking to reporters here, on Friday, Suresh Kumar said, “The ‘Janata curfew’, imposed by the state government to control the spread of Covid has not yielded expected results.” “There is a widespread opinion from the experts and the public suggesting total lockdown, to break the chain and flatten the curve. But, we have to understand the situation of the daily wagers, who will be the worst affected if lockdown is enforced. However, the chief minister will take a final decision after the meeting,” he said. To a query, he said, “Six Covid patients and two non-Covid patients have died in the last 24 hours in Chamarajanagar district. Currently, there is no shortage of oxygen supply in the district hospital.” Meanwhile, Kollegal MLA N Mahesh stressed for an immediate total lockdown in the state for the next 15 days, to control the surge in Covid cases. In a press release, Mahesh suggested that the families with BPL cards should be disbursed a financial assistance of Rs 5,000, along with the monthly ration. Besides, the authorities should enforce inter-state and inter-district movement during the total lockdown, but there should not be any restrictions for the movement of agricultural produce, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pros-and-cons-should-be-considered-before-lockdown-minister-983539.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Hassan facing shortage of oxygen, bed, Remdesivir’||Hassan is among the districts facing a severe bed, oxygen and Remdesivir shortage, the district administration has said Friday. In a letter to former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, Hassan DC R Girish has said the administration is hard-pressed for oxygen cylinders. There’s just one oxygen production unit in the district, with a capacity of producing 460 cylinders. There’s a deficit of 200 cylinders every day, he said. His letter came in the wake of the JD(S) supremo complaining to the chief minister about government apathy in addressing the rising number of cases in Hassan. The district has 22 hospitals, including seven taluk hospitals where covid treatment is being given. These hospitals put together require 672 oxygen cylinders per day. The refilling of oxygen has stopped in the existing two refilling units, as there is no supply of liquid oxygen. If this is set right, the oxygen problem in the district will be resolved, the DC said. The district is also facing a shortage of Remdesivir, he added. Further, the district administration has given a proposal to the state government to expand the capacity of oxygen beds at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. However, this proposal is pending with the government, according to the DC. Earlier in the day, Deve Gowda had written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa flagging concerns about the rising number of cases. Even though the CM had earlier assured that he would discuss it with the district incharge minister C N Ashwath Narayan and direct the district administration to take measures, there was no progress on this front, Gowda had said. “If this continues, it will be difficult to control the situation in the district,” the senior leader said in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-facing-shortage-of-oxygen-bed-remdesivir-983563.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Veteran actor ‘Shankanada’ Aravind no more||Senior Kannada actor Shankanada Aravind passed away due to Covid-19 at Victoria hospital in Bengaluru on Friday. He was 70. He had lost his wife Rama, a playback singer in Kannada cinema, three months ago. He is survived by three children.  He acted in over 200 Kannada films. He was known for his acting in movies like Anubhava, Aguntaka, Bettada Hoovu, Aparichita, Shankanada, Gnana Gange (2020). He had produced two films.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/veteran-actor-shankanada-aravind-no-more-983564.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tumakuru man turns his building into Covid care centre||Amid the fear and uncertainty surrounding the Covid-19 second wave, there are bright spots in the fight against the pandemic. Here’s a gentleman who is nursing hope amid despair. In a heart-warming gesture, former president of Tumakuru district wakf board and Congress leader Iqbal Ahmed has turned his building into a Covid care centre. Ahmed, under the banner of Like-minded Organisations Forum, has readied a makeshift 50-bed hospital. This includes 25 oxygen beds. His Salaam hospital will provide free treatment to needy Covid patients. “Covid patients with mild and moderate symptoms will be provided free treatment at Salaam hospital. Our men will stay in touch with the patients. They will make arrangements for oxygen, if the patient’s condition worsens and admit them to the designated Covid hospital, if required,” Iqbal Ahmed told DH. Services of doctors Imtiyaz, Mudasir, Asgar Baig, Imran and Amin Obaid will be available at the facility. The Covid care centre is manned by four nurses and 15 volunteers who had served in fever clinics. Ahmed said that philanthropists Abdul Hafeez, Mudasir Ahmed Rubi and Jamaat members Mohammad Asif and Mukurram Sayed have been helpful in running the Covid care centre. He has set up helplines for the benefit of the general public. For any Covid-related assistance contact: 77952-63312 & 77952-93312.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tumakuru-man-turns-his-building-into-covid-care-centre-983568.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen tanker meets accident near Belagavi||An oxygen tanker met with an accident near Mutnal village in Belagavi taluk on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway on Thursday night. There was no leakage of oxygen from the tanker after the accident. The oxygen tanker was on its way towards Belagavi when the accident occurred. It was filled with 16.5 MT oxygen at JSW, Ballari. It is not clear if the tanker collided with another heavy goods vehicle while attempting to overtake. Due to impact of the accident, the axle of the tanker broke and the oxygen from the tank had to be refilled to another tank to clear the vehicle from road, the police said. The Hirebagewadi police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-tanker-meets-accident-near-belagavi-983569.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||UGC tells higher education institutions to keep offline exams in abeyance||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked all higher educational institutions across the nation to keep offline examinations in abeyance during May 2021. In a communication issued to the Vice Chancellors of all universities and higher educational institutions, principals of colleges across the nation, the University Grants Commission said, "Keeping in view of the current scenario of Covid-19, it is required that the higher education institutions may keep the offline examinations in abeyance during May 2021 to avoid physical gathering at the campuses and also to provide much needed relief to the students and faculty."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ugc-tells-higher-education-institutions-to-keep-offline-exams-in-abeyance-983599.html
07-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Labourer killed in wild jumbo attack||A agricultural labourer was killed in an elephant attack at Hullemakki village in Belur taluk of Hassan district on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Shivu (55), who hailed from Balehonnuru. According to sources, Shivu was working in the coffee plantation at Hullemakki village, when a wild jumbo attacked him at around 10 am. He died on the spot.  The incident has created panic among the other labourers and owners of coffee estates in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/labourer-killed-in-wild-jumbo-attack-983601.html
07-05-2021||Main Article||Build more hospitals||As India runs a drive for vaccination against Covid-19, the nature reminds us about our diminutiveness by an accompanying surge in cases. In 2020, India had reported the highest number of 98,795 cases in 24 hours on September 17, but now the new unfortunate peak in April 2021 is past the two-lakh mark. We pointed out even last year when the government was busy proclaiming its adept handling of the spread of disease, that government health infrastructure was inadequate while the private sector had just abdicated its responsibility. Covid patients had to suffer because of this and non-Covid patients had to suffer because they were not a priority even though they were facing life-threatening situations. Now the situation is even worse. The healthcare system has collapsed. Uttar Pradesh Law Minister Brajesh Pathak even wrote a scathing letter to the responsible bureaucrat about the abysmal response of healthcare system to Covid emergency. When an influential minister of the ruling party feels helpless, one can imagine the situation of ordinary mortals. In spite of the government policy of advising people home isolation in case they test positive, currently there is a scramble for beds. People are dying moving from one hospital to another, unable to find a bed. The Prime Minister trumpeted a so-called Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, taking pride in the domestically produced Covishield vaccine based on Oxford-AstraZeneca research, only to give in to the demand to import Russian vaccine when push came to shove. The Bhartiya Janata Party governments seem to continuously function in an event management mode. Yogi Adityanath, who got himself accolades for his handling of the coronavirus crisis, has now himself tested Covid-positive, pointing to failure at three levels — the ineffectiveness of the much-touted vaccination programme, which has miserably failed to inoculate sufficient section of population, as he got himself inoculated days before; his ‘efficient’ healthcare system about which he once claimed that Kerala should learn from; and maintenance of general vigil and observing precautions against the disease. It is believed that herd immunity kicks in only if two-thirds of a population is inoculated within a short duration of 8-10 months. However, in the case of India, we’ve hardly been able to vaccinate 1.2 crore of our population so far with both the doses, which is less than hundredth of what we need to do. And more importantly, the speed of vaccination is appalling — India’s drive began on January 16, 2021, and it took us three months to give both the doses to 1.2 crore. The time window is fast closing if we want to leverage public health benefits of herd immunity or save lives or reduce hospitalisations. The government is woefully short of beds to accommodate all patients and is on a spree to acquire the capacity of private hospitals. We have always advocated for nationalisation of healthcare system. The logic for it cannot be understood any better than in times of Covid crisis. The UP government has ignored the Allahabad High Court’s 2018 order by Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice Ajeet Kumar that all those receiving salaries from the government and their family members should get themselves treated at government healthcare facilities. Implementation of this order alone will make the government healthcare robust. However, even in the time of pandemic, the government is guilty of promoting private interests. In the case of Covaxin, the other vaccine being used in India so far, important initial part of research was done by the National Institute of Virology, which is a part of the Indian Council of Medical Research, and handed over to Bharat Biotech for further development. A pertinent question is, when the farmers are sitting on a protest for over three months demanding a legal right of minimum support price of their produce, which is one and half times their cost of production, why have the vaccine manufacturers been allowed to mint unethical profit in the time of a national calamity? It is important to remember that AstraZeneca/Oxford had promised not to earn any profit from the vaccine. Then why is its manufacturer selling vaccine to the government at variable prices? Covishield was bought by the government of India earlier at Rs 210 per dose, and recently it has been bought by our government at Rs 150. More interesting is that Covaxin, the vaccine which is entirely produced in India, costs even more to the government: Rs 295 per dose. The Covishield manufacturer wanted to sell it at Rs 1,000 per dose in private market but thankfully our government put a maximum cap of Rs 250 per dose. Let us not forget that the price of Covid test last year was so hard-negotiated at a maximum of Rs 4,500 which has come down significantly since then. The question is, who determines the cost price, and who should be held to account for minting profits even when people reel under severe economic and humanitarian crises? That India needs a better healthcare infrastructure couldn’t have been more obvious earlier. We need more public hospitals to handle a crisis like the coronavirus pandemic. If the BJP cares about the people rather than the politics espoused by the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh, it should take a decision to divert major part of Rs 3,000 crore collected for building the Ram temple in Ayodhya for building hospitals. Even the existing religious infrastructure should be taken over by the government and converted into hospitals. If gurdwaras can serve human beings by running a very efficient langar system, why can’t other religious institutions get involved in human service, rather than restricting themselves to worship? In fact, government policy should make it mandatory for religious institutions to be involved with some form of human service in providing food, healthcare, education or undertaking some welfare activity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/build-more-hospitals-983241.html
07-05-2021||National||14-day institutional quarantine must for those arriving in Delhi from AP, Telangana: DDMA||People arriving in the national capital from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana through any mode of transport will have to undergo 14 days of mandatory institutional quarantine, said an order issued by the Delhi government on Thursday. However, those who have been administered both doses of any Covid vaccine or carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey, will be required to be home quarantined for seven days, it said. People who have received the two doses will have to present the vaccination certificate, it said. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) stated in the order that a virulent variant of Covid-19 is reported to have been found recently in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The new strain of Covid-19 has a shorter incubation period with high transmission rate and the progress of disease is much more rapid in this strain, it said. Therefore, additional precautionary measures with respect to people coming from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to Delhi through flights, trains, buses or cars are required to be taken, it said. "All persons arriving from the state of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in NCT of Delhi by airlines, trains, buses, cars, trucks or any other mode of transportation shall have to undergo mandatory government institutional quarantine or paid quarantine for 14 days at facilities established by the concerned district magistrate," stated the order. Resident commissioners of concerned state bhawans will be responsible for ensuring the compliance of instructions for quarantine in case of those reaching there, the DDMA order said. Similarly, owners of hotels, guest houses and such facilities will be responsible for compliance of the order if people from the two states stay there, it added. The concerned district magistrates in the national capital will ensure compliance of instructions in the order and take necessary action as per health protocol, SOPs prevailing in Delhi with regard to screening, testing, home quarantine, isolation, surveillance of such people, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-day-institutional-quarantine-must-for-those-arriving-in-delhi-from-ap-telangana-ddma-983250.html
07-05-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Better sense', 'compassion' to help fight third wave?||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to spell out its plan to tackle a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic while emphasising the need to create buffer stock for oxygen and undertake vaccination process at a larger scale. The court also felt that the Centre's formula of oxygen distribution to state governments, particularly to the national capital, was a "gross underestimate". "The third surge which is around the corner, according to experts, will affect children. What is the problem in enhancing the supply (of oxygen)?" a bench comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. It will save from oxygen panic and create a buffer, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-better-sense-compassion-to-help-fight-third-wave-983264.html
07-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 7||A record 4,14,188 more persons contracted the coronavirus in India as the country saw the virus claiming the lives of 3,915 people over the past 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday showed. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal thanked the Centre for supplying Delhi with 730 metric tonnes of oxygen and requested hospitals to increase the Covid-19 beds. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Government launched 'Mission Oxygen' to scale up the medical oxygen production from 1,200 MT to 3,000 MT over the next few weeks. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,14,91,598 as of May 7, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,34,083 as of May 7, 2021   No. of people discharged: 1,76,12,351   Total Vaccination: 16,49,73,058 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-may-7-983268.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Six US planes carrying medical supplies reached India in past few days||The US has so far sent six planes carrying emergency supplies to India, which is battling one of its worst public health crises. The emergency supplies include 20,000 courses of remdesivir (125,000 vials) to help treat critically ill patients, nearly 1,500 oxygen cylinders, which can be repeatedly refilled at local supply centres, and one million rapid diagnostic tests to quickly identify Covid-19 cases. The six planes, which have landed in just six days, also carried nearly 550 mobile oxygen concentrators that obtain oxygen from ambient air. These units have a lifespan of more than five years and can serve multiple patients at once, depending on their oxygen needs. The US has also sent nearly 2.5 million N95 masks to protect healthcare professionals and other frontline workers. According to the USAID, a large-scale deployable Oxygen Concentration System that can provide oxygen to treat 20 or more patients at a time and 210 pulse oximeters to measure oxygen levels in a patient’s blood to determine whether a higher level of care is needed has also been sent to India. The US government assistance to combat the current crisis is about $100 million. The United States is continuing to work closely with Indian officials and health experts to identify and respond to emerging trends in this ongoing crisis, the USAID said. The six shipments were made possible by a USAID-led whole-of-government effort, which included the Department of Defense, Department of State, Department of Health and Human Services, Travis Air Force Base, in partnership with the state of California, National Airlines, and United Airlines, it added. Last week, the USAID immediately allocated funding to purchase locally an additional 1,000 mobile oxygen concentrators. These life-saving units will be used in hundreds of primary health care facilities to address India’s critical oxygen shortage. The USAID said it is also supporting the Government of India’s efforts to stand up 150 Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen generating plants, allowing 150 healthcare facilities to generate their own oxygen for years to come. "The official US response over the last few days to India’s horrific Covid crisis underscores the depth and breadth of Washington’s unwavering commitment to India. Both the Biden administration and the US Congress have spared no effort toward this end in a testament to the strength and character of the bilateral relationship,” Ronak D. Desai, an expert on US-India relations at Harvard University and an international investigations attorney at Paul Hastings LLP, told PTI. Observing that Congressional efforts to assist India in its darkest hour have proven pervasive, bipartisan and bicameral, Desai said the speed at which members in both the House and Senate have mobilised to reduce India’s suffering serves as a potent reminder of the enduring goodwill India continues to enjoy in the corridors of the US Congress. "Profound credit is due to Representatives Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ro Khanna, Pramilia Jayapal, and Dr Ami Bera for their steadfast leadership in helping mobilize the Congressional response to India’s Covid crisis and bringing national and international attention to the grave situation in India, why it matters, and why all American should care,” he said. Less than five years ago, such community representation in Congress would have been hard to predict. Less than five years later, it is clear why such representation is so crucially important, he said in response to a question. Noting that the scope and substance of Washington’s assistance to India over the past several days demonstrates the sincerity and reliability of the US, Desai said the Biden administration and its Congressional partners have proven that they treat their partnership and engagement with India in a non-transactional manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-six-us-planes-carrying-medical-supplies-reached-india-in-past-few-days-983269.html
07-05-2021||National||Australia to reopen door to India, still probing Sydney Covid case||Australian citizens stranded in Covid-ravaged India will be able to return home from May 15, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Friday, as Sydney remains on high alert for a potential outbreak. Morrison stood by his decision to impose a biosecurity order barring flights to and from India, a ban that was backed by potential prosecution and financial penalties. The policy drew heavy criticism from lawmakers, expatriates and the Indian diaspora, but Morrison said it had worked to slow the rate of Covid-19 infections in people quarantined in Australia. "National Security Committee of Cabinet has confirmed that it will have done its job by then, and as a result we see no need to extend it beyond that date," Morrison told reporters. New South Wales state Premier Gladys Berejiklian, meanwhile, said New Zealand's decision to partially suspend a travel bubble with Australia as a result of new infections in Sydney was an "overreaction." State health officials were still trying to track the missing links in the case of a 50-year-old man who was diagnosed with an Indian variant of Covid-19. Genomic sequencing had linked the case to a returned traveller from the United States, but there was no clear transmission path between the two people. “We may never find that missing link,” Berejiklian told the Nine Network "Today" show. "That’s why we ask everybody to come forward and get tested. Every time there’s a positive case, we can match it to see if it’s part of the same strain." The man infected his wife and state health officials are due to announce later on Friday if there are more cases. New Zealand on Thursday suspended quarantine-free travel to and from New South Wales while Australian authorities investigated. The so-called "travel bubble" between Australia and New Zealand opened less than a month ago. With many people expected to gather over the weekend for annual Mother's Day celebrations, the NSW state government restricted household gatherings to 20 guests and limited aged care facility visitors to two people per resident. Masks will be mandatory on public transport and at indoor venues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australia-to-reopen-door-to-india-still-probing-sydney-covid-case-983273.html
07-05-2021||National||4.14 lakh new Covid-19 infections: Record daily surge||With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598, while the active cases crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 36,45,164 comprising 16.96 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.95 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,76,12,351, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7,30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,86,01,699 samples have been tested up to May 6 with 18,26,490 samples being tested on Thursday. The 3,915 new fatalities include 853 from Maharashtra, 350  from Uttar Pradesh, 335 from Delhi, 328 from Karnataka, 212  from Chhattisgarh, 195 from Tamil Nadu, 177 from Haryana, 161 from Rajasthan, 154 from Punjab, 151 from Uttarakhand, 133 from Jharkhand, 123 from Gujarat and 117 from West Bengal. A total of 2,34,083 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 73,515 from Maharashtra, 18,398 from Delhi, 17,212 from Karnataka, 14,974 from Tamil Nadu, 14,501 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,964 from West Bengal, 9,979 from Punjab and 9,950 from Chhattisgarh.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/414-lakh-new-covid-19-infections-record-daily-surge-983289.html
07-05-2021||National||Herd immunity for Covid only after October but vaccination needs to be scaled up: SBI report||India would be able to achieve "herd immunity" from the sweeping Covid-19 pandemic by October 2021 only if it is able to scale up the vaccination drive in the coming months, according to a report prepared by the State Bank of India. So far, the country has given 160.5 million doses of vaccine with around 131 million taken one dose and 31.5 million fully vaccinated taking both doses. The percentage of people who have taken double dose to total vaccination doses is now around 19.5 per cent. However, the daily vaccine doses given are now at an average of 17 lakhs per day compared to an average of 28 lakhs per day in April.  “Given this trend, we believe India can only be able to vaccinate 15 per cent of the population by October 2021 (which is required for herd immunity given the other countries’ trend) but only if we are able to vaccinate around 55 lakhs daily in September and October,” said the Ecowrap report of the SBI. The research report from the SBI’s Economic Research Department – “Economic disruptions gain momentum as cases surge: Opportunity for administrative reforms?”  has been authored by Dr Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Adviser, SBI. “Given that vaccination could be the only driver as of now to contain the disease, we did a disaggregated analysis to estimate the ideal share of each State in total vaccines based on distribution parameters including population above 18 years, total deaths, Covid-19 cases and deaths in States and juxtaposed it with the vaccine distribution,” he said. The results show that Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh might have received lower vaccine doses than they require whereas states like Rajasthan, Kerala, West Bengal and Gujarat have received more. “Thus such states with a lower share have to procure a large number of vaccines in future from the manufacturers to fill the gap. However, we also need to understand that there will be always a gap in ex-ante and ex-post vaccine distribution given the spread of Covid-19 has been almost difficult to predict,” the report states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/herd-immunity-for-covid-only-after-october-but-vaccination-needs-to-be-scaled-up-sbi-report-983302.html
07-05-2021||National||UN agencies delivered nearly 10,000 oxygen concentrators, 10 million medical masks to India||Several United Nations agencies have delivered nearly 10,000 oxygen concentrators and about 10 million medical masks to India to support national and local governments to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the spokesman for the UN chief. In India, the UN team on the ground “continues to support the authorities — both nationally and locally — to tackle the pandemic,” Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, said at the daily press briefing on Thursday. He said UNICEF, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) have delivered nearly 10,000 oxygen concentrators, nearly 10 million medical masks and more than 1.5 million face shields. The UN team has also purchased ventilators and oxygen-generating plants. UNICEF is also providing cold chain equipment for Covid-19 vaccines. “Our team has also delivered testing machines and kits, as well as airport thermal scanners,” he said adding that WHO is also providing tents and beds for temporary health facilities and the agency has deployed thousands of public health specialists to help address the pandemic. UNICEF and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) are also helping to monitor more than 175,000 vaccination centres across India. UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore had earlier cautioned that the “tragic" Covid-19 situation in India should “raise alarm bells for all of us. Unless the world steps up and helps India now, there will be reverberations across the region and the world in terms of virus-related deaths, virus mutations and supply delays.” India is in the midst of a raging second wave of Covid-19 and is recording over 400,000 daily coronavirus infections and over 3,000 deaths. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), India has a total of over 20.6 million confirmed Covid-19 cases and over 226,000 deaths. Countries across the South Asia region are witnessing rises in infections, with India accounting for over 90 per cent of both cases and deaths in the region, according to the World Health Organization. India also accounted for 46 per cent of global cases and 25 per cent of global deaths reported in the past week, WHO has said. UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia George Laryea-Adjei had said in a statement that urgent action and steadfast leadership are indispensable to stop the catastrophe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-agencies-delivered-nearly-10000-oxygen-concentrators-10-million-medical-masks-to-india-983314.html
07-05-2021||National||Delhi's heritage trees may be uprooted for new Central Vista project||Many heritage trees are likely to be uprooted and relocated as part of the ongoing Centra Vista Avenue redevelopment project in New Delhi, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, media reports quoting government sources said.  The trees include neem and jamun trees on Raisina Road and Red Cross Road that are nearly 100 years old.   A Central Public Works Department (CPWD) spokesperson maintained that no trees will be cut and that affected trees will be transported. "We have started work after requisite approvals," they told Hindustan Times.  Another official from the environment and forest department of Delhi said that permission has been given to CPWD to transplant a total of 400 trees for the project. "There are some 20-22 old jamun trees on Raisina Road that are said to have been planted in the 1920s and were part of Edwin Lutyens’ original design of Lutyens’ Delhi," the official said.  They further added that these trees are 100 years old and they may not live through the transplantation.  Citizens and activists have taken to social media to lament the uprooting of the trees. Central Vista project.All heritage lamp posts and British link chains all uprooted along the Rajpath, including Jamun trees. 😢😡||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-heritage-trees-may-be-uprooted-for-new-central-vista-project-983321.html
07-05-2021||National||Can't leave people in the lurch: SC declines to interfere with order to supply 1200 MT oxygen to Karnataka||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to interfere with the Karnataka High Court's May 5 order to the Centre to supply 1200 MT of oxygen to the state, saying we can't leave people in the lurch over there. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the High Court can't remain silent to the needs of the people reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The top court rejected a contention Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on behalf of the Centre that if the High Courts started giving directions for oxygen supply, it would become unworkable and would finally lead to chaos. "The High Court has furnished adequate reasons for issuing a calibrated direction. The direction of the High Court is evidently an ad-interim direction, subject to such calibration as would be necessitated after the State of Karnataka and the Union Government have mutually attempted to resolve the issue," the bench said in its written order.  The top court also pointed out allocation for Karnataka stood at 802 MT prior to April 30 and has been increased to 856 MT from May 1 and 965 MT from May 5 2021. The minimum requirement of the State, as projected by the State Government on May 5 was 1162 MT.  It also noted the Karnataka government had projected 1800 MT oxygen if cases climbed to 3.95 lakh.  On Thursday, Karnataka recorded 50,112 fresh infections and 346 deaths. Mehta, for his part, maintained that the government will have to take a holistic pan-India approach in the matter. He said the Union Government was willing to engage with the state government and convene a meeting for resolving the demand of Karnataka for the supply of oxygen. "We want to avoid grave injustice to people. Judges are also humans. They must have seen deaths at Kalaburgi and other places. Please understand the human aspect," the bench told Mehta. "We have told you that a committee is being formed (to assess the need of oxygen) but till then we cannot ask High Courts to shut their eyes to it," the bench said, declining to entertain the Centre's petition. In its plea, the Centre claimed that the Karnataka High Court's order would have a "cascading effect resulting into a total collapse of the system" in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. It said the High Court's order was to be set aside as it "would ultimately lead to mismanagement of resources and create a further chaotic environment in an already overburdened system". On May 5, the Karnataka High Court had asked the state government to send an immediate representation to the Centre with a projected estimate of oxygen required for a week. Till it was done, the oxygen supply cap should be raised to 1200 MT per day with immediate effect, it had ordered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-leave-people-in-the-lurch-sc-declines-to-interfere-with-order-to-supply-1200-mt-oxygen-to-karnataka-983328.html
07-05-2021||National||India adds 15 lakh new Covid-19 cases in 4 days||India reported another record daily rise in coronavirus cases on Friday, bringing total new cases for the week to 15.7 lakh, as the country's vaccination rate falls dramatically due to a lack of supplies and transport problems. As India's deadly second wave of Covid-19 continues unabated and its total number of cases now stand at 2.14 crores, with infections spreading from overcrowded cities to remote rural villages that are home to nearly 70 per cent of the 1.3 billion population. The country reported a record daily 4,14,188 new cases on Friday, while deaths from Covid-19 swelled by 3,915, bringing total deaths to 2,34,083. Medical experts say the real extent of Covid-19 in India is five to 10 times the official tallies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been widely criticised for not acting sooner to suppress the second wave, after religious festivals and political rallies drew tens of thousands of people in recent weeks and became "super spreader" events. His government has also been criticised for delays in the country's vaccination programme, which medical experts say is India's only hope of controlling the second Covid-19 wave. The Hindustan Times newspaper on Friday demanded: "Accelerate the vaccine drive, get the second wave of the pandemic under some control..." While India is the world's biggest vaccine maker, it is struggling to produce enough doses to stem the wave of Covid-19. Modi has stressed that Indian states must keep up vaccination rates. Although the country has administered at least 157 million vaccine doses, its rate of inoculation has fallen sharpll. "After having achieved a rate of around 4 million a day, we are now down to 2.5 million per day due to vaccine shortages," Amartya Lahiri, an economics professor at University of British Columbia was quoted as saying in the Mint newspaper. "The 5 million a day target is the lower bound of what we have to aim for, since even at that rate, it will take a year for us to get everyone two doses. The situation unfortunately is very grim." Southern States The European Union on Thursday backed a U.S. proposal to discuss waiving patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines in an effort to increase the supply and access to vaccines, especially in vulnerable developing countries. India's healthcare system is crumbling under the weight of Covid-19 patients, with hospitals running out of beds and medical oxygen. Morgues and crematoriums can not handle the number of dead and makeshift funeral pyres burn in parks and carparks. Although northern and western India bear the brunt of the disease, the share of the five southern states in the country's daily surge in infections rose from 28% to 33% in the first seven days of May, data shows. In the southern city of Chennai, only one in a hundred oxygen supported beds and two in a hundred beds in intensive care units were vacant on Thursday, from a vacancy rate of over 20% each two weeks ago, government data showed. In India's tech capital Bengaluru, only 23 of the 590 beds in intensive care units were vacant, and only 1 in 50 beds with a ventilator were vacant, a situation officials say points to an impending crisis. New Delhi's ubiquitous three-wheeled autorickshaws have become makeshift ambulances to ferry Covid-19 patients. "We must all help each other out at this time of need to get out of this situation," said autorickshaw driver Raj Kumar, who wears a protection suit. There is a plastic partition between him and the passengers at the back. "If everyone stays home because they are scared, then who is going to help those in need?" Several Indian states have imposed various levels of social restrictions to try to stem infections, but the federal government has resisted imposing a national lockdown. "At times like this, people look for some sign that politicians are listening...what is happening today is a betrayal of hope and a slap in the face of the dream that was a modern progressive India," columnist Vir Sanghvi wrote in the Hindustan Times. "We will beat Covid eventually. But by then thousands more will have lost their lives." Aid from foreign countries continued to pour in, as consignments from Poland, Netherlands and Switzerland reached India on Friday, foreign ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-15-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-in-4-days-983332.html
07-05-2021||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB arrests drug peddler in Goa||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a drug peddler in Goa in connection with the drugs case linked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an official said on Friday. The accused, Hemal Shah, was nabbed by a team of the anti-drug agency, he said. "Shah's alleged involvement came to light during the investigation of a drugs case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput's death," he said. Accordingly a trap was laid and Shah was apprehended in Goa, he said, adding that he will be produced before a court later in the day. The NCB had launched a probe into the alleged use of drugs in the film and entertainment industry after Rajput was found dead at his home in Mumbai in June last year. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and a few others under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Rhea and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-arrests-drug-peddler-in-goa-983338.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid battle transcends political differences: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday accused the Modi government of having failed the people of the country in handling the pandemic and demanded that an all-party meeting be convened immediately on the Covid-19 situation. The battle against the pandemic transcends political differences and everyone has to fight it together as a nation, she said at a virtual meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party. She also demanded that a meeting of the standing committees must be convened to ensure collective action and accountability to combat the pandemic better. Launching a fierce attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gandhi charged that India is crippled by political leadership that has no empathy for the people and has failed the people of the country. "Let us be absolutely clear --  the system hasn't failed. The Modi government has been unable to constructively channelise India's many strengths and resources. I say this categorically - India is crippled by a political leadership today that has no empathy for the people. The Modi Government has failed the people of our country," she told the MPs. She said the Congress firmly believes that fighting the pandemic is not a 'Government versus Us' battle but a 'Us versus Corona' battle. "This battle transcends political differences. We have to fight this battle together as a nation. In that spirit, as a first step, I believe that the Modi government must urgently call an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 situation," she said. "The Congress Party also demands that standing committees must be convened to ensure collective action and accountability to combat the pandemic better," she said. Gandhi told the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to bring to the notice of the Presiding Officer the Report of Standing Committee on Health presented in October 2020 and demand that he take action on the recommendations of the report. "The situation brooks no delay. Tackling this crisis requires able, calm and visionary leadership," she said. The nation, she charged, is sinking under the weight of the Modi government's indifference and incompetence and told party MPs that this is the time to rededicate themselves in the service of our people. The Congress chief said the meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Committee was being held in extraordinary circumstances, with India being in the grip of a deadly health disaster. She said thousands have died and millions are scrambling to access basic healthcare, life-saving medicines, oxygen, and vaccines. It is heartbreaking to see people battling for their lives in hospitals, on roads, waiting in vehicles, far too many for want of any medical help at all, she said. "And what is the Modi government doing? Instead of alleviating their suffering and pain, it has abdicated its fundamental responsibilities and duties towards the people," she lamented. She also alleged that the government's vaccination policy is inequitable and will exclude millions of Dalits, Adivasis, Other Backwards Classes, as well as the poor and the marginalised. "It is utterly shocking to see the Modi government abdicate its moral obligation and its sworn duty towards the people," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-battle-transcends-political-differences-sonia-gandhi-983352.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: What is Happy Hypoxia and can it be fatal?||The Covid-19 disease has displayed many mysterious symptoms over time. One of the most baffling ones has been silent hypoxemia, also known as "happy hypoxia". In the second wave, which has been affecting the younger population unlike the first outbreak, more and more patients are reportedly suffering from this condition. What is happy hypoxia? Happy hypoxia is a condition where blood oxygen levels are low but the patient continues with their daily activities without being aware of it. According to medical experts, non-regular monitoring of oxygen saturation levels could result in organs shutting down and the condition can become life-threatening. Youngsters may not realise the steep drop in oxygen levels in the blood because of their high immunity and general health. Covid-19 is primarily a respiratory illness, and a severe case can reduce the lungs’ capacity to absorb oxygen. In these cases, the oxygen levels in blood can decline to as little as 40 percent and the patient would need immediate oxygen support and, in critical cases, ventilators as well. Critical care needed Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, a member of the Pune city Covid task force for Social Action, said at least 10 percent of patients showing “happy hypoxia” will need critical care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-what-is-happy-hypoxia-and-can-it-be-fatal-983353.html
07-05-2021||National||Sitar player Prateek Chaudhuri dies at 49 due to Covid||Renowned sitar player Prateek Chaudhuri has died due to Covid-related complications, almost a week after his father, music maestro Pandit Devbrata Chaudhuri, succumbed to the virus. According to music historian Pavaj Jha, Prateek Chaudhuri, 49, was admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital here and breathed his last on Thursday. "Prateek Chaudhuri, the promising talent and son of legendary Debu Chaudhuri is no more. Was struggling hard in ICU & Yesterday he joined his father as they walked together on the path of eternity- #RestinPeace Prateek," Jha posted on Twitter. "He was doing improvements with his health, as he was also admitted to GTB with Debu ji and was to be discharged from Hospital on Monday, when I last spoke him, but was totally distressed & broken with the death of his father. So so sad," he added. Veteran sitar player Devbrata Chaudhuri, popularly known as Debu Chaudhuri, passed away last week on Saturday. Prateek Chaudhuri, who belonged to the Senia Gharana of music, was also a professor at the Department of Music, Faculty of Music and Fine Arts, University of Delhi. He is survived by his wife Runa and children Rayana and Adhiraj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitar-player-prateek-chaudhuri-dies-at-49-due-to-covid-983356.html
07-05-2021||National||States have over 90 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, will receive 10 lakh doses in 3 days: Centre||More than 90 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and they will receive over 10 lakh more vaccine doses within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The Centre has so far provided more than 17.35 crore (17,35,07,770) vaccine doses to states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 16,44,77,100 doses, according to official data made available at 8 am. "More than 90 lakh (90,30,670) Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to armed forces,” the ministry said. "Furthermore, more than 10 lakh (10,25,000) vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states and UTs within the next three days," it said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-have-over-90-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-will-receive-10-lakh-doses-in-3-days-centre-983357.html
07-05-2021||National||WB's post-poll violence shows gory side of politics: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday said the violence that has erupted in West Bengal after the Assembly election results, reveals the gory side of politics and it shows that the rule of force prevails instead of democracy. The party also said that maintaining law and order in the state was equal responsibility of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the central government. "What is exactly happening in West Bengal and whose invisible hands are there behind it? These things need to become clear. Ever since the BJP lost the election in that state, news reports of violence erupted there are being flashed. It is being said that TMC workers are beating their BJP counterparts. But all that is mispropaganda," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Out of the 17 people who have so far died in the post-poll violence in West Bengal, nine are linked to the BJP, while the rest are TMC workers. This means that both sides are involved, it said. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi took stock of the situation from West Bengal governor over phone. A senior BJP functionary moved the high court, holding Mamata Banerjee responsible for the violence and sought imposition of the President's rule in the state," it said. All this shows that the BJP is indulging in foul play, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party alleged. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had got 18 seats in West Bengal. Following that, violence erupted and TMC workers were attacked, it said. "If this is Bengal's culture, then Ravindra Sangeet, Ravindranath Tagore, Bengali literature, the state's social reformist movement and contribution it to the freedom struggle have gone waste?" the Sena asked. Violence has also broken out in Delhi after the BJP lost the assembly elections there, it said. Coronavirus has been claiming so many lives in the country. So why play politics of riots and defame the country? the party asked. It wondered if anybody had forgotten that maintaining peace and law and order in West Bengal was the responsible of Mamata Banerjee as well as of the central government. It also criticised West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for their poll campaign speeches made in West Bengal, as it accused them of inciting violence against the TMC. "The threats by these leaders during the campaign suggested that there would have been a bloodbath against TMC workers had the BJP won the election in Bengal," it said. This post-poll violence shows gory side of politics and it shows that 'thokshahi' (rule of force) and not 'lokshahi' (democracy) prevails, it said. Mamata Banerjee took oath as the chief minister on Wednesday and till then the administration was in the hands of the Election Commission (EC), which means it was controlled by the Centre, it said. "The EC had shifted several top officers in West Bengal government before the voting. So how does the blame of violence fall only on Mamata Banerjee?" it said. If the TMC's version that the violence is taking place where BJP candidates won is true, thenis it taking place to create trouble for Mamata Banerjee? it asked. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) won the West Bengal elections, pocketing 213 of the 292 assembly seats that went to polls and secured a third straight term in office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wbs-post-poll-violence-shows-gory-side-of-politics-shiv-sena-983358.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid-19: PM, Health Minister making mockery of democratic principles, says Congress leader P Chidambaram||Asserting that the Covid-19 pandemic situation is going from bad to worse, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan are refusing to own responsibility and are making a "mockery of democratic principles". His remarks came after the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday showed a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day in India, raising the country’s tally to 2,14,91,598. The active cases have crossed the 36-lakh mark. Nobody between 18 and 44 is getting the vaccine. The situation in other states is not very different. The PM and the Health Minister refuse to own responsibility and are making a mockery of democratic principles. "The pandemic situation is going from bad to worse. The insufficient supply of vaccines is a hard, bitter truth, but the government is in denial," Chidambaram tweeted. "In Tamil Nadu, not all among 45 plus are getting the first dose and a small number the second dose. Nobody between 18 and 44 is getting the vaccine," he claimed. The situation in other states is not very different, Chidambaram added. "The PM and the Health Minister refuse to own responsibility and are making a mockery of democratic principles," the former Union minister alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-health-minister-making-mockery-of-democratic-principles-says-congress-leader-p-chidambaram-983372.html
07-05-2021||National||PM Modi congratulates Stalin on taking oath as Tamil Nadu CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday congratulated DMK leader M K Stalin on taking oath as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu.  Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the 68-year old Stalin, for whom this would be the first stint as CM, in a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhavan in Chennai. In a tweet, Modi said, "Congratulations to Thiru @mkstalin on being sworn-in as Tamil Nadu Chief Minister."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congratulates-stalin-on-taking-oath-as-tamil-nadu-cm-983376.html
07-05-2021||National||CJI condoles passing away of former SC judge M Y Eqbal||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana Friday condoled the passing away of former Supreme Court judge M Y Eqbal before commencing the day’s judicial proceedings. Justice Eqbal passed away on Thursday night at the age of 70 in a private hospital here. Moments after the bench headed by the CJI assembled through video conferencing, Justice Ramana made a statement that he was shocked at the news and said a full court reference will be held later to remember the departed soul. “There is one announcement we have to make before we start today's proceeding. I am sorry to inform the members of bar and bench. Former Judge of this court Justice M Y Eqbal has passed away. We are sad and mourn his death,” the bench said. He was part of the bench which has delivered the verdict asking RBI to disclose information about banks under transparency law, the Right to Information Act. Justice Eqbal was elevated to the top court in December, 2012 and demitted office after serving nearly four years on February 12, 2016. He became a high court judge in May 1996 in Patna High Court an later went to Jharkhand after state’s bifurcation in 2000. He was appointed Chief Justice of the Madras High Court in June 2010. The former SC judge had started his legal profession from Ranch in 1975. He is survived by his wife, son and two daughters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-condoles-passing-away-of-former-sc-judge-m-y-eqbal-983379.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Centre mulls Rs 1 lakh crore pandemic pool to aid uninsured patients, jobless citizens||The Centre is reportedly considering a Rs 1 lakh crore Covid-19 pool to financially aid uninsured people faced with health-related hardships or those who have lost jobs due to the ongoing pandemic. The Centre is currently engaged in talks with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to set up the pool, an official was quoted as saying. The creation of the pool will be anchored around key parameters, such as the number of positive cases, the proportion of cases requiring hospitalization, costs involved at various stages of infection and demographics of the population most affected by the virus, among others. The government is likely to chip in with at least half the pool’s total corpus initially, with the rest coming from health insurers. Life insurance firms are likely to come into the fold at a later stage. The talks come at a time when a crushing second wave of the virus has hit India’s economy hard, squeezed household income and stretched health infrastructure to the limit. The country will need to spend an additional Rs 5.5-lakh crore to mitigate the potentially larger impact of the pandemic on work, incomes, food security, health and education, according to recommendations made in a study conducted by Azim Premji University. The authors of the study also recommended a slew of other measures, including direct cash transfers and expanding the rural employment guarantee scheme. Although the government’s Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme for the extremely poor covers basic health insurance for around 100 million people, a major part of India’s population still remains uninsured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-centre-mulls-rs-1-lakh-crore-pandemic-pool-to-aid-uninsured-patients-jobless-citizens-983388.html
07-05-2021||National||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren kicks up row over 'Mann Ki Baat' dig at PM Modi||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren stirred up a hornet's nest with his comments on Prime Narendra Modi's telephonic conversation with him after he accused Modi of "doing only Mann Ki Baat". Soren was slammed by a number of BJP leaders, who accused him of lacking the basic courtesy expected from a person holding the Chief Minister's office. Twitter was inundated with comments critical of him as well as the Prime Minister's way of addressing Mamta Banerjee as "Didi O Didi" during the election campaign in West Bengal. A number of chief ministers from BJP and NDA allies took to social media to condemn Soren's tweets and advise him to eschew "playing politics". The reaction that got maximum traction was from Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who displayed his "great respect" for the Jharkhand chief minister, nevertheless felt "such level of politics would only weaken our nation." JMM also countered the attack on Soren reminding how Modi had attacked former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2013 saying, "Manmohan Singh will not be able to answer because except for theft, loot what they have done for the nation." Modi had dialled Soren on Thursday along with Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha and LGs of Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir about the Covid related situation in their states and UT. Even on Friday, the prime minister spoke to chief ministers of Manipur, Tripura and Sikkim on Covid related situations. After the chat with Modi, Soren tweeted  "today honourable Prime Minister made a telephone call. He only did his Mann Ki Baat (spoke his mind). It would have been better had he talked about what is to be done (kaam ki baat) and listened to about it." BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh angrily reacted to Soren's tweet saying, "This is the level to which some politicians are stooping. PM calls & has detailed talk regarding Covid-19 crisis & this CM tweets now. Lacks minimum grace required for the position he holds." Party communication department chief Anil Baluni went hammer and tongs saying the JMM leader has neither knowledge of the country's federal structure nor does he appreciate the basic courtesy. Former Jharkhand Chief Minister and BJP leader Babulal Marandi called Soren a "failed CM". "Failure in governance. Failure in tackling COVID in the state. Failure to assist people. To hide his failures he demeans the office he holds. Wake up and work, Mr Soren. The clock is ticking," Marandi tweeted. Assam Chief Minister Sabananda Sonowal tagged Soren on Twitter to tell him " it's really unfortunate that you are trying to politicise the Hon'ble PM Shri @narendramodi  ji's concern and work for people. PM Modi ji's every effort and action are only for the people and the Nation." Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio disagreed with Soren and hoped the Jharkhand Chief Minister retracts his statement and said, "In my experience as Chief Minister, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always been sensitive to the concerns of the states, particularly of the Northeast states." Rio's party NDPP is part of NDA alliance. Manipur CM N Biren Singh from BJP also said whenever the PM calls, it has been always assuring and advising Soren "let the collective spirit be our guiding light." BJP-led Arunachal Pradesh CM Prema Khandu tagged Soren to say "it is time to stand together rising above differences to defeat the pandemic." Mizoram CM Zoramthanga from Mizo National Front, an NDA ally tagged Soren and praised the Prime Minister as "active, attentive and very responsive" and that he finds it "quite comforting, getting his calls, inquiring about my state's Covid-19 situation....." Assam BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma accused Soren of behaving in a "very petty way" and having "lowered the dignity" of the Chief Minister's chair and insisted that Soren's tweet goes against the basic decorum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-chief-minister-hemant-soren-kicks-up-row-over-mann-ki-baat-dig-at-pm-modi-983393.html
07-05-2021||National||India’s modelling has Covid-19 outbreak peaking in coming days||By Bhuma Shrivastava and Jeanette Rodrigues  A mathematical model prepared by advisers to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggests India’s current Covid-19 outbreak could peak in the coming days, but the group’s projections have been changing and were wrong last month. The team’s most recent forecast puts them more in line with at least some other scientists, who have suggested a mid-May peak for India. Medical experts and the political opposition have said a national lockdown is the immediately effective way to slow the spread, a move Modi has resisted. India reported a record 414,188 new infections and 3,915 deaths on Friday, with experts saying that the reported figures likely underplay the real toll because the nation’s crematoriums and hospitals have been overwhelmed. That makes the assessment of any peak particularly complicated. “Our predictions are that the peak will come within a few days,” Mathukumalli Vidyasagar, professor at the Indian Institute of Technology in Hyderabad, said by email Thursday, referring to a model prepared with Manindra Agrawal, a professor from IIT Kanpur. “As per current projections, we should hit 20,000 cases per day by the end of June. We will revise this as needed.” In April, Vidyasagar’s team wrongly predicted that the wave would peak by the middle of last month. That was due to incorrect parameters as “the pandemic was changing rapidly, even wildly, until about a week ago,” he wrote on Twitter at the time. More recently, he told Reuters that the peak would be between May 3-5, and then the India Today publication that it would come on May 7. Scientists are largely agreed that the coming few weeks will be difficult for India. A team at the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore used a mathematical model to predict about 404,000 deaths will occur by June 11 if current trends continue. India’s death toll from the pandemic has already crossed 2 lakh. Opposition party member Rahul Gandhi, the son and grandson of former Indian prime ministers, on Friday wrote to Modi that a national lockdown had become “almost inevitable as the Covid tsunami continues to ravage the country unabated.” Some experts, including Anthony S. Fauci, the top US infectious disease doctor, say a temporary shut down is important. India’s richest banker Uday Kotak, who heads the Confederation of Indian Industry, urged the government to deploy the military to help care for patients and to take the “strongest national steps including curtailing economic activity to reduce suffering.” Daily count of infections has surged by more than 400,000 cases thrice this month, pushing India’s total tally past 21 million. Some experts blame the sudden surge of India’s second wave on a new variant that has emerged in the country. Anuradha Mittal, a pediatrician with the Kailash Hospital in Noida, on the outskirts of New Delhi, got Covid-19 last month despite receiving both her shots earlier this year. She said that about 50 other doctors in her network had a similar experience. “Probably the viral load is very, very high in the hospitals we work in and the mutants have a role to play,” Mittal said. Scientists worry that new virus mutations can become the next blindspot that can stretch the pandemic for the entire world, as strains from countries like India reach other nations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-modelling-has-covid-19-outbreak-peaking-in-coming-days-983399.html
07-05-2021||National||Vaccination only way forward as Covid-19 infections surge in rural areas||As Covid-19 infections surge across the country with nearly half of the fresh cases now being in rural areas, accelerated vaccination is the only solution to contain the raging pandemic, according to a report by SBI Research. So far, with a record 4,14,188 new infections reported in a day, total cases climbed to 2.15 crore while death toll crossed 2.34 lakh with 3,915 new fatalities in the past 24 hours. The second wave of the pandemic has led the country begging for global aid in terms of money, medical oxygen and life-saving drugs as it has been contributing almost 44 per cent of the global caseload for the past many days. The report noted that the share of the top 15 districts in total new cases has significantly plunged to 26.3 per cent in May from 55 per cent in March, indicating that the spread of infections is now dispersed across the country. What is more worrying is the increase in rural penetration as the share of rural districts in new cases has increased to 48.5 per cent in May from 36.8 per cent in March,  Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at SBI, said in a note on Friday. “Vaccination can be the only driver as of now to contain the pandemic…because recovery will actually depend on the public psyche to come out and this will not happen till the larger population is vaccinated. We thus again reemphasize the power of vaccination as a primary tool to reduce the severity of infections,” he said. He went to the extent of saying that vaccination must be carried out on a mission mode, even if it means suspending economic activity for a while after the second wave subsides so that all get vaccinated. When looked district-wise, there is a clear shift visible. In March, Maharashtra had 11 districts in the top 15 worst-affected rural districts. Now, the state has six. Other states that round up the 15 worst-affected districts are Andhra Pradesh (5), Kerala (2), Karnataka (1), and Rajasthan (1). The only state that has shown improvement is Chhattisgarh which had three rural districts in the top 15 during March and has no district now in the top 15 worst-affected rural districts. However, Ghosh quickly pointed out there is nothing salutary on the vaccination front so far,  as “we have given only 160.5 million doses with around 131 million taken the first dose and 31.5 million the two doses. “The percentage of people who have taken two doses to total vaccination doses is a low 19.5 per cent. However, the daily vaccination is going down now with an average of 17 lakh compared to an average of 28 lakh in April. "Given this trend, we believe we can only be able to vaccinate 15 per cent of the population by October which is required for herd immunity but only if we are able to vaccinate around 55 lakh daily in September and October," Ghosh said. On the economic impact of the second wave, given that as many as 20 states are in various levels of lockdowns/restrictions he said, the economic disruption is now clearly visible. The number of rating downgrades is 3.7 times higher than upgrades in April. Also, SBI's  business activity index which has been declining steeply since April, has dipped to a new low of 71.7, the level attained in mid-Aug 2020 with all indicators deep in the red, except for weekly food arrival and power intake What is more worrying is the decline in labour participation as it indicates that the disruption has percolated to the labour market, too. Given these conditions, real GDP growth of 10.4 per cent looks a bit ambitious, he said without proffering a new forecast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-only-way-forward-as-covid-19-infections-surge-in-rural-areas-983402.html
07-05-2021||National||In Tamil Nadu Assembly, a Gandhi, a Nehru would report to Stalin||What do Nehru and Gandhi have in common? Both are part of the M K Stalin Cabinet in Tamil Nadu. Hold your breath. These are the namesakes of India's first Prime Minister and Father of the Nation. While K N Nehru, the strongman from Tiruchirapalli, is the Municipal Administration Minister, R Gandhi is the Handlooms and Textiles Minister in the new Cabinet. And of course, their boss is Stalin, named after Russian ruler Joseph Stalin. Nehru and Gandhi were named after the leaders by their parents out of admiration for them. Karunanidhi, who had decided to name his second son Ayyadurai (Ayya denotes Periyar and Durai for Annadurai) but he changed his mind, when he was interrupted during a public meeting and told about Stalin's birth in 1953. Karunanidhi was an admirer of the Russian ruler. Nehru and Gandhi are long-time DMK men.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-tamil-nadu-assembly-a-gandhi-a-nehru-would-report-to-stalin-983412.html
07-05-2021||National||Hardeep Singh Puri defends Central Vista Project, says Rs 20,000 crore to be spent over several years||Defending the Central Vista project, Union Housing and Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the cost of Central Vista is about Rs 20,000 crore, over several years and alleged that Congress is doing cheap politics over it. Reacting to Congress criticism over the project, the Minister said it was Congress was heading the government in 2012 suggested building new Parliament citing current structure is old. The Central Vista Project involved building of new Parliament building, remodelling Central Vista Avenue, and Common Central Secretariat by demolishing the existing structure. Criticising the project, Congress President Rahul Gandhi tweeted earlier in the day that, "Central Vista is criminal waste. Put people's lives at the Centre-not your blind arrogance to get a new house." Asking Congress to stop adopting a double standard, Puri tweeted, "Congress & its allies are splurging on a new project reconstructing an MLA hostel in Maharashtra & building a new Legislative Assembly building in Chhattisgarh. If this is fine, what is the problem with Central Vista.?" He said the Centre has allocated nearly twice that amount for vaccination. India’s healthcare budget for just this year was over Rs 3 lakh crore. " We know our priorities," he tweeted. "Congress doesn’t stop at hypocrisy. Look at their shameful double face. During UPA, Congress leaders wrote about the need for a new parliament. The Speaker in 2012 wrote a letter to Urban Development Ministry for the same. And now they have the gall to oppose the same project?" he added. "There are hundreds of projects being executed by various depts. Governance hasn’t come to a standstill, unlike the Congress’s times of policy paralysis. Central Vista is just another ongoing project. It’s only the Congress that’s obsessed about it, nobody else," the Minister tweeted. Moreover, only projects for the new Parliament Building and rejuvenation of Central Vista Avenue have been awarded at an estimated cost of Rs 862 crore & Rs 477 crore respectively till now. As I said, there are many components in the Central Vista project which are spread over several years. Attacking Congress, Puri said " They want to distract people from monumental governance failures in their states by spreading lies. So they indulge in cheap politics despite knowing this project creates direct & indirect employment for thousands of skilled, semi-skilled & unskilled workers in these times."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hardeep-singh-puri-defends-central-vista-project-says-rs-20000-crore-to-be-spent-over-several-years-983413.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid-19: PM Modi speaks to Manipur, Sikkim, Tripura CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to the chief ministers of Manipur, Sikkim and Tripura on the Covid-19 situation in their states, government sources said. Modi had on Thursday spoken to the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand and Telangana besides the lieutenant governors of Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry in this regard. The prime minister's interaction with chief ministers is part of his exercise to deal with the pandemic situation. With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus cases being reported in a day, India's infection tally climbed to 2,14,91,598, while the active case count crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll from the pandemic has increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-modi-speaks-to-manipur-sikkim-tripura-cms-983414.html
07-05-2021||National||India, UK to ramp up cooperation in science, technology, innovation||India and the UK will step up cooperation in the area of science, technology and innovation including strengthening the role of women in STEMM disciplines at schools, universities, and research institutions, the Department of Science and Technology said on Friday. The two sides will work to create an enabling environment for equal participation of women in STEMM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics and Medicines) disciplines through collaboration on new initiatives like Gender Advancement for Transforming Institutions (GATI) project. In a virtual meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson on May 4, the two leaders agreed on a common vision of a new and transformational comprehensive strategic partnership and adopted an ambitious India-UK Roadmap to 2030 to steer cooperation for the next 10 years. Both leaders emphasised their commitment to an enhanced partnership in science, education, research and innovation and look forward to the next ministerial Science and Innovation Council (SIC), the DST said in a statement.  Modi and Johnson welcomed the signing of the new UK-India MoU on Telecommunications/ICT and the Joint Declaration of Intent on Digital and Technology, the establishment of new high-level dialogues on tech, new joint rapid research investment into COVID-19, a new partnership to support zoonotic research, new investment to advance understanding of weather and climate science, and the continuation of the UK-India Education and Research Initiative (UKIERI). "They agreed to expand and enhance the existing UK-India vaccines partnership, highlighting the successful collaboration between Oxford University, Astrazeneca and the Serum Institute of India on an effective Covid19 vaccine that is 'developed in UK', 'Made in India' and 'distributed globally'," the statement said. They emphasised that the international community should learn lessons and agreed to work together to reform and strengthen WHO and the global health security architecture to strengthen pandemic resilience. The two sides decided to "enhance cooperation between India and the UK on strengthening the role of women in STEMM at schools, universities, and research institutions and creating an enabling environment for equal participation of women in STEM disciplines through collaboration on new initiatives like Gender Advancement for Transforming Institutions (GATI) project". They also decided to develop collaborations between the industry, academia and the government to foster innovation among school students by focusing on teacher training, mentoring and sharing of global best practices through initiatives like the India Innovation Competency Enhancement Program (IICEP). The two sided decided to build on the two countries' existing bilateral research, science and innovation infrastructure and governmental relationships to continue to support high-quality, high-impact research and innovation through joint processes. They have decided to forge partnership across the pipeline of research and innovation activity, from basic research to applied and interdisciplinary research and through to translation and commercialisation across government departments to optimise impact, utilise expertise and networks and minimise duplication, the DST said. Leveraging and building on existing, long-standing bilateral partnerships such as on education, research and innovation, to stimulate a joint pipeline of talent, excellent researchers and early-career innovators and explore new opportunities for students and researchers exchanges by establishing joint centres and facilitating access to state-of-the-art facilities will also be part of the STI cooperation, the DST said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-to-ramp-up-cooperation-in-science-technology-innovation-983418.html
07-05-2021||National||Indian Railways to not suspend long-distance trains completely amid Covid-19 pandemic||Though the number of reserved train passengers falling to just five lakh a day from around 20 lakh a day a month ago, Railways said it has no plan to completely suspend long-distance train services. Already several zones have discontinued several regular trains, mostly long-distance ones, due to low occupancy. Since Covid-19 cases are increasing and several states are announcing lockdown, people are not traveling. Due to this, several trains are witnessing poor occupancy, said an official in the Railways. Though several states have requested the Centre to suspend the services of unreserved passenger trains and inter-city trains, none of the states has requested to stop long-distance trains, said the official.  "Cancellation and restoration of trains are a dynamic process. Each year, many festival and holiday special trains are started and after some time services are suspended. There is a constant process of optimisation and rationalisation. Some regular trains with lower occupancy are discontinued," said the official. For the past few days, the Northern Railways, Central Railways and Eastern Railway and South Western Railways have canceled the services of several trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-not-suspend-long-distance-trains-completely-amid-covid-19-pandemic-983420.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid-19 positivity rate above 15 per cent in 24 states at present, says Health Ministry||Twelve states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases each at present, while the count is between 50,000 and one lakh in seven, the Health Ministry said on Friday as the country battles a second wave of the viral disease. The positivity rate is currently above 15 per cent in 24 states in the country and in the range of 5-15 per cent in nine, the ministry said. It said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh are among states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases. However, Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Odisha are among those showing an upward trend in daily new cases of the infection, the ministry added. The Health Ministry also asked the states to prioritise beneficiaries awaiting their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, and ensure timely completion of the recommended vaccination schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-positivity-rate-above-15-per-cent-in-24-states-at-present-says-health-ministry-983438.html
07-05-2021||National||Narendra Modi and Scott Morisson discuss initiatives for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, medicines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison’s support to the proposal mooted by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization for waiving off the Intellectual Property Rights protection for the Covid-19 vaccines. Modi spoke to Morrison over the phone and conveyed his appreciation for the prompt and generous support extended by the government and people of Australia for India’s fight against the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. They agreed on the need to ensure affordable and equitable access to vaccines and medicines for containing the pandemic globally. Modi sought Morrison’s support for the initiative taken at the WTO by India and South Africa to seek a temporary waiver under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or the TRIPS. The United States on Thursday reversed its stand and announced support to the proposal at the WTO for waiving off the IPR protection on Covid-19 vaccines. Australia was among the nations which opposed the proposal mooted by India and South Africa at the WTO. Modi and Morrison took note of the progress made in the India-Australia Comprehensive Strategic Partnership since the Virtual Summit held on June 4 last year and discussed ways to further strengthen cooperation and foster people-to-people ties, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. They also discussed regional issues and reiterated the importance of working together for a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-and-scott-morisson-discuss-initiatives-for-equitable-access-to-covid-19-vaccines-medicines-983442.html
07-05-2021||National||Supreme Court refuses to interfere with Central Vista project, asks HC to grant early hearing||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a plea against the Delhi High Court's order to adjourn a matter for halting construction works under the Central Vista Project due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari said the High Court was already seized of the matter. The court granted the petitioners liberty to mention the matter before the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court for early hearing. The bench also asked the High Court to preferably consider the plea for an early hearing.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted that the High Court has kept the matter for hearing on May 17.   Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing the petitioners, Anya Malhotra and Sohail Hashmi argued, "We are facing a humanitarian health crisis. If this project is deferred by four to six weeks nothing will happen.”  He said the IPL has already been suspended.   Mehta, on the contrary, said that the petitioners coming to court by way of a PIL and filing a plea against an adjournment order of the High Court raised serious doubt. He also said allowing an appeal against an adjournment would set a wrong precedent.   Luthra said that when human life is concerned, government has to protect. From April to May, the positivity rate of Covid-19 in Delhi has increased and number of deaths have gone up, he pointed out. “This matter needs consideration. We’re at a stage where the health system has broken down, people are dying," Luthra contended.   The bench responded that it is aware of the situation, but the court cannot make comments about the deaths, as it may be taken otherwise.   Luthra said there are eight sites which are undergoing construction. "We’re not concerned with all, rather we are only concerned with Rajpath, Central Vista stretch and the gardens," he said.  He also asked, “How can construction be an essential activity? In a health emergency, we can’t risk life of workers and their families and put more pressure on healthcare system.”  After a detailed hearing, the bench said since the matter is pending before High Court and appeal is against order of adjournment, the court is not inclined to enter into the merits of the case.   The petitioners asked the court to halt the construction due to Covid-19 situation in the national capital and the threat posed by the construction work as a potential super spreader.  “Not only does the ongoing construction activity have the potential of being a super spreader event, it is also in clear breach and violation of the orders passed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority," the plea filed through advocate Nitin Saluja said.   The plea added that petitioners did not seek restraint on any other part of the project such as the construction of the new Parliament building, where, according to information received, provision has been made for onsite accommodation of workers.   The apex court on January 5 gave the Union government a go-ahead for constructing new Parliament and other buildings for ministries here with proposed cost of Rs 20,000 crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project on December 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-interfere-with-central-vista-project-asks-hc-to-grant-early-hearing-983443.html
07-05-2021||National||DGCA to audit operator after air ambulance belly-landing at Mumbai airport||Aviation regulator DGCA will conduct an audit of Jet Serve Aviation Private Limited whose aircraft belly-landed at the Mumbai airport on Thursday after losing one of the wheels, officials said on Friday. The air ambulance flight was supposed to head from Nagpur to Hyderabad, but lost a wheel during takeoff from the Nagpur airport. It safely belly-landed at the Mumbai airport on a foam carpet, they said. A foam carpet is created on the runway by spreading foam using fire extinguishers so that the plane does not catch fire during an emergency landing. The officials said the company, Jet Serve Aviation, will undergo a full audit to understand the cause of this incident. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had tweeted on Thursday, "A Jet Serve ambulance with a patient onboard lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur. Showing immense presence of mind Capt Kesari Singh belly landed the aircraft on foam carpeting in Mumbai." "All onboard are safe. Commendable effort by DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation), CSMIA (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai) and other agencies," he added. In a detailed statement on the incident, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) in Mumbai said a full emergency was declared for the non-scheduled Beechcraft VT-JIL aircraft en route from Nagpur to Mumbai. "The flight carrying two crew members, one patient, a relative and one doctor did a belly-landing at CSMIA at 21:09 hrs," it noted. The airport's emergency response team including the fire and rescue responders, follow-me vehicles, CISF, medical team among many others was activated instantly and on standby to provide immediate assistance to ensure the safe evacuation of the passengers, it said. "As a precautionary method, CSMIA also foamed RWY (runway) 27 in order to avoid the aircraft catching fire. All passengers were evacuated safely and flights operating in and out of CSMIA remain on schedule," the statement read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-to-audit-operator-after-air-ambulance-belly-landing-at-mumbai-airport-983454.html
07-05-2021||National||Election Commission lawyer quits, says his values not in sync with poll panel's current functioning||The Election Commission’s lawyer at the Supreme Court, Mohit D Ram, quit on Friday, stating that his values were not in consonance with the current functioning of the poll panel. Ram quit just a day after the Supreme Court rejected the EC’s plea for restraining the media from reporting oral observations made by the judges during the hearing. The EC’s plea triggered controversy although the poll panel dismissed reports about differences within itself over the move. The commission claimed that it had not sought the Supreme Court’s restriction on reporting by the media and that it had unanimously decided against doing so. Ram represented the EC before the Supreme Court as one of its ‘panel counsels’ since 2013. “It was an honour to represent the Election Commission of India (ECI). I had a cherishing milestone of my career, in the journey which began with being part of the office of Standing Counsel of (the) ECI and progressed as one of the panel counsels of (the) ECI (since 2013),” he wrote in an email to Vijay Kumar Pandey, the Director (Law) of the commission. “However, I have found that my values are not in consonance with the current functioning of the ECI; and hence I withdraw myself from the responsibilities of its panel counsel before the Supreme Court of India.” The Madras High Court had on April 26 held the EC “singularly responsible” for the second wave of the Covid-19 in the country as it had failed to enforce safety protocols required to check the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus during electioneering. The High Court had also observed that the EC officers should probably be booked for murder. The scathing remarks by the Chief Justice of Madras High Court, Sanjib Banerjee, however, were not mentioned in his written order. When the Madras High Court refused to stop the media from reporting oral observations of the judges, the EC moved the Supreme Court. A bench of the Supreme Court, comprising Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice M R Shah, however, refused to expunge the critical remarks made by the Madras High Court about the EC. It also turned down the commission’s plea for the media should be restrained from reporting oral observations made by the judges during judicial proceedings. The poll panel later issued a press release stating that the commission recognised the positive role of the media. “The commission as a whole and each one of its members recognise the positive role played by the media in the conduct of all elections in the past and present and in strengthening electoral democracy in the country.” The poll panel, however, denied reports of differences within itself over the content of the affidavits it had filed before the Supreme Court, challenging the order of the Madras High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-lawyer-quits-says-his-values-not-in-sync-with-poll-panels-current-functioning-983463.html
07-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Lockdown in Karnataka inevitable, says chief minister B S Yediyurappa||In your evening news brief, Lockdown in Karnataka inevitable says chief minister B S Yediyurappa;  Karnataka government has decided to cap the price of CT-scan and digital X-ray in private hospitals and labs at Rs 1,500 and Rs 250 respectively and Supreme Court declines to interfere with the Karnataka High Court's May 5 order to the Centre to supply 1200 MT of oxygen to the state.  Here is the top news of May 7, 2021: Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday a lockdown in the state was "inevitable" going by the rise in Covid-19 cases.  Speaking to reporters after visiting the Annamma Devi temple in Bengaluru's Gandhinagar, Yediyurappa said the Janata Curfew currently in force was not being followed strictly. "That's why a lockdown might become inevitable," he said.  The government has lined up meetings to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. "We will take a final call on what the additional measures should be after discussions," he said. The Karnataka government has decided to cap the price of CT-scan and digital X-ray in private hospitals and labs at Rs 1,500 and Rs 250 respectively, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. He said CT-scan or X-ray is becoming increasingly necessary to detect Covid-19. The Minister warned that strict action would be taken against hospitals and labs which violate rules and charge high prices. The Supreme Court on Friday declined to interfere with the Karnataka High Court's May 5 order to the Centre to supply 1200 MT of oxygen to the State, saying we can't leave people in lurch there. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the High Court can't remain silent to the needs of the people, reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The top court rejected the contention by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on behalf of the Centre that if the High Courts started giving directions for oxygen supply, it would become unworkable and would finally lead to chaos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-lockdown-in-karnataka-inevitable-says-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-983464.html
07-05-2021||National||UK PM says need to be very careful with Indian coronavirus variant||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday the government needed to handle carefully the emergence of new coronavirus strains first found in India which have since started to spread in the United Kingdom. "I think we've got to be very careful about that. We're doing a huge amount, obviously, to make sure that when we do find outbreaks of the Indian variant that we do surge testing, that we do door-to-door testing," he told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-pm-says-need-to-be-very-careful-with-indian-coronavirus-variant-983466.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India modelling has disease wave peaking in coming days||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-modelling-has-disease-wave-peaking-in-coming-days-983469.html
07-05-2021||National||Third Covid-19 wave can be prevented if necessary steps are taken, says Centre||In a U-turn of sorts, the government’s top science advisor on Friday said there could not be a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic if the strict guidelines for precautions were followed. Principal Scientific Adviser K Vijay Raghavan’s remarks, at a press conference here, came within two days of his declaration that a third wave was inevitable. “If we take strong measures, the third wave may not happen in all the places or indeed anywhere at all. It depends much on how effectively the guidelines are implemented at the local level, in the states, in districts and in the cities everywhere,” Raghavan said. The top scientific adviser's remarks about the third wave being inevitable had triggered a political storm with Congress accusing the Modi government of failing to get a handle on the pandemic. Raghavan was prodded at the press conference to make a statement on the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic by fellow officials. At least 12 states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases, Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary in the Health Ministry said. She said the positivity rate was currently above 15% in 24 states in the country and in the range of 5-15% in nine. As of May 7, India has 36,45,164 active Covid-19 cases, 23,40,83 deaths and 1,76,12,351 recoveries. India had reported 3,915 deaths were reported in 24 hours ending 8:00 a.m. on Friday. Ten states account for 74.48% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (853). Uttar Pradesh follows with 350 daily deaths. Ahuja said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh are among states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases. However, Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Odisha are among those showing an upward trend in daily new cases of the infection, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-covid-19-wave-can-be-prevented-if-necessary-steps-are-taken-says-centre-983476.html
07-05-2021||National||News of Chhota Rajan's death wrong: Tihar Jail administration||The Tihar Jail administration on Friday said that the news of gangster Chhota Rajan's death is "wrong". Rajan was found Covid-19 positive in the Tihar Jail on April 22 and admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 24. "News of death of Tihar jail inmate Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje @ Chhota Rajan s/o Sadashiv Nikalje is wrong," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. Rajan, 61, is lodged at the high security prison since his arrest after deportation from Bali in Indonesia in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/news-of-chhota-rajans-death-wrong-tihar-jail-administration-983479.html
07-05-2021||National||RSS General Secretary Dattatreya Hosabale condemns violence in West Bengal||Condemning the post-poll violence in West Bengal, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Friday urged the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Mamata Banerjee government in the state to ensure that peace and rule of law prevails. “We demand the newly elected government of West Bengal, as its top priority, to effectively establish rule of law by immediately containing violence, to initiate legal action against culprits by arresting them without further delay and also to instil a feeling of safety and confidence in the minds of affected people, and to take necessary steps for their rehabilitation. We also urge the Union government to take necessary and all possible steps to establish peace in WB and to ensure that the state government acts in that direction,” RSS General Secretary Dattatreya Hosabale said in a statement. “It is our considered opinion that this post-poll result violence is contrary to the Indian tradition of co-existence and respect to the opinion of all, as also it is totally opposed to the very spirit of democracy and one people enshrined in our Constitution,” said Hosabale, the Sarkaryawah of RSS. According to him, elections have a significant role in democracy. “In this tradition, very recently polls for Assembly were conducted in West Bengal. The entire society of Bengal has vehemently participated in the same. It is but natural that the opposing sides, in the fit of emotions, sometimes cross the limits in making allegations and counter-allegations. However, we should always remember that all contesting parties belong to our country only and all those participating in the elections-the candidates, their supporters, the voters-are citizens of the nation,” he said condemning the violence. Hosabale said the anti-social elements active in the abhorring violence, misbehaved with womenfolk in a most barbaric and despicable manner, brutally killed the innocent people and torched the houses, shamelessly looted the shops and malls; and, as a result of the unabated violence, thousands of people including a large number brethren of Scheduled Castes and Tribes, who became shelterless, were forced to go in search of refuge to save their lives and honour. Everywhere from Coochbehar to Sundarbans, there is a widespread fear-psychosis among the common people. Hosabale pointed out that that the role of state administrative machinery was completely passive and them remaining mute spectators was the most heinous part of this unabated and inhuman violence. “Neither the rioters seem to be afraid of anything nor is there any initiative by the state police and administration to control the violence. The first and foremost responsibility of the ruling administration, whoever or whichever party may be in power, is to establish peace and safety in the society by maintaining law and order, to instil fear of law in the minds of the anti-social elements, and to punish those involved in violent activities. The electoral victory belongs to political parties, but the elected government is accountable to the entire society,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-general-secretary-dattatreya-hosabale-condemns-violence-in-west-bengal-983488.html
07-05-2021||National||SC lauds Mumbai model of Covid-19 handling, asks Delhi govt to take note||When the Covid-19 pandemic hit India, the Dharavi locality in Mumbai – the biggest slum-cluster of Asia -- became a major hotspot. However, the Dharavi model of combating the pandemic showed the way of the 4-T strategy - tracing, tracking, testing, and treating.  The model was replicated elsewhere in Maharashtra and other parts of India and even earned praise from the World Health Organisation and World Bank. Now, the Mumbai model is making the headlines. The Supreme Court has appreciated it as the top court asked the Delhi government to take note of it even as the Bombay High Court took cognizance of it, directing officials to examine if it can be applied in Pune. The financial capital of India is a big city and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) or Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) has always had a tough task cut out. Senior IAS officer Iqbal Singh Chahal was brought in as Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner at a time when the first wave was peaking. However, he managed to flatten the curve and ensured that the city is back to normal by November. In February, the second wave started hitting Mumbai and on April 4, it touched the record high of 11,206 cases in 24 hours. However, it has now come down to the level of an average of 3,500 for over a week’s time. In fact, the BMC has 24 municipal wards and Chahal, an efficient planner, made this his advantage and created as many war rooms. The BMC decentralized the Covid-19 operations, tackled the panic, managed patients and also carried out vaccinations. Each war-room was a control centre equipped with 30 telephone lines; it had 10 telephone operators, 10 doctors with medical support staff and 10 ambulances. They worked round the clock in three shifts. There were 10 dashboards in each ward. Nodal Officers were appointed to the 24 Ward War Rooms and seven Jumbo Field Hospitals to work in two shifts – 3 pm-11 pm and 11 pm-7 am. The BMC headquarters acted as a hub and sorted out test reports ward-wise.  Freshers from medical colleges and nursing schools were hired at higher stipends. The bed strength in hospitals was increased and fleets of ambulances were sourced. “The current death rate is much lower than that reported last year during the peak of the first wave. We have created war rooms to monitor the Covid-19 situation in the city. We're informing people about the availability of hospital beds through the war room...this reduced confusion and complications," said Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, adding that Mumbai has started preparations for the third wave also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-lauds-mumbai-model-of-covid-19-handling-asks-delhi-govt-to-take-note-983499.html
07-05-2021||National||IAF, Navy intensify efforts to help tackle Covid-19||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has conducted 59 sorties to airlift 72 cryogenic oxygen storage containers and 1,252 oxygen cylinders from seven countries across the world, the Defence Ministry said on Friday. These seven countries are Singapore, Dubai, Thailand, the UK, Germany, Belgium and Australia, the ministry said in a statement. India has been badly hit by the second wave of Covid-19, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of vaccines, oxygen, drugs, equipment and beds. As on Friday, the C-17 aircraft of the IAF have conducted 400 sorties within the country, including 351 to airlift 252 oxygen tankers of total capacity of 4,904 metric tonnes, the ministry stated. Along with the IAF, the Indian Navy has also intensified its efforts to aid the civil administration in tackling the current COVID-19 situation by ferrying oxygen containers and medical equipment. The ministry said the Indian Navy deployed INS Talwar, INS Kolkata, INS Airavat, INS Kochi, INS Tabar, INS Trikand, INS Jalashwa and INS Shardul to ferry oxygen containers, cylinders, concentrators and related equipment from friendly foreign countries. On May 5, the Indian Navy deployed nine warships to bring liquid oxygen and other medical supplies from several countries in the Persian Gulf and South East Asia. With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598 on Friday, while the count of active cases crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry. The death toll has increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a day, data uploaded by the ministry showed. Since April 23, the IAF has been airlifting empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country. Along with oxygen containers, the IAF has transported essential medicines as well as equipment required by COVID hospitals in various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-navy-intensify-efforts-to-help-tackle-covid-19-983505.html
07-05-2021||National||Journalist Shesh Narayan Singh dies of Covid-19; President Kovind, PM Modi condole demise||Veteran journalist Shesh Narayan Singh passed away on Friday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a government hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida, officials said. The 70-year-old journalist was admitted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) after being diagnosed positive for the coronavirus, a hospital official said. A resident of Greater Noida, Singh is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son, his media colleagues said. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a host of politicians besides media groups paid their tributes to Singh, a veteran journalist, columnist and political commentator. "The news of the demise of Shri Shesh Narayan Singh, a senior journalist, who is famous for his clear ideas, unambiguous expression and friendly behaviour is very sad. His departure is a big loss for Hindi journalism. My condolences to his heartbroken family and well-wishers," Kovind tweeted in Hindi. सुलझे विचारों, स्पष्ट अभिव्यक्ति और आत्मीय व्यवहार के लिए प्रसिद्ध वरिष्ठ पत्रकार श्री शेष नारायण सिंह के निधन का समाचार अत्यंत दुखद है। उनका जाना हिन्दी पत्रकारिता के लिए बहुत बड़ी क्षति है। उनके शोकाकुल परिवारजनों और शुभचिंतकों के प्रति मेरी संवेदनाएं। PM Modi said Singh will always be remembered for his contribution to journalism and described his demise as "extremely painful". Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also paid rich tributes to Singh. Gautam Buddh Nagar Police Commissioner Alok Singh and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh took to Twitter to pay their homage to the veteran journalist. Press colleagues in Noida and Greater Noida remembered him as a "guide and patron" who was "always keen to help and devote time for journalistic initiatives". "To keep his memory alive, the Noida Media Club (NMC) has decided to organise regular seminars annually from now on to pay homage to him," Noida Medic Club's president Pankaj Parashar said in a statement. The NMC also announced an initiative to build a memorial in Noida as a mark of respect to those journalists who have lost their lives to the pandemic across India. Prashar said Covid-19 has claimed lives of three Gautam Buddh Nagar-based journalists earlier -- Kapil Datta, Rohit Sardana and Lalit Mohan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-shesh-narayan-singh-dies-of-covid-19-president-kovind-pm-modi-condole-demise-983517.html
07-05-2021||National||Jaganmohan Reddy hits back at Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren over his dig at PM Modi, calls for unity||In an unusual tweet, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has found fault with a tweet by Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approach in dealing with the Covid-19 surge. In a public display of support for Modi, normally expected of BJP leaders and CMs, Jagan has asked his counterpart “not to point fingers but to come together and strengthen the hands of the Prime Minister to effectively combat the pandemic.” The YSRCP supremo's defence of Modi comes at a time when the Opposition parties from the Congress to the Trinamool Congress are unified in their attack on the central government over the healthcare system crisis and the vast number of deaths caused by the Covid-19 second wave. Some chief ministers like Arvind Kejriwal have also highlighted the crippling issues of vaccine unavailability and oxygen shortage. Both Jagan and Soren, chiefs of two regional parties, were among the Chief Ministers who received a telephone call from the PM on Thursday to review the Covid-19 situation in their respective states. “Received a call from the honourable PM today. Instead of his Mann-ki-Baat, it would have been better if he spoke or listened about kaam-ki-baat,” Soren tweeted after his conversation with the PM on Thursday evening. आज आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने फोन किया। उन्होंने सिर्फ अपने मन की बात की। बेहतर होता यदि वो काम की बात करते और काम की बात सुनते। Reddy, who also received the call from the PM, chose to react on Friday saying, “Dear Hemant Soren, I have great respect for you, but as a brother I would urge you, no matter what ever our differences are, indulging in such level of politics would only weaken our own nation.” “In this war against Covid-19, these are the times not to point fingers but to come together and strengthen the hands of our Prime Minister to effectively combat the pandemic,” Jagan further stated. Meanwhile, a special CBI court in Hyderabad, on Friday, reviewed a petition by YSRCP rebel MP Raghu Rama Krishna Raju seeking cancellation of Jagan's bail. Arrested in the disproportionate assets case by the CBI in May 2012, Jagan has been out on bail since September 2013. The court has posted the matter to May 17, after both Jagan and CBI side lawyers have reportedly sought time to file counters. The YSRCP, with 22 Lok Sabha and six Rajya Sabha MPs, has been largely supportive of the NDA government in Parliament and outside, even backing some controversial legislation like the CAA, farm bills. While the exact reason that prompted Jagan's tweet now was not clear, CMO officials shared the tweet with the media seeking wide publicity. “It is an unusual tweet,” admitted a senior functionary in the Jagan government. “It is well known that Jagan is on friendly terms with the BJP and seeks good relations with the centre,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaganmohan-reddy-hits-back-at-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-over-his-dig-at-pm-modi-calls-for-unity-983519.html
07-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Indian Navy brings critical items from Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Singapore||Indian naval ships were bringing in critical items, including oxygen generators and cylinders, from Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and Singapore to help fight the second wave of Covid-19, the Defence Ministry said on Friday. Not just ships, vehicles of the Indian Army and aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) are shuttling every day to ferry oxygen generators, medical supplies, lab equipment and medical personnel to Covid hotspots from domestic sources and abroad, the ministry noted in a statement. Apart from domestic flights, scores of sorties have been undertaken by the IAF to get medical supplies and oxygen generators from Germany, Singapore, UAE, Oman, the UK, Australia and Thailand, it said. The Navy has also proved to be the lifeline for island territories such as Lakshadweep, the ministry said. "Indian Navy Ships are bringing in shipments of critical items including oxygen generators and cylinders from Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and Singapore," it said. India has been badly hit by a second wave of Covid-19, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a severe shortage of vaccines, oxygen, drugs, equipment and beds. The hospitals set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in New Delhi, Patna, Ahmedabad and Lucknow, and the ones coming up, such as in Varanasi, are all being manned by more than 500 doctors and nurses of the armed forces, the ministry noted. "Packed in PPE kits with adult diapers on, these men and women in uniform have been rendering yeoman service round the clock in these makeshift Covid care facilities," it added. With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598 on Friday, while the count of active cases crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry. The death toll has increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a day, data uploaded by the ministry showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-navy-brings-critical-items-from-bahrain-kuwait-qatar-singapore-983522.html
07-05-2021||National||Sri Lanka Radio broadcasts religious chants to help India overcome Covid-19 crisis||Sri Lanka's state-run SLBC will broadcast live the chantings from a religious blessing ceremony from May 7 to 13 that is being conducted as an act of solidarity with India and help it overcome the health crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, an official statement said on Friday. Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had pledged to Prime Minister Modi that Buddhist monks in this country would preach religious blessings to help India overcome the pandemic, the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (SLBC) said. It pointed out that the broadcast commenced on Thursday. A press release said that the Rathana Suthra was recited over airwaves of SLBC yesterday between 6.30- to 7 pm local time. “From the 7 to 13 May it will be broadcast live from 6 pm to 7 pm on shortwave 11905 khz”, the SLBC said. Rajapaksa on April 28 wrote to Prime Minister Modi that the local Buddhist clergy were planning to “compassionately recite the ‘Rathana Suthra’ (sacred verses) to invoke blessings on the people of India, thus demonstrating the close bond and affinity between our two countries". Rathana Suthra was delivered by the Buddha at a time when India’s Visala was being hit by famine and the plague of disease and when people called for Buddha to help. He recited the Rathana Suthra which dispelled all diseases. The Rathana Suthra blessing to help India curb the pandemic comes from the wishes of the President and his brother the prime minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, the SLBC said. With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598, while the active cases crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll rose to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, according to the official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-radio-broadcasts-religious-chants-to-help-india-overcome-covid-19-crisis-983528.html
07-05-2021||National||India Post collaborates with custom authorities for speedy delivery of COVID-19 resources||The Department of Posts, in collaboration with customs authorities, has issued a public notice for speedy clearance, processing and delivery of Covid-19 resources such as oxygen concentrators, equipment and medicines. It has asked India Post customers to send details of their consignment through e-mail or WhatsApp to nodal officers for expeditious delivery of their Covid-19 resources. "To further facilitate the clearances and faster delivery of such shipments, esteemed customers..., who are expecting to receive and seeking tracking details of such shipment sent through post from abroad, are hereby informed that they can send details of their consignment — name, mobile number, e-mail ID, tracking ID, date of posting and delivery address, on e-mail address," an offcial statement said. The department has issued two e-mail IDs for sending details — adgim2@indiapost.gov.in and dop.Covid19@gmail.com. It has also appointed Arvind Kumar and Puneet Kumar as nodal officers who can be contacted at 9868378497 and 9536623331, respectively, for expediting delivery of the emergency items. The government on May 6 had said no oxygen concentrator, received as said from abroad, is lying with the customs authorities at any port of import as these consignments are being cleared swiftly. In all, it had received 3,000 oxygen concentrators (OCs) as global aid to support the government's efforts in their collective fight against the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, and claimed that no OC is lying in custom warehouses. People are facing shortage of breathing equipment and medicines during the ongoing second wave. Several companies and NGOs like Paytm and Democracy People Foundation have started procuring OCs from abroad to help people facing dip in oxygen levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-post-collaborates-with-custom-authorities-for-speedy-delivery-of-covid-19-resources-983540.html
07-05-2021||National||Won't commence Drishyam 2 shooting, production house tells Bombay High Court||Production house Panorama Studios International, which had acquired the Hindi remake rights of the Malayalam hit film 'Drishyam 2', assured Bombay High Court it would not begin shooting till the copyright suit filed against it is pending. Viacom 18 Media Pvt Ltd had last week approached HC seeking an order restraining Panorama Studios International from producing any sequel to the movie in Hindi. Viacom, in its suit, alleged infringement of their copyright and sought recognition and adjudication of copyright and other rights in the production of the sequel in the 'Drishyam franchise', which includes a film on continuation from the previous story. Viacom also filed an application seeking interim relief by way of injunction which was heard by Justice Gautam Patel on Wednesday. "The statement is that the defendants (Panorama) will not themselves or through any other person with whom they may have a contract or arrangement, begin shooting of the film in question i.e. a sequel to the film Drishyam," the order said. The production house also accepts that if they take up any preparatory work, such as developing a treatment, script, screenplay or dialogue, this will be at their own risk and that they will not be entitled to claim any equities on that basis in the future, the HC further noted. The court posted the suit for further hearing on June 18. Viacom, in its suit, said it had executed a Remake Rights Agreement with Wide Angle Creations and Raj Kumar Theatres Pvt Ltd by which it had copyright to produce new films by adapting the movie 'Drishyam'. In 2017, Panorama Studios approached Viacom seeking to produce the prequel or sequel of the movie, but the proposal did not work out due to disagreement over terms. Later, Viacom learnt Panorama had acquired the rights to remake the sequel of the movie, after which it approached HC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-commence-drishyam-2-shooting-production-house-tells-bombay-high-court-983543.html
07-05-2021||National||West Bengal asks Supreme Court to set aside differential pricing of Covid-19 vaccine||The West Bengal government has asked the Supreme Court to set aside the Centre's differential pricing policy for Covid-19 vaccines, saying it was ex-facie detrimental to its interest and will result in an inequitable distribution across the country. It also asked the top court to disband the “Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination” policy and tell the Centre to adopt and implement a uniform policy of procuring 100 per cent doses from vaccine manufacturers which can be equitably distributed to the States and Union Territories for free. The price for Covid-19 vaccines should be capped at a uniform Rs 150 per dose, it maintained while asking the court to direct the Centre to provide firm dates by when 70 per cent and 100 per cent of India’s population will be vaccinated. "Figures of Rs 400 (now Rs 300) and Rs 600, for Covishield and Covaxin, respectively, is completely opaque and in fact higher than the cost per dose for vaccines across the world,” it said. “Profiteering at the time of a pandemic is something the SC ought not to countenance,” it said, adding vaccines must be considered as a “public good” and therefore should be free of cost for the public at the time of an unprecedented crisis and cannot be reduced to a market commodity. Two vaccine producers Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech should be asked to explain the rationale and methodology for arriving at the current prices payable by the states, it said. As on April 28, a total of 1,04,38,235 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in West Bengal. The Mamata Banerjee government also asked the court to consider directing the Union Government to take immediate steps for compulsorily licensing the vaccines under Section 92 of the Indian Patents Act, 1970, and expand the production through 18 manufacturing companies in India, thereby boosting availability and ensuring drugs at affordable costs. In an affidavit, the state government also pointed out with the expected increase in oxygen demand in coming weeks, the current rate of diversion of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) outside West Bengal will adversely impact the medical treatment of Covid-19 there.  It suggested that Health Secretaries of States should be consulted twice a day to ensure the availability of real-time information on oxygen demand and availability. "Court may, as a long term measure, consider directing the Union government to adopt the technical specifications and guidance on oxygen sources and distribution strategies prepared by the WHO on April 4 in its medical oxygen distribution national plan," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-asks-supreme-court-to-set-aside-differential-pricing-of-covid-19-vaccine-983547.html
07-05-2021||National||Violence-hit women want to leave Bengal, claims NCW||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Friday claimed that the women targeted in post-poll violence told its fact-finding team led by Chairperson Rekha Sharma that they want to "leave the state" and police was not taking effective steps to speak about the violence they faced. Sharma was in Bengal for two days from Wednesday and said the NCW came across several posts on social media in which women were being subjected to brutal violence all across the state after the Assembly elections results were announced. "The team talked to many women who are worried about the safety of their daughters and want them to leave the state in order to ensure their safety," an NCW statement said. It also said that many stranded victims, who were physically assaulted and their homes were set ablaze by alleged Trinamool Congress supporters, left their homes and are currently forced to stay in a shelter home. The NCW said these women have been receiving rape and threat calls every day. They also told the NCW that they are not being provided with any protection from the police or state authorities. "The shelter home where these women are living does not have proper facilities. The victims complained that they are not being provided any medical facility, healthy food or even clean drinking water," it said. It also claimed that several victims have observed that the police officials of West Bengal were not taking effective steps to provide security to women in the state. Victims are unable to speak about their complaints due to fear of backlash, it added. "Accountability of police and state authorities need to be fixed. There is also a need for sensitization and training of police officials for better handling of cases related to women and the number of women police officers in the force must be increased," the NCW said. The NCW also claimed that its team was supposed to meet many more victims but the state government officials said they will not be facilitating the meetings as movements were restricted due to Covid-19. Sharma and the team met Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and discussed the rising cases of atrocities against women. It was decided that a district-wise compilation of all the complaints should be made. The Governor also suggested that detailed information should be sought from District Magistrates and police officials regarding the number of FIRs and their status. Police officials should be directed to appear before the Commission with reports, Dhankar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/violence-hit-women-want-to-leave-bengal-claims-ncw-983550.html
07-05-2021||National||Jaishankar concludes UK visit with message of convergence||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar left London at the end of a four-day visit to the UK on Friday with a message of convergence as the two countries agreed on an ambitious ‘2030 Roadmap’ towards a Free Trade Agreement (FTA). Addressing a virtual event titled ‘India and the United Kingdom in a Post-COVID World’ at the Policy Exchange think tank in London on Thursday evening, the minister reviewed the redefined contours of the UK-India relationship in the wake of the Virtual Summit between Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson earlier in the week. He reflected on the context of the Covid-19 pandemic giving the bilateral ties a greater urgency for an overdue "upgrade". “Our Prime Ministers held a virtual summit that has truly redefined the contours of our relationship. They agreed on an ambitious roadmap for 2030 that sets forth their vision of cooperation in great detail," said Jaishankar. “Underlying this exercise is a larger convergence at how we look at the world and grapple with issues that both nations deal with every day. This is expressed in our working together in defence and security, in undertaking climate action and development partnerships, in responding to terrorism and radicalisation, or indeed, in how we approach pandemics and cyber challenges,” he said. From India’s viewpoint, the minister highlighted the many UKs that it seeks to engage simultaneously: the Global Britain, the Atlantic UK, the European one after Brexit, the City of London, the non-London UK, the diaspora one, the innovation and education UK, and the strategic and historical UKs. “Given the rebalancing and multipolarity that characterises the contemporary world order, it is natural for two powers such as us to explore greater convergence. "That we have a shared past, may sometimes be a mixed blessing; but vision and will can certainly help put it to good use. The more objectively the two nations perceive each other’s role and contribution in the larger arena, the stronger is the case for a serious strategic relationship,” he said. On a note of caution, he added: “We are complementary societies and economies who each have strengths relevant to the other. Bringing them together more effectively is to our mutual advantage. A 'Global UK' is probably more likely to do so than its previous incarnation, just as a 'New India' is more forward-looking than previously. “In that sense, we could be ready to approach each other with clearer heads and fresher eyes to realise a shared set of goals in a more turbulent world. But these will not be without challenges, because convergence is still not congruence. Our own inhibitions will be a factor, as also perhaps the growing complexity of world politics.” UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab also addressed the event, which marked the conclusion of Jaishankar’s visit as his guest at the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting – which Jaishankar largely conducted virtually following coronavirus exposure within the Indian delegation. Referring to him as “Jai”, Raab reiterated their close friendship as the political guardians of the 2030 Roadmap signed between the two prime ministers. “I am not sure who’s the greater control freak – we like lists and deadlines and schedules and we both want to make this mean something; be the political guardians of this process and make sure the trade negotiations are kept on track,” said Raab. “It is telling how many British Indians we have around the Cabinet table. I am not saying that they have biased Britain’s foreign policy but I do think they breathe life into it,” he noted, in reference to the likes of Chancellor Rishi Sunak and Home Secretary Priti Patel as senior Indian-origin ministers in the UK government. Describing India as a “technologically endowed high trust partner”, Raab declared the 2030 Roadmap a “massive thing” with a set of tangible elements and deliverables to take the UK-India relationship to the level that has been aspired to for many years. “An important aspect of the Indo-Pacific tilt was to put rocket boosters under Britain’s relationship with India,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-concludes-uk-visit-with-message-of-convergence-983551.html
07-05-2021||National||India turns to OPEC nations for oxygen amid Covid-19||India has turned to OPEC nations particularly Saudi Arabia, UAE and Kuwait for sourcing medical oxygen in its battle against the world's worst outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan turned to India's traditional oil suppliers, consulting his counterparts in Saudi Arabia, UAE, Kuwait, Qatar and Bahrain to bridge the huge deficit of medical oxygen the country is facing for treating Covid-19 patients. "Had close consultations during the last week with my counterparts from Saudi Arabia, UAE & Qatar on ways to increase import of LMO into India. Deeply appreciate the initial gesture of goodwill with complimentary LMO supplies particularly from UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain & Saudi Arabia," Pradhan tweeted. Record coronavirus infections of 4,14,188 have taken the total new cases for the week to 15.7 crore. Deaths from Covid-19 rose by 3,915 to 2,34,083. He said state-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and gas utility GAIL will be arranging for logistics to transport the oxygen. Commercial supplies of oxygen into the country are being secured. "In my discussions with HRH Prince Abdulaziz, Minister of Energy of Saudi Arabia, HE Dr. Sultan Al Jaber, UAE Minister of Industry and Advanced Technology and CEO of @AdnocGroup, and H.E Mr Saad Sherida al- Kaabi, Minister of Energy and President of @qatarpetroleum, I received their wholesome support for ensuring commercial supply of LMO to India, especially at a time when India is battling the second wave of the #Covid19 pandemic," he said. He went on to state that commercial supplies of oxygen will come in the coming weeks. "My deep appreciation to HRH Abdulaziz, HE Dr Sultan Jaber, HE Sherida al-Kaabi for their extended support & special gesture of solidarity with India through the offer of ISO Containers for the next 6 months. Assurance of steady commercial supply of LMO to India is also welcomed," he said. Pradhan turned to OPEC nations weeks after a spat with OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia over rising oil prices. In March, OPEC and its allies left oil output unchanged despite a near doubling of oil prices since the start of November, sparking a spat. Pradhan expressed disappointment at the decision and said the government has asked oil companies to look for diversification of supplies. In response, Saudi Arabia's energy minister said India should first use the stocks of crude it bought cheaply during the price slump in 2020. India buys 85 per cent of its oil needs, two-third of which come from OPEC countries. Iraq is its largest supplier, followed by Saudi Arabia and UAE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-turns-to-opec-nations-for-oxygen-amid-covid-19-983556.html
07-05-2021||National||US supported WTO patent waiver on Covid-19 vaccines after India, South Africa, others agreed to rework proposal||To get the United States to extend its support to a move initiated at the World Trade Organization to waive off the Intellectual Property Rights protection on the anti-Covid-19 vaccines, India and South Africa had to agree to rework the proposal for the exemption and narrow down its scope. India and South Africa may submit the reworked proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO) within the next few weeks, thus setting the stage for commencement of the negotiation on the final text of the exemption to the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protection for the anti-Covid-19 vaccines. The focus of the proposal will continue to be ensuring “equitable, affordable and timely access” for all to the antidote against the virus, but it will be reworked to address the concerns of the US and some other western nations, which feared that the scope of the suggested waiver from the IPR protection was unnecessarily broad and might hurt the interest of the pharmaceutical companies, a source in New Delhi told DH on Friday. The US Trade Representative, Katherine Tai, of late announced the support of President Joe Biden’s administration to the proposal for temporarily waiving the IPR protections for the antidotes against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The proposal, which was first mooted by India and South Africa at the WTO in October 2020, is now officially sponsored by 58 nations and supported by over 60 others. It wants the WTO members to waive four categories of IP rights – copyright, industrial designs, patents and undisclosed information under the Agreement of Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) until the majority of the world population receives effective vaccines and develops immunity to Covid-19. The erstwhile US administration led by Biden’s predecessor Donald Trump was opposed to it. So was the United Kingdom, several other western nations and the European Union. The reversal of the stand by the US, however, now prompted the other naysayers to come around and indicate that they too would review positions on the issue. The Biden Administration, however, changed its position, only after its senior officials were assured by their interlocutors in Indian and South African governments that the proposal for waiver at the WTO would be reworked to address at least some of the concerns of the pharmaceutical companies of the US and other western nations, said the source, who is aware of New Delhi’s engagements with Washington D.C. on the issue. Tai said that the negotiation on the text of the waiver would take time as the WTO worked on the basis of consensus among the members. The US Trade Representative and his Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, are learnt to have conveyed to their Indian and South African interlocutors that it would be difficult for the Biden Administration to support the move for exemption of the IPR protection on anti-Covid-19 vaccines, unless they reworked the proposal to address the concerns of its pharmaceutical companies, at least to a certain extent. Tai earlier this week received a letter from a group of 12 Republican Party’s members in the US Congress, asking her not to support the move at the WTO for the IPR waiver on the anti-Covid-19 vaccines, as the proposal was “extraordinarily broad and unnecessary”. The International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Association too stated that the proposed IPR waiver would not lead to faster research and development or access to anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs, but would undermine confidence in what had proven to be a well-functioning system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-supported-wto-patent-waiver-on-covid-19-vaccines-after-india-south-africa-others-agreed-to-rework-proposal-983570.html
07-05-2021||National||4-digit code before Covid-19 vaccination now a security feature||Seeking to get vaccinated for Covid-19, you will have to share a four-digit code at the vaccination centre before the jab. The additional step has been added by the government to reduce data entry errors about vaccination status after several people complained about getting a message of receiving the jab even after failing to turn up at the centre. “In order to minimize such errors and the subsequent inconvenience caused to the citizens, the CoWIN system is introducing a new feature of four-digit security code in the CoWIN application from May 8,” the health ministry said in a statement. “Now, after verification, if the beneficiary is been found eligible, before administering the vaccine dose, the verifier/vaccinator will ask the beneficiary about his four-digit code and then enter the same in the CoWIN system to correctly record the vaccination status,” it added. This new feature will be applicable only to citizens who have done an online booking for a vaccination slot. The four-digit security code will be printed in the appointment acknowledgement slip and also in the confirmation SMS sent to the beneficiary after successful booking of an appointment. This will also reduce the opportunities for impersonation and wrongful use of flexibilities provided in CoWIN for facilitating vaccination coverage. The ministry advised the citizens must carry a digital or physical copy of their appointment slip and the registered mobile phone with appointment confirmation SMS, so that the security code can be furnished for easy completion of vaccination recording process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-digit-code-before-covid-19-vaccination-now-a-security-feature-983591.html
07-05-2021||National Politics||Central Vista project criminal wastage: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the Union government over the central vista project, terming it a "criminal wastage" and asked the dispensation to focus on people's lives. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista — the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The CPWD, which is executing the project, had revised its estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore. "Central Vista is criminal wastage. Put people's lives at the centre -- not your blind arrogance to get a new house," he said on Twitter. Central Vista is criminal wastage. Put people’s lives at the centre- not your blind arrogance to get a new house! Gandhi and his Congress party have been asking the government to shelve its plans on the central vista project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure during the Covid-19 pandemic to save people's lives.  It has also criticised the government for according the construction work of the Central Vista project "essential services" tag and has and accused it of having its priorities wrong. The work on the project has continued despite the lockdown in the national capital that has brought most construction sites to a grinding halt. The construction work for the project has been brought under the ambit of "essential services", a move that been flayed by the opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/central-vista-project-criminal-wastage-rahul-gandhi-983308.html
07-05-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi warns 'explosive' Covid-19 wave threatens India and the world||Rahul Gandhi warned on Friday that unless the deadly second Covid-19 wave sweeping the country was brought under control it would devastate India as well as threaten the rest of the world. In a letter, Gandhi implored Narendra Modi to prepare for another national lockdown, accelerate a countrywide vaccination programme and scientifically track the virus and its mutations. Gandhi said the world's second-most populous nation had a responsibility in "a globalised and interconnected world" to stop the "explosive" growth of Covid-19 within its borders. "India is home to one out of every six human beings on the planet. The pandemic has demonstrated that our size, genetic diversity and complexity make India fertile ground for the virus to rapidly mutate, transforming itself into a more contagious and more dangerous form," wrote Gandhi. "Allowing the uncontrollable spread of the virus in our country will be devastating not only for our people but also for the rest of the world." India's highly infectious Covid-19 variant B.1.617 has already spread to other countries, and many nations have moved to cut or restrict movements from India. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday the government needed to handle very carefully the emergence of new coronavirus strains in India that have since started to spread in the United Kingdom. Meanwhile tonnes of medical equipment from abroad has started to arrive in Delhi hospitals, in what could ease the pressure on an overburdened system. Vaccination rates In the past week, India has reported an extra 15 lakh new infections and record daily death tolls. Since the start of the pandemic, it has reported 214.900 lakh cases and 234,083 deaths. It currently has 36 lakh active cases. Modi has been widely criticised for not acting sooner to suppress the second wave, after religious festivals and political rallies drew tens of thousands of people in recent weeks and became "super spreader" events. The Modi government - which imposed a strict lockdown in March 2020 - has also been criticised for lifting social restrictions too soon following the first wave and for delays in the country's vaccination programme. The government has been reluctant to impose a second lockdown for fear of the damage to the economy, though many states have announced their own restrictions. Goa, where up to one in two people tested in recent weeks for coronavirus have been positive, on Friday announced strict curbs from Sunday, restricting timings for grocery shops, forbidding unnecessary travel and urging citizens to cancel all gatherings. While India is the world's biggest vaccine maker, it is also struggling to produce and distribute enough doses to stem the wave of Covid-19. Although the country has administered at least 1570 lakh vaccine doses, its rate of inoculation has fallen sharply in recent days. India vaccinated 2.3 million people on Thursday, the most this month but still far short of what is required to curb the spread of the virus. Record infections India reported another record daily rise in coronavirus cases, 414,188, on Friday, bringing total new cases for the week to 15.700 lakh. Deaths from Covid-19 rose by 3,915 to 234,083. Medical experts say the real extent of Covid-19 is likely to be far higher than official tallies. India's healthcare system is crumbling under the weight of patients, with hospitals running out of beds and medical oxygen. Morgues and crematoriums cannot handle the number of dead and makeshift funeral pyres burn in parks and car parks. Infections are now spreading from overcrowded cities to remote rural villages that are home to nearly 70% of the 130 crore population. Although northern and western India bear the brunt of the disease, the south now seems to be turning into the new epicentre. In Chennai, only one in a hundred oxygen-supported beds and two in a hundred beds in intensive care units (ICUs) were vacant on Thursday, from a vacancy rate of more than 20% each two weeks ago, government data showed. In Bengaluru, only 23 of the 590 beds in ICUs were vacant. The test-positivity rate — the percentage of people tested who are found to have the disease — in the city of 12.5 million has tripled to almost 39% as of Wednesday, from about 13% two weeks ago, data showed. Syed Tousif Masood, a volunteer with a Covid-19 resource group in Bengaluru called the Project Smile Trust, said the group's helpline was receiving an average 5,000 requests a day for hospital beds and oxygen, compared with 50-100 such calls just one month ago. "The experts say we have not yet hit the peak," he said. "If this is not the peak, then I don't know what will happen at the real peak."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-warns-explosive-covid-19-wave-threatens-india-and-the-world-983309.html
07-05-2021||National Politics||West Bengal post-poll violence: MHA team meets Governor, to seek report||The four-member team of the Union Home Ministry probing the reasons behind post-poll violence in West Bengal met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday. According to sources in the Raj Bhavan, the Central team has sought a report from the Governor regarding post-poll violence and the law and order situation in Bengal. “Four member MHA team led by Shri Govind Mohan, IAS, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India called on the West Bengal Governor today at 10 am at Raj Bhawan, Kolkata. The MHA team was with the Governor for over an hour,” tweeted the Governor. The development comes a day after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed displeasure at the arrival of the Central team within 24 hours of her taking the oath. She also said that till May 3, when the model code of conduct, was in force in Bengal. 16 persons have died in post-poll violence. Later in the day, the Central team visited several places in South 24 Paraganas district such as Sathgachia and Budge Budge and spoke to victims of post-poll violence. However, they did not speak to reporters. After the team returned to Kolkata, a four-member state BJP delegation met them. The BJP delegation alleged that the state Government’s claim that post-poll violence has subsided in Bengal is false and it was continuing unabated in the State. They further alleged that the situation has become such that people are fleeing from their home or even hiding in jungles fearing for their life. Meanwhile, the state BJP leadership announced that it will continue to boycott Assembly sessions till the ongoing post-poll violence in Bengal. The decision was taken at the meeting of BJP’s Legislative Party also attended by state BJP president Dilip Ghosh. “Several of our MLAs were unable to come to the Assembly to take oath due to post-poll violence in Bengal. I have told them to stay in their constituencies and stand by party workers. Our MLAs will not attend any Assembly session till the violence stops,” said Ghosh. The BJP has also boycotted the Assembly session on Saturday when the Speaker will be elected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-post-poll-violence-mha-team-meets-governor-to-seek-report-983329.html
07-05-2021||National Politics||Very disappointed with Congress performance in state polls: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the party’s performance in the recently-concluded Assembly elections was “very disappointing” and said it would be reviewed at the meeting of the working committee shortly. Congress sources said the meeting of the Congress Working Committee was likely to be held on Monday, May 10. Addressing a meeting of the Congress Party in Parliament (CPP), Gandhi said the party must draw appropriate lessons from this setback in a spirit of “humility and honesty”. In the recently-held Assembly elections, Congress failed to dislodge the BJP and the Left Democratic Front in Assam and Kerala respectively and drew a blank in West Bengal where it had allied with the Left Front against the ruling Trinamool Congress and BJP. “Most unfortunately, our own performance in all the states was very disappointing and if I may say, unexpectedly so,” she said in a virtual meeting of the CPP to discuss the Covid-19 situation across the country. “The CWC is meeting shortly to review the results, but it goes without saying that we as a party collective must draw the appropriate lessons from this setback in a spirit of humility and honesty,” Gandhi said. At the meeting, a couple of MPs tried to raise the issue of the recent election results, but were told that the meeting was exclusively for Covid-19 situation. After Delhi and Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal will be the third Assembly where the Congress does not have a single MLA. A section of the leaders is upset at the failure of the Congress’s performance, particularly in Kerala and Assam where it was in direct contest with its opponents. A section of the leaders was also unhappy with the decision to join the coalition with AIUDF in Assam and Indian Secular Front in West Bengal. Congress had declared that it would study the results diligently and do appropriate course correction. The party had refrained from commenting on the Assembly elections and instead chose to focus on dealing with the Covid-19 situation unfolding across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/very-disappointed-with-congress-performance-in-state-polls-sonia-gandhi-983339.html
07-05-2021||National Politics||System hasn't failed but Modi govt failed in handling Covid-19 crisis: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday accused the Modi government of having failed the people of the country in its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and demanded convening of an all-party meeting. “I say this categorically – India is crippled by a political leadership today that has no empathy for the people. The Modi Government has failed the people of our country,” Gandhi said addressing a virtual meeting of the Congress Party in Parliament. “Let us be absolutely clear – the system hasn’t failed. The Modi government has been unable to constructively channelize India’s many strengths and resources,” she said. Gandhi also praised Youth Congress President Srinivas B V and his team for the noteworthy efforts in helping the needy with oxygen, medicines and getting access to hospital beds. Gandhi said Opposition leaders and chief ministers had made practical suggestions for action and raised legitimate concerns with the Prime Minister and union ministers, but received no meaningful response. “The situation brooks no delay. Tackling this crisis requires able, calm and visionary leadership. The nation is sinking under the weight of the Modi government’s indifference and incompetence,” she said. Gandhi said the Congress firmly believed that fighting the pandemic was not a 'Government versus Us' battle but an 'Us versus Corona' battle. “This battle transcends political differences. We have to fight this battle together as a nation,” she said and urged Modi to convene an all party meeting. Gandhi asked the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to bring to the notice of the Presiding Officer the Report of Standing Committee on Health presented in October 2020 and demand that he take action on the recommendations of the report. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking the government to scientifically track Covid-19 and its variants and be transparent in sharing the findings in an effort to curb a deadly second wave. He also said that a nationwide lockdown appeared inevitable and asked the government to act with compassion and provide critical financial and food support to the most vulnerable people.  "The situation brooks no delay. Tackling this crisis requires able, calm and visionary leadership," she said. The nation, she charged, is sinking under the weight of the Modi government's indifference and incompetence and told party MPs that this is the time to rededicate themselves in the service of our people. India saw a record number of 4.14 lakh fresh cases and around 4000 deaths in the last 24 hours. Dwelling on the Congress' poor performance in the assembly polls, she said, "Most unfortunately, our own performance in all the states was very disappointing and if I may say, unexpectedly so." "The CWC is meeting shortly to review the results but it goes without saying that we as a party collective must draw appropriate lessons from this setback in a spirit of humility and honesty," she also said. The Congress chief said the meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Committee was being held in extraordinary circumstances, with India being in the grip of a deadly health disaster. She said thousands have died and millions are scrambling to access basic healthcare, life-saving medicines, oxygen, and vaccines. It is heartbreaking to see people battling for their lives in hospitals, on roads, waiting in vehicles, far too many for want of any medical help at all, she said. "And what is the Modi government doing? Instead of alleviating their suffering and pain, it has abdicated its fundamental responsibilities and duties towards the people," she charged. She also alleged that the government's vaccination policy is inequitable and will exclude millions of Dalits, Adivasis, Other Backwards Classes, as well as the poor and the marginalised. "It is utterly shocking to see the Modi government abdicate its moral obligation and its sworn duty towards the people," she said.   She also accused the Modi government of ignoring expert advice in not strengthening the supply chains for oxygen, medicine, and ventilators. The government failed to place sufficient orders for vaccines in time to meet the needs of our people, she alleged, adding that instead, it consciously chose to allocate thousands of crores for non-essential projects that have nothing to do with the peoples' well-being.   "Instead of helping desperate patients, some BJP governments have been using the state's repressive power to arrest people merely for crying out for help," she said, alleging that they are cracking down on citizen groups who are trying their best to help. They are also compelling social media platforms and the media to obfuscate the truth and ignore the pleas of desperate citizens, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/system-hasnt-failed-but-modi-govt-failed-in-handling-covid-19-crisis-sonia-gandhi-983384.html
07-05-2021||National Politics||Shashi Tharoor clarifies he wasn't 'mollycoddling' Tejasvi Surya||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday waded into a controversy with his advice to BJP MP Tejasvi Surya that many saw as going soft on bigotry, triggering a social media outrage which evoked a clarification from Tharoor that his intention was not to "mollycoddle" the offender. It all started with Tharoor's tweet advising Surya, tagging a media report on the Bengaluru South MP's allegations regarding a bed blocking scam and his mentioning of names of Muslim staffers. "My young colleague @Tejasvi_Surya is smart, passionate & talented. But I urge him to avoid this kind of behaviour," Tharoor tweeted, tagging a media report about the impact of Surya's allegations on Muslim staffers. "Humanitarian needs must prevail over communal politics. Unity across political and religious lines is indispensable when lives are at stake," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram tweeted. Tharoor describing the BJP Yuva Morcha chief as "smart, passionate and talented" met with outrage on social media with many accusing him of normalising bigotry and going soft on Surya. "Hannibal Lecter was also smart, passionate & talented," a Twitter user wrote referring to the serial killer character created by novelist Thomas Harris. Responding to this tweet, Tharoor said on Twitter, "Of course! So the choice is theirs: like Hannibal, whether to use their talent to be known as a renowned doctor or an infamous cannibal. I’m hopeful our young politicians will channel their talent & energy more constructively, to something better than divisive communal politics." Quoting from Shakespearean play 'The Tragedy of Julius Caesar', Tharoor posted the lines, "And Brutus is an honourable man. So are they all, all honourable men." "There are different ways of making your point. I used mine. Mark Antony had his. Clearly many people I respect would prefer theirs. Each is entitled to their own approach. The end result is what we all want," the Congress leader said. As the outrage and criticism continued, Tharoor put out a series of four tweets to clarify his position on the issue. "The words I used to describe a Lok Sabha colleague have genuinely upset a lot of people, including some who've been my well-wishers. Like you, I disapprove of his (Surya's) recent and past actions. It was out of solidarity with the 17 youth who unjustly were affected that I tweeted at all," he tweeted. 1/4 The words I used to describe a LokSabha colleague have genuinely upset a lot of people, including some who've been my well-wishers. Like you, I disapprove of his recent & past actions. It was out of solidarity w/the 17 youth who unjustly were affected that I tweeted at all. Tharoor said he knows Surya as a member of the parliamentary committee he chairs and sees qualities that he felt could be put to better use than to stoke communalism. "In the present inflamed environment, I regret that my message got lost in your outrage," Tharoor said. "'A spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down', goes the saying: I see many of my friends spat out the sugar and ignored the medicine. I understand you felt my 'sugarcoating' mollycoddled the offender and normalised his inexcusable conduct. That wasn't my intention," the former Union minister said, adding that was the reason he was issuing the statement to clarify his position 3/4 "A spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down", goes the saying: I see many of my friends spat out the sugar & ignored the medicine. I understand you felt my "sugarcoating" mollycoddled the offender & normalised his inexcusable conduct. That wasn't my intention. "Unlike most of my critics, I need to continue to work with MPs of different parties, & convictions opposed to mine, in the LokSabha. But I agree fully with my critics - there is NO space for normalising bigotry," he asserted. 4/4 That's why I’m issuing this statement to clarify my position. Unlike most of my critics, I need to continue to work with MPs of different parties, &convictions opposed to mine, in the LokSabha. But I agree fully with my critics - there is NO space for normalising bigotry. END Surya, Bommanahalli BJP MLA M Sathish Reddy and Basavanagudi MLA Ravi Subramanya on Tuesday made claims about the bed blocking scam in Bengaluru and doubted the involvement of a few Muslims, who were deployed at the Covid War Room of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). However, top police sources said on Friday that investigation into the scam pertaining to blocking beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients has so far not revealed the involvement of those Muslims whose names were mentioned by Surya on May 4 in a live programme. Many leaders have expressed outrage over Surya's remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shashi-tharoor-clarifies-he-wasnt-mollycoddling-tejasvi-surya-983524.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||PM's 'Mann ki Baat' on Covid: Jharkhand CM on Modi's phone call||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi's phone call to him on the Covid-19 situation in the country as the PM's "Mann Ki Baat", instead of business. Soren's reaction came after Modi spoke to him and the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and Telangana about the Covid-19 situation on Thursday. "Today the respected Prime Minister called. He only spoke his 'Mann Ki Baat'. It would have been better if he would have talked business and heard the issues," the Jharkhand chief minister said in a tweet. Official sources said Soren was unhappy as he was not allowed to present the issues concerning his state before Modi and instead, it was only the prime minister who talked about the Covid-19 situation. Jharkhand is among the 10 states and Union territories that are collectively accounting for over 75 per cent of daily Covid-19 deaths in the country, according to latest data. The others in the league are Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. Jharkhand reported 133 Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll due to the viral disease in the state to 3,479, while 6,974 cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,70,089. The mortality rate in the state remains higher at 1.28 per cent against the national mortality rate of 1.10 per cent. According to a bulletin issued by the state health department, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is 76.26 per cent in Jharkhand as against the national average of 82 per cent. Soren digitally inaugurated a 528-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Thursday. Of the 528 oxygenated beds, 327 were set up at the RIMS multi-storey parking lot, 73 at the oncology department and 128 at the old building of the institute. Soren said 108 more beds will be set up with the help of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the country's largest energy conglomerate. On Wednesday, the chief minister had digitally inaugurated 250 beds at a dedicated Covid health centre at Koderma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pms-mann-ki-baat-on-covid-jharkhand-cm-on-modis-phone-call-983254.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC directs Covid treatment facilities to update bed status on app as frequently as feasible||The Delhi government has directed all healthcare facilities in the national capital treating Covid-19 patients to update the status of bed availability on Delhi Corona App and website "as frequently as feasible". It has been reported that many hospitals are not updating the status of different categories of beds availability regularly on the designated portal and Delhi Corona App, the health department said in an order to all hospitals and nursing homes functioning as Covid facilities. "This is creating great hardship to the public who, in the absence of reliable information, are forced to spend time and energy in searching for vacant beds and are subjected to great harassment and agony," it read. Medical directors, medical superintendents and directors of all such facilities are directed to update the status of beds on the "portal and Delhi Corona App as frequently as feasible, but not later than two hourly", the health department said. Of the 19,333 oxygen-supported beds for coronavirus patients across Delhi, only 2,170 were vacant around 10:45 am on Friday, according to the Delhi Corona app. Only 32 of the 5,566 ICU beds were available, it showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-directs-covid-treatment-facilities-to-update-bed-status-on-app-as-frequently-as-feasible-983333.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis | Cases of black fungus return: What is Mucormycosis? What are the symptoms and can it be fatal?||Even as people familiarise themselves with new variants and symptoms during India's latest Covid-19 spike, hospitals in Delhi, Pune and Ahmedabad are witnessing the re-emergence of a deadly fungal infection that is forcing Covid-recovered patients back into intensive care. Doctors at Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram hospital have reported multiple cases of the fungal infection, while Gujarat hospitals have also seen a sharp uptick in such cases. What is Mucormycosis? Mucormycosis, known colloquially as the black fungus, is a rare but dangerous fungal infection caused by a group of moulds known as mucormycetes, which are present naturally in the environment. They only cause serious complications when a patient has pre-existing health problems or has taken medication that compromises the immunity system. The fungal spores commonly enter through inhalation and affect the sinuses or lungs. They can also enter through an open cut or wound and infect the skin. Symptoms of Mucormycosis Worryingly, the infection could kill half the people that it affects, according to published studies. It also causes blindness in up to one-third of infected patients, along with excruciating pain. Other symptoms include numbness in the face, one-sided nose blockages and swelling in the eyes. Health experts have panned the use of steroids to treat Covid patients with acute diabetes as a major cause of Mucormycosis. However, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has said the infection is not contagious, advising that early recognition, diagnosis and speedy anti-fungal treatment could increase patients’ chances of survival. Treatment and Shortage of Drugs On the treatment front, doctors use an anti-fungal injection known as Amphotericin B to treat life-threatening cases. However, with growing demand, hospitals in Pune are facing severe shortages of the drug that could lead to patients racking up hefty bills for treatment. While the resurfacing of the fungal disease is concerning, cases of Mucormycosis had been seen in patients last year as well. Hospitals in Ahmedabad, Delhi and Bengaluru had flagged cases in November-December last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-cases-of-black-fungus-return-what-is-mucormycosis-what-are-the-symptoms-and-can-it-be-fatal-983341.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Supply 700 MT oxygen to Delhi daily, don't make us go firm: SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Friday made it categorical to the Centre that its obligation to supply 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi hospital was not a one day measure but had to be ensured daily till further orders. "We want 700 MT to be supplied to Delhi on daily basis. Don't make us go firm," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, mentioned before the top court Delhi received 527 MT of oxygen till midnight. He said Delhi has further received 86 MT on Friday till 9 am and 16 MT of oxygen is in transit. "We want 700 MT to be supplied to Delhi and we mean business. It has to be supplied and we don't want to be coercive," the bench said. The bench said that its order regarding the oxygen supply and formation of a committee to assess the requirements will be out soon. But the Centre has to proceed and arrange the oxygen supply for the national capital, the court said. The bench reiterated that the Centre has to supply 700 MT oxygen every day till further orders. "We want to make it clear that Delhi must get 700 MT every day. Don't make us pass strict orders," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. "When we saw your affidavit on Thursday, it said 700MT supplied. There were caveats and explanation about containers and tankers. We are not container drivers. Please note that when we say 700MT has to be supplied to Delhi, it doesn't mean it is only for one day to assuage us," the bench said. The top court had on Wednesday stayed the Delhi High Court order, on contempt notice to senior officers of the Union government, saying it will not help salvage the oxygen situation. The court on Thursday maintained that the supply has to be maintained as per the order of April 30. The Centre, for its part, claimed though it supplied 730 MT oxygen on Wednesday, this much was not required in Delhi. It has favoured forming a committee of experts for oxygen audit. The Delhi government, however, opposed it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supply-700-mt-oxygen-to-delhi-daily-dont-make-us-go-firm-sc-tells-centre-983346.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 patients in J&K encounter difficulties in finding newly established facilities||The recent decision of J&K administration to allow admissions in tertiary-care hospitals by referrals only has put Covid-19 patients in difficulty as they find themselves lost between newly established networks of hospitals designated for Covid-19 in absence of awareness and guidance. On 28 April, the J&K government ordered for enforcing admission in tertiary care hospitals of Srinagar by referral only. The step, the government order said, was needed in view of the overburdening of speciality hospitals with cases that could be managed at district or sub-district level hospitals. However, no step was taken to publicise the new arrangement. As a result, patients continue to beeline outside tertiary care hospitals in Srinagar with the hope of finding specialists for Covid-19 there. “We have hundreds of patients reporting to us directly every day,” a doctor at SMHS Hospital in Srinagar said adding that none of them is aware that the hospital cannot admit a patient directly now. Medicos have expressed the urgent need for making arrangements for consultation and intervention of Covid-19 cases across every area. “People don’t know what to do in case they test positive,” the doctor added. On Thursday, the J&K government issued another order to establish Triage Centers for Covid-19 patients. SKIMS Medical College Hospital Bemina and NIT Campus Hazratbal in Srinagar were announced as “first point of contact” for patients. This, as per the order, is meant to streamline and optimise the use of beds in six tertiary care hospitals of Srinagar – SKIMS Soura, SMHS Hospital, Chest Diseases Hospital, Kashmir Nursing Home, JLNM Hospital and PHC Chanapora. Other districts have been ordered to take similar steps. However, without publicising these arrangements, doctors feel, patients will continue to be tossed between hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patients-in-jk-encounter-difficulties-in-finding-newly-established-facilities-983363.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana minister Anil Vij wants all oxygen plants under military control for safety, smooth functioning||Amid a rise in oxygen demand owing to spiralling Covid-19 cases, Haryana's Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday said control and management of all oxygen generation plants should be handed over to military or paramilitary forces for their safety and smooth functioning. Later, according to a statement, Vij said if an oxygen plant stops functioning due to any reason it can cost lives. "Control and management of all Oxygen Generation Plants should be handed over to military or paramilitary forces for safety and smooth functioning of the plants," Vij said in a tweet. Control and Management of all Oxygen Generation Plants should be handed over to Military or Para Military Forces for safety and smooth functioning of the Plants. On Wednesday, Vij had said 60 oxygen plants will be set up in the state with the support of the central government. According to a government release, the plants will be installed at various government hospitals with bed capacity of 30, 50, 100 and 200. Haryana has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks and the demand for medical oxygen has risen manifold. At present, the state's daily oxygen quota is 257 tonne and a request has been made by the state to the Centre to further enhance this quota to 300 tonnes. During hearing of Covid petitions before the Punjab and Haryana High Court recently, counsels, including those who were representing Haryana, had raised the issue of shortage of oxygen and its transportation. Amicus curiae Rupinder Khosla had pointed out before the court "that very serious situation has arisen in Haryana as its quota of oxygen has been reduced by 20 MT from the Panipat plant. Besides, the said plant has overheated and is, thus, not functioning at 100 per cent capacity".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-minister-anil-vij-wants-all-oxygen-plants-under-military-control-for-safety-smooth-functioning-983389.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hold meeting to review Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will review the Covid-19 situation in the national capital in a meeting that will be be held later in the day, an official said. The meeting, to be held at the chief minister's residence, will be attended by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain, health secretary and all the district magistrates, the official said. The national capital recorded 335 Covid-19 deaths in a day and 19,133 new cases even as the positivity rate dropped below 25 per cent for the first time since April 18, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-hold-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-983401.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Fewer women than men get vaccinated in Kashmir||Lower percentage of females are getting vaccinated against Covid-19 compared to males in the Kashmir valley. According to the data available on the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) portal, which tracks the beneficiaries on a real-time basis, Srinagar district has the highest gendered difference among vaccinated individuals. A day before the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination began on May 1, females constituted 27% of the vaccinated population in Srinagar district. Although the number of women getting vaccinated picked up a little since the opening of vaccination for ages 18-44, it is still 29% of the overall vaccinated population till May 5. In Srinagar district, 71 men are getting vaccinated against every 29 women and for frontier Kupwara district of north Kashmir it is 64 men to 36 women. While the national average for women makes up for 48% of the total vaccinated population, for Jammu and Kashmir, the average is 41%. Four out of ten districts in Kashmir have a lower percentage of women getting vaccinated against men than that of the Union Territory (UT) level of 41%. In the remaining six districts of the Valley, three each have 42% and 43% women among the vaccinated population. Given that the existing data is mostly about beneficiaries who are above 45 years of age, it is assumed that most of them are married and living with their families. That means that there are a lot of families whose male members are getting vaccinated while female members are being left out. A senior health department official said that there was a need for awareness campaigns to encourage women to take the vaccine. “Vehicles that are announcing lockdown through loudspeakers should also be used to disseminate information on vaccines. Besides, to make vaccination easy and accessible for women, the government can set up all-women vaccination centres,” he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-fewer-women-than-men-get-vaccinated-in-kashmir-983404.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Meet the Jammu and Kashmir school teacher serving Covid patients||A government school teacher in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district has become an inspiration to people as he is at the forefront of providing meals to Covid-19 patients lodged in various hospitals and quarantine centres in the district. Manzoor Laway, posted at Government Primary School, Galwanpora in Kulgam reaches out to the people in need of meals at the quarantine centers and hospitals without boasting. “So far I have provided meals to at least 300 people in various quarantine centers. I was engaged at four different quarantine centres where I was serving pre-dawn (sehri) and post dawn (iftaar) meals to Covid positive patients during the holy month of Ramazan,” he told reporters. Besides, the unsung hero also reaches out to people with requests to avoid social gatherings, use face masks and wash hands frequently. “I even installed a public address system on my personal vehicle for this purpose. The administration asked me to make frequent announcements in Red zones to sensitise people to honour the government advisories,” Laway said. Through his friends, he has also made available soaps, sanitizers and masks in local masjids. “I have also hired a lab technician who accompanies me to take samples of the Covid patients and have offered my house to the administration to make it a quarantine centre if needed,” he said. “Last year I didn't even see my family for almost four months during the Covid crisis as I remained busy serving the patients in the district,” Laway, whose Covid tests have returned negative 15 times since last year, said. “Serving humans and humanity is the biggest aim of my life. I feel content in doing so. This gives me peace and comfort,” he concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/meet-the-jammu-and-kashmir-school-teacher-serving-covid-patients-983419.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||SC notice to Centre on plea against IGST on import of oxygen concentration as gift||The Delhi High Court has sought a response from the Centre on a plea challenging imposition of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) on the import of oxygen concentrators as a gift for personal use. A bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh issued notice to the Centre on the petition and appointed senior advocate Arvind Datar as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter. As an interim, the court directed that the oxygen concentrator being imported by the 85-year-old petitioner be released by the customs authorities, subject to his depositing with the court an amount equivalent to the IGST. The court listed the matter for further hearing on May 18. The petition by the senior citizen, who is currently suffering from Covid-19, said his nephew has sent an oxygen concentrator for him as a gift from the US to ameliorate his condition. He has challenged the imposition of IGST on the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use, as the essential equipment is already in shortage in the country during the Covid-19 pandemic. He has challenged a May 1 notification issued by the Ministry of Finance that such oxygen concentrators imported for personal use, irrespective of whether they are a gift or otherwise, will be charged with an IGST of 12%. Senior advocate Sudhir Nandrajog, representing the petitioner, had earlier said another notification has been issued by the ministry on May 3 which says that if someone is giving it for charity, then it is exempted from IGST. The plea said the May 1 notification is violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution since the same is arbitrary and infringes the right to life of patients reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-igst-on-import-of-oxygen-concentration-as-gift-983426.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Security forces, civilian injured in J&K grenade attack||Three security personnel and a civilian were injured in a grenade attack by militants here on Friday, police said. About 4.45 pm, militants hurled a grenade towards security forces’ deployment at Nawa Bazar area of the city, a police official said. He said the explosion caused injuries to two CRPF personnel of 36 Battalion, one policeman and a civilian. The injured were shifted to SMHS hospital here, the official said. The area has been cordoned off and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-civilian-injured-in-jk-grenade-attack-983431.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan to procure 50,000 oxygen concentrators from abroad||The Rajasthan government has planned to procure 50,000 oxygen concentrators from abroad to address a shortage of the life-saving gas for Covid patients, state Health Minister Raghu Sharma said on Friday. The minister said the state government has already placed an order for 1,250 oxygen concentrators, 100 of which will reach Jaipur from Russia by the evening. A committee of three IAS officers is looking after the process and they spoke to manufacturers in India, Russia, China and Dubai, Sharma said in a video message, adding that the task of procuring 50,000 oxygen concentrators will be completed by the month-end. Sharma said the state requires 615 metric tonnes of medical oxygen but the Centre has allocated only 270 MT to them. Moreover, there is a problem of its transportation due to long distance and a shortage of tankers, he said, stressing that oxygen concentrators will ease the requirement of the life-saving gas in the state. Rajasthan till Thursday reported 5,182 deaths and 7,02,568 coronavirus cases. The state government has imposed a lockdown from May 10 to 24 under which marriage functions, intrastate movement and MGNREGA works have been suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-to-procure-50000-oxygen-concentrators-from-abroad-983450.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Post-poll violence in Uttar Pradesh claims six lives, including women||According to reports, six people, including women, were killed in post-poll violence in Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur and Deoria districts in the state over the past few days. Scores of people were injured in the clashes between rival groups after results started pouring in on Monday, reports said. While a woman was shot dead in Azamgarh district allegedly by the supporters of a newly elected village panchayat chief, another woman was beaten to death in Bareilly district by supporters of her rival. According to the sources here, the state police had booked over 2,000 people in connection with poll-related violence and lodged over 200 FIRs. More than 600 people have been arrested so far. BSP supremo Mayawati on Friday condemned the post-poll violence in the state and asked the state government to take measures to check the violence and punish the guilty. ''Violence after the panchayat polls is a matter of concern... the state government must take steps to check it,'' she said. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-panchayat-poll-results-set-alarm-bells-ringing-for-bjp-982650.html The panchayat poll results were a setback to the BJP, which saw its arch rival Samajwadi Party (SP) edging past in a majority of districts in the state. SP bagged 760 out of the total 3,050 seats in the Zila Panchayats, while the BJP-backed nominees won 750 seats. The BSP and Congress-supported candidates bagged 381 and 76 seats respectively. The Independents won 1,083 seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/post-poll-violence-in-uttar-pradesh-claims-six-lives-including-women-983458.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi received 577 MT of oxygen against requirement of 976 MT on May 6: Chadha||Delhi received just 577 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 6, which is 59 per cent of the total requirement of 976 MT, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said on Friday. Chadha, who is also the vice chairman of Delhi Jal Board, said authorities received nine SOS calls from hospitals over oxygen shortage on Thursday and 5.1 MT of the life-saving gas was provided to these healthcare facilities. The national capital had received 730 MT of oxygen on Wednesday, the highest so far, which had led to a significant reduction in SOS calls from hospitals. The increased supply on Wednesday had come following the intervention of the Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court. However, it has come down by 153 MT in a day, he said. Over the last seven days, Delhi has received 498 MT of oxygen per day on an average against the demand of 976 MT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-received-577-mt-of-oxygen-against-requirement-of-976-mt-on-may-6-chadha-983473.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccine shortage mars Jammu and Kashmir's vaccination drive||As Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single-day rise in new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, its vaccination campaign has been marred by shortages. Official sources said that for the last few days, several government-designated Covid-19 vaccination centres across the union territory (UT) could not continue the drive as their stocks are empty. Srinagar district, which is the hotspot of the Covid-19 in the UT, has been badly affected due to a shortage of vaccines as in over 80 centres the vaccination drive could not take place on Thursday. In the Jammu district, another hotspot, over 20 centres could not offer vaccination services, they said. As J&K lacks enough doses to meet the growing demand, daily vaccination numbers have fallen, sources said. Most of the private vaccination centres in the UT have suspended the vaccination drive since May 1 after the government refused to provide vaccines and asked them to procure the same directly from the manufacturers. An official of a private vaccination centre in Srinagar said that they were ready to procure the vaccine directly but the government should at least tell them whom to contact “as there is no stockist or any representative of the manufacturers of the Covaxin and Covishield in the UT.” “We receive dozens of calls from anxious people daily who want to get vaccinated, but since the last few days, we don’t have stocks. Some people who are reluctant to visit crowded government hospitals wanted to get the vaccine done at private centres, but we are unable to help them out,” he added. Director Family Welfare, MCH and Immunization, Dr Salim-ur-Rehman admitted that there was a shortage of vaccines. “We are getting limited supply of vaccines due to which vaccination could not take place in some centres,” he said. “We got 50,000 vaccines each day on Wednesday and Thursday. But if we distribute the vaccines equally among all the centres, none will get more than 20-30 doses,” Dr Rehman said. He added that due to the high demand and low production, the manufacturers were not in a position to supply vaccines in bulk despite having placed orders for more doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccine-shortage-mars-jammu-and-kashmirs-vaccination-drive-983511.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Lion at Etawah Safari Park tests positive for Covid-19||A lion at the Etawah Safari Park has tested positive for Covid-19 and another was suspected to have caught the infection, three days after eight Asiatic lions in Hyderabad were found infected with the virus. "Sixteen samples of 14 Asiatic lions at the Etawah Safari Park had been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) for RT-PCR tests for Covid-19. On Thursday, one lion tested positive for the virus, while another was considered as a suspected case. The remaining 12 lions have tested negative," IVRI Joint Director Dr KP Singh said. He said the sample of a lion was also received from the Delhi zoo and its report came out negative on Friday. He said the report of the samples of the lions is being sent to the government besides the safari park management. The chain of transmission of the virus could have taken place through any asymptomatic human carrier, probably caretakers, working at the park, Dr Singh said. He said the safari park authorities have been advised to shift the infected animals in isolation. The safari park has already been shut for the public. The CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology had on Tuesday said eight Asiatic lions in the Hyderabad zoo have tested positive for Covid-19. It had said these animals must have got infected through zoo-keeping staff. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had said the infected animals were behaving normally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lion-at-etawah-safari-park-tests-positive-for-covid-19-983516.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||With 5,443 new Covid-19 cases, J&K reports highest spike since pandemic outbreak||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,443 fresh infections and 50 deaths. This is the first time that Covid-19 cases crossed 5,000 mark in the Union Territory (UT) as the previous highest recorded on May 6 was 4,926 cases. The record single-day new positive cases came out of 49,781 tests conducted the previous day, according to the daily media bulletin. The UT also reported 50 new deaths, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 2,612. Friday’s rise took the total tally of the UT to 2,06,954 while the number of people recovered reached 1,60,035, with 44,307 active cases. In the first week of May, the active cases have increased by 15,948. The UT has also recorded 329 deaths in the first seven days of this month. Over the last few weeks, the Jammu division has witnessed more deaths than Kashmir even though the Valley is leading in infections, official data reveals. On Thursday, out of a total of 5,443 Covid-19 cases reported in J&K, 3,575 cases were reported from Kashmir and 1,868 from the Jammu division. And of the 50 deaths recorded today, 30 were reported from the Jammu region and 20 from Kashmir. “In the last few weeks, Covid-19-related deaths in Jammu have been more than Kashmir. There may be multiple reasons for this and a threadbare analysis is required to come to a conclusion,” said Dr Rajiv Gupta, head community medicine, Government Medical College, Jammu. However, he said, one of the reasons for more fatalities in Jammu was peoples’ hesitance to report to hospitals on time. “Because of social stigma, people reach hospitals after their oxygen levels have dropped significantly. This shows that the people of Kashmir report to health care facilities immediately,” Dr Gupta said. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country, which has over 16,500 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is over 15,500. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. The coronavirus outbreak was first reported in Jammu and Kashmir on March 7, 2020, when two persons tested positive for the deadly infection. The peak of the first wave was September 12 when 1,698 positive cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-5443-new-covid-19-cases-jk-reports-highest-spike-since-pandemic-outbreak-983542.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi government to organise mass Covid-19 vaccination drive for mediapersons, says official||The Delhi government will organise a mass Covid-19 vaccination drive for mediapersons, an official said on Friday. The vaccination camps will be organised at the offices of the media houses and the cost will be borne by the government, he said. The government will seek details of employees from their respective organisations. After getting the details, the health department will proceed, he added. The move comes at a time when people are facing difficulties in booking vaccination slots. The Press Council of India on Thursday had reiterated its recommendation to the Centre and state governments that journalists be included in the category of ''Covid warriors'' and also given insurance cover. In a statement, the print media watchdog had commended the governments of Odisha, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh who have considered journalists among ''frontline workers for their hard work in this pandemic situation'' and have extended financial help to them. The Uttar Pradesh government had announced on May 5 that journalists and their families will get special consideration in the state and will be given priority in vaccination against Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-to-organise-mass-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-mediapersons-says-official-983544.html
07-05-2021||North and Central||Farmers protest against Dushyant Chautala||Farmers here on Friday protested against Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and demanded the withdrawal of the Centre's new agricultural laws. As farmers protesting against the farm laws near two toll plazas on the Hisar-Chandigarh and the Jind-Patiala national highways got information that Chautala would reach here to take stock of the Covid-19 situation, they started moving in large numbers. With a number of women also carrying black flags in their hands, they allegedly jumped police barricades and raised slogans against the state government and Chautala. “We will not allow him to enter Jind. We have earlier too made this clear. He has betrayed us and is standing in support of the farm laws,” said a protester. The farmers dispersed after police officials told them that Chautala is not coming to the venue. Earlier in the day, Chautala visited Hisar and discussed the setting up of a temporary 500-bedded Covid-19 hospital there. Over a week ago, a group of farmers had staged a protest here after they came to know that Chief Minister Manohar Khattar was in Jind to take stock of arrangements in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. However, the CM had left the town when farmers started their protest. Farmers had recently also held a protest against Dushyant Chautala outside the Hisar airport and demanded the withdrawal of the Centre's new agricultural laws. A few months back, farmers had dug up a portion of a temporary helipad in Chautala's constituency in this district after learning he may pay a visit there. The protesters had asked Chautala to choose between power or side with them against the Centre's farm laws. Chautala, whose Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) is the coalition partner of the ruling BJP in Haryana, has faced repeated protests from farmers over the past few months for supporting the agricultural laws. The Centre has said the new farm laws will benefit farmers by freeing them from the clutches of middlemen and ushering in new technology in the sector. However, farmers say these legislations will remove the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP) and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-against-dushyant-chautala-983579.html
07-05-2021||Oasis||Action leads to knowledge||The third chapter of the Bhagawad Gita is titled ‘Karma Yoga’ – the Yoga of knowledge. As explained by Lord Krishna, every human being, by temperament, is either suited to be action-oriented or more intellectually oriented, based on which he takes up suitable vocations. In the spiritual context, ‘Karma’ or action and ‘Jnana’ or knowledge are both steps in the path of inner growth and evolution. The Lord says that these paths have been ordained at the time of creation itself. Both are not contradictory to each other, but are mutually complementary, with action being the precursor to attaining knowledge. But the work or action of most men, most of the time, is always done to fulfil some desire or craving. Such actions create more wants and desires, which in turn impel man towards more action. This is a continuous cycle with a stacked or layered mental state of wants and more wants, always propelling man towards actions to satisfy his desires. The Gita says the only way to extricate oneself from this vicious cycle is to follow the path of ‘Karma Yoga’- doing one’s duty, whatever it may be, to the best of one’s ability, in the best possible manner, without any desire for reward or recognition, doing it as an offering to the divine. Such an approach purifies the mind and creates a conducive environment for the acquisition of knowledge. In other words, action, of the right sort is a necessary prerequisite for attaining true knowledge. As mentioned earlier, every human is suited to either of the two paths, but it does not mean that individuals who are more intellectually inclined should neglect the path of right action or should even totally abstain from it. Here, the Gita makes a notable point. ‘All man are inherently divine, but they do not care to look inwards. Instead they look outwards and run after ephemeral worldly pleasures. This ignorance of the real significance of human life manifests as desires, resulting in thought processes, which appear as actions or ‘Karma’. “Refraining from any action at all is not the solution. Do the right sort of action and thus cleanse your mind and allow positivity and elevating thoughts to lead you to higher levels of consciousness and existence” is the message of the Gita.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/action-leads-to-knowledge-983245.html
07-05-2021||Opinion||India’s Covid-19 crisis could happen anywhere||By Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo It will be a while before it’s fully understood why India has been so swiftly and so disastrously engulfed by the coronavirus. But there is one thing for sure: India’s problem is now the world’s problem. India shut down too abruptly when the virus arrived, and then was too quick to reopen. In March 2020, the country was locked down at four hours’ notice though it did not yet have many cases. Millions of people, many of them migrant workers, were left stranded without food and shelter. Facing economic disaster, the government reopened the country before the pandemic really took hold. What is happening in India now is quite similar to what the United States experienced in its coronavirus surges. The Indian states where deaths started to mount again in March and April simply closed their eyes and hoped it would go away. After all, India’s first virus wave receded, for reasons that remain unclear. To make matters worse, states in India have very limited resources of their own — a lockdown costs money, especially if you want to avoid inflicting enormous pain on the poor — and the central government has not offered to pay the bill. (In America last year, the Trump administration was much more generous in comparison.) Not surprisingly, state governments opted to drag their feet until it was impossible to avoid taking action. In the meantime, the disease made its way throughout the country, and new mutations appeared. With the national government unwilling to take ownership of the problem, no one was really tracking how the new variants behaved. Too little, too late is the story of the current outbreak. The government is now beginning to stir, but it still appears reluctant to embrace a national strategy. Yet it is evident that India needs a new, centrally coordinated lockdown now, perhaps targeted at the areas where there is already a large enough quantum of infections (infections are still concentrated in less than quarter of the country’s districts), and progressively moving to cover wherever needed. One reason the response is still slow is the fear of what would happen to the economy and especially to the poor with the return of lockdowns. The central government could speed it up by promising life-sustaining cash transfers to anyone with any kind of government-issued identity in places that are locked down. This should be paired with restrictions on movement between districts. The time to do this is now. The same goes with vaccination. The central government’s position is that vaccination is open to all (if you can find a shot), but either individuals or states will need to pay for it. The result will be that those who can afford it will get vaccinated and some states will cover the rest, but people elsewhere will be on their own. Making free vaccination available to everyone, and dedicating enough administrative muscle and human resources to make it happen will reassure the country in its panic and may protect the world. Other governments, too, were slow to react to India’s unfolding disaster. The Biden administration announced it would send vaccines and emergency help to India only in late April, more than a week after the daily caseload exceeded 3,00,000. The problem is now so huge that what can be done from the outside is relatively minor. Of course that should not stop the United States and Europe from sending vaccines, oxygen and money to India or from lifting bans on exports of ingredients for making vaccines. A life saved is a life saved. But the world needs to look beyond India and avoid yet another mistake of timing. We cannot afford to repeat the experience of the first wave, when we didn’t realise just how quickly a virus can travel. Neither should nations be lulled into a sense of false security by the progress of vaccination campaigns in the United States and Europe. The B.1.617 variant first found in India is now spreading well beyond the country. In India, some vaccinated people seem to be getting infected. It would be foolish to assume that “better” vaccines available in the West will necessarily save us. Leaders and scientists need to figure out what should be done to combat variants, which may include booster shots, new vaccines, masks and slowing down reopenings. Most critically, however, we should anticipate the possibility that the virus will spread through Africa, where a vaccination campaign that had barely started is now endangered by the situation in India, which stopped exporting vaccines many countries were relying on. This would bring disaster in countries where oxygen supplies and hospital beds are extremely limited. The United States and Europe need to get ready to act quickly when necessary. This means shipping and making vaccines as fast as possible, and perhaps even more urgently, this means investing in global surveillance and testing, and being prepared to ship oxygen and equipment and to provide financial support for people in lockdown. Getting ready now might give us a fighting chance to avoid a repeat of India’s nightmare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-s-covid-19-crisis-could-happen-anywhere-983282.html
07-05-2021||Opinion||'My refuge is humanity': Reimagining Rabindranath Tagore||From the serpentine lanes of North Kolkata that resound with Rabindra Sangeet on public holidays to the television screen where Rabindranath Tagore’s plays and novels are routinely adapted, Kabiguru’s literary genius has seeped into the fabric of Indian, and especially, Bengali culture as naturally as water seeping into a sponge. And yet, in assimilating the creative contours of Tagore’s work, we have come to neglect many of the discursive elements of his oeuvre, not least those concerned with the political domain. Amidst the identity crisis of nationhood unravelling in India today, it is appropriate, even urgent, to revive the political in Tagore, to reimagine Tagore as a messenger of an eclectic notion of nationalism. Reviving the political in Tagore “I am willing to serve my country; but...to worship my country as a god is to bring a curse upon it”, argues Nikhil, the contentious protagonist of Tagore’s novel Ghare Baire (The Home and The World). For Tagore, many of whose views are reflected directly in the character of Nikhil, nationalism cannot be reduced to the narrow confines of identity politics. As someone who had described his own Bengali family as a “confluence of three cultures: Hindu, Mohammedan, and British”, syncretic thought was central to the nationalistic ethos of Tagore. He was not a henchman for a parochial Hindutva subsuming India, but a proponent of the capaciousness of Hinduism and its intermingling with other religious affiliations. (Mis)understanding Tagore “Patriotism (often used interchangeably with nationalism by Tagore) cannot be our final spiritual shelter; my refuge is humanity.” This was the fervent faith of Tagore, who lived during an era when nationalism, much like today, was morphed into a vehicle of mobilisation for authoritarian regimes across the world. Tagore never saw the concept of a nation as defined by geographical boundaries or linguistic legions or governmental allegiance, but as a continuum of associations, imaginations, and identities. When political parties like the BJP try to invoke Tagore for political capital, they forget that the sheer breadth of Tagore’s thought makes him impossible to appropriate. In order to sincerely pay homage to Tagore’s ideas, one must know how to keep an open mind, how to keep asking questions, and how to locate Hinduism as a way of life, not as a philosophy that can be distorted into a politically convenient ideology for polarising the electorate. Tagore versus fascism True political freedom, Tagore insisted, was to be found not in a romantic attachment to bygone glories but in the capacity to self-actualise through an unfettered exercise of the intellect and a refusal to surrender to the “unalterable will of the Master”. Tagore was not only a vehement critic of the tenuous taxonomy of nationalism that pigeon-holes people based on majoritarianism, but also a staunch opponent of fascist politics that (as he observed in the Manchester Guardian in 1926) “ruthlessly suppresses freedom of expression...and walks through a path of violence and stealthy crime”. Unlike the cohorts of fascism, Tagore avoided the trap of extrapolating the malfeasance of the few into a stereotype of the many that generally paves the way for a framing of the “other” in fascist discourse, a grievous error that much of India is still prone to committing, as evident during the communalisation of Covid-19 last year. Cultural chauvinism, which forms an integral component of fascist regimes, had no place in the realm of Tagore, whose translations of Kabir and foregrounding of folk culture provide two of the many fascinating vistas to his variegated vision, one that could harness the sophistication of the Upanishads as seamlessly as it integrated the mysticism of the Bauls. Remembering Tagore Following his death in 1941, Tagore has been caricatured in the West as a sagely figure of Oriental exoticism. While the fierce republicanism of John Milton, the undercurrents of loyalism (towards the British crown) in William Shakespeare, and the streak of anarcho-syndicalism distinguishing Albert Camus have been debated endlessly, no commensurate place of scholarship has emerged to accommodate the political thinking of Tagore. As direct inheritors of Tagore’s legacy, we must not make the same mistake of limiting Tagore’s brilliance to the solitary domain of art. Remembering Tagore as an artist par excellence is vital, but in the deeply divided nation that confronts us, reimagining Tagore as a political voice of reason, harmony, and diversity is more vital still, lest we relegate into an India where the mind can no longer be without fear and the head no longer held high. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture and sport)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/my-refuge-is-humanity-reimagining-rabindranath-tagore-983283.html
07-05-2021||Opinion||TaxiBots come to the rescue of Indian aviation sector||Indian aviation and Delhi airport created history on May 6 when the 1,000th TaxiBot (taxiing robot) mission was completed. Touted as a 'green solution' for the global aviation industry, a TaxiBot is a semi-robotic towbarless aircraft movement equipment developed by the Israel Aerospace Industries. The 800-hp hybrid-electric engine, controlled by the pilot from the cockpit using regular pilot controls, can move an aircraft from the terminal gate to the take-off point (taxi-out phase) and return it to the gate after landing (taxi-in phase). Delhi Airport estimates that since 2019, when the first TaxiBot was used, approximately 214,000 litres of Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) have been saved and 532 tonnes of Co2 emissions prevented. Among the airlines using TaxiBots are SpiceJet, Air India Express and Air India, and trials have been successfully carried out for Air Asia, Go Air and IndiGo. TaxiBots are slated to debut at Bengaluru Airport, the second busiest airport in the country, soon with one Taxibot already stationed at the airport. What a TaxiBot does is simple. The robot helps push the aircraft to a point short of the runway where the pilot can start the engines for take-off. Normally an aircraft is tugged by a ground vehicle to the Tug Detach Point (TDP), which is usually reached within 1.5 to 2 minutes. Following this, the aircraft has to switch on its engines and taxi to the runway. Starting the engine early means that the aircraft not only has to use ATF but this also leads to both noise and air pollution as carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere. Given that a Boeing 737 or an Airbus A-320 aircraft, on average, takes about 11 to 13 minutes to taxi, it is likely to burn over 200 litres of ATF. So, using a TaxiBot can translate into a huge saving for the environment as also the airlines. The largest cost component for airlines is ATF which accounts for over 40 per cent of their operating expenses. There are other benefits of using TaxiBots. Starting the aircraft engine late ensures that there is less wear and tear of the engine. This decreases the operating costs for airlines. In addition, starting engines later also helps prevent Foreign Object Damage or something from the ground getting sucked into the engine and damaging it. Nripendra Singh, Industry Principal, Aerospace & Defense Practice, Frost & Sullivan, says using TaxiBots makes sense in India since it helps reduce operational costs of airlines, which are among the highest in the world here. "During taxi, average fuel burn for a narrow-body aircraft is ~0.1 kg/second while it is ~1-2 kg/second for a wide-body aircraft. In India, fuel is one of the biggest contributors to the cost of operations for Indian carriers, which makes this concept more attractive as it hits the core requirement of the airlines, airports, and ground handlers," he says. Lewis Burroughs, Head of Aviation, India, ICF Consulting India Private Ltd, agrees with Singh. Anything which helps demonstrate the safety, reliability and efficiency gains of new technology is a win for the industry, he says. Singh believes that irrespective of the price or adoption rate, the value added to all stakeholders (airline, airport, and ground handlers) will determine whether the technology gains traction in the future. KSU Aviation, the owner and operator of Taxibots in India with Celebi Aviation as a shareholder in the project, is optimistic about the success of TaxiBots in India, and plans to introduce it at Bengaluru Airport. Ashwani Khanna, Director, KSU Aviation says that one Taxibot is stationed at Bengaluru Airport and will begin TaxiBot operations soon, which will benefit airlines operating out of the second busiest airport in the country. India, which is slated to become the third-largest global aviation market by 2024, has achieved 1,000 taxi bot missions in about two years. In comparison, it took Frankfurt airport (where TaxiBot operations started earlier) about two years to touch 400 full Taxiboting missions. (Ashwini Phadnis is a Delhi-based senior journalist.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taxibots-come-to-the-rescue-of-indian-aviation-sector-983472.html
07-05-2021||Panorama||Making clean, piped water available||Chennai gets an average of 1,400mm rainfall every year, and yet, in 2019, it had to bring truckloads of drinking water for its residents. This is barely any surprise as the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas released by the World Resources Institute (WRI) ranks India at 13 among the world’s 17 extremely water-stressed countries. This means that the water demand here exceeds the available volume or poor-quality limits its use. Indian metropolitan cities such as Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Nashik, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Indore are among the cities facing ‘extreme risk’ of crunch in steady availability of drinking water. Lack of access to clean drinking water adversely impacts Indian citizens’ right to life. It also poses a challenge to fulfil the UN Sustainable Development Goals, ensuring inclusive access to clean water and sanitation facilities. Along with sanitation measures, clean and safe drinking water is critical to mitigate the risk of water-borne infections and enable people to earn their livelihoods. The cities at risk are the economic hubs, and securing water resources will be essential for businesses to ensure continuity of their operations there. Clean drinking water Access to clean and safe piped water at home is a feature in middle-class urban residential quarters. However, it is still a pipe dream for those living in community setups – urban slums and rural areas. Around 3.27 crore rural households, out of 17.87 crores, get water through pipe connections, making access to clean, treated and safe water accessible to only 18% of India’s rural households. Treating water is essential to get rid of impurities and industry-induced pollutants. While treating water to purify, it incurs a cost, providing adequate or more than that supply of water features as a prominent election promise, and a sizable chunk of it is provided for free. There are two problems here: firstly, unviable economies of scale, and secondly, consumers failing to value finite natural resources. Policymakers need to assess free of cost access to clean and safe piped drinking. It is also time to increase widespread involvement to improve the availability of clean water to those deprived of it even today. Some measures for rationalisation of water use and inculcating water-saving habits may include: Incentivising solutions such as rainwater harvesting (RWH): This can prove beneficial in cities and towns that do not have direct access to water sources for supply. Delhi can be an example where most of the water supply is dependent on piped water extracted from the Yamuna River before it enters the city. The rest is managed through inter-state collaborations. Information, Education and Communication for behaviour change: Sustained communication for inducing a change in the way people use water is critical to ensure wider availability. Awarding role models and roping celebrities can make the communication more impactful. Besides, the government needs to sensitise people to help them understand the importance of graded tariff for water for domestic use. Rationalising water usage for agricultural and industrial purposes, two of the biggest water consumers is critical. Besides, innovative ways to use water for regular jobs, such as washing solar panels, can help to reduce fresh water consumption. Artificial aquifers may be created to assist the recharge and recovery of groundwater systems. In the Union Budget announced this year, Jal Jeevan Mission, a central government initiative to ensure all households in rural India receive safe and adequate water through individual household tap connections by 2024, received Rs 50,000 crore and a roadmap for Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban) was laid. The JJM (U) makes a commendable move in u sing innovative steps to meet the requirement, especially that of industrial units.In five years, JJM (U) aims to provide 2.68 crore households with tap water and revive water bodies to promote freshwater supply sustainably. It plans to create green spaces and sponge cities to reduce floods and implement an urban aquifer management plan. Together, they give us hope that water tankers will soon become a thing of the past. (The writer is CEO, IHW Council)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/making-clean-piped-water-available-983243.html
07-05-2021||Panorama||Challenges aplenty for AIADMK as it prepares to be the Opposition||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) may have put up a spirited fight against the DMK alliance and emerged as a strong Opposition party in Tamil Nadu Assembly, but the problems and challenges for the party are far from over. Keeping the flock together, not letting the faultlines within the organisation become visible in public, and functioning as an “effective Opposition party” are some of the immediate challenges. Under J Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK was accused of being an “ineffective Opposition” during 2006-2011 with the former chief minister barely stepping out of her palatial Poes Garden bungalow. The AIADMK, which has pulled off its best performance in a losing election by securing 66 seats, will be under pressure to change the image, and function as an effective opposition party. Though not immediately, the party leadership might come under pressure to allow the merger of the AMMK led by V K Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dhinakaran with the party to set the house in order. Dhinakaran’s AMMK may have scored just 2.35% vote share, but the party ended up spoiling the chances of AIADMK in over 20 constituencies. A close look at the election results shows the AMMK did fare well in a few pockets in Central, and Southern Tamil Nadu. Leaders from the Mukulathor community, to which O Panneerselvam and Dhinakaran belong, might push for the merger in the “interests of the party.” While OPS may not have any reservations, outgoing chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who is opposed to both Sasikala and Dhinakaran, might be apprehensive of allowing even one of them into the party. It was EPS who had stonewalled the efforts by BJP to bring the two factions together before assembly elections—the BJP had even identified seats where the AMMK could play the spoilsport for the AIADMK. Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, said reconciliation between the two factions of AIADMK was now inevitable. “Only if the AIADMK and AMMK come on the same line, the party will be considered as one. Till then, the AIADMK will continue to face one crisis after the other. Unless Sasikala’s supporters also come and join, the AIADMK will not be full,” he said. The professor added that the BJP might make yet another attempt to bring the two factions together. However, senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh has a different take. “AIADMK’s electoral setback could also throw open the gates for deserters to flee to greener pastures and safer places. And here, the BJP would be more than a willing host,” Singh told DH. Even as things stand today, the leadership issue in the party has not been addressed fully. The dual leadership formula arrived at in 2017 has worked so far but it remains to be seen whether the party will continue with the current arrangement or attempt at changing equations at the top. Under the arrangement, O Panneerselvam was made coordinator of AIADMK and Edappadi K Palaniswami as joint coordinator—in the government, EPS was the Chief Minister, and OPS his deputy. Though there are ample indications that Palaniswami may be elected as leader of the AIADMK Legislative Party meeting scheduled for Friday, there will be stiff resistance from Panneerselvam towards attempts by the other side to take over the party. Though Panneerselvam refused to share the burden of campaigning for the AIADMK along with Palaniswami, the long-time protégé of Jayalalithaa cannot be brushed aside that too when the party is no longer in the government. “Challenges for the AIADMK are aplenty. The leadership that emerges—the popular view in the party is that EPS be made Opposition Leader for he led the party to a good number of seats—should find ways to remain politically relevant while allowing Chief Minister M K Stalin his honeymoon,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. Singh added that the DMK’s promise of constituting a special court to look into cases of corruption during the previous AIADMK regime would already be giving nightmares to many former ministers. It is a fact that allegations of corruption against many AIADMK leaders have reached courts with NGOs that fight graft filing cases seeking registration of cases. Prof. Manivannan feels the leadership issue within the AIADMK will not be solved any time soon. “I feel EPS will get his due as Opposition Leader, but he should allow OPS to continue in his current role of the party coordinator. If he or his faction tries to disturb him, OPS will challenge the attempt, pushing the party into another crisis,” he said. Singh said it won’t be easy for EPS to sideline OPS in any way as the party has won seats in southern districts too. “Thevars the community to which OPS belongs, have always supported the AIADMK, and a section has been upset with Sasikala being side-lining in the party. Any attempt to overthrow OPS might alienate the Thevars further from the AIADMK,” he said. Political analyst P Ramajayam feels the AIADMK would continue to face the heat from the new DMK government on its controversial policy decisions both inside and outside the Assembly. “Some of the policy decisions taken by the EPS Government would come back to haunt the AIADMK as it prepares to occupy the opposition benches in the Assembly. With many former ministers having won, the DMK may try to put the party on the mat on several issues. Politically, this will be a huge challenge,” Ramajayam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/challenges-aplenty-for-aiadmk-as-it-prepares-to-be-the-opposition-983244.html
07-05-2021||Right in the Middle||The measure of a good life||As we mull over the images and words that the media relentlessly bombards us with, we are forced to contemplate how people go on with their lives despite affliction and death staring at them in the face. We wonder at the resolve people have against the heartache and tragedy that threatens to engulf them. Now that life and time have forced us to confront and acknowledge our deeper motivations; seeking meaning in what we do, especially what we do for others has emerged as the most fundamental of the impulses. People have found solace in either reaching out and helping others or in turning inward, considering art and creative pursuits as paths that lead a man to himself. In difficult times such as these, finding joy can be as simple and as complicated as looking inward and in doing little and great things for others. Amid the fear and chaos of today’s world, we were rather surprised when a relative took on woodworking as a means to connect with himself and others. As he would soon find out, woodcraft is more than a pastime or hobby as it provides a place both inside the mind and outside of it where one can slow down, pay attention, and take the time to build beautiful and functional objects that can delight the maker, giver and receiver. In carpentry, both process and outcome combine seamlessly such that the journey itself becomes the destination. The feel and beauty of deftly crafted wood, the restoring smell of the workplace and the riveting joy of cutting and then putting back the pieces together transform the din of the world into a distant hum. With each object he made, his skill and mastery improved and soon he began sharing these precious handmade objects with family and friends. First came the rather raw bedside tables and bookcases, then more finely crafted wine bottle holders and swings. Recently, to celebrate their anniversary he made a beautifully crafted wooden clock for his wife as a symbol of the wonderful times they had spent together. As for the other items, he gave them away to others, free of cost. The delight rested in creating these objects and not in keeping them for himself. He had found a way to be human despite the dehumanizing circumstances Covid is creating around us. Our hearts and minds took a bow as art stood up defining the measure of a good life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-measure-of-a-good-life-983242.html
07-05-2021||Second Edit||Tiger poaching continues to thrive||The serious threat that poachers pose to India’s endangered big cats has been highlighted by a recent string of killings of tigers in Maharashtra. On April 20, two tigers were found killed in the state; one of them was a four-year-old pregnant tigress. Poachers operating in the Mukutban range in Yavatmal district are believed to have lit a fire outside the cave she was in to trap her. She was then strangled with a thick wire and her paws were chopped off to extract her claws.  Maharashtra has witnessed a sharp increase in tiger deaths in recent months and the numbers are unprecedented. The number of tiger deaths was 20 in 2018, 22 in 2019 and 20 in 2020.  This was over a 12-month period. However, over a three-month period this year, Maharashtra has witnessed 17 tiger deaths. At least 11 of these tigers were killed by poachers or they died due to ‘mysterious circumstances.’ Wildlife experts say that the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic has made the wild cats even more vulnerable to poachers. Lockdowns have destroyed livelihoods of millions in this country and more people are turning to poaching. Besides, monitoring of forests has become lax during the pandemic. Tourist presence in reserves served to keep poaching activity down in these reserves but with tourist activity down due to the pandemic, poachers are operating unhindered. India is home to the largest number of tigers in the world. However, it is also the world’s poaching capital. Poaching of tigers is said to be the most serious in Uttar Pradesh followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Experts say that most poaching incidents are happening outside tiger reserves. Tigers outside reserves are vulnerable to poachers as they are not under surveillance here. Despite stringent laws, tiger poaching persists in India for several reasons. For one, this is an extremely lucrative trade. Apparently, returns from the body parts of a single tiger runs into many crores of rupees. And although tiger hunting is banned in India, convictions are rare in poaching cases. Just 4% of tiger poaching cases have ended with convictions. Tiger poaching thrives in India because forest officials often facilitate the trade instead of cracking down on it. According to media reports, Maharashtra’s forest department did not report the killing of the pregnant tigress for well over 24 hours. Were officials giving the poachers time to escape the police? Possible links between officials and poachers must be probed. That will help tigers survive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/tiger-poaching-continues-to-thrive-983238.html
07-05-2021||South||SC annulling Maratha quota: Safeguard 69% in Tamil Nadu||Concerned over the Supreme Court striking down quota to Marathas, the opposition AIADMK on Thursday urged the Tamil Nadu government to safeguard the state's 69 per cent reservation in education and employment ensured by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa. The state government should consult legal experts and make sure the reservation meant to uplift the poor and downtrodden does not get affected in any way, the opposition party said. "The spirit of this reservation brought by late Amma (Jayalalithaa) to uplilft the masses will be affected if the 102nd Constitutional amendment is applied to Tamil Nadu, as done in the case of a Maharashtra law providing reservation to the Maratha community," AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator K Palaniswami said in a statement. The SC had on Wednesday refused to refer to a larger bench to revisit its 29-year-old Mandal verdict putting cap on quotas at 50 per cent and quashed the Maharashtra law giving reservations to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state, saying it violated the principle of right to equality. The top court said that no "extraordinary circumstances" were made out in granting separate reservation of Maratha Community by exceeding the 50 per cent ceiling limit of reservation. The top AIADMK leaders further said Attorney General K K Venugopal had argued that the 102nd Amendment will not affect the power of the states in relation to providing quota in institutions under their control. "This Constitutional (102nd) amendment pertains to reservation in education and employment in the institutions under the ambit of the Centre," they maintained and called upon the state government to safeguard the 69 per cent quota, which is the "cradle of social justice."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-annulling-maratha-quota-safeguard-69-in-tamil-nadu-983246.html
07-05-2021||South||33-member Cabinet for M K Stalin as he takes oath as CM today||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) President M K Stalin will be sworn in as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on Friday morning. His cabinet, a mix of experienced leaders and newcomers, will have 33 ministers, including two women. The swearing-in ceremony of the new government will be held at the Raj Bhavan at 9 am. Governor Banwarilal Purohit will administer the oath of office and secrecy to Stalin and his cabinet colleagues, whose portfolios have already been announced. Immediately after swearing-in as Chief Minister, Stalin will head straight to Fort. St. George, the seat of power of the state government, and will assume office at his chamber, which has been spruced up. In the evening, Stalin will meet district collectors via video conferencing to review the Covid-19 situation. The new Chief Minister is likely to make few announcements with regard to Covid-19 immediately after assuming charge. In his Cabinet, Stalin has gone for an interesting mix including Party General Secretary Durai Murugan (Water Resources Minister), Principal Secretary K N Nehru (Municipal Administration), I Periyasamy (Co-operation), K Ponmudy (Higher Education), and M R K Panneerselvam (Agriculture and Farmer's Welfare). R Gandhi will be the Handlooms and Textiles Minister. Former Chennai Mayor Ma Subramanian, a marathon runner, the Health Minister, has his task cut out as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state. Among the newcomers, the prominent are P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, a former banker who has worked with some of the top financial institutions like Lehman Brothers and Standard Chartered, who will be the new Finance Minister. Anbil Mahesh, who hails from a traditional DMK family in Tiruchirapalli and a close friend of Udhayanidhi Stalin, has been given the important School Education portfolio, while Thangam Thennarasu, who earned praise for his work as education minister during 2006-2011, is the new Industries Minister. Udhayanidhi is a first-time MLA and his name does not figure in the Cabinet list. Former AIADMK members — V Senthil Balaji, S R Rajakannappan, and S Muthusamy – have been allotted Electricity, Transport, and Housing and Urban Development portfolios. While many districts were ignored for ministerial positions, the Western region where the DMK fared poorly this election has got three ministers, in a move aimed at growing the party in the Kongu belt. Also, Sakkarapani, who hails from Gounder community that is dominant in the western belt, has been made a minister, though he represents a seat in south Tamil Nadu. Stalin has also renamed a few departments and introduced new nomenclature. For the first time, there is a department for Climate Change, Farmer's Welfare, Human Resources Management and Non-Resident Tamils Welfare. Geetha Jeevan (Social Welfare and Women Empowerment) and Kayalvizhi Selvaraj (Adi Dravidar Welfare) are the two women ministers, while the minorities are represented by S M Nasar (Dairy Development) and K S Masthan (Minorities Welfare). In a statement on Thursday, Stalin asked his party cadres to watch the swearing-in on television and to take care of their health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/33-member-cabinet-for-m-k-stalin-as-he-takes-oath-as-cm-today-983259.html
07-05-2021||South||MK Stalin sworn in as Tamil Nadu Chief Minister||Muthuvel Karunanidhi Stalin was sworn in as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on Friday morning in a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhavan in Chennai, five days after the DMK secured a comfortable majority in the 234-member state assembly. Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath and office and secrecy to 68-year-old Stalin. As Stalin was sworn in, his wife Durga, who was seated in the front row, was seen wiping her tears as DMK leaders and cadres cheered their leader. After the swearing-in, Stalin signed the register. Along with Stalin, 33 ministers were also sworn in by Governor Purohit. The DMK went for a low-key swearing-in at the Raj Bhavan owing to the Covid-19 situation in the state. From the Opposition AIADMK, former deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, former Speaker Dhanapal, and Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan attended the event. Dayanidhi Alagiri and Kayalvizhi, children of Stalin's elder brother M K Alagiri, also attended the swearing-in.   While the senior-most Durai Murugan will be the Water Resources Minister, party veterans K N Nehru, I Periyasamy, and K Ponmudy will be ministers for municipal administration, Co-operation, and Higher Education respectively. As the Covid-19 crisis grips the state, former Chennai Mayor Ma Subramanian, known for his administrative skills, will be the new Health Minister, and former investment banker P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan was sworn in as the Finance Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mk-stalin-sworn-in-as-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-983290.html
07-05-2021||South||N Rangasamy takes oath as Puducherry Chief Minister||All India N R Congress chief N Rangasamy was on Friday sworn-in as the Chief Minister of Puducherry by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan. Rangasamy will head a coalition government in which the BJP will be part of — a giant leap for the saffron party whose efforts made no headway for years in Southern India except in Karnataka. On Friday, only Rangasamy was sworn in. The cabinet will be expanded in the next few days with three each from AINRC and BJP taking oath as ministers. Though BJP said its nominee, probably former Congress A Namassivayam, will be the deputy chief minister, Rangasamy was non-committal for now. At a simple ceremony in the Raj Nivas, Soundararajan administered the oath of office and secrecy to Rangasamy, who has become Chief Minister for the fourth time in two decades. Union Minister of State for Home Kishan Reddy, who represented the BJP at the swearing-in ceremony, said the party nominees will be inducted into the cabinet soon. The BJP won six out of the nine seats it contested in Puducherry in an alliance with AINRC which emerged victorious in 10 seats. The BJP had tried to convince Rangasamy to allow a BJP MLA head the coalition but the Chief Minister was unwilling to concede. The saffron party, for now, has accepted to be a junior partner. BJP, which did not have a toehold in Puducherry till about a few years ago, engineered a rebellion within the Congress and poached the previous government's No. 2, Namassivayam, and a few other legislators. With their support, the BJP-AINRC combine successfully destabilised the V Narayanasamy government at the fag end of its tenure. BJP feels Puducherry will be a springboard for it to make inroads in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Rangasamy, a former Congressman, was first named as Chief Minister in 2001, and retained power in 2006. However, a banner of revolt by his cabinet ministers ensured that he was shunted out and replaced with a minister in 2008. After being sidelined for years, he launched AINRC in 2011, and rode to power in just under 50 days of launching his party. In 2016, he lost power to Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/n-rangasamy-takes-oath-as-puducherry-chief-minister-983347.html
07-05-2021||South||On Day 1 as Tamil Nadu CM, M K Stalin approves Rs 2,000 Covid-19 relief, free bus travel for women||Immediately after assuming office, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday took five decisions, including disbursing the first instalment of the Rs 4,000 promised as Covid-19 relief for rice ration cardholders, and reducing the price of Aavin milk by Rs 3 per litre.  Stalin, who was sworn-in as Chief Minister at the Raj Bhavan by Governor Banwarilal Purohit, assumed office at his chamber inside Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government. The first file that Stalin put his seal of approval related to disbursing of the first instalment of Rs 2,000 of the Rs 4,000 promised as one-time Covid-19 relief for families in the state.  “The first instalment of Rs 2,000 will be disbursed in the month of May to 2.07 crore rice ration cardholders at a cost of Rs 4,153.39 crores,” a statement from the government said. The next file that Stalin signed was to reduce the price of Aavin milk by Rs 3 a litre from May 16.  While the first two are election promises, another important decision is that the government will bear the expenses of Covid-19 treatment for patients who get admitted to private hospitals under the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme.  Stalin also announced the formation of a separate department 'Chief Minister in your constituency' to look into complaints and petitions received from people during his election campaign. The department will be headed by IAS officer Shilpa Prabhakar, who hails from Karnataka.  The fifth decision is to allow free bus travel for women in town buses. The scheme would lead to an additional expense of Rs 1,200 crore to the transport corporations which will be compensated by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/on-day-1-as-tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-approves-rs-2000-covid-19-relief-free-bus-travel-for-women-983364.html
07-05-2021||South||Fourth time lucky, Puducherry CM Rangasamy to head his first coalition govt||Seventy-one-year-old AINRC founder N Rangasamy was on Friday sworn-in as Chief Minister of Puducherry for a record fourth time but will be heading his maiden coalition cabinet, with alliance party BJP slated to be inducted into the ministry. On Friday, Rangasamy alone was sworn in as the other Ministers belonging to the AINRC and BJP would be inducted in the next few days, a party source said. Known to be a simple, soft-spoken and accessible leader, Rangasamy is famous for driving around in a two-wheeler across the streets of Puducherry, even as a CM. A former Congress veteran, he floated his All India NR Congress in 2011 after being replaced as CM then by the AICC following complaints from V Narayanasamy, then Congress Lok Sabha MP representing the UT. Rangasamy started off his electoral politics on an unsuccessful note by losing his first Assembly poll from Thattanchavady in 1990 when he was defeated by his political arch-rival V Pethaperumal of the Janata Dal. However, he was elected from the same segment the next year and was rewarded with the Agriculture portfolio in the cabinet. Again in 1996, he won on a Congress ticket. In 2001, when the Congress won again, he took over the reins of the UT and continued to helm Puducherry after leading the party to a successive win five years later as well. However, things took a different turn with Narayanasamy intensifying his criticism of Rangasamy on several counts and the AICC replaced him as CM with V Vaithilingam in August 2008. In 2011, Rangasamy floated his All India NR Congress, which joined hands with the J Jayalalithaa-led AIADMK and won the then polls. The AINRC came out successful with 15 members and had the support of one independent which together gave Rangasamy the minimum strength of 16 on its side and he formed the government under his stewardship. He ditched the AIADMK at the time of forming the government in 2011, prompting strong criticism by the late Jayalalithaa who described him as a 'traitor' later. The AINRC contested the 2016 poll on its own but failed to ensure a clinching performance, with the Congress-DMK combine with 17 members forming the government. Rangasamy became opposition leader in 2016. He kept a low profile for some time before the Congress government, led by Narayanasamy, fell in February 2021 after it was reduced to a minority in the wake of a spate of resignations by his party MLAs. Rangasamy is a graduate in Commerce and also in legal studies. He did not practise as he swung into active politics. Thattanchavady has been his pocketborough all along and did not disappoint him during the April 6 polls as well. Though he sought election simultaneously from Yanam, an enclave of the union territory in Andhra Pradesh, he was defeated by an Independent candidate there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fourth-time-lucky-puducherry-cm-rangasamy-to-head-his-first-coalition-govt-983377.html
07-05-2021||South||Stalin makes his father, DMK patriarch Karunanidhi's dream come true||"Stalin is the future of the party," said late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi about six years ago at a party meet when his son was party treasurer. It has come true on Friday with M K Stalin being sworn in as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. Though the DMK could not capture power in 2016 despite a no holds barred contest, Stalin continued to relentlessly take the fight against the AIADMK ahead both in the State Assembly and outside of it, which helped him realise the dream of storming back to the seat of power, Fort St George after a decade. In the run-up to the 2016 Assembly polls although Karunanidhi had ruled out the possibility of Stalin becoming the CM if DMK was voted back to power -he had said that it may materialise if 'nature' did something to him- Stalin worked as before for the party's success. While he targeted the AIADMK and BJP governments at the State and Centre holding a slew of protests over the years on several issues, his position in the party was strengthened further when he became the working president in early 2017 and the next year its president following the demise of top leader Karunanidhi. Stalin, who began his political career as a teenager, grew steadily in the party and he was given more responsibilities in the government in a step-by-step fashion when Karunanidhi was the Chief Minister during 2006-11. Having successfully warded off the challenge from his Madurai-based brother M K Alagiri, he grew stronger and the entire party organisation from top-down rallied behind him. Also, he picked the directly 'writing to the cadres' style of his late father to enthuse and apprise workers of the party stand on issues. Be it the protests against hydrocarbon exploration projects in Cauvery delta districts or the state-wide stir against the Citizenship Amendment Act and collection of 'two crore' signatures against CAA, Stalin did his best to corner the governments at the Centre and state and at the same time strengthen his party's electoral prospects. Protests against the Centre's farm laws, a rally here near Raj Bhavan last October seeking Governor Banwarilal Purohit's assent for a State Bill giving 7.5 per cent reservation to students of government schools in medical admissions were among the initiatives which apparently had an impact when people voted on April 6 to choose the next government. Followed by the big victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the DMK and its allies bagged as many as 38 seats out of the 39, the Stalin-led party had a distinctive edge over the AIADMK in rural civic polls too which was held towards the end of that year. The winning streak eventually resulted in a similar win in the Assembly polls too when the DMK and its allies garnered 159 seats out of the total 234. The AIADMK and its partners could emerge victorious only in 75 constituencies. Born on March 1, 1953, Stalin campaigned for DMK in the 1967 elections when he was only a 14-year old school student. Incarcerated under MISA in 1976, he had held several party posts over about four decades before he became the party chief. For a long time since 1984, he was the youth wing secretary and he became party deputy general secretary in 2003. He was re-elected treasurer in 2015 and became an MLA for the first time in 1989 from the Thousand Lights segment, from where he was re-elected thrice. In 1996, he was elected Mayor of Chennai and re-elected in 2001. However, he had to exit with the AIADMK capturing power which enacted a law that barred elected representatives also holding local body positions. In 2006, he became the Municipal Administration Minister in the DMK government and went on to become the Deputy Chief Minister in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-makes-his-father-dmk-patriarch-karunanidhis-dream-come-true-983381.html
07-05-2021||South||PM Modi congratulates N Rangasamy on being sworn in as Puducherry CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday congratulated N Rangasamy for taking oath as Puducherry chief minister and extended his best wishes to the AINRC leader. N Rangasamy, a BJP ally, was sworn in as the chief minister of the Union Territory at a brief ceremony held at the Raj Nivas in Puducherry on Friday. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan administered the oath of office and secrecy to Rangasamy, who has become chief minister for the fourth time. Modi tweeted, "I would like to congratulate Shri N.Rangasamy Ji on taking oath as Puducherry CM. Best wishes for the tenure ahead."  I would like to congratulate Shri N.Rangasamy Ji on taking oath as Puducherry CM. Best wishes for the tenure ahead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-congratulates-n-rangasamy-on-being-sworn-in-as-puducherry-cm-983391.html
07-05-2021||South||IIT-M researchers develop Android blockchain-based app for medical data and information exchange||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras have developed the first-of-its-kind blockchain-based secure medical data and information exchange system for a mobile phone-based application. The project, undertaken with CSR support from Infosys originating during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, is currently being field-tested at IIT Madras Institute Hospital. Known as BlockTrack, it aims to securely digitise healthcare information systems while ensuring the protection of sensitive personal information and medical records by decentralizing the control and ownership of patient data, through a blockchain-based innovation. The BlockTrack innovation is now protected through a provisional IP filed with the Indian Patent Office. The Android version of the application has been developed separately for both patients as well as doctors. BlockTrack’s algorithm generates identification codes for users and ensures uniqueness across boundaries with very little chance for duplication. BlockTrack allows the interoperability of systems from multiple hospitals, institutes, and healthcare organizations. It integrates medical supply chain management and proactive tracking of the spread of contagious infections. “BlockTrack is an exciting project that depicts engineering innovations that have disruptive potential to transform multiple domains. This is one of the first implementations of blockchain technology for securing Healthcare Data Management Systems and we see immense impact this approach can make in securely digitizing and maintaining unique patient records across the country and indeed across the world eventually,” Prof. Prabhu Rajagopal, Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT-M, said, Prof. K. Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser, Government of India, said the National Digital Health Mission launched by the Government of India last year had secure processing of individual data and easy accessibility of digitalized personal and medical records by individuals and health service providers as its two important objectives. “Effective implementation of these objectives will require leveraging emerging technologies. BlockTrack is a step in the right direction and I congratulate the IIT Madras team for developing an innovative solution for a complex health information system. This will enhance and enable the efforts of health systems to efficiently track disease spread and maintain confidentiality while storing personal data in a network,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-researchers-develop-android-blockchain-based-app-for-medical-data-and-information-exchange-983406.html
07-05-2021||South||Covid-19 patient in Kerala taken to hospital on two-wheeler due to ambulance shortage||A Covid-19 patient at an Alappuzha district care centre in Kerala was reportedly rushed to hospital in a two-wheeler due to unavailability of ambulances. The incident not only brings to light the worsening scenario in the state with the number of Covid patients skyrocketing, but also hghlights the unpreparedness of the volunteers. According to reports, the patient at the panchayat-run Covid care centre in Punnapra developed chest pain and required oxygen immediately. Hence, he had to be rushed to the Alappuzha medical college hospital, about four kilometres away. Since an ambulance was not available immediately, two volunteers at the care centre shifted the patient in a two-wheeler. As the number of Covid cases increases, reaching nearly 3.9 lakh by Thursday, the state health sector is struggling to handle the rush.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-patient-in-kerala-taken-to-hospital-on-two-wheeler-due-to-ambulance-shortage-983417.html
07-05-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan congratulates M K Stalin on being sworn in as TN CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday congratulated DMK chief M K Stalin, who led his party to a huge victory in the Assembly polls,on taking oath as thenew Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. In his Twitter handle, the Left leader shared his hope to work together with Stalin for a better India. "Dear com/mkstalin" @mkstalin , as you take on your new responsibilities as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, let me wish you great success.I hope that we can further deepen the fraternal love that Keralites and Tamilians have shared for centuries, and work together for a better India," Vijayan tweeted. Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the 68-year-old Stalin, for whom this would be the first stint as CM, in a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhavan in Chennai. A total of 33 ministers were also sworn in following Stalin, of whom 15 are first-time ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-congratulates-m-k-stalin-on-being-sworn-in-as-tn-cm-983422.html
07-05-2021||South||A Namassivayam elected BJP's legislature wing leader||A Namassivayam was elected unanimously as the leader of the legislature wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at a meeting of the party`s legislators held in the party office here on Friday. In the meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Kishan Reddy, who attended the swearing-in of Rangasamy as Chief Minister, told newsmen that BJP and AINRC would have three ministers each and they would be sworn in in the next few days. The three BJP Ministers would include a Deputy Chief Minister. The six Ministers are likely to be sworn in in the next couple of days and this would ultimately bring the strength of the Puducherry Ministry to seven, including the Chief Minister. A BJP source told PTI that Namassivayam would be Deputy Chief Minister and this would be first time in the history of Puducherry to have a Deputy Chief Minister. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, party observer Nirmal Kumar Surana and party`s in-charge for Puducherry Rajiv Chandrasekar and Independent legislator from Yanam Gollapalli Srinivas Ashok, who defeated AINRC leader N Rangasamy in the April 6 polls, were among those present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-namassivayam-elected-bjps-legislature-wing-leader-983433.html
07-05-2021||South||Temples to remain shut during lockdown in Kerala||Major temples in Kerala including the famed Lord Ayyappa shrine in Sabarimala will not be opened for devotees during the time of nine-day lockdown in the state, being imposed by the government from Saturday morning to curb the Covid-19 surge. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), the apex body in the southern state which manages over 1,200 temples, on Thursday said shrines under its management would not permit devotees in its premises for darshan during the lockdown period. However, daily rituals would be conducted without any fail, TDB authorities said here. The time of rituals may be rearranged during the period from 7 AM-10 AM and 5-7 PM after consulting with the 'tantri' (head priest) of the respective shrines, they said. No festival should be conducted during the lockdown period but marriages booked in advance can be held outside the temples with a restricted number of participants and completely adhering to Covid-19 protocols, it said. Though the Lord Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala would be opened for the monthly rituals from May 14-19, devotees would not be permitted for darshan at the hill shrine due to Covid-19 surge and lockdown, the TDB said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temples-to-remain-shut-during-lockdown-in-kerala-983455.html
07-05-2021||South||Belongs to Dravidian stock, says M K Stalin's Twitter profile||Fifty-nine years after the legendary C N Annadurai thundered in the Parliament that he belonged to the "Dravidian Stock", DMK President M K Stalin added the phrase to his Twitter profile, minutes after he was sworn in as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. “Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. President of DMK. Belongs to the Dravidian stock,” reads the updated biography of the new Chief Minister. The phrase Dravidian stock was first used by Annadurai, the DMK's founder, in his maiden speech in Parliament in 1962.  "I claim Sir, to come from a country, a part of India now, but which I think is of a different stock, not necessarily antagonistic. I belong to the Dravidian stock. I am proud to call myself a Dravidian. That does not mean that I am against a Bengali or a Maharashtrian or a Gujarati. As Robert Burns has stated, ‘A man is a man for all that.” "I say that I belong to the Dravidian stock and that is only because I consider that the Dravidians have got something concrete, something distinct, something different to offer to the nation at large. Therefore it is that we want self-determination,” Annadurai had said in his speech. The speech is still quoted by the DMK to assert its Dravidian identity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/belongs-to-dravidian-stock-says-m-k-stalins-twitter-profile-983526.html
07-05-2021||South||Leadership tussle in AIADMK out in the open; decision on LoP deferred||Five days after the party lost power, the leadership tussle in the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) exploded on Friday with Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam locking the horns over holding the crucial post of Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. As the differences between the two leaders, who jointly head the AIADMK, persisted for over four hours, the party postponed the election to Monday. Panneerselvam, who played the second fiddle to Palaniswami in the previous government, is understood to have thrown his hat in the ring by expressing his wish to be elected as the leader of the AIADMK Legislative Party. As expected, the proposal met with stiff and strong opposition from the Palaniswami camp which is believed to have patted on its own back for the “best performance” in a losing election – AIADMK won 66 against 61 in 2006 when the party had occupied the Opposition benches in the Assembly last time. The AIADMK has won 29 seats in Western Tamil Nadu and 18 seats in the Southern part of the state. While Palaniswami hails from the west, OPS belongs to the south. The point put forth by the EPS side was that the party had won maximum seats from the western region, and the post should rightfully go to Palaniswami. They buttressed their argument by pointing out EPS' whirlwind tour of the state for four months. Panneerselvam, who had lost his clout in the party, was surprisingly supported by legislators from Southern Tamil Nadu. OPS' limited point was that why should he be the only one who should “sacrifice” every time – it was pointed out that he “gracefully” agreed to announce EPS as the CM face of AIADMK. It is believed that legislators from southern districts also pinned the blame on EPS' decisions like 10.5 per cent reservation for Vanniyars for the party's loss. Unverified videos doting on social media showed counter slogans being raised by OPS and EPS supporters at the Jayalalithaa memorial where the two leaders went to pay respects. It is believed that legislators were divided on regional lines, and the animosity between the two factions was visible. “Meeting was a very stormy affair. Though the voices for EPS were more in number, the decision was postponed. Not many thought OPS would ask for the post. And his views cannot be brushed aside just like that. And one should not forget the party is longer in government,” a legislator who attended the meeting told DH. After the meeting, former minister D Jayakumar, who lost from Royapuram in Chennai, said legislators will meet again on Monday to decide their leader in the Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/leadership-tussle-in-aiadmk-out-in-the-open-decision-on-lop-deferred-983548.html
07-05-2021||South||Ma Subramanian, who has Stalin's ears, is Tamil Nadu's new Health Minister||Ma Subramanian is regarded as an efficient administrator and a true-blue grassroots man who never hesitates to get to the ground. And that is precisely why Chief Minister M K Stalin has handed over the most crucial portfolio – Health – in times of Covid-19 pandemic to his trusted lieutenant. A marathon runner who has won several global accolades, Subramanian may have to use all his energy to get Tamil Nadu out of the Covid-19 crisis. He is a stickler to time and his daily schedule – Ma Su never misses his one-hour exercise a day. While everyone was expecting a medical doctor-legislator to be appointed as the Health Minister, Stalin sprang a surprise by choosing a go-getter and a person who he thought could handle the crisis.  Stalin and Subramanian go a long way – the latter was a councilor of the Chennai Corporation when the former was its first directly-elected Mayor during 1996-2001. And during Subramanian's tenure as Mayor from 2006-2011, Stalin was the Municipal Administration Minister and deputy chief minister. “Ma Su is literally Stalin's shadow in terms of thought process. Since Ma Su has worked with our leader from the Mayor days, he would execute everything that the CM wants. Moreover, the former Chennai Mayor does not look at his watch while at work, and the government needs such a person this time. We need an administrator, and a groundworker now. Ma Su fits the bill,” a senior DMK leader told DH. As a Mayor, Ma Su was credited with digitising the process of availing death and birth certificates thereby reducing graft and avoiding long queues at corporation offices, reforming the schools run by the civic body, and ensuring a ban on the erection of banners and cut-outs. “He has already worked with bureaucrats when he was Chennai Mayor. He is a good listener, and will go by the officer's advice if he is convinced. It will be a challenging task for Ma Su, but his administrative experience will come handy now,” an official said. Representing Saidapet Assembly constituency since 2016, Ma Su's biggest strength is his connect with the people. “He works for 16 hours a day and in that, three to four hours go only in meeting people. When you see a minister crisscrossing hospitals, Covid Care Centres, and other connected places, people get the confidence,” a local DMK leader told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ma-subramanian-who-has-stalins-ears-is-tamil-nadus-new-health-minister-983575.html
07-05-2021||South||Registration mandatory for entering Kerala; Covid-19 lockdown from Saturday||With Kerala going for a nine-day statewide lockdown from Saturday, the state government has decided to make registration mandatory for all persons entering the state Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that those who do not register in the Covid-19 Jagratha portal will have to remain in 14 days quarantine at their own expense. The number of active cases in Kerala crossed the four-lakh mark. As many as 38,460 fresh cases were reported on Friday taking the total active cases to 4.02 lakh. The state opened an oxygen war room to streamline oxygen distribution. The Chief Minister reiterated that the lockdown would be strictly enforced. Around 25,000 police personnel would be deployed across the state to check violation of lockdown norms. Police pass would be issued to those who require to travel for emergency needs. The state would also resume the food kit distribution covering migrant workers also. Concerns over exemptions A series of exemptions given in the lockdown had not gone down well with police and health officials. While police officials maintained that exemptions given to sectors like construction could lead to confrontation between people and the police, health department sources said that a total lockdown was highly required to fight Covid-19. The Chief Minister said that exemption was given to the construction sector to ensure that migrant workers were not rendered jobless. Though vehicle service centres were given an exemption, it was later reduced to twice a week. Banks would be allowed to function on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Street food has been completely banned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/registration-mandatory-for-entering-kerala-covid-19-lockdown-from-saturday-983583.html
07-05-2021||State||Belagavi man wages war against Covid misinformation||While doctors and health professionals continue to combat the virus, Hitesh Dharmdasani, a young IT professional from Belagavi, has been waging a battle on another front: Misinformation and lack of information. Initially, Hitesh and some volunteers collaborated with a local news portal to develop an exhaustive database, which has come to the rescue of Covid patients. Now, it has been deemed the official portal of the district administration on Covid-19. This data portal, which contains updates from Covid care hospitals, government departments and citizen groups, has been shared with the local news organisations to disseminate accurate information. "Belagavi has a young tech-savvy population but any piece of misinformation on social media can easily create panic among the people. Some local news websites carried unverified details about the disease and hardly had any information that practically helps people in the time of crisis. Also, there wasn’t much information about other motivating factors, like people cured and the total population vaccinated. So, we came up with this idea of real-time database," says Hitesh who specialises in cyber security. Apart from information on availability of beds, oxygen, medicine, testing, ambulance, food and other services needed by Covid patients and their attendants, the portal has a provision to address distress. People in need have to submit their details and query (requirement) which is verified and then forwarded to the authority (government officer or doctor) concerned for quick redressal. "In the last two to three days, the most enquiries we received are for antiviral drug Remdesivir and other medicines, and we have directed people to the right authority. There is a need for proper distribution and we are helping bridge this gap between the people and officials," said Hitesh. "Recently, my 40-year-old brother was down with Covid and needed Remdesivir which was not available at the private hospital where he was admitted. Thankfully, I sent a request through the portal and we could get it immediately," said Ravi (name changed).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/belagavi-man-wages-war-against-covid-misinformation-983294.html
07-05-2021||State||41 days before Chamarajanagar tragedy, alert was sounded on low oxygen||As early as March 24, the Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU) had categorised Chamarajanagar district hospital in red saying, “O2 shortage, O2 pressure is low. Receiving 25 oxygen cylinders per day though requirement is 300 cylinders per day.” Despite CCSU red flagging that the hospital is in dire straits with respect to oxygen, 41 days before May 2, when 24 lives were snuffed out due to alleged oxygen shortage, adequate measures weren’t taken to avert the disaster. Even in the CCSU report for May 6, Chamarajanagar is in orange saying the oxygen pressure at the hospital is low. So is the case at the Hassan district hospital. The CCSU, a team of intensive care experts from private and government super speciality hospitals in the state which was set up last year during the first wave of the pandemic, does tele-ICU rounds every morning in all the 30 district hospitals.   The tele-ICU rounds start with taking stock of oxygen in tertiary care hospitals of the district, essential Covid drugs, number of ICU beds and ventilators available with the hospitals. They categorise the hospitals as red (if the situation is dire), orange (if there is a shortage) and green (if there are no shortage issues). Chamarajanagar Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi and District Health Officer M C Ravi did not respond to calls and queries from DH. 6,000L tank   Health Commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra, who also heads the CCSU, said, “It was after this (CCSU’s) alert that the capacity was increased significantly by installing a 6,000-litre liquid medical oxygen tank. Earlier, they were running on cylinders only. Cylinders were supposed to act as a buffer. It is not that the CCSU’s alert was unheeded.” Boosting of infra on On CCSU’s alert on various districts exhausting intensive care unit beds, Chandra said, “In other districts also (like Bengaluru), they’re ramping up facilities. This is happening across all districts. Wherever additional ventilators have been requested, we have been giving them. These are ventilators from all categories like those from PM Cares and those procured by the Health department.” Asked for specifics on how many ICU beds are likely to be added once the ramp up of infrastructure is undertaken, he did not reveal details. Mandya District Health Officer Dr Manche Gowda said they had received 25 ventilators, but finding human resource (HR) is a challenge. “We can use 40 ventilators in the medical college hospital and the rest in taluk hospitals. Our 30 ICU beds in the medical college hospital are full, so are 18 in all taluk hospitals. Even if we get the machines, we need HR and doctors,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/41-days-before-chamarajanagar-tragedy-alert-was-sounded-on-low-oxygen-983367.html
07-05-2021||State||Covid-19: Full lockdown in Karnataka from May 10 to May 24||Karnataka will enter a “complete lockdown” from May 10 in a desperate measure announced by the B S Yediyurappa administration in the face of Covid-19 cases that are rising day by day. The lockdown will be in effect till 6 am on May 24. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, announcing the lockdown, said that the measure was essential as Corona Curfew "did not yield the expected result in reducing cases and death rates." According to the guidelines issued by the government, grocery, fruits and vegetable, meat and fish stores will be open from 6 am to 10 am, whole milk booths and HOPCOMS outlets will be open from 6 am to 6 pm. Yediyurappa said that even though there were discussions to open these stores on alternate days, the government decided against it to avoid crowding. "More people will gather if we open essential stores on alternate days," he said. Takeaway from standalone liquor stores will be allowed between 6 am to 10 am. Delivery of all items through e-commerce portals and home delivery system will be allowed. The guidelines also imposed strict curbs on the movement of people as public and private transport services will remain suspended during the period. Inter-state and inter-district movement of passenger vehicles will be allowed only in the case of emergencies, according to the circular. Industries manufacturing essential commodities, production units which require continuous process and industries operating with in-situ staff/workers, will be allowed to operate. Responding to a query on whether the government will announce relief for those affected by the lockdown, the CM said that a call will be taken in a few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-full-lockdown-in-karnataka-from-may-10-to-may-24-983483.html
07-05-2021||State||Karnataka enters lockdown: Full list of what's allowed and what's not allowed||Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Karnataka government on Friday imposed a complete lockdown in the state from May 10 to May 24. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced the decision after holding review meetings in view of an alarming rise in the state. On Thursday the state reported over 49,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, while it had reported over 50,000 new cases the day before.  As Karnataka enters lockdown from May 10, here are the activities that are allowed and not allowed till May 24. What's allowed: 1. Only the following Offices of the State Government and their Autonomous Bodies, Corporations such as Health, Medical Education, Police, Home Guards, BBMP etc shall function (outside containment zone).  2. Only the following Offices of the Government of India, its Autonomous/Subordinate Offices and Public Corporations such as Defence, Defence PSUs, central armed police forces, telecommunication, etc shall function (outside containment zones). 3. All health Services, including hospitals, nursing homes, AYUSH and veterinary hospitals, to remain functional (outside containment zone). 4. All agriculture and allied activities are allowed. Shops and godowns, related to farming, custom hiring centres, machinery are permitted from 6 am to 10 am outside containment zones.  5. Operation of homes for children/disabled/mentally challenged/senior citizens/destitutes/women/widows outside containment zone to be functional. 6. All facilities in the supply chain of essential goods, whether involved in manufacturing, wholesale or retail of such goods through stores, or e-commerce companies shall be allowed to operate adhering to National Directives for Covid-19 management. Movement of all types of goods including empty goods vehicles will be allowed. 7. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, and animal fodder shall be allowed to function from 6 am to 10 am. Public Distribution System shops are allowed. Takeaway only is allowed from standalone liquor shops and outlets, from 6 am to 10 am. The sale of vegetables and fruits through pushcarts is allowed from 6 am to 6 pm. Milk booths and Hopcoms outlets are allowed from 6 am to 6 pm. Home delivery of essential items shall be encouraged 24x7 to minimise the movement of individuals outside their homes. Operations shall be subject to adhering to National Directives for Covid-19 management. 8. All food processing and related industries, banks, insurance offices and ATM, print and electronic media will be allowed to function. 9. Telecommunication, internet services, broadcasting and cable services shall be allowed. Employees and vehicles of Telecom and Internet Service providers shall be allowed unrestricted movement on producing valid ID card issued by their respective organisation/institution. 10. Construction activities with in-situ labourers/workers will be allowed outside the containment zone adhering to National Directives for Covid-19 management. Works related to pre-monsoon preparation/road construction activity is permitted. 11. Scheduled weddings are permitted strictly adhering to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour with a maximum of 50 people.   12. Cremation/funerals to be allowed with a maximum of 5 people.  Restricted movement of individuals: 1. No movement of Public or private buses or passenger vehicles except as permitted under these guidelines. 2. Inter-state and Intra-state movement of passenger vehicles, only in cases of emergencies or as permitted under these guidelines. 3. Intra-district movement of passenger vehicles and buses only in emergency cases and strictly adhering to the prevailing SOPs/guidelines issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Movement of Officers/personnel travelling with the valid ID card issued by their Organization/Institution to the place of work and back for permitted activities in these guidelines. 4.  Movement of Officers/Staff of High Court of Karnataka, Officers/Staff of District Judiciary holding official ID Card are permitted even beyond office hours to attend official work at High Court, Home Office of Hon'ble Chief Justice/other Hon'ble Judges and respective offices at the districts.  5. Passenger vehicles including Airport Buses/Taxis/ Auto Rickshaws to and fro from Railway stations and Airports are permitted. The movement will be allowed only on displaying valid travel documents/tickets. 6. Autos and taxis (including cab aggregators) are permitted for travel related to an emergency purpose.  7. Patients and their attendants/persons requiring emergency need for movement shall be allowed to move. Movement for the purpose of vaccination and testing shall be permitted with minimal proof.  What's not allowed: 1. Metro rail services will not be allowed across the state. 2. Taxis (including auto-rickshaws) and services of cab aggregators, except while hired for emergency and as permitted in these guidelines 3. Schools, colleges, educational/coaching institutions, etc will remain closed. Online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged. 4. Hotels, restaurants, and hospitality services will not be permitted, except those meant for housing health/police/Government officials/ healthcare workers/ stranded persons including tourists, quarantine facility and step-down Hospitals. However, hotels, restaurants and eateries shall be permitted to operate kitchens for take away/home delivery of food items only. No vehicles will be allowed to be used by persons for taking parcels/takeaway. The only movement by walk is allowed for this purpose. However, hotels, restaurants and eateries can use vehicles for home delivery. 5. All cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, stadia, playgrounds, swimming pools, parks, entertainment parks, clubs, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls, and similar places will be closed. 6. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings and large congregations shall be closed. 7. All religious places, places of worship shall be closed for the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-enters-lockdown-full-list-of-whats-allowed-and-whats-not-allowed-983496.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||More beds for Bengaluru, incentives for final-year medicos||In some respite, Bengaluru will get an additional 1,135 beds from private medical colleges for Covid-19 treatment. This was the outcome of a meeting that Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka (in charge of overseeing availability of beds) and Health Minister K Sudhakar held with private medical colleges in the city. The colleges were earlier directed to hand over 75 per cent of their beds for Covid-19 treatment. However, about 6,034 beds were given until now and the rest was pending. Now, the remaining 1,135 beds will be added over the next 3-4 days. "This will include 342 general beds, 55 HDU beds, 103 ICU beds and 38 ICU ventilators," Ashoka said. With a high demand for oxygen beds, the state government has sought to incentivise private hospitals for upgrading beds. The government will reimburse 75 per cent of the cost if the hospitals add oxygen beds, Bommai said. To ensure efficient use of beds allotted to the government for Covid management, a KAS officer will monitor the situation in each private hospital. There will be one senior official for every five hospitals to monitor that all the beds reserved under government quota are being used efficiently. The government is also planning to create 5,000 step-down hospitals and will take over rooms in hotels near to hospitals for this purpose, Bommai added. Further, the government is making efforts to increase Covid-19 staff. Final-year MBBS and nursing students will be roped in for pandemic duty. In order to incentivise them, the government is considering special allowance and credits in their courses. They will be considered as corona warriors and accorded priority in vaccination, Sudhakar said. "The government will also provide risk allowance to all those involved in Covid-related work," he added. As for getting additional vaccine supplies, Sudhakar said the government was in touch with the Centre. "Now, we have stock of about 5 lakh doses. So far, we have administered more than 1 crore doses. The government has ordered 2 crore doses of vaccine and we are expecting to receive one more consignment by May 15," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-beds-for-bengaluru-incentives-for-final-year-medicos-983212.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 red alert: ICUs are full in 7 Karnataka districts||At least seven districts in Karnataka have run out of ICU beds, in a replay of the Covid script that is unfolding in the state capital and worst-hit Bengaluru, according to the Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU). The CCSU — comprising intensive care experts — does tele-ICU rounds every morning in district hospitals to take stock of oxygen, essential Covid drugs, number of ICU beds and ventilators available with the hospitals.  As per the CCSU, ICU beds are full in Mysuru's KR Hospital and district hospital, two major government hospitals in the city. Dharwad, Mandya, Hassan and Tumakuru have no availability of critical care beds, Uttara Kannada district has three ICU beds available and Ballari's VIMS just two. The May 6 report by the CCSU signals the alarm. "We are anticipating ICU beds and ventilator crises in the coming week in other districts of Karnataka as well," the report states. Chikkaballapur (Health Minister K Sudhakar's home turf), Ballari district hospital, Mandya, Tumakuru, Chamarajanagar and Udupi's Kundapura have shortage of oxygen beds, while five districts require 20 to 100 ventilators. If the availability of critical care beds is not ramped up quickly, the state could be staring at a major crisis as the second wave of the pandemic is yet to peak. "We've put seven districts on red alert as ICUs are full. In the next one week, these districts won't have any ICU beds. This has been communicated to all the health authorities. This is quite alarming. These districts might be the next Bengaluru," a source told DH. Hubballi-Dharwad has the highest number of ICU beds at 109 compared to other districts but all of them are occupied.  "Immediate scaling up of ICU beds has to happen across the districts," the source said. "Key district hospitals in Tumakuru, Hubballi and Chamarajanagar and Mandya treat highest number of patients than others." ICU beds in Ballari, Mysuru, and Kundapura are full. Even ventilators need to be scaled up. Chikkamagalur and Karwar are a little better, said the source. Dr CN Manjunath, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing, said the government has decided to ramp up rapid antigen tests as the "positivity rate is high". "It is very relevant now. Today, orders are being placed for 30 lakh test kits. Total tests per day have to be increased to 1.8 lakh. Districts have to increase tests by 50% of what they used to do earlier," he said. Districts with requirement of ventilators: 1. Trauma Care Centre, Ballari - 20 ventilators (PM Care- CV 200 Model), are having problem with the flow sensor/ adaptor2. District Hospital, Ballari - requirement of 25 ventilators3. KIMS Hubballi (Dharwad) - 70 ventilators required4. Hassan - 10 ventilators required5. Mandya - 100 ventilators required Source: CCSU||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-red-alert-icus-are-full-in-7-karnataka-districts-983215.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||The Tejasvi Surya effect: Trauma, harassment and suspension||Minutes after Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya read out a list of 17 Muslim staffers while making allegations about the bed blocking scam, Ayesha Shaikh, a BBMP helpline staffer, received a call from a person introducing himself as a patient but had a different query: "Is there a Muslim call receiver next to you? How many more are they going to kill?" Two days after Surya read out a list of staffers from the minority community, the 17 members have been branded as 'terrorists', subjected to harassment and threat messages besides spending two days in a police station hoping for an early conclusion to the inquiry. Only one of the 17 members worked on the bed-blocking facility six days before the South Zone war room was "raided" by Surya and three MLAs. The other 16 others answered helplines and uploaded patient data in the centre. They had no access to the bed-blocking system and they all worked different shifts. Clarifying his position, the MP has said that he was enquiring about the appointment of the 17 persons who were already dismissed from the job. However, officials said some of the staffers were busy answering patients' calls even as the MP's team asked, "Are you appointing people for corporation or Madarasa?" Zameer Pasha, a 22-year-old graduate, was appointed for the call centre on April 25 for a monthly salary of Rs 13,500. "I just completed my B.Com. Instead of searching for a stable job in lockdown, I thought this will help me gain a unique experience of serving society. I received anywhere from 100 to 200 calls most of them by frantic and emotional persons. I took down the details, from name to BU Number and oxygen saturation and gave it to the doctor for further advice. That's it," he said. Following allegations by Surya, all the 17 staffers have been suspended. However, the shock of their lives came on Tuesday night when the police took them to the Jayanagar station. "We were taken by police at about 10 pm and released at around 3.30 am. I am an educated person. I know that I have not done anything. The police only asked us questions. But what will I tell my family and how do I explain it? I felt terrible. In the middle of all these, we were receiving threats on WhatsApp and other social media," another staffer said. Shivu Naik, Manager of Crystal Infosystems and Services, said all the 17 members will be restored once the CCB submits a report saying they are clean. "At least 16 of these staffers have no access to bed blocking systems. However, even if we know they are innocent, we have decided to keep their job on hold because if someone is called for an inquiry in the middle of work, the war room will face a problem," he said. He said the company provides manpower to various departments, including Home and Revenue Departments. "We are working with the government for the last 20 years. We have assured all the 17 staffers that their jobs are secure," he said. Ayesha, however, questioned the unnecessary trauma caused by the MP. "The MP and MLAs should apologise to all the 17 members for the trauma caused. We don't want to get into politics but we definitely want justice. The mental harassment and humiliation we have faced is enough," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/the-tejasvi-surya-effect-trauma-harassment-and-suspension-983222.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown in Karnataka inevitable, says CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday a lockdown in the state was "inevitable" going by the rise in Covid-19 cases.  Speaking to reporters after visiting the Annamma Devi temple in Bengaluru's Gandhinagar, Yediyurappa said the Janata Curfew currently in force was not being followed strictly. "That's why a lockdown might become inevitable," he said.  The government has lined up meetings to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. "We will take a final call on what the additional measures should be after discussions," he said. Karnataka Thursday reported 49,058 new cases and 328 deaths. Of these, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 23,706 infections and 139 fatalities. With Thursday's deaths, the total death toll now stands at 17,212. The clamour for a complete lockdown is growing with BJP leaders themselves favouring stringent measures to curb the movement of people.  "If people don't want such measures, then they should wear masks, maintain social distancing and cooperate with the government to contain the pandemic. Taking stringent measures are inevitable and will be enforced," Yediyurappa said.  The CM said he prayed to Annamma Devi for peace and respite from the Covid-19 pandemic.  Commenting on the controversy following Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya's expose of bed blocking scam, Yediyurappa congratulated him on behalf of the government for bringing the irregularities to light. "Tejasvi Surya, with great difficulty, took a risk to expose the bed blocking scam and brought it to the notice of the state government. I spoke to him for an hour at Vidhana Soudha and have taken strict measures to prevent bed blocking," Yediyurappa said. Yediyurappa lashed out at Chamrajpet MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan, saying that it appeared as if the Congress leader thought that exposing the scam was a crime. "The MP has exposed only what was happening. People like Zameer should stop talking lightly about him now," he said.  On patients being brought near his official residence and the Vidhana Soudha for lack of beds, Yediyurappa said that it was not right to do so. "I am not saying it's wrong on their part to express their pain. It is true they have problems and we are taking measures. There's no need to come to my house or Vidhana Soudha. Immediately after officials are sounded off, they are trying everything to help people get a bed. We are pro-people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-in-karnataka-inevitable-says-cm-yediyurappa-983323.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre increases Remdesivir allocation to Karnataka to 2,62,346 vials from May 10 to 16||Karnataka's allocation of Remdesivir has been increased to 2,62,346 vials from May 10 to May 16. Stating this in a tweet on Friday, Karnataka Health Minister Sudhakar K thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda for their continued support to strengthen the State's battle against Covid-19 pandemic. Karnataka's active Covid cases breached the five lakh mark with 49,058 fresh infections, including 23,706 in Bengaluru Urban district, on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-increases-remdesivir-allocation-to-karnataka-to-262346-vials-from-may-10-to-16-983370.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt caps price of CT-scan, X-ray in private hospitals, labs||The Karnataka government has decided to cap the price of CT-scan and digital X-ray in private hospitals and labs at Rs 1,500 and Rs 250 respectively, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. He said CT-scan or X-ray is becoming increasingly necessary to detect Covid-19. "We have received complaints that some hospitals and labs are exploiting people by charging high prices," Sudhakar said adding that the government's decision is aimed at checking this. The Minister warned that strict action would be taken against hospitals and labs which violate rules and charge high prices. The government hospitals are providing CT-scan and X-ray facility free of cost, he said and appealed to people to utilise their services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-caps-price-of-ct-scan-x-ray-in-private-hospitals-labs-983395.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Anti-Hindu attitude is in Zameer's blood: Eshwarappa||Karnataka Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Friday criticised Congress MLA B Zameer Ahmed Khan by saying that pro-Muslim and anti-Hindu attitude is in his blood. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that Khan was all set to prove that he is the leader of Muslims. "Congress legislators are aware of perpetrators D G Halli communal violence in Bengaluru. Congress leaders must remember that not only Muslims but also many people of the Hindu religion have backed them in the polls. So, they must stop behaving like leaders of Muslims" Eshwarappa said. Slamming KPCC President D K Shivakumar and Zameer Ahmed Khan's verbal attack on Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya for exposing bed-blocking racket in Bengaluru, he said that he too can use foul language. Defending the Centre's plea in Supreme Court against the Karnataka High Court's order on oxygen supply, he said that oxygen can't be prepared in a kitchen. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has to supply oxygen to all states. So, the Centre took such a decision," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/anti-hindu-attitude-is-in-zameers-blood-eshwarappa-983461.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||5 held in connection with Karnataka hospital bed-blocking scam||Five people have been arrested so far for allegedly blocking beds in private hospitals in the city for Covid-19 patients, police said on Friday. "Other than four-five people, we have not arrested anyone else though our investigations are on," a police officer probing the matter told PTI. "We are not going by what's being circulated in the social media. We are limiting our investigation to what is there before us, that is, we are investigating only the bed blocking scam," the officer added. According to police, those who have been arrested in the 'bed blocking scam' are Nethravathi, Rohith, Venkat Subba Rao, Manjunath and Punith. Investigation so far has not revealed the involvement of those Muslims whose names were mentioned by Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya on Tuesday in a live programme, police sources said. Police said searches were carried out in the Covid war room on Thursday and technical data was obtained to check any irregularity. In addition to this, doctors, who are in charge of each zone war rooms, are being questioned. CCTV footage of all war rooms has already been collected and identification is being done about any unauthorised person in the war room and reasons for it, they said. BJP MP Tejasvi Surya had recently alleged that hospitals here 'blocked' beds in fake names to make money, at a time when Covid-19 cases were rising in Karnataka. Surya said officials of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike 'colluded' with private nursing homes and hospitals to block beds and reserve it for exorbitant fees. The Karnataka government has ordered reserving 80 per cent of the beds in the private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city corporation-BBMP) was assigned to allot beds for the Covid-19 patients seeking treatment in private hospitals. However, due to the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, most of the beds are fully occupied even as the demand is growing manifold. To deal with the demand, the BBMP has set up nine Covid War Rooms at its zonal level and entrusted an employment firm to deploy its workforce on a contract basis. A BBMP official said the War Rooms have 214 people and not just 16 as has been presented by the BJP MP. Hitting out at Surya, Chamarajpet Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan said in a video message, "There were over 205 employees of Crystal Company, who were deployed in the Covid War Room on contract basis but you singled out only 16 Muslims. How fair is this?.. " Khan even claimed that only one person, Mohammed Zaid was assigned with the task of bed allotment while others were given different jobs. He even said the job of 16 people who were making a living with a salary of Rs 13,000 is now at stake following the alleged scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5-held-in-connection-with-karnataka-hospital-bed-blocking-scam-983462.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||POCSO trial: Non-compliance with default clauses no ground for bail, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka has held that non-completion of recording the evidence of the child and trial within the stipulated time as prescribed under the POCSO Act cannot be a ground to grant bail to the accused. A division bench, headed by Justice B V Nagarathna, held that the object and purpose of such default clauses are only for the benefit of the child victim. Though petitions filed by the accused persons seeking bail were dismissed, a single judge had referred two issues before the larger bench. The issues were, whether the evidence which has been recorded under Section 164 of CrPC be considered to be evidence under Section 35 of the POCSO Act, and whether the accused is entitled to be released on bail as a right considering the default clauses. As per the default clauses, the evidence of the child has to be recorded within 30 days of taking cognizance and trial be completed within one year from the date of taking cognizance. The bench held that evidence under Section 164 of CrPC cannot be equated to the evidence under Section 35 of the POCSO Act. The court said the statement under CrPC is taken during the course of investigation, while statement under Section 35 of the POCSO Act is recorded before the special court during the course of the trial. On the issue of accused relying upon the clause of entitlement to bail on the basis of default period, the bench said such an interpretation may go against the interest of the victim child. "If the aforesaid interpretation is to be made, then there would be every attempt made to delay the proceedings before the special court beyond the period of one year and seek release of the accused on bail. Such a position cannot be encouraged nor is it envisaged under the POCSO Act," the bench said. The court also said that given the number of special courts constituted, it may not be possible for the trial courts to conclude the trial within one year from the date of cognizance. The bench directed the state government to take steps for setting up of the requisite number of special courts under the POCSO Act with necessary infrastructure and manpower.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pocso-trial-non-compliance-with-default-clauses-no-ground-for-bail-says-hc-983552.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||7k final-year medical students to monitor home-isolated Covid patients||In a bid to ramp up medical facilities to handle the exponential Covid-19 surge, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) is training over 7 thousand final year MBBS students to treat and monitor the home-isolated cases. As these students have not completed the course, they cannot be put on Covid wards to treat the patients, instead they will be put on home-isolated patients’ care via tele calling. The university is registering and training the students through StepOne app. This (Covid duty) is mandatory for all the final year MBBS students studying at colleges affiliated to RGUHS and so far 4,000 students have registered and 2,500 of them have been trained. According to the university officials, each student will be assigned to make 40 calls/contact 40 home-isolated patients every day. Speaking to DH, Dr Sacchidanand, Vice Chancellor, RGUHS, said, “These students will be in touch with the home-isolated Covid patients and assist them over phone and monitor their health. Along with this, the students have also been trained to counsel the patients and boost their morale.” In case if the students find any patient needing further treatment, then they will have to contact the senior doctors in the team and process further. “If students find it difficult to manage the patients over phone or if they find the patient needs hospital care, then they will coordinate with senior doctors,” said Dr Sacchidanand. As the students will do this work sitting at their home, the university has directed the colleges to work in shifts. “If the online classes are in the morning, then the students should be deployed for covid duties in the afternoon. If the classes are in the afternoon, then the students should chip in for Covid work in the morning,” said Dr Sacchidanand. Meanwhile, the university is also registering nursing students on the StepOne app and once they complete online training they will be put at Covid care centres for patient care.  According to doctors, monitoring home-isolated patients is very important during this second wave as many are mentally disturbed, living with fear and some even going for self-medication. “Home-isolated patients are in need of proper guidance from doctors and involving MBBS students in it will decrease the burden on doctors working in Covid wards,” said a senior doctor from Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7k-final-year-medical-students-to-monitor-home-isolated-covid-patients-983554.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Share beds or will stop OPD, Ashoka warns private hospitals||Revenue Minister R Ashoka warned shutting down out-patient department (OPD) of private hospitals that do not comply with directions to share beds with the government to treat Covid patients. Speaking to reporters following a meeting with management of private hospitals, he said that the government would take stern measures if hospitals refused to share beds. Some hospitals are found to have blocked beds by using loopholes in the BBMP software that tracks admission and discharge of Covid patients. “There are cases where even though patients are discharged after treatment, they are logged to be undergoing treatment for a period of up to three months,” Ashoka said. After the patients are discharged, the hospitals admit new patients and thereby block beds meant for treating Covid patients referred by the government. To stop this, the government has issued directions to remove entries of a patient from a hospital database on completion of treatment for 10 days. “The patients’ names will continue to be in the system only if hospitals submit relevant details about the patients’ condition,” he said. Ashoka said that IAS officer Tushar Girinath will now be in-charge of monitoring bed availability and was appointed the Chief Nodal Officer for Integrated Bed Allottment within BBMP limits. Another senior IAS officer N Manjunatha Prasad will be in-charge of bed management. “Within 24 hours, we will collect details of beds and those which were blocked for months,” he said. 3 city hosps skip meet Three prominent hospitals of the city did not take part in the meeting, Ashoka said. Notices will be issued to the hospitals for abstaining from the meeting, he said, adding that he would hold another round of meetings with the said hospitals to ensure bed availability. Responding to a question, Health Minister K Sudhakar said that the Central government cannot be blamed for the shortage of vaccines. “There is a delay in supply by manufacturers,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/share-beds-or-will-stop-opd-ashoka-warns-private-hospitals-983562.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Violation of CT scan fee cap will invite action: Sudhakar||The state government has stepped in to regulate the CT scan and digital x-ray rates following the complaints against the exorbitant fees being charged by the private hospitals and that the licence of lab/hospitals will be cancelled if they found violating the fee cap, warned Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar. Speaking to reporters on Friday, Sudhakar said, no diagnostic centre or hospital should charge more than Rs 1,500 for CT scan and Rs 250 for digital x-ray. Replying to a query lockdown talk, the minister said, “Covid curfew could not be implemented effectively. The state is witnessing a rapid surge in Covid numbers. We have to take tough measures to break the chain.” There is a need to impose a 14-day lockdown in the state. There are examples of a few countries clamping lockdown for two months. The chief minister will take a decision keeping in mind the life and livelihood, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/violation-of-ct-scan-fee-cap-will-invite-action-sudhakar-983566.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY defends Surya amid row over bed-blocking scam||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday defended Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya following the controversy over the bed-blocking scam. Yediyurappa congratulated Surya on behalf of the government for bringing the irregularities to light. “Tejasvi Surya, with great difficulty, took a risk to expose the bed-blocking scam and brought it to the notice of the state government. I spoke to him for an hour at Vidhana Soudha and have taken strict measures to prevent bed blocking,” Yediyurappa said. Yediyurappa lashed out at Chamarajpet MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, saying that it appeared as if the Congress leader thought that exposing the scam was a crime. “The MP has exposed only what was happening. People like Zameer should stop talking lightly about him now,” he said. Surya has come under fire for allegedly ‘communalizing’ the bed-blocking scam in Bengaluru. A Congress delegation comprising the party’s working presidents Ramalinga Reddy and Saleem Ahmed petitioned Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant seeking action against Surya, MLAs Satish Reddy, Ravi Subramanya and Uday Garudachar for promoting enmity and ill-will between religions. To a question on patients being brought near his official residence and the Vidhana Soudha for lack of beds, Yediyurappa said that it was not right to do so. “I am not saying it’s wrong on their part to express their pain. It is true they have problems and we are taking measures. There’s no need to come to my house or Vidhana Soudha. Immediately after officials are sounded off, they are trying everything to help patients get beds. We are pro-people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-defends-surya-amid-row-over-bed-blocking-scam-983567.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, BJP MLAs oppose Jindal land deal, write to BSY||At least four BJP legislators have signed a formal letter to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa asking him to roll back the government’s decision to sell 3,667 acres of land to the JSW Steel Ltd in Ballari, a deal the saffron party had opposed when it was in the Opposition. Recently, the Cabinet had approved the execution of the lease-cum-sale agreement in favour of the JSW Group. In a strongly-worded letter, legislators Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Arvind Bellad, K Poornima and Uday Garudachar termed the Cabinet’s decision  “against the interest of the state.” The decision contrary to the BJP’s fight against corruption, they said.  When the state is facing the Covid crisis, the question arises about the price per unit for the execution of the sale deed, they have said, reiterating the concerns raised by the Oppositon parties.  “The firm stand of all members of BJP, right from the Chief Minister, during the previous government is widely known on public domain. During the JD(S) and Congress coalition, a similar proposal was vehemently opposed by the entire party wing under the leadership of B S Yediyurappa. We had made a serious allegation of huge kickbacks in the very deal...” the letter reads. Following a dharna and a rally by the BJP, the coalition government put the proposal on hold. However, the BJP going ahead to execute the same sale deed is “shocking,” the legislators said. The decision taken by the state Cabinet “humiliates the protest taken up by all the BJP karyakartas,” they added.   The MLAs haver further said that the chief minister should have called for a legislature party meeting to discuss the issue.  Other BJP MLAs Abhay Patil, Sunil Kumar and Satish Reddy are said to be in support of this letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-bjp-mlas-oppose-jindal-land-deal-write-to-bsy-983571.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Focus on behavioural change for managing future waves: Experts||Experts have called for mini lockdowns to overcome the second wave of the pandemic and felt the need for technical groups to caution the government on the seven-day moving average of Covid-19 infections.   They were speaking at a panel discussion in the new edition of DH Sparks: ‘Navigating the second Covid-19 wave and the lessons to learn from it’ on Friday. Eminent virologist Dr V Ravi said, “It is sad if whatever we created now (systems) are not sustained. People in the country deserve oxygenated and ICU beds, and we need to see to it that oxygen availability is there for the next one year. Our primary objective is to save lives. It is very difficult to save lives if there is no behavioural change. We can mitigate the third wave only if we start preparing from now.” “Also, all interventions should be data driven. Experts’ advice should be taken seriously and all congregations, be it political or religious should be disallowed,” Dr Ravi added. Biophysics Professor Gautam Menon, also one of the country’s foremost mathematical modellers,  said, “Responsibility should shape social behaviour, going forward. Our communication has always been, do not do this or that. We should shift the narrative to ‘you can do all of this’, provided you follow these precautions and stay safe. Staying outside, wearing masks, is good. Staying inside without ventilation is bad. In the short term, we can even avoid going out, till we climb this hill, but in the long term, I don’t see why we shouldn’t go out safely. We need to get our principles right.” ‘No more Covid models’ Epidemiologist Dr Ramanan Laxminarayan, Director, Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, said, “Obfuscation of data has happened from day one of the pandemic. You cannot build a system to respond to an epidemic when you are already in the middle of a crisis. You have to build it before. We had one chance last year, another in January, and we wasted it... I don’t model Covid anymore since it’s a waste of time. It made sense last February to know how bad things can get.” “Two primary aspects that drive a model are - data, which researchers don’t have. Second, the primary driver of disease dynamics is human behaviour. As prevalence goes up, people protect themselves and as they do that, transmission comes down. This is a moving target. It’s a fool’s errand to run models now and fine tune it for reinfections and variants. My group does not work on models anymore in India,” he added. Dr Vineeta Bal, Immunologist, Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Pune, said that there’s no data to say Covaxin effective against mutant virus “Except for small-scale studies being conducted in the lab, there is no data to say Covaxin is effective against mutant variants of the virus. Those cannot be extrapolated. Even if you collect serum from 30 people, they will have various levels of antibodies and nobody is testing for T-cell response. So we have no idea what level of immunity they would have which would protect against reinfection,” Dr Bal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/focus-on-behavioural-change-for-managing-future-waves-experts-983572.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Scrap all war rooms, demands JDS legislator||The Janata Dal (Secular) MLC B M Farooq has demanded the government to scrap Covid war rooms. In a statement released on Friday, the MLC said there should be a thorough probe led by the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court into the bed-allotment scam. He has said that all employees at BBMP South war room where the scam was unearthed be placed under suspension pending inquiry.  There is rampant corruption in the Covid hospitals in Bengaluru and more than 12 hospitals are believed to be involved. The government must take strict action against all of them, he said. “Also, the Covid-infected in several districts are dying only because of shortage of oxygen. Why aren’t Tejasvi Surya and MLA Ravi Subramany questioning the Centre about this?” the MLS sought to know. Further, he demanded that Chamarajanagar district incharge minister Suresh Kumar must resign from his post taking moral responsibility for the lives lost in Chamarajanagar hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/scrap-all-war-rooms-demands-jds-legislator-983573.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP launches ‘My Booth, Corona Free Booth’ campaign||BJP state unit has taken up the ‘My Booth, Corona Free Booth’ campaign to aid people during the second wave of the pandemic. According to N Ravikumar, general secretary of the state BJP, call centres and care centres were functioning in around 350 places in 37 organisational districts of Karnataka. Among the 13 services offered at such centres are providing information on hospitals and ventilators, offering ambulance service, performing last rites of victims, organising blood donation camps and awareness programmes. In Chamarajanagar, BJP workers have performed the last rites of 80 Covid-19 victims. A mass awareness campaign is being undertaken about vaccination at the booth level, he said. Ravikumar said that Jana Seva Organisation and BJP have jointly set up 500 beds for patients in Hubballi, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Ballari, Kalaburagi, Sedam and Bidar. “Three isolation centres are now open in Bengaluru,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-launches-my-booth-corona-free-booth-campaign-983574.html
07-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||IAS Association slams BJP MLA for attack on officer||The IAS Officers’ Association of Karnataka on Friday lodged a complaint with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on the manhandling of V Yashwanth allegedly by the supporters of BJP MLA Satish Reddy, a video of which is viral on social media. This could potentially turn the tables against Reddy, who has been accused of being involved in the illegal blocking of Covid-19 beds in the city even as he joined hands with Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya to ‘expose’ the scam.   In a letter to the CM, the Association’s honorary president and Additional Chief Secretary Vandita Sharma expressed “strong protest” against Yashwanth, a young officer, being manhandled. The incident took place on April 30 in the Covid-19 war room situated in the Bommanahalli constituency, which Reddy represents. “Yashwanth was part of a team of officers who had obtained additional hospital beds from private hospitals. By initiating action in accordance with the law, the team of officers had obtained beds from the private hospitals. When pressure was brought upon the officer to yield the additional beds to the representatives (of the MLA), this was not agreed to. As a result of this, Yashwanth was manhandled and abused in public, with a video available as evidence of the incident,” Sharma explained. The letter does not name Reddy, but the reference is evident. “In the face of unprecedented challenges, IAS officers in Karnataka have been working tirelessly and with utmost commitment to discharge their duties and tackle the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Sharma said, disapproving of “inappropriate and rude” behaviour with officers. “More so, it is unacceptable to manhandle an officer who is discharging his duty without fear or favour.” The Association has urged Yediyurappa to ensure police action by way of an FIR against those who manhandled Yashwanth. Earlier this week, Surya, Reddy and two other MLAs Ravi Subramanya and Uday Garudachar went to the BBMP South zone war room and went public with their claims of a scam in which beds are booked for asymptomatic patients only to be sold off to patients in need for money, bypassing the software-based allotment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ias-association-slams-bjp-mla-for-attack-on-officer-983605.html
07-05-2021||West||Goa government 'thinking positively' about lockdown: Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday hinted at a lockdown in the state to curb the rising Covid-19 cases and said a final decision on the matter would be taken in the next 2 to 3 days. Sawant attended a meeting of MLAs through video conferencing to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. Talking to reporters after the meeting, the Chief Minister said the state government was thinking positively about the lockdown and a decision will be taken in the next 2to 3 days. We will talk to all stakeholders before taking the decision, he said. Goa is currently under stringent Covid-19-related curbs, which include closure of non-essential shops. The state was under lockdown for four days last week. Sawant said all BJP MLAs have been asked to set up a "war room" in their constituencies to coordinate efforts to deal with the pandemic. "The MLAs will also have to start round-the-clock call centres which will be in touch with Covid-19 patients," the CM said. He said local panchayats have been asked to ensure that people advised home isolation do not venture out. Goa on Thursday reported its highest daily tally so far with 3,869 Covid-19 cases that took the infection count to 1,08,267, an official from the health department said. The toll mounted to 1,501 after 58 patients died of the infection during the day, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-thinking-positively-about-lockdown-sawant-983249.html
07-05-2021||West||Maharashtra: 16,000 vacancies to be filled in Health Department||As India prepares for the third wave of the sweeping Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has decided to fill up 16,000 vacancies in the Public Health Department. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has okayed the proposal and the vacancies would be filled on an urgent basis. According to Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope, while 12,000 posts are in the Group C and D categories, the rest 4,000 vacancies are equally divided in Group A and B categories. Earlier the State government allowed 50 per cent recruitment – which it could not carry out because of the Maratha reservation issue in the Supreme Court. However, since the apex court has struck down the reservation and because of the possible third wave of Covid-19, Tope made a strong case for 100 per cent recruitment as the manpower is needed to combat the virus. The state Cabinet has rested the final call with Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. The Group A posts – which include specialists, would be filled by the Maharashtra Public Service Commission and Group B – which would include medical officers – would be filled by the Selection Board of Public Health Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-16000-vacancies-to-be-filled-in-health-department-983305.html
07-05-2021||West||Book explores Maharashtra's Buddhist caves, Kanheri one of the most significant heritage sites in Mumbai region||Deep within the concrete jungle of Mumbai sits the Sanjay Gandhi National Park. And inside this is located the famous Kanheri caves — 129 caves in a single location. “Kanheri is one of the most significant Buddhist heritage sites in the Mumbai region,” says Dr Suraj Pandit, an archaeologist and historian, who is the Head of Department of Buddhist Studies at Sathaye College, Vile Parle, in Mumbai. Pandit’s new book in Marathi on Maharashtra’s Buddhist caves will be released online on Sunday by Dr AP Jamkhedkar in presence of Dr Suhas Bahulkar, Dr Deepak Kannal, Vibha Oak and Dr Keshavchaitanya  Kunte. More than 80 per cent of the caves in India are located in Maharashtra; a large number of them are associated with Buddhism. In the book, Pandit speaks about 100-odd caves spread across various regions – the Mumbai cluster, Lonavala-Pune cluster, Nashik cluster, Marathwada cluster, Satara-Karad cluster and the Ratnagiri-Dapoli cluster. As far as the Mumbai region is concerned, he mentions the Kanheri caves, Mahakali caves, Mandapeshwar caves, Jivdani caves and a lost site of Padan. Pandit, who has researched extensively on Kanheri, said the site gained popularity and importance as a Buddhist centre of North Konkan. It also needs to be noted that Kanheri was surrounded by several port cities. According to him, Kanheri has stood witness to multifold power shifts and political changes in 1,600 years. Merchants, farmers, artisans from a wide geographical areas have made donations. The chronological time span of Kanheri is from 1st Century BCE to 11th Century CE. Kanheri is also close to the ancient trade route of Sopara to Kalyan. Chinese Buddhist monk and traveller Xuanzang visited these places to learn the form of Buddhism existing in this part of the subcontinent. Xuanzang stayed in Kanheri – and he wrote very highly of the monks and acharyas. During his visit to monasteries in India, Xuanzang collected various Buddhist manuscripts from the Krishnagiri (Kanheri) – and later translated it from Sanskrit to Chinese. Ekadashmukh Avalokiteshvara Dharini is one of the important texts that he translated. While leaving Kanheri, he got himself a wooden image of Avalokiteshvara (probably with 11 heads). He took it with him to China, which led to formation and spread of the eleven-headed Avalokiteshwara cult in the neighbouring country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/book-explores-maharashtras-buddhist-caves-kanheri-one-of-the-most-significant-heritage-sites-in-mumbai-region-983336.html
07-05-2021||West||Inmate at Navi Mumbai's Taloja jail dies of Covid-19, kin allege negligence||A 22-year-old undertrial lodged in Navi Mumbai's Taloja jail has died of Covid-19 at a hospital, even as his family members alleged that the negligence of prison authorities led to his death. The prisoner, identified as Vishal Anand Dasari, died at St George Hospital in Mumbai on Wednesday morning, a jail official said. Dasari was first admitted to Mumbai's J J Hospital on April 30 before being shifted to St George Hospital after testing positive for the viral infection, he said. He was lodged in jail since 2018 in a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). Dasari's relative Aneesh Bharti said, "Of late, he had been complaining of throat pain and uneasiness whenever his family members called him in jail. However, the jail authorities neglected his condition and did not bother about him. They have no concern for the health of prisoners." "We have lost our family member...He wanted to come home, but now he is no more," he added. Meanwhile, one more Taloja jail prisoner has tested Covid-19 positive and admitted to St George Hospital, while another inmate, who is asymptomatic, has been quarantined inside the prison, sources in the jail said. Taloja jail superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar confirmed that Dasari died of Covid-19 and another prisoner has been hospitalised after testing positive. Dr Ranjit Mankeshawar, dean of J J Hospital, said, "The deceased (Dasari) was first admitted to J J Hospital, but was shifted to St George Hospital after testing positive for coronavirus and he died due to the infection on Wednesday morning." Earlier, poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, had complained against the health facilities at Taloja jail, where he was lodged. Rao had stated in an affidavit submitted to a court that there were only three Ayurvedic practitioners to address the health issues faced by the inmates, and that there are no staff nurses, pharmacists or medical specialists to attend to the prisoners at Taloja prison hospital. The Bombay High Court has earlier asked the Maharashtra prison authorities to provide details of availability of qualified medical staff and health workers in jail hospitals after it was informed about the deaths of prisoners and jail staff in the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/inmate-at-navi-mumbais-taloja-jail-dies-of-covid-19-kin-allege-negligence-983337.html
07-05-2021||West||Covid-19 positive report not required for hospitalisation in Gujarat||In a relief to people, the Gujarat government on Friday announced that carrying a Covid- 19 positive report will not be necessary for admission of patients to hospitals in the state. Before this, it was mandatory to carry such reports for admission in Gujarat hospitals. The state Health and Family Welfare Department issued a circular, in which it asked all the hospitals to "entertain and give treatment" to all those "suspected patients having symptoms" of coronavirus and stop insisting on a positive report. The circular asked hospitals to admit all the suspected Covid-19 patients, whether coming in ambulances or in private vehicles. Several citizens had earlier complained that patients arriving at hospitals in vehicles other than the state-run ambulances (of 108 ambulance service) were being turned away. The circular said that the Supreme Court, while hearing a suo motu PIL on the coronavirus situation, has recently directed the state government to have a "uniform policy for admission of Covid patients in hospitals". The state government issued these new guidelines for hospitals in view of the SC order dated April 30, the circular said. It also made it clear that hospitals must not deny admission to a patient just because he belongs to another city or state. The circular asked hospitals to makeavailable medicines and oxygen "to all the needy patients". Any hospital found guilty of violating these new guidelines will face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-positive-report-not-required-for-hospitalisation-in-gujarat-983349.html
07-05-2021||West||Pharma cos not supplying mandated Remdesivir quota to Maharashtra: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday alleged that most of the pharmaceutical companies are not supplying the mandated quantity of Remdesivir vials to the state. Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, is used in the treatment of coronavirus patients. "The Union government has fixed the quota of Remdesivir vials to every state. However, most of the pharmaceutical companies are not supplying the vials as per the quantity allocated by the Centre," Tope told reporters. Of the total number of Remdesivir vials that the Indian government has received as part of the US aid, Maharashtra managed to get 52,000 vials, he added. "But it is the duty of the (Centre's) Department of Pharmaceuticals to ensure that Maharashtra gets the supply of Remdesivir as mandated by the Centre," he said. According to him, except Hetero Labs, no other pharmaceutical company is supplying Remdesivir as per the fixed quota. Tope had earlier said that the state's daily requirement of Remdesivir is around 60,000 vials. When asked about the expression of interest invited by the Maharashtra government for importing medical equipment, he said, "Purchase order for three lakh Remdesivir vials is given after completing the necessary documentation and approvals. The proposal is now with the Drugs Controller General of India." On Thursday, Tope had claimed that the Union government's Department of Pharmaceuticals was slow in granting clearance to essential medical items imported by the state government. According to the minister, a task force of doctors has been set up to give final approval for oxygen concentrators. "The state would be buying over 40,000 oxygen concentrators and the task force has called for a demo of the machine before finalising the order," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pharma-cos-not-supplying-mandated-remdesivir-quota-to-maharashtra-tope-983394.html
07-05-2021||West||Covid-19: Industry, travel, tourism bodies root for lockdown in Goa||Industry captains and travel, tourism industry stakeholders in Goa on Friday rooted for a lockdown in the state, a day after Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that he was "positively thinking" about imposing a lockdown in the wake of the rising tide of Covid-19 infections and a high rate of mortality. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa and the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Friday wrote to Sawant urging him to impose the lockdown without delay in order to control the ferocious Covid wave, which has led to the death of 1,501 persons so far. Goa currently has 29,752 active cases. "From our own experience last year, we know that it was your brave decision of implementing the total lockdown that actually helped us in controlling the virus from spreading. This time around, we have concentrated more on the economic revival and livelihood and rightly so, as an unprecedented number of our citizens have been reduced to poverty due to job and income loss," Travel and Tourism Association of Goa president Nilesh Shah said in a letter to Sawant. "This has resulted in them being robbed of their dignity and self-worth. However, considering the ferocity of the pandemic which was unable to be predicted, the situation calls for an urgent and immediate lockdown," the letter also said. The body has also echoed a demand made by the Opposition in Goa, to make Covid-19 negative certificates mandatory for those entering the state henceforth."It should be made mandatory to have a negative RTPCR certificate to enter the state of Goa," the letter said. The Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also urged Sawant to impose a lockdown for at least 15 days in order to arrest the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. “The healthcare infrastructure is already on the brink of being overwhelmed, and there is urgent need to take the extreme measure of total lockdown for at least 15 days with a view to arrest the increasing number of positive cases and fatalities and give a much-required breather to revive the healthcare systems and the health workers to rejuvenate and ramp up capacities and capabilities,” president of the Chamber Manoj Caculo said in a communication to Sawant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-industry-travel-tourism-bodies-root-for-lockdown-in-goa-983398.html
07-05-2021||West||Major fire breaks out at ND film studio in Maharashtra's Raigad, none hurt||A major fire broke out at N D film studio, owned by leading art director Nitin Desai, near Khalapur in Raigad district of Maharashtra on Friday, police said. The blaze erupted around 12.15 pm and no casualty has been reported so far, they said. The fire broke out at the set of 'Jodhaa Akbar', a 2008 movie starring Hrithik Roshan and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, an official said. Plywood, PoP and other things were gutted in the fire, he said. "Several fire-fighting vehicles from MIDC, Karjat, Khopoli and neighboring areas were rushed to the spot and efforts to douse the flames were on," he said. The exact reason behind the fire is being ascertained, he said. The fire brigade and police personnel are at the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/major-fire-breaks-out-at-nd-film-studio-in-maharashtras-raigad-none-hurt-983407.html
07-05-2021||West||War rooms, field hospitals helped Mumbai in battle of Covid second wave: Officials||A system of ward-level `war rooms' where hospital beds are allocated by civic officials and the decision not to dismantle field hospitals were key to Mumbai's success in tackling the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, officials believe. As much of the country is reeling under an unprecedented surge in cases, the "Mumbai model" has drawn appreciation even from the Supreme Court. Since May 1, Mumbai is reporting less than 4,000 cases every day, a significant fall from over 8,500 cases a day in the first week of April. On April 4, the city logged 11,163 cases, the highest so far. On May 6, it recorded 3,056 cases. To be sure, the financial capital of the country is still reporting more cases daily than the peak of 2,848 cases recorded on October 7 during the first wave last year. But there is no shortage of hospital beds and oxygen for patients, civic officials claimed. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court lauded the efforts of authorities to ensure adequate oxygen supply in Mumbai. "Bombay Municipal Corporation is doing some great work, with no disrespect to Delhi. What they are doing, how they are managing, we can learn from them. "I also understand that Maharashtra also produces oxygen which Delhi cannot do," said a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, hearing pleas on the dire situation in Delhi. As the second wave began, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation focused on testing, contact tracing and treatment besides ensuring that people followed guidelines. But the decision not to take down the infrastructure put in place during the first wave proved to be more crucial. "There would have been chaos if we hadn't kept jumbo Covid centres (field hospitals), oxygen beds, ICU beds ready before the start of second wave," said Mayor Kishori Pednekar. Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani, who insisted that jumbo centres should not be dismantled till March 31, said the BMC was ready for a new surge. "The whole system -- oxygen, catering, house keeping, doctors and nurses -- was in place at jumbo centres," he said. The civic body continued to augment availability of oxygen and ICU beds and medicine stocks, he said. "This is why the BMC had sufficient stock of Remdesivir when everywhere there was a shortage," Kakani said. The number of beds was doubled from around 12,000 to 24,000 within a month when cases began to rise in February. At present, Mumbai has 31,695 Covid-19 beds, including 12,754 oxygen beds and 2,929 ICU ones. There is no shortage of medical oxygen in the city now, but there were some scary moments when on the night of April 16-17 the BMC had to shift 168 Covid-19 patients from six civic hospitals as oxygen supply ran out. Learning a lesson, it started monitoring the movement of oxygen cylinders from plants to hospitals in real time. "We have now deputed six officers at control rooms to ensure seamless supply of oxygen. There is also a monitoring committee headed by a deputy commissioner," Kakani added. During the first wave, the BMC set up a `war room' in each of the 24 wards to guide patients. Thanks to this system, people are not needed to run from one hospital to another in search of beds, as allocation of beds is done by war room officials. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said during a recent interview to the Indian Express that war rooms, dashboards for bed management, prohibition of release of test report directly to patients and the decision not to dismantle jumbo Covid facilities proved useful. The system is on "auto pilot" now, he said. "When I joined, we did not have a dashboard, our control room operators used to check with individual hospitals if a bed is available," he said. After the April 17 incident when oxygen in six hospitals ran out, the BMC sought a protocol for oxygen consumption from the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force. It was decided that oxygen saturation level need not be maintained beyond 94 per cent, high-flow nasal oxygen should not be used indiscriminately, and there should be an oxygen consumption audit, Chahal said. The protocol was conveyed to all 176 hospitals in the city. Mayor Pednekar said the BMC also focused on setting up oxygen plants. "We didn't rely only on oxygen cylinders, but we set up liquid oxygen plants. Because of this, not a single person died due to lack of oxygen," she said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's decision to enforce fresh lockdownalso helped, she noted. The civic body has already started preparing for the possible third wave of the pandemic, she said. The number of jumbo Covid facilities will be increased from nine to 15, including dedicated facilities for children and the disabled, Pednekar said. "Jumbo centres, dashboard, oxygen supply and all other things worked effectively. Their effectiveness was visible in last three-four weeks. This infrastructure needs to be maintained because one can not predict if Covid-19 has run its course or not," said Dr Om Shrivastava,an infectious diseases expert who is a member of the state task force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/war-rooms-field-hospitals-helped-mumbai-in-battle-of-covid-second-wave-officials-983467.html
07-05-2021||West||Tzar Labs, Epigeneres Biotechnology announce breakthrough in cancer detection||Tzar Labs, a specialised molecular diagnostic company based in Singapore, and Mumbai-based Epigeneres Biotechnology on Friday said that they've made an unprecedented breakthrough in early detection and prognosis/diagnosis of cancer. This is possible with a novel blood test - first-of-its-kind in the world - that can help determine whether cancer is absent, imminent, or present, and also detect different stages of the disease. This will pave the way for widespread early detection and treatment of cancer, thereby potentially saving millions of lives, said a press statement issued on Friday. This innovation will redefine cancer diagnostics through precise and accurate detection before any symptoms or tumors’ development. The company has done a clinical study of 1000 subjects and published its peer-reviewed paper in SCRR (Stem Cell Reviews and Reports). The core team led by Indian scientists has found two major revelations – first, the peripheral blood of patients with cancer revealed a large number of VSELs (Very Small Embryonic-Like Stem Cells) compared to those without the disease. The second was the expression of a transcription factor within the cell, known as Oct4a, varying according to the respective stage of cancer. Tzar Labs has pioneered a proprietary technology that can detect organ-level RNA mutations directly from the blood. They have been carrying out extensive research on marker genes and found the key molecular indicator of cancerous conditions. The company has filed patents in the US, Europe, Japan, China, and Singapore amongst others, for this innovation in diagnostic technology. Ashish Tripathi, Founder & CEO of Tzar Labs, said, “We are delighted to announce that our team of Indian Scientists have made this significant breakthrough that will change the way we address, understand, detect and treat all kinds of Cancers. We can detect cancer earlier than known technologies when the disease is infinitely more treatable. What we will provide is better information to Oncologists, for making treatment-related decisions, and thus saving lives.” Dr Deepa Bhartiya, Scientist-G & Head of Stem Cell Biology, ICMR - NIRRH, said, “I am glad to see breakthrough research like this coming out of India. This HrC technology is going to revolutionise the way that cancer is treated. This marker is detecting ALL cancers earlier than any technology with high specificity when the tumour has not even formed.  What’s more is that they have made this breakthrough using VSELs where I have done considerable work over the last 2 decades. There are many more breakthroughs’ their science will lead to and this I am convinced will benefit humanity at large.” Dr Stephen Abbs, a Genomics Consultant and former Director of Genetics Laboratory at Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust was fascinated by this breakthrough.  “This marker has the ability to become a powerful screening and diagnostic test for cancer, particularly if it can work on all cancer types.  There is still significant work needed before it can translate into an accepted diagnostic test and a larger study needs to be completed at the earliest opportunity to back up the data in this initial publication.  However, if proven to be as reliable at detecting cancer as described in this study, this non-invasive test has the ability to dramatically alter how the medical community approaches cancer diagnosis,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tzar-labs-epigeneres-biotechnology-announce-breakthrough-in-cancer-detection-983478.html
07-05-2021||West||People unable to discipline themselves: Bombay High Court on masks||The Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court on Friday said it was unfortunate that people have to be penalised to get them to wear masks. A division bench of Justices R V Ghuge and B U Debadwar, hearing a bunch of petitions related to the Covid-19 pandemic, said the problem with citizens was that they were unable to discipline themselves. The bench noted that people wear masks below their chin leaving the nose and mouth open. "It is unfortunate people have to be advised to protect themselves and, at times, have to be penalised so as to make it compulsory for them to protect themselves, as if they have no responsibility towards themselves and their family members," the court said. The court said, despite this, each citizen likes to blame the police and administration for the rise in Covid-19 cases. "It is quite shameful that we are unable to discipline ourselves and find it very easy to blame the administration," it said. The court said it was compelled to pass orders making the use of masks and helmets (for two wheelers) compulsory as if it is only the government's duty to protect citizens and that citizens owe no duty towards themselves or their family members. The court directed the administration, including the police, to strictly implement Covid-19 instructions and ensure that any person found in public streets not wearing a mask is penalised. The bench also took note of media reports of a former mayor of Aurangabad, Nandkumar Ghodele, celebrating his birthday by violating restrictions and said the photographs published in newspapers show the mayor being fed with sweets by several persons who were not wearing masks. The court was informed by the chief public prosecutor D R Kale that an offence was registered in this connection. Kale said a case was also registered against MLA Sanjay Shirsath for organising a 'bhoomi pujan'. "We are surprised that people's representatives, who are expected to lead from the front and should aspire to become ideal leaders and role models, are taking pride in celebrating bhoomi pujan and their birthdays publicly by violating Covid-19 restrictions," the court said. It posted the matter for further hearing on May 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/people-unable-to-discipline-themselves-bombay-high-court-on-masks-983513.html
07-05-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 54,022 new Covid-19 cases, 898 deaths||The count of new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra on Friday dropped by over 8,000 compared to the day before as 54,022 fresh infections came to light, the health department said. The tally of cases rose to 49,96,758. On Thursday the state had reported 62,194 Covid-19 cases. As many as 898 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 74,413. 37,386 people were discharged, increasing the total recoveries to 42,65,326. As many as 2,68,912 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of samples examined so far to 2,89,30,580. Out of 898 deaths, 385 occurred in the last 48 hours and 199 in the last week while the rest had taken place even before that but were added to the tally now. State capital Mumbai reported 3,040 new Covid-19 cases and 71 fresh fatalities. In the larger Mumbai division, 13 patients each died in Panvel city, Thane city and Mira Bhayandar township. The Mumbai division overall reported 8,335 new cases and 149 deaths during the day. This increased the region's caseload to 14,32,428 and the fatality count to 24,445. A large number of coronavirus cases are being reported in rural areas, officials said. In Pune, Nashik, Kolhapur and Sangli districts more cases were reported in rural areas than the four cities. Nashik division reported 8,081 fresh cases, of which 1,400 were from rural parts of Nashik district and 3,357 from Ahmednagar district. Nashik district also reported 102 deaths, highest in the entire state. Nashik city reported 1,423 cases and 31 deaths, Ahmednagar district registered 24 deaths while another 10 patients died in Ahmednagar city. The Pune division reported 13,890 cases and 124 deaths, of which Pune rural area accounted for 4,415 infections and 11 fatalities. Pune city reported 2,610 cases and 52 deaths. Solapur district recorded 2,242 infections and 25 fatalities. The Kolhapur division reported 5,110 cases and 50 deaths. Kolhapur city reported only 309 cases but 1,351 infections were reported in rural areas of the district. Similarly, 344 fresh cases were recorded in Sangli- Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation areas, but 1,695 infections were added by the rural parts of Sangli district. Of 50 deaths in Kolhapur division, 14 were reported from Sangli rural and nine each from Kolhapur rural as well as Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. The Aurangabad division added 2,679 cases and 72 deaths. Twenty-three deaths were reported in Aurangabad rural area, followed by 19 in Parbhani district and 17 in Jalna district. The Latur division reported 3,379 fresh Covid-19 cases and 85 more fatalities. Beed district alone added 1,314 cases and reported highest 32 deaths in the division. Osmanabad and Latur rural area reported 17 and 16 deaths, respectively. The Akola division's caseload increased by 4,623 while 68 patients succumbed to the coronavirus infection including 18 in Amaravati rural, 14 in Washim and 11 in Yavatmal. The Nagpur division reported 7,916 new cases and 152 deaths. Fifty-five deaths were reported from Nagpur city followed by 21 in Chandrapur, 20 in Wardha and 19 in Nagpur rural. Coronavirus figures of Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 49,96,758; new cases 54,022; total deaths 74,413; recoveries 42,65,326; active cases 6,54,788; tests conducted so far 2,89,30,580.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-54022-new-covid-19-cases-898-deaths-983561.html
07-05-2021||West||Statewide curfew in Goa from May 9 to May 23: CM Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday announced a statewide curfew in Goa from May 9 to May 23, in a bid to break the Covid-19 chain, which has seen the death of 1,501 persons so far. Sawant said that, while formal orders related to the curfew would be issued on Saturday afternoon, stores selling essential items as well as grocery shops would be allowed to stay open from 7 am to 1 pm during the period of the curfew. "Medical stores will be open and restaurant kitchens will be allowed to function from 7 am to 7 pm," Sawant said. The Chief Minister also said that weddings, more often than not tended to be super spreader events and stated that the district administration would not grant any permission for weddings during the duration of the curfew. The Opposition, however, is not happy with the step taken by the Chief Minister. "Goa needs bigger measures, lip service will not work. Numbers are rising and people are dying. Goa is into a Covid emergency," Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/statewide-curfew-in-goa-from-may-9-to-may-23-cm-sawant-983565.html
