08-05-2021||First Edit||A ruling with many implications||The Supreme Court’s judgement striking down the Maharashtra government’s law to grant a separate reservation quota in jobs and education to the Maratha community was not unexpected. The court has in the past disfavoured the enlargement of reservations beyond the 50 per cent limit set by it in the Indra Sawhney case in 1992. The Maratha reservation would have taken the total reservations in Maharashtra to well beyond 50 per cent. The 2018 state law stipulated a 16 per cent quota for the community, which was reduced by a subsequent amendment to 12 per cent in education and 13 per cent in employment. The court has now held that there was no exceptional circumstances to justify breaching the limit, and struck down the Bombay High Court’s ruling which had upheld the state law in principle. The court did not accept the contention that the Maratha community is socially and educationally backward, as it is well represented in jobs, education and public life.  The reaffirmation of the 50 per cent limit for reservations is important. The proposal that a bigger bench of the court could review the ceiling stipulated by the 1992 judgement had created some uncertainty, but the court has ruled out any reconsideration. It has noted that the ceiling it imposed has got constitutional recognition with the 81st Amendment in 2000. This is bound to have implications for a number of legislations and decisions of governments, including the Central government’s 2019 announcement that it would provide 10 per cent reservation for economically backward sections. There are at least 10 states, including Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, where the reservations exceed 50 per cent or are proposed to be exceeded. Chhattisgarh brought in an ordinance that raised its total reservation to 82 per cent, but the high court has stayed it. It is also doubtful whether inclusion of reservation laws in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution will help, because the court has said that such inclusion will not make the law immune to judicial review. The latest judgement indicates that even a constitutional amendment which allows the states to exceed the 50 per cent cap may not pass judicial muster.  The court also dismissed the petitions challenging the 102nd Constitution Amendment, which introduced the National Commission for Backward Classes. The amendment gives the President the power to notify backward classes. The court held that “the final say in regard to inclusion or exclusion (or modification of lists) of socially and economically backward classes (SEBC) is firstly with the President, and thereafter, in case of modification or exclusion from the lists initially published, with Parliament”. Several states have felt that the amendment curtailed their power to identify backward classes. This is likely to be contentious and may have a bearing on decisions on the demand of communities like the Jats for backward class status.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-ruling-with-many-implications-983650.html
08-05-2021||In Perspective||Do school exams really help students?||Tillonia is like any other village in India. Tucked away in the desert of Rajasthan, it was just a parched, impoverished piece of land in the 1970s when the villagers trudged miles to fetch water to survive. That is, until a saviour arrived in the guise of a young graduate from Delhi University. Fired with ambitions to make this desolate wilderness into a decent living space for the villagers, he promised to bring water into their homes – for a price. They must learn to read and write. Bunker Roy’s romance with Tillonia reads like a fairy tale. The villagers attended his literacy classes. He made water flow to their homes through water diviners, engineers and the villagers themselves. This young graduate knew that education was the key to a better life. The Barefoot College of Tillonia has carried its programmes across several countries today. Bunker Roy’s experiment with education is inspirational. It is more relevant today for its very pragmatic approach. At a time when the country is reeling under a pandemic and students/parents are anxious about their future, both in terms of their health and careers - our governments, both at the centre as well as in the states are still debating when and how to conduct school final examinations. This is an irony. When a mere 33% of teenagers complete high school every year, out of which a miniscule number had access to online classes during the last 12 months, what purpose does it serve to conduct public exams for them? Students who were deprived of online teaching will fare miserably. The exams themselves, conducted in unnatural conditions, will be a farce – besides being a risk to both teachers and students. It is high time the governments start thinking out of the box and devise methods to help the students move on rather than demoralise them with more risks and more failures. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) conducts its annual school final examinations for 21,271 schools across the country. The Indian School Certificate Examination (ICSE) Board tests the pupils of 2,100 schools, while the National Institute of Open Schooling established by the Government of India tests 3,50,000 students every year in academic and vocational subjects. In addition to these, state boards conduct their annual end of school public examinations for crores of students every year. According to official reports, over nine lakh candidates appeared in Karnataka for the SSLC exam last year out of which 6,08,336 candidates passed the examination. Does it mean that over three lakh youngsters are fit for nothing? Or can be labelled as failures? Can one gargantuan test conducted at the end of 10 or 12 years of schooling reveal a student’s capability? Or, does it merely exhibit a pupil’s memorising power rather than her power of comprehension and investigation. Conducting one annual examination by invisible examiners will hardly reflect a student’s capability, creativity or intellectual inclination. It is a farce that would demoralise the best. In this context, it is worth taking a look at India’s first and best education policy popularly known as the Kothari Commission Report. Commenting on external high school examinations conducted by State Boards, it clearly stated that “the certificates issued by the State Boards should mention the candidate’s performance in each subject, but “there should be no remark that he/she has passed or failed in the whole examination.” The perception and sensitivity of this recommendation should have been the guiding force behind subsequent policies – including the much-hyped New Education Policy (NEP) – of the present government. The school final examination, as its very name suggests, should merely indicate - even celebrate - the successful conclusion of the first phase of education. EPS-ECPS In pre-independent India, high school leavers were given two kinds of certificates. EPS or Eligible for Public Service, and ECPS which qualified a student for both college or public service. The school final exam conducted by a State Board did not pass or fail a student. It merely opened two doors, one to the world of work and the other to higher studies. If we followed this pattern today, we would not abandon millions of high school students in a vacuum.   By certifying every student as having completed schooling, we will be actually opening out countless opportunities for upward mobility in work or in studies. A comprehensive, standardised entrance test to university education will ensure that only academically motivated students enter the portals of colleges. In other words, we need to establish a proper entrance examination to higher education, rather than a meaningless exit examination after school. The best universities in the world admit students who qualify in entrance tests and not the other way around.   The Board exams conducted today are outdated and unimaginative. The time has come for educationists to put on their thinking caps and come up with fresh ideas of teaching, testing and judging - not only students but those who teach them as well. The best examination system will fail if the teaching in schools is mediocre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/do-school-exams-really-help-students-983653.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||No jab still scores visit Mangaluru vaccination centres||Though the Mangaluru district health department had issued a statement on the non-availability of vaccines for the next two days, hundreds of people visited vaccination centres and returned empty-handed on Friday. Many senior citizens, police and railway personnel had arrived at the vaccination centre in District Wenlock Hospital. “I had arrived at 7 am. It is almost eight weeks since my first shot. When will I get my second jab?” a senior citizen was seen making enquiries with the personnel at the vaccination centre. Another senior citizen said, “I was asked by the staff to visit today. Now, a board reading no vaccine has been mounted. What should we do now?" Dr Shailaja of the vaccination centre said that the stock of vaccines was exhausted. When a woman asked for a token, the staff said tokens were no longer issued. The arrival of the vaccines would be informed through the media. People could come in the morning and collect tokens for vaccines, the staff informed. Online registration is mandatory for those arriving for the first dose of vaccine. Even those between the age group of 18 years to 45 years were seen visiting the vaccination centre to receive a jab. Covaxin stock had exhausted two weeks ago. Covishield was given for the beneficiaries of the second dose on Thursday, according to officials. For second dose Covishield vaccines are available for the beneficiaries who were waiting for the second dose in Dakshina Kannada.  Accordingly, on May 8, 350 doses in the District Wenlock Hospital, 200 doses in Moodbidri, 200 dose each in the health centres at Mulki and Ullal, and 180 doses in Surathkal, will be administered from 10 am to 4 pm. Only those waiting for the second dose will be administered, District Health Officer Dr Kishore informed on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-jab-still-scores-visit-mangaluru-vaccination-centres-983648.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Campco to set up oxygen generation plant in Puttur||Campco (Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Co-operative Limited)has chalked out a programme to supply oxygen to hospitals at a cost of Rs 1 crore, following the shortage of medical oxygen in treating Covid-19-infected patients in hospitals. According to Campco President Kishore Kumar Kodgi, an oxygen generation plant will be set up at Government Hospital in Puttur. Similarly, jumbo oxygen cylinders will be supplied to hospitals in Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Kasaragod districts for treating the patients, he added. Kodgi said that the Campco was committed to the welfare of farmers and had stood behind them in maintaining stability in the price of arecanut during lockdown. The Campco authorities are in constant touch with Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje, Deputy Commissioners of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts and are also working on the implementation of the project, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/campco-to-set-up-oxygen-generation-plant-in-puttur-983659.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru oxygen plant to be ready in 40 days, says MLA||The oxygen generation plant will be ready at District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru in the next 30 to 40 days. About 50 ventilators will reach the hospital within 10 days, MLA Vedavyas Kamath said. An action plan has been prepared to set up 250 oxygen-supported beds at the district hospital, he told media persons in the city on Friday. The work on setting up oxygen generation plants in all taluk hospitals is in progress. Already, 50 oxygen-supported beds have been established at Ullal Community Health Centre, Kamath said. As a former health minister, U T Khader has not contributed anything to his constituency. The Congress does not want development. Instead of speaking on development, the party leaders are engaged in levelling allegations, he alleged. Kamath said that Congress leaders should stop playing cheap politics over issues pertaining to health. The party is involved in creating fear about Wenlock Hospital. The District Hospital has all the facilities to treat the poor. However, the Congress leaders are misleading the poor. In the last 50 years, Congress has not given anything to the Wenlock Hospital. Even when Khader was health minister, he has not done anything for the betterment of the Wenlock Hospital, he rued. At present, Wenlock Hospital has 70 ventilators, the MLA said. Coming down heavily on the statements issued by the Congress leaders on oxygen from Bahrain reaching Mangaluru, he said, the Indian government had sought oxygen from Bahrain. Owing to diplomatic reason, the Centre decided to collect the consignment through the Red Cross Society of India. When the Karnataka government placed the demand for oxygen, it was sent to Mangaluru instead of Mumbai. The Red Cross Society of India comes under the purview of the President of India and the union health minister. In the state, it comes under Governor and deputy commissioner, Kamath said. "In such a scenario, what was wrong in elected representatives welcoming the oxygen container?," he asked. Report within 24 hrs The MLA said that as patients coming for testing of Covid fail to furnish all details in the application form, there was a delay in uploading the details. The issue will be sorted out within a week. The Covid-19 report will be made available within 24 hours, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-oxygen-plant-to-be-ready-in-40-days-says-mla-983660.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard strays into house in Chitradurga||A leopard strayed into a residence at Muddapura village in Chitradurga taluk in the wee hours of  Saturday, sparking widespread fear and commotion. The animal was later rescued by officials of the forest department, with the help of villagers and police. According to villagers, the house belonged to one Chidananda. His wife was sweeping the veranda at 6 am, when the leopard entered through the front door. Panicked, she closed the door of the house. Hearing the commotion, Chidananda, who was sleeping at the time, woke up and rushed outside to find the big cat inside the kitchen. He immediately alerted officials of forest department. According to another villager, two leopards were spotted near the areca plantation close to the house a week ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-strays-into-house-in-chitradurga-983713.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Expert team visits Covid hospital in Chamarajanagar||An expert team of the Health department visited the Covid Hospital in Chamarajanagar to study about the increase in death rate, due to the infection. The team visited the hospital on Friday and suggested to initiate certain measures. The team members expressed fear over the deaths and expressed displeasure, due to lack of facilities in the hospital. The members took details about the shortage of staff, equipment and other facilities in the hospital. According to sources, the team will submit a report in this regard to Health Department Commissioner. Dr Nayaz Pasha of Mysuru Covid Hospital and Superintendent of PKTB sanatorium Dr Virupaksha are part of the team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/expert-team-visits-covid-hospital-in-chamarajanagar-983917.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Follow Mumbai model to control Covid-19: MP||MP Prajwal Revanna suggested the Mumbai model to contain the spread of Covid-19. The MP said the state government has failed in checking the spread of Covid. In a press conference here, Prajwal said, "The government has decreased Covid tests and is playing with the lives of the people. Earlier, as many as 5,000 tests used to be conducted in Hassan. Now, it has declined to 2,500." The MP condemned the present lockdown. "It is not a lockdown. It is not possible to contain the spread with the present system. We need Mumbai-like lockdown,” he said. He said that he has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to supply medical equipment and vaccine to the state. The MP alleged that Remdesivir is sold in black market for higher price. The doctors working in private hospitals are involved in the scam, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/follow-mumbai-model-to-control-covid-19-mp-983918.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid war room: Helping people in distress||Constantly ringing helplines, a team of more than 35 people, trying to calm down panic callers, providing advise and guidance, tense atmosphere. This is the Covid War Room, established by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), functioning from the new deputy commissioner’s office building in Siddhartha Nagar. Undeterred by the allegations by a section of the people about the irregularities, similar to the one at the War Room of Bengaluru, around 36 people, including medical staff and volunteers work 24x7, answering calls of anxious people in need of beds and other requirements. Besides, they provide detailed reports, giving a clear picture of Covid management in the district. On an average, 350 calls are received every day. The War Room has attended approximately 3,000 plus calls till Friday. The patients are counselled, their health condition diagnosed and advised on home isolation or admission to Covid Care Centre, government or private hospital. Earlier, most of the calls were seeking help to get ICU or ventilator beds. Now, the clamour is for oxygenated beds. A few, make panic calls, when the situation becomes severe, according to an official. With the daily Covid cases nearing 3,000-mark in Mysuru district, the situation at the War Room is totally different, compared to the first wave, last year. Once a call is received, the war room members take details of the patient and nature of help required. They take down the Specimen Referral Form (SRF) number and identify the problem. Later, beds are allocated based on the oxygen level of the patients, their age and comorbidities, said a volunteer. Managing beds for Covid patients is a challenge not only in Mysuru, but across the state. With experts hinting at the cases peaking in June, the war room is gearing up for the situation. Speaking to DH, R Raghu, Chairman of D Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation, who is in-charge of Mysuru District War room said, “The war room is functioning efficiently, under the guidance of District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar and Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. But, the biggest problem is tracing positive patients. We have sought the help of the police in this regard.” To expedite the admission process, we crosscheck the discharge details, by calling the patients. Sometimes, it is not updated by the private hospitals. There are plans to launch a WhatsApp group and make video calls to understand the condition of the patients, to provide treatment on priority. The volunteers and members in the war room, who work round-the-clock, need encouragement, to provide moral support to the callers. The system will be updated gradually, he said. “Though the situation is managed effectively, the situation is serious. Responsible behaviour by the public is key to contain the disease. We need to break the chain. The only way is to protect oneself and family members, by wearing masks, social distancing and following government guidelines, by staying at home. Do not neglect the symptoms and get tested immediately. Getting vaccination is very important,” said MCC Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraj. The authorities have introduced a triage system, for better care. It is helpful to screen Covid suspects, ILI (Influenza like Illness) patients and SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) patients at KR Hospital, said Dr C P Nanjaraj, Dean and Director of MMC & RI. The hospital has 1,050 beds, with state of the art laboratory and radiology services, casualty, blood bank and 24x7 emergency services. DC Rohini Sindhuri makes frequent visits to the war room, to ensure that everything is under control. Minister Somashekar too visited recently, to encourage the war room members. The district Covid-19 war room issues a daily report, an overall abstract on the positive cases, discharges, deaths, urban and rural quarantine reports, and vaccinations. Besides, it also provides details on the availability of Remdesivir in urban and rural areas along with oxygen availability. The reports reflect the total beds allocated in government hospitals and private hospitals, details of occupancy and vacancy. It provides a bulletin with complete details of isolation, positives, active patients, deaths, samples tested and other details. Besides taluk-wise Covid details, it also provides Covid vaccination report. The list also has the names of the hospitals with Remdesivir stock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-war-room-helping-people-in-distress-983919.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Revanna accuses CM of neglecting segments represented by JD(S)||JD(S) MLA H D Revanna accused Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa of step-motherly attitude towards the Assembly segments represented by JD(S) MLAs, in containing the Covid pandemic. Revanna expressed displeasure in a meeting with Health Department officials and a video conference with the deputy commissioner from Holenarasipur taluk office on Saturday. Revanna said, “The government has not sanctioned necessary funds to Hassan district to manage Covid cases. All seven JD(S) MLAs in the district face hardships. We will launch a protest against the government.” Holenarasipur is not receiving required Remdesivir, but private hospitals have received 1,590 doses of Remdesivir since April 1. Many people have paid Rs 25,000 for Remdesivir and several agencies are selling it illegally, he said. Pointing out that the government hospitals have received 3,700 doses of Remdesivir, Revanna sought the details of the beneficiaries. He advised three days lockdown a week. Zilla Panchayat Health and Education standing committee president Bhavani Revanna said, “There are 250 beds in Holenarasipur government hospital and 24 doctors are working. As many as 56 Covid infected persons are undergoing treatment in the facility. The officials should not shift any patient to Hassan. They should be given proper treatment.” Health Officer Dr Vasanth and Tahsildar Krishnamurthy were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/revanna-accuses-cm-of-neglecting-segments-represented-by-jds-983920.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||First dose vaccination halted in Mysuru||The Health Department has stopped administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the district. A communication from Health Department stated that the administering of the first dose has been stopped. However, the administering the second dose will be continued. Until the date as many as 7,74,992 doses have been administered to the people. The drive to administer first dose will commence soon and the dates will be announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/first-dose-vaccination-halted-in-mysuru-983925.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Panic grips as shifting of bodies delayed||Panic gripped among Covid patients as there was delay in shifting dead bodies from ward at General Hospital in Malavalli on Saturday. As many as six patients were undergoing treatment in emergency ward and two of them died on Friday night. The dead bodies were lying in the ward for hours as there was delay in shifting them. According to the sources, the hospital authorities treated Covid infected persons in front of the dead bodies. The hospital administrative officer Dr Madhav Naik said, “It takes nearly an hour to pack the dead bodies as per the protocol and we have taken all the measures to shift the bodies as soon as possible.” Thasildar M Vijayanna said, “The dead bodies were handed over to the family members of the deceases after completing formalities.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/panic-grips-as-shifting-of-bodies-delayed-983926.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress seeks White Paper on CM, PM Relief Funds||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) women's wing president B Pushpa Amarnath on Saturday demanded the state and the Union governments to release White Paper on utilisation of funds collected through PM and CM welfare funds for Covid. In a press conference here, Pushpa said, "The state government has completely failed to tackle Covid-19 second wave. The experts have alerted about the third wave and children will be more affected, as per the professionals. However, the state government is yet to be prepared to handle third wave." "Crores of rupees have been collected through CM Relief Fund and the government should release White Paper about collected fund and its utilisation," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-seeks-white-paper-on-cm-pm-relief-funds-983928.html
08-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||(AAP)t time for Aam Aadmi Party’s entry as Karnataka electorate looks for alternatives?||As the three major parties in Karnataka — Congress, BJP and JD(S) — continue to focus their energies on building a strong presence in North Karnataka, there has been a quiet contender making a small but significant entry into the region.  Last week, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won its first seat in a Karnataka election by registering a victory in the Bidar City Municipal Council elections.  Several AAP-backed candidates won the recently-held gram panchayat polls in Raichur, Kalaburagi and Bidar as well. This is the first time that the Arvind Kejriwal-led party has contested urban local body polls or backed candidates in gram panchayat (GP) polls. With Karnataka’s political narrative built around Bengaluru as its power centre, the party aims to make an impact in the neglected districts of North Karnataka, according to AAP leaders. Even though the party-backed GP candidates have also won in Shivamogga (06), Chikkamagaluru (12), Mysuru (2) and Kolar (3), North Karnataka region is where it has seen significant wins - Raichur (27), Kalaburagi (11) and Bidar (6). AAP leaders said the party had a strong volunteer base in Hubballi, Dharwad and Raichur, even though it did not have a strong leader there at present. In urban and semi-urban areas in the region, there is anger that they have been neglected by prominent parties, they say.  “For instance, in ward 33 in Bidar where the party has won, more than 50% do not have access to water. There was a lot of frustration among people,” AAP state joint secretary Darshan Jain explains. The AAP began building its base in Karnataka with an eye on BBMP polls. By diversifying into politics of rural Karnataka, it seems that the party has added an unexpected trajectory to its growth story in the state.   What made it foray into rural space? According to AAP state convenor Prithvi Reddy, expanding the party’s reach to rural areas was in line with its ideology of pro-people governance. “Janara terige, janara sevege” (people’s tax for people’s service) has been the slogan in all these elections, he says. In a region where caste dynamics are believed to play a significant role in winning elections, how did AAP manage to negotiate these dynamics? “Caste dynamics is an illusion created by political parties that do not have much else to offer to people. If people have to choose between the devil and the deep sea, money and muscle power come into play. The existing three parties are substitutes for one another but not an alternative. We brought real issues to the table and that made all the difference,” Reddy said.   What worked for the party is that it went into specifics of issues faced by people in a particular region, instead of promising generic infrastructure development, he added. In Bidar CMC for instance, the AAP is ready to tie up with a larger party. However, they have five conditions, according to Reddy: Minimum of five schools of Bidar CMC have to be upgraded; One mohalla clinic has to be opened for at least 20,000 population; no contracts to be given to relatives of any council members; free drinking water; promotion of tourism and Bidar traditional art to create employment.  The party plans to contest all the zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat elections in the coming days, even as it is also eyeing the Assembly elections in 2023. Experts opine that the party has a long way to go in terms of growth in Karnataka. According to political analyst Sandeep Shastri, the true test for a party to measure its growth would be in the Assembly elections. “One needs to understand that in local body elections, local specificities play a role. If AAP has done well in pockets in North Karnataka, it is probably because of individuals in the party who have done ground work at that level and have been able to win people’s trust.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/aapt-time-for-aam-aadmi-party-s-entry-as-karnataka-electorate-looks-for-alternatives-983955.html
08-05-2021||Main Article||Imbibing critical thinking||India took a leap in 2020 by introducing the most needed New Education Policy when the entire world was recouping from the pandemic. Many stakeholders welcomed its intent, content and implementation strategies. It was heralded as a game-changer but the recent acquisition of an Edutech firm (a firm that utilises information technology to facilitate education), has brought back the debate on the efficacy of NEP on child wellbeing. The NEP is a comprehensive document, covering various facets of a child’s growth and development. However, it couldn't foresee the perils of parallel education. One reason that can be attributed to the proliferation of sub-level systems is largely owing to deficiencies of formal schooling. The Issue: While all of us agreed about the importance of getting a good education, none of us are sure what a good education is. Often and unmistakably, importance is snatched by myriad things as the analysts deem fit. The result has dashed hopes and dreams, violation of the natural rights to play and recreation, and crippled of social skills. At times, such changes can create undue pressure on students. As per the recent available NCRB data, on an average, about 1.18 students in India commit suicide almost every hour. Perhaps our placement of importance on the structural changes was wrong and we’ve inflicted a worse fate on younger souls. The NEP endeavours to touch upon issues that will ameliorate most of the aforementioned aspects. However, NEP does not squarely address some glaring issues that may turn out to be grey rhinos. The Rise of Parallel Education: An education that seeks to repeat what was earlier taught or supposed to be taught by the mainstream schools constitutes parallel education. Let's call this parallel education a sub-level entity. The sub-level entity includes all the tutorials or tuition houses, individual tutors, coaching centres, etc. This raises an obvious question: if something is repetitive, either the first act is redundant or the second one. In this case, the first act is the formal schooling in the day and the second act is the parallel schooling which begins in the afternoon or evening, transgressing through night and weekends. Things, however, are not as black and white as they seem. If schooling were redundant, there wouldn’t have been the mad rush with long queues forming outside the so-called prestigious schools, half a year before admissions! If parallel schooling were redundant, there wouldn’t be tutorials mushrooming even in unelectrified rural haats. Therefore, the need for parallel education has been validated by economics, at least. With Covid spreading, education adopted an online form. Many Edu-tech platforms emerged and contributed their bit to help the students to continue their education. However, it has also pushed a new form of the parallel educational system. With the recent mega acquisition, the firm has undoubtedly acquired greater market penetration, resulting in bringing more children online. The purpose of this article is not to be an alarmist or make a Luddite proposition or to engage in the debate of redundancy, but it is to question our educational method’s trajectory as it’s simply causing more misery and making lives perpendicular. Making of Perpendicular Lives: In the entire learning process, childhood, the most precious part of that life, necessitates even more skilful nurturing as it shapes life. The irony of the education system lies in equating grades to success. For better grades, the child is asked to take extra help from the sub-level entities. The spare time invested by the child leaves no room for developing indispensable life skills or understanding interpersonal dynamics. The tender life is unnecessarily made perpendicular, i.e. growing in one direction by all irrelevant add-ons. Education is an aid to realise the true potential within; instead, its overconsumption is snuffing out the colours of life. A child may have a specific learning demand based on its interest and conditioning, but the system oversupplies and force-feeds redundant or irrelevant skills. This undue pressure causes physiological and psychological disorders in most children; it also means early access to the internet and in some cases, cyberbullying. Next generation It is true that everyone wants their next generation to be economically well off than what they were, but at what cost? Are we not playing into the hands of some firm’s profiteering while believing that we are helping our children’s development? What we are doing with our children today is nothing short of dwarfing their development by nurturing only the perpendicular aspects of life. The best example of this perpendicularity is seen when we prioritise Coding skills over Problem-solving skills or learning, entirely forgetting that problem-solving skills are prerequisites to coding. Life is a multi-dimensional wonder; to understand it through bookish knowledge alone is not sufficient. Education has to weave the child into society like a tight-knit fabric to create a balanced individual or else the situation will mimic the proverbial scholar on a sinking boat, who knew all about swimming other than actually swimming. NEP in the midst: Though the problem of parallel schooling is not recognised, the NEP has envisaged solving this unknown issue by emphasising more on teacher training and effective education. It also reports on the structural lacunae of our current education system, including the total strength of teachers and other specialists that are required. It is not an argument here to emphasise that all the systems built in parallel schooling methods be stopped but undoubtedly these lend efficiency and novelty to the education system. Instead of forcing this into the existing educational system, it would be appropriate to complement the educational system. A comprehensive action plan, if implemented, should make our formal schooling system imbibe critical thinking instead of memorising, addressing the cause instead of punishing, interaction instead of seclusion and discussion instead of silencing. As George Bernard Shaw once said, “What we want is to see the child in pursuit of knowledge, and not knowledge in pursuit of the child". (Subramanian is Faculty, Christ University, Bengaluru and Dharmanand is Faculty, PES University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/imbibing-critical-thinking-983654.html
08-05-2021||Mysuru||Newly-wed woman dies under mysterious circumstances||A 28-year-old newly married woman died under mysterious circumstances at the SBM colony in Srirampur in the city.  Asharani, the deceased, was married to one Pradeep one month ago and her parents had given Rs 5 lakh cash and valuables during the marriage.  Asharani's family members alleged that Pradeep and his family members killed her due to dowry. Kuvempu Nagar Police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/newly-wed-woman-dies-under-mysterious-circumstances-983781.html
08-05-2021||National||Set aside 70% Covid-19 vaccines for second dose for 45+ age group: Centre||Amid a slowdown in the national Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Health Ministry on Friday asked states to prioritise beneficiaries due for the second dose of the vaccines to ensure full vaccination of the scientifically identified group. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the state governments have been asked to utilise 70% of the vaccine supplies through the ‘government of India channel’ to administer the second dose for beneficiaries and 30% for the first dose. The ministry also asked states to conduct a regular review of the coverage of Covid-19 vaccination drive to formulate and implement the strategy for such prioritisation. “An effective communication strategy must be implemented for full two-dose protection to all priority beneficiary groups,” Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary, Health Ministry, said. Several beneficiaries, particularly senior citizens, have been complaining of non-availability of vaccines for the second dose forcing them to return from the vaccination centres. From May 1, the Centre liberalised the vaccination drive by asking state governments and private hospitals to procure vaccines directly from pharma companies to administer jabs to those in the 18-44 age group. The Centre said it would administer vaccines only to those above 45 years – a priority group identified scientifically given their vulnerability to Covid-19 infections. The vaccination drive, launched on January 16, was first targeted at healthcare workers, frontline workers and those above 45 years of age but with comorbid health conditions. From April 1, the vaccination drive was thrown open for all above 45 years of age. The government was also considering extending the interval between two doses of the Covishield vaccine further from the existing six-eight weeks. A study published in The Lancet medical journal said that the efficacy of Covishield vaccine could be increased to 81.3% if the doses are administered 12 weeks apart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/set-aside-70-covid-19-vaccines-for-second-dose-for-45-age-group-centre-983630.html
08-05-2021||National||Govt lifts cash payment limit for Covid-19 treatment||The government Friday allowed cash payment beyond Rs 2 lakh in hospitals and nursing homes treating Covid-19 patients. The finance ministry relaxed the income tax rules, which bars cash payment beyond Rs 2 lakh to any entity. The relaxation has been given for the period between April 1 and May 31. The patient and the payee will have to submit their PAN or Aadhar card number to the hospital for such a payment. The move came after the Delhi High Court sought Centre's response on a plea saying hospitals were delaying treatment and refusing to accept cash beyond Rs 2 lakh citing the income tax law. "The Central Government .... hereby specifies Hospitals, Dispensaries, Nursing Homes, Covid Care Centres or similar other medical facilities providing Covid treatment to patients for the purpose of Section 269ST of the Income-tax Act,1961 for payment received in cash during April 1, 2021, to May 31, 2021, on obtaining the PAN or AADHAAR of the patient and the payee and the relationship between the patient and the payee...," the CBDT said. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said in the present situation, various hospitals/ nursing homes have been demanding payment in cash for Covid treatment. "Considering the extraordinary pandemic situation, where saving life of people is most important, considering the genuine hardship of people, the Government has issued present notification allowing people to make cash payment for treatment of COVID even beyond this limit. "The notification is applicable for all cash payments made on/ after 1st April 2021 till 31st May 2021," Kumar added. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-lifts-cash-payment-limit-for-covid-19-treatment-983631.html
08-05-2021||National||Oxygen supply has improved, ensure no patients suffers from shortage: Kejriwal to officials||Now that there has been an improvement in the supply of oxygen, no coronavirus patient should suffer a shortage of the life-saving gas, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal told officials on Friday. During a meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, Kejriwal also directed district magistrates to increase the number of oxygen beds "so that no deaths happen due to lack of oxygen in Delhi". Efforts should be made to inoculate people eligible for Covid-19 vaccination within three months, he said and directed the district magistrates (DMs) to pay surprise visits to vaccination centres to review preparations. "Now that Delhi has received oxygen, no one in Delhi should suffer because of shortage of oxygen. All the hospitals in Delhi should increase their beds and every DM should arrange new oxygen beds in their districts so that no deaths happen due to lack of oxygen in Delhi," Kejriwal said. He also stressed that there should be no wastage of the life-saving gas. "Now that Delhi is getting adequate oxygen, the hampering of oxygen distribution has to be corrected so that there is no disruption in the supply of oxygen... Oxygen is very important so it should be used efficiently," the chief minister said. "We have to try to prevent oxygen wastage and save as much oxygen as we can. If we can, we should save oxygen and return it to the Central government so that it can be used somewhere else," he said. During the meeting, Kejriwal also expressed displeasure over all home isolation patients not being given oximeters. On Thursday, Kejriwal had said that if 700 metric tonnes of daily oxygen supply is ensured by the Centre, the Delhi government can set up around 9,000-9,500 more oxygen beds. Delhi will soon be getting 48 oxygen plants and the chief minister said that they should be installed immediately as soon as they reach the city. These plants have an oxygen production capacity of 40 tonnes and will further help in improving Delhi's oxygen situation, he said, adding that long-term plans have to be prepared and the capacity of oxygen storage has to be built on a very large scale. "We should also create a special storage capacity for the storage of oxygen," Kejriwal said. On oximeters to those in home isolation, he said it should be ensured that device is given to all patients recovering at home. In the meeting, officials informed the chief minister that the biggest difficulty at present is supplying oxygen and companies involved should be asked to provide it at the earliest. Kejriwal has also directed DMs to visit relief centres every day to ensure the poor are not facing any problem with food, and all facilities and treatment are being provided in shelter homes, old-age homes, and orphanages. "We will be able to stop the third wave of coronavirus from coming to Delhi, only by being able to administer vaccines to everyone in Delhi as soon as possible in the next three months. We need to recruit retired doctors, nurses, and medical staff on a large scale. Whoever wants to help the society should join the government and contribute to helping in this difficult situation," he said. As many as 1.84 lakh people in the 18-44 age group have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine since the inoculation of this category started on May 3, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. According to Delhi government's health bulletin, 1,14,657 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the last 24 hours, of which 80,306 received their first dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-supply-has-improved-ensure-no-patients-suffers-from-shortage-kejriwal-to-officials-983651.html
08-05-2021||National||PM Modi assured all help to Tripura for fight against Covid crisis: Deb||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday assured all help to the state in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Taking to Twitter, he wrote that the PM also sought to know what measures were being taken by his government to contain the spread of the disease. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji today called up to find out about the precautionary measures being taken by the state government to contain the Covid crisis. He enquired about the well being of the people of the state, and assured help," the CM tweeted in Hindi. Deb, who also holds the health portfolio, visited a 300-bed Covid Care Center (CCC) in Hapania, which was inaugurated during the day. "We are moving in the right direction, in coordination with the Tripura health department and the conscious people of the state. A 300-bed Covid Care Center has been set up in Hapania. Two-hundred beds have already been arranged there. Oxygen support systems have been attached to more than hundred beds. It will start functioning from today," he said. Tripura currently has 2,400 beds for Covid-19 patients -- 1,395 of which are equipped with oxygen support facility. A separate Covid care unit has been set up at Gobinda Ballav Pant Hospital, the main referral clinical establishment in the state for coronavirus patients, and treatment for other ailments at the facility would no longer get affected, the chief minister stated. He further said that one more such centre would come up at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Regional Cancer Hospital here. "I want to assure people that the ones who visit the hospital for cancer treatment need not worry as the two units would be separate," Deb pointed out. The CM stressed that his government was taking requisite steps to speed up the vaccination drive. "The Tripura government is working to vaccinate more people in less time. Tripura is one of the first two states in the country to have the highest vaccination rate. I would urge people over the age of 45 years to get vaccinated immediately," Deb added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-assured-all-help-to-tripura-for-fight-against-covid-crisis-deb-983671.html
08-05-2021||National||Amid India’s Covid-19 crisis, a community mobilises||As California moves toward reopening, another crisis is unfolding halfway across the globe. India recorded about 410,000 coronavirus cases Thursday, a new global high, and 3,980 deaths, the highest national daily death toll in any country outside the United States. Experts believe the true number of cases and deaths is much higher. As the crisis has worsened, many Indian Americans are struggling to cope with the trauma unfolding back home, juxtaposed with a vaccination drive that has reached nearly half of Americans and anticipation of a “return to normalcy” by July 4. Many are watching friends and loved ones pass away from afar, unable to travel to see grieving relatives, while witnessing the breakdown of India’s medical system. “I don’t know an Indian American family in this country who hasn’t been affected in terms of knowing someone who has either died or been very, very sick,” Rep. Ro Khanna, the congressman for California’s 17th district, said in a phone interview this week. “The scale of this is unimaginable. It’s not just affecting poor people or people in villages. It’s affecting the rich. It’s affecting the middle class. It’s affecting everyone.” There are more than 712,000 Californians of Indian descent, according to AAPI Data, which compiled information from the US Census Bureau. In recent days, many Indian Americans have turned to fundraising for oxygen and other necessary supplies for those in India and pleading with state and federal officials to do more to close the vaccine gap. On social media, several have worked to gather lists of resources, whether that includes places to donate to grassroots organizations or even translations of health care recommendations. Khanna credits the work of legislators, entrepreneurs and everyone who has been raising awareness for moving the Biden administration to act on making vaccines more available to India and the rest of the world. First came the release of millions of unused AstraZeneca vaccine doses. Then on Tuesday, the administration came out in favor of waiving intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines. The move would allow countries such as India to boost production and increase vaccine access. “It’s really been heartening to see the Indian American community come together, and put aside any difference of politics or religion, and really just say: How do we help in this humanitarian situation?” Khanna said. The congressman said he had been in touch with constituents in Silicon Valley, hearing their concerns and pushing the private sector to help. When the crisis in India began, Vinod Khosla, co-founder of Sun Microsystems, pledged $10 million. Google has also pledged $18 million to provide oxygen and other supplies, while its CEO, Sundar Pichai, has personally pledged $700,000 toward relief efforts. Khanna emphasized, however, that the aid is not just coming from big corporations. “I’ve heard stories of ordinary citizens raising hundreds of thousands of dollars to get oxygen there, to help get equipment there, to get medical beds there,” he said. “It’s really just touching everybody.” Several community organizations across California have also stepped up to help vulnerable and marginalized groups. Parivar Bay Area is partnering with local grassroots organizations in India to support basic necessities for transgender people affected by the crisis. An initial GoFundMe page raised $10,000 in 48 hours. Anjali Rimi, who started Parivar in 2018 and identifies as transgender, said the crisis hit home for her; her parents were hospitalized in India because of Covid-19 last year. In the end, Khanna said he had been moved by the way the Indian American community, many of whom are immigrants far from their own families, has embraced and supported one another during this time. “I think this will be a defining moment for the Indian American identity, bringing us closer as a community,” he said. “I’m just very proud.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-india-s-covid-19-crisis-a-community-mobilises-983673.html
08-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Union Health minister Vardhan interacts with US counterpart||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday interacted with US Secretary of Health and Human Services, Xavier Becerra and addressed global challenges faced by both the countries due to Covid-19 pandemic. During the virtual interaction, Vardhan congratulated Becerra on assuming charge as the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and thanked his gesture to initiate communication to establish formal contact to work closely on bilateral cooperation and address global challenges amid Covid-19 outbreak, the health ministry said. In agreement with Becerra’s propositions, the health minister said, “Both nations have developed a strong collaboration in the area of public health which extends to build and enhance the co-operation and support in the unprecedented times of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is highly appreciable to learn that the statements of solidarity between us are quickly manifesting as practical forms of support to enhance healthcare support and fight the pandemic. We are thankful and highly appreciate the support of the United States of America for medical supply," Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement. Detailing India’s pro-active, pre-emptive, graded approach to Covid-19 under the National Task Force, the minister briefed his counterpart on India’s response to the disease. “We have been augmenting testing infrastructure consistently with approximately 2,500 testing facilities for Covid-19 virus now as compared to just a single laboratory in January, 2020. “We have also witnessed an increase of 151 times in isolation beds and 35 times in ICU beds. Oxygen plants are being established at identified hospitals across India to ensure steady supply of medical oxygen. Further oxygen production has been ramped up to meet the demand. A unique digital platform, CoWIN 2.0, has been designed that supports the vaccination drive in India," he said. Secretary Becerra recounted the crisis in his country brought about by Covid-19 and expressed his empathy towards the suffering of Indians. He also assured of US President Joe Biden’s unwavering commitment to engage, collaborate and fight Covid-19 together, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-union-health-minister-vardhan-interacts-with-us-counterpart-983675.html
08-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Modi govt under fire as fuel prices rise again||In one of the steepest increases since daily price revision was started, the petrol price on Thursday was hiked by 25 paise per litre and diesel by 30 paise as oil companies raised rates for the third straight day to pass on to consumers the increase in international oil prices. The petrol price in Delhi was increased to Rs 90.99 per litre from Rs 90.74 while diesel rates went up to Rs 81.42 a litre from Rs 81.12, according to a price notification by state-owned fuel retailers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-modi-govt-under-fire-as-fuel-prices-rise-again-983685.html
08-05-2021||National||Adar Poonawalla stumbles over Covid-19 promises||Adar Poonawalla made big promises. The 40-year-old chief of the world’s largest vaccine maker pledged to take a leading role in the global effort to inoculate the poor against Covid-19. His India-based empire signed deals worth hundreds of millions of dollars to make and export doses to suffering countries. Those promises have fallen apart. India, engulfed in a coronavirus second wave, is laying claim to his vaccines. Other countries and aid groups are now racing to find scarce doses elsewhere. At home, politicians and the public have castigated Poonawalla and his company, the Serum Institute of India, for raising prices mid-pandemic. Serum has had production problems that have kept it from expanding output at a time when India needs every dose. He has come under criticism for departing to London amid the crisis, though he said it was only a quick trip. He told a British newspaper he had received threats from politicians and some of India’s “most powerful men,” demanding that he supply them with vaccines. When he returns to India, he will travel with government-assigned armed guards. In an interview with The New York Times, Poonawalla defended his company and its ambitions. He had no choice but to hand over vaccines to the government, he said. He cited a lack of raw materials, which he has partially blamed on the United States. Making vaccines, he said, is a painstaking process that requires investment and major risks. He said he would return to India when he had finished his business in London. He shrugged off his earlier comments about threats, saying they were “nothing we can’t handle.” But he also acknowledged that the Serum Institute alone doesn’t have the capacity to vaccinate India anytime soon, much less shoulder the burden of inoculating the world’s poor. “The problem is nobody took the risk that I did early on,” he said. “I wish that others did.” His position represents a dramatic turnabout for Serum and the Indian government. In January, when India launched its own vaccination program while also beginning exports, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pledged its vaccines would “save humanity.”   Instead, the unfolding tragedy has made it clear that India — even with the world’s largest vaccine maker at its disposal — cannot save itself. India’s long-term vaccination prospects improved after the Biden administration on Wednesday backed waiving intellectual property protections for vaccines, which could make it easier for Indian factories to make them. Still, that won’t help India’s current crisis, which as of Friday had claimed more than 230,000 lives — a figure that likely represents a vast undercount. Serum won Modi’s favour in part because it fit the government’s narrative of a self-reliant India that was ready to take its place among the world’s major powers. Now both Modi’s government and Serum have been humbled, and their ambitions are being called into question. “Our capacity is extremely poor,” said Manoj Joshi, a fellow at the Observer Research Foundation in New Delhi, which focuses on Indian policymaking. “We are a poor country. I hope that we can build some humility into the system.” Poonawalla took the reins of the Serum Institute a decade ago from his father, Cyrus, a horse breeder turned vaccine billionaire. Before the crisis, he was extolled in the Indian media as an example of a new class of young, worldly entrepreneurs. Photos of him and his wife, Natasha, were a staple of fashion spreads. Last year, Serum struck a deal with AstraZeneca to produce 1 billion doses of its Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, called Covishield in India. Serum received a $300 million grant from the Gates Foundation to supply as many as 200 million doses of Covishield and another vaccine in development to the Gavi Alliance, the public-private partnership that is overseeing COVAX, the program to donate vaccines to poor countries. Serum pledged between January and March to sell about 1.1 billion vaccine doses in coming months, according to a review of purchase agreements supplied by UNICEF. By the time India largely stopped vaccine exports, Serum had exported only about 60 million doses, about half to Gavi. India had claimed more than 120 million. Since then, AstraZeneca has served Serum a legal notice over delivery delays. Serum has just “temporarily deferred” its commitments, Poonawalla said, citing the Indian government’s halt of exports. “This is something coming from India,” he said. “It’s not the supplier that is defaulting.” The world is grappling with the ripple effect. A spokesman for Gavi said that India’s decision to prioritize “domestic needs” is having “a knock-on effect in other parts of the world that desperately need vaccines.” Still, in a sign of the lack of options for getting vaccines, Gavi on Thursday signed a purchase deal with American vaccine company Novavax involving doses to be made by Serum. Nepal, India’s northern neighbour, changed its procurement law to pay Serum an 80% advance, or roughly $6.4 million, to purchase 2 million doses of Covishield. Serum delivered the first million doses but is offering Nepal its money back for the second million, said Nepal’s health department director, Dr Dipendra Raman Singh. Nepal has refused, in hope of getting more doses as India’s catastrophe bleeds across their border.  Some of India’s needs are self-inflicted. It is manufacturing only two vaccines, Serum’s Covishield and one developed in India. A government deal to produce Russia’s Sputnik V in India has been tangled in red tape. If other manufacturers had started earlier, Poonawalla said, Serum might not face as much pressure. Serum’s failure to deliver is also AstraZeneca’s, since it pledged with Oxford University that the vaccine would be made available to countries that couldn’t afford it. “I felt very sad that we couldn’t continue helping them, but don’t forget my first priority comes to my nation first, which has given me everything,” Poonawalla said. “And after all, I am an Indian. I may be a global Indian company, but the fact is that we are in India. We need to take care of our own, like America has taken care of their own, Europe is taking care of their own.” But Serum can’t meet India’s needs, either. Serum’s plans were to split its doses 50-50 between India, either directly or through COVAX, and the rest of the world. Now, Serum is contributing 90% of India’s supply and is still falling short. Less than 3% of the population has been fully inoculated. In some states, people are being turned away from vaccination centres that have run out of doses. Serum has missed its expansion targets. Poonawalla said last fall that by early this year, Serum Institute would be pumping out 100 million doses per month, of which about 4 in 10 would go overseas. But after a fire at a centre that was supposed to help the company ramp up vaccine production, Serum’s capacity has remained at about 72 million doses per month. A grant of more than $200 million from the Indian government should help the company reach its goal by summer, he said. Poonawalla has also cited raw materials supplies. In April, he asked President Joe Biden on Twitter to “lift the embargo” on raw material used to make Covid-19 vaccines. White House officials said Poonawalla mischaracterized his situation. Still, the United States said it would send raw materials to the Serum Institute to increase its vaccine production, though Poonawalla said they haven’t yet arrived. Poonawalla has also come under scrutiny for charging different prices to the central government, to India’s states and to private hospitals. Two weeks ago, Serum said it would charge state governments about $5 per dose, about $3 more than what it charges Modi’s government. Last week, following criticism, Poonawalla lowered the price to $4. Still, critics point to an interview in which Poonawalla said that he was making a profit even at the central government’s price. Poonawalla said that Serum could sell at a lower price to India’s central government because it was ordering larger volumes. “People don’t understand,” Poonawalla told The New York Times. “They just take things in isolation and then they vilify you, not realizing that this commodity is sold at $20 a dose in the world and we’re providing it for $5 or $6 in India. There’s no end to the cribbing, the complaining, the criticising.” Poonawalla has said he has received more than complaints. His company last month asked the Indian government to provide security for him, citing threats that the company hasn’t publicly disclosed. The government two weeks ago assigned him a detail that includes four to five armed personnel. In an interview with The Times of London newspaper published last week, he described receiving constant, aggressive calls demanding vaccines immediately. “‘Threats’ is an understatement,” he told the paper. He played down the threats in his interview with The New York Times, and his office declined to disclose further specifics. Still, the comments caused an uproar in India. Some politicians demanded that he name names. In a petition seeking extra security for Poonawalla in the Bombay High Court on Wednesday, Datta Mane, a Mumbai lawyer, said the vaccine tycoon had been threatened by chief ministers — India’s equivalent of governors — and business leaders. The company said it had no relationship with Mane and wasn’t involved with the petition. The Times of London reported that the threats had become so ominous that Poonawalla had fled India for Britain, a claim Poonawalla disputed. Instead, he said he was there on a business trip and to see his children, who started school there last year. His presence in London has only fueled his critics, who excoriated Serum’s price increases. Sunil Jain, the managing editor of The Financial Express newspaper, tweeted that Poonawalla’s departure to London was “shameful” and that he should reduce prices. The Serum Institute is planning a major expansion in Britain, investing nearly $335 million for research and development, to fund clinical trials, to build out its sales office and to possibly construct a manufacturing plant, Poonawalla’s office said. “Everyone is depending on us to be able to give this magic silver bullet in an almost infinite capacity,” Poonawalla said. “There’s this tremendous pressure from state governments, ministers, the public, friends, and they all want the vaccine. And I’m just trying to equitably distribute it as best I can.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adar-poonawalla-stumbles-over-covid-19-promises-983693.html
08-05-2021||National||European Union and India relaunch trade quest at Covid-hit summit||The EU and India were set to bolster warming ties at a virtual summit Saturday by relaunching long-stalled trade talks and agreeing to work together against the coronavirus pandemic battering the south Asian giant. The devastating wave of infections sweeping India has already impacted the meeting by forcing Prime Minister Narendra Modi to scrap plans to fly to Portugal to see his European counterparts. But the 27-nation bloc and the world's largest democracy remain determined to capitalise on growing momentum for tighter relations fuelled by shared concerns over the rising might of China. "I am positive that we will be able to do a major step forward because between the EU and India there is a close relationship, but also a lot of untapped potential," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said as EU leaders gathered in Porto. "The most untapped potential is in trade and investment." EU countries have sent medical equipment and drugs worth an estimated €100 million ($120 million) to India as part of international efforts to help it fight against the flood of Covid-19 cases. The focus on the virus at the summit will be on making sure the two vaccine-producing powerhouses can maintain global supplies and monitoring the spread of variants -- as well as on trying to plan together to tackle future pandemics. "We obviously need together to continue our efforts to ramp up production, secure the necessary raw materials, and keep supply chains open," a senior EU official said. "Leaders are going to commit to work together to better prepare for and respond to global health emergencies -- and this clearly includes strengthening and reforming the World Health Organization." Von der Leyen said the two sides would agree on a "common platform" on sequencing the Covid-19 virus to help keep track of any new variants that may emerge. Modi could also push the EU on waiving patents for Covid-19 jabs after the US threw its weight behind the proposal. European Council chief Charles Michel said the bloc was willing to discuss the initiative once a concrete proposal was "on the table", but leaders have expressed scepticism about lifting patents. While the pandemic casts a long shadow over the summit, the key announcement is the restarting of talks on a free trade agreement that have been suspended since 2013. Von der Leyen said talks would restart on a trade pact and begin on separate deals to protect investments and regionally specific products. She said that the two sides would also look to cooperate on developing cutting edge technologies including Artificial Intelligence and supercomputers. Negotiations on the trade deal were halted eight years ago after getting stuck on issues including cutting tariffs and access for Indian workers to Europe. It remains to be seen if India is now willing to drop an approach viewed as deeply protectionist by the EU to seal a deal this time round. "It won't be easy or quick to reach," an official from the bloc told AFP. But growing tensions with China could create a new impetus for talks -- with one diplomat calling Beijing "the elephant in the room". For the EU, the push to restart negotiations comes as efforts to ratify an investment deal agreed with China have hit the buffers after relations soured over tit-for-tat sanctions. "India for its part has also decided to invest more in its relations with the EU, driven in part by China's growing assertiveness and Brexit, requiring New Delhi to no longer see London as its sole entry point into 'Europe'," EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell wrote in a blog post. Britain's departure from the bloc has also created another rival for Brussels as London makes its own play to bolster trade ties with India. The British government said Tuesday it would start formal free talks with India later this year after the two sides agreed an initial package to boost trade and investment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/european-union-and-india-relaunch-trade-quest-at-covid-hit-summit-983699.html
08-05-2021||National||With 4,187 record deaths in 24 hours, India's Covid-19 crisis worsens||India recorded more than 4,000 coronavirus deaths in a day for the first time and more states imposed lockdowns Saturday in a desperate bid to halt the devastating new surge. The 4,187 new deaths took India's overall toll to 2,38,270 since the pandemic started. It added another 4,01,078 new cases in 24 hours taking its caseload to nearly 2.19 crore — second only to the United States. Experts, who have expressed doubts about the official death toll, say the new wave may not hit a peak until the end of May and there have been mounting calls for tough nationwide measures. Rahul Gandhi, leader of the opposition Congress party, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to order a national lockdown or the spread could be "devastating" for India and other countries. Britain has already declared a new variant found in India to be of "concern". The government, stung by criticism of its handling of the new crisis, has largely left individual state administrations to handle pandemic clampdowns. While major cities such as New Delhi and Mumbai have been boosted by extra supplies of oxygen — much of it from abroad — and new hospital beds opened up, the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala have all ordered lockdowns to counter an explosion in cases. Karnataka has ordered a statewide two-week lockdown from Monday in a bid to halt the spread of the virus.  The state added more than 48,000 cases in a day with Bengaluru, home to many information technology giants, bearing the brunt. The city of nine million people, which saw 1,907 coronavirus deaths in April, has recorded more than 950 just in the first seven days of May. A lack of oxygen and critical care beds is being blamed for the dramatic rise in the death rate. Neighbouring Kerala, which is adding about 40,000 cases a day, started a nine-day lockdown from Saturday. Tamil Nadu, which includes the major city of Chennai, will start a 10-day lockdown from Monday. Coronavirus cases and deaths have also shot up in West Bengal state since its election, which was marked by huge rallies organised by Modi and his arch-rival, state chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The main city, Kolkata, also has a critical shortage of oxygen and beds.   The Modi government imposed a three month nationwide lockdown last year which helped halt the spread of the first major wave, but also caused huge economic damage. There are fears that the new surge could undermine the recovery in Asia's third-biggest economy. The growing death toll has added to pressure for the government to act. Gandhi said in his letter to the prime minister that "your government's lack of a clear and coherent Covid and vaccination strategy... has placed India in a highly dangerous position." Modi had "to understand India's responsibility in a globalised and interconnected world" as "home to one out of every six human beings on the planet." "Allowing the uncontrollable spread of this virus in our country will be devastating, not only for our people, but for the rest of the world." The government did not immediately respond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-4187-record-deaths-in-24-hours-indias-covid-19-crisis-worsens-983698.html
08-05-2021||National||Kangana Ranaut tests positive for Covid-19, says she will 'demolish' this 'small time flu'||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Saturday said she has tested positive for the novel coronavirus and is under home quarantine. The 34-year-old actor, whose Twitter account was permanently suspended for repeated violations of rules earlier this week, shared her diagnosis on Instagram. "I was feeling tired and weak with slight burning sensation in my eyes for past few days, was hoping to go to Himachal so got my test done yesterday and today the result came I am Covid positive. "I have quarantined myself, I had no idea this virus is having a party in my body," she wrote. Terming Covid-19 a "small time flu", Ranaut said she is determined to "destroy" the virus from her body. "...Now that I know I will demolish it, people please don’t give anything any power over you, if you are scared it will scare you more, come let’s destroy this Covid -19 it is nothing but a small time flu which got too much press and now psyching few people," she added. On Friday, Mumbai reported 3,040 new Covid-19 cases and 71 fresh fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-ranaut-tests-positive-for-covid-19-says-she-will-demolish-this-small-time-flu-983711.html
08-05-2021||National||Indian-American physicians sending 5,000 oxygen concentrators to India||An Indian-American group of physicians is shipping 5,000 oxygen concentrators to India to save the lives of the people infected with the coronavirus. The recently-created Federation of Indian Physicians Association (FIPA) said on Friday that the 5,000 oxygen concentrators have already been purchased. Of these, 450 units have already reached Ahmedabad, 325 are on their way to Delhi and 300 others to Mumbai. "These units are to be received by local Indian partners, hospitals, makeshift isolation centres, newly created mobile hospitals and charities so that local partners in the remote parts of India can use these units to provide oxygen to Covid patients as needed,” said DR Raj Bhayani, president FIPA. About 3,500 units are still waiting to be shipped, he said, adding that FIPA has reached out to the Indian embassy, and the ministry of aviation and Air India to help transport these units immediately. With a record of 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598, while the death toll increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities reported in 24 hours on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. Iowa-based Sehgal Foundation, the non-profit body which works in the rural areas of India, in a separate statement said that it is sending 200 oxygen concentrators to India. The foundation said it “is working tirelessly to ensure that the help is reached out to the people grappling with the Covid-19 surge in India.” Indian-Americans in Greater Boston, a community organisation, is organising a 5k Virtual Walk/Run over the weekend to raise funds for its Covid-19 assistance to India. Kerala Association of Connecticut has started a fundraiser campaign to help combat the Covid-19 surge situation in India. The money donated will be directed towards Providing Oxygenators to Hospitals via Give India platform and their community partners, the association said.  Headed by Krishna Srinivasan, the association is targeting to raise $5,000. Indian-American Vandana Karna on Saturday launched another fundraising campaign to save lives in rural Bihar. In just a few hours, Bihar Aid raised more than $8,000 of the initial target of $10,000. “This is our first call to help with shipment of the following to Darbhanga where several areas have been sealed due to high infection rate,” Karna said. Bihar Aid plans to send Oxygen flow meters, Oxygen cylinders (D type), Oxygen concentrators, Pulse oximeter and sensor-based sanitising machines and PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen generation plants, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-american-physicians-sending-5000-oxygen-concentrators-to-india-983714.html
08-05-2021||National||Uttar Pradesh battles Covid-19 and govt denial ||People in India's most populous state Uttar Pradesh are fighting not just a raging pandemic but also a local government that many say is in denial. The state authorities, headed by Yogi Adityanath, touted by some as a successor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, insist there are no shortages and take a dim view of those "spreading fear". But the virus is clearly wreaking havoc as it spreads beyond big cities into the towns and villages not only of Uttar Pradesh, home to 240 million people, but elsewhere in India's colossal hinterland. Brijesh Pandey spends hours every day in the hot sun jostling with others for medical oxygen for his brother-in-law, who is now at home struggling to breathe. Even though his relative clearly needs hospital treatment, he was unable to get a bed because of government red tape. "We could only get a rapid antigen test done which is not accepted by hospitals for admission," Panday told AFP as he waited outside a oxygen cylinder filling station in Moradabad district. "They are demanding an RT-PCR (test), and that is not available," he said. The 42-year-old said the family spent an astronomical Rs 40,000 to arrange an empty oxygen cylinder. "The government says that there is ample supply of medicines and oxygen. But look how hundreds of desperate people are struggling to save their brothers, sisters and parents," he said. Police are on guard at the filling station, allowing only those with doctor' prescriptions to get oxygen. The aim, authorities say, is to stop black marketeers. "But we know many people are unable to get tested and are sick. But they can't get oxygen," said manager R. K. Yadav. A regional court on Wednesday said that deaths in Uttar Pradesh due to oxygen shortages were "criminal acts and not less than a genocide". But complaining can land ordinary people in trouble under chief minister Yogi Adityanath, 48. Last week Yogi declared that those making "false" claims about shortages would be prosecuted and their properties seized. At least two people and a hospital have been charged by police for "spreading rumours and fear". One was arrested for appealing on Twitter for oxygen. Uttar Pradesh's official death toll is 14,500, about 6,000 of them since late March. But like elsewhere many experts suspect this is a major underestimate. In the state capital Lucknow, the official death toll for April is 830. But two crematoriums say they handled more than 1,900 bodies,, while 500 others were buried in the Muslim graveyard. Vivek Awasthi, founder of the non-profit Uttar Pradesh Voluntary Health Association, told AFP that villagers were sometimes treating the virus like a common cold and not taking proper precautions to stop it spreading. Their nearest hospital is also often far away.  Ramchandra Nirmal, 49, who works as a security guard in Mumbai said that people back in his village in Uttar Pradesh could travel to small nearby clinics. "But if you want to get oxygen you have to go to a hospital which is around 110 kilometres (70 miles) away," Nirmal told AFP. Many have blamed the spread on migrant workers returning from cities and on pilgrims who attended the enormous -- and largely mask-free -- recent Kumbh Mela. Another factor is recent village-level elections across Uttar Pradesh in which millions of people voted even as the pandemic raged. Pavan Singh said his 42-year-old brother, a science teacher, contracted the virus and died after working as one of thousands of election officials. Teacher unions have said that more than 700 members have died in recent weeks after being involved in the process. "He was admitted to three hospitals in a span of a week because some of them were running out of medicines and oxygen," Singh told AFP. "My brother would be alive if the government had used some sense," he said. Singh's anger was shared by others gathered at the same makeshift crematorium on the banks of the Gagan river to perform last rites. "The government is lying that there is no crisis," said Sanjeev Yadav, whose sister-in-law died at home. "These burning pyres prove that there is a crisis and the government is just trying to cover-up."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-battles-covid-19-and-govt-denial-983717.html
08-05-2021||National||Covid-19: FTII students want suspension of online classes for 2020 batch||The students' association of Pune- based FTII has sought immediate suspension of online classes for the 2020 batch students, saying that it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to attend classes due to the challenges posed by the coronavirus crisis. The FTII Students Association (FSA) has also sought a meeting with the institute's chairman Shekhar Kapur to express their concerns. The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) administration, however, said that online classes are going on only for one batch, and many students are attending the classes and demanded that they should continue. It also made it clear that online classes will continue to be held for the duration they are planned. In a release, the FSA said, "We are witnessing an exponential increase in cases each day and people are struggling to avail medical facilities. FTII administration has been enforcing mandatory online classes for the newly- admitted 2020 batch students." It said that the students raised concern over the online medium of education, but the FTII administration has made it mandatory for the students to attend online classes, which is in violation of the attendance criteria mentioned in the UGC guidelines for online classes. "FTII chairman Mr Shekhar Kapur is reluctant to meet us and has given us a date 11 days later from now for a meeting to discuss our urgent concerns. We are sad and concerned to state that students, faculties, staff members and families are getting affected not just by Covid-19, but also by financial and mental health issues associated with it," it said. The students are from different parts of the country and it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to attend classes amid this health crisis, the release added. The FSA demanded that the FTII chairman should meet them at the earliest and understand the concerns in view of the devastating phase of the pandemic to bring in an immediate suspension of the online classes. Meanwhile, FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola said, "Online classes are on only for the 2020 batch and many students are attending the classes and have asked that the classes should continue. Connectivity and other issues are there, but still students are regular in their classes and in direct contact with their teachers." "FTII administration is also helping the students. For instance, in the case of a student from Kargil, on the request of FTII the Ladakh administration is facilitating the student with venue and connectivity," he said. In case students miss a lecture or a session, a review or recap session is planned on Saturdays. "Teachers are also ready to help them on phone or e-mail. When on campus, a recap or review of these online sessions would also be made," the director added. FTII's academic and governing councils have discussed the matter and directed the institute to continue with online classes for the benefit of those students who are interested, so the online classes will continue for the duration they are planned, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ftii-students-want-suspension-of-online-classes-for-2020-batch-983720.html
08-05-2021||National||US corporate sector sending more Covid-19 help to India||America's corporate sector is sending more medical assistance to India, including ventilators and oxygen concentrators, to help the country fight the deadly second wave of Covid-19 that has been infecting more than 400,000 people daily in recent days. Thermo Fisher with the help of United Airlines on Saturday sent the much-needed supplies to India to help expand the Covid-19 testing, the company said. "We are humbled to be able to help our colleagues in India, & the population as a whole in their efforts to get the Covid-19 surge under control,” it said. The supplies included 4.6 million viral transport medium tubes, that prevent specimen drying, maintains viral viability and retards the growth of microbial contaminants. “We are grateful for your support to India,” said Mukesh Aghi, president of US India Strategic and Partnership Forum. American Airlines said it has partnered with the Red Cross to help keep people safe from Covid-19, and help vulnerable communities around the world prepare for, respond to and recover from disasters and other humanitarian crises. Amway has announced a contribution of $500,000 to a foundation led by the US Chamber of Commerce that will deliver critical assistance and medical supplies to India, including 1,000 ventilators and 25,000 oxygen concentrators. Additionally, the David & Carol Van Andel Family Foundation provided a generous gift of $250,000 to further these efforts, according to a statement. "India is on the hearts and minds of Amway’s global family. To our colleagues and friends across India, know that we are committed to supporting you during these tough times,” said Amway’s CEO Milind Pant. American India Foundation said that it has received a grant of $500,000 from the Chubb Charitable Foundation for their commitment to bolstering India's health infrastructure, to face the onslaught of Covid-19 cases. The money would be allocated to providing 100 portable hospital beds to health facilities across the country. 'As we watch with disbelief the Covid-19-related horror unfolding in India, we are committed to supporting those who are so tragically impacted by the pandemic," said Lori Dunstan, executive director of the Chubb Charitable Foundation. "With new infections topping 400,000 per day, the crisis has overwhelmed the country's healthcare system. The grant from our foundation will add to the urgent efforts required to meet the immediate medical needs of those most affected," Dunstan said. India saw a record 4,187 fatalities due to Covid-19 in a single day, taking the country's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported in a day, pushing the tally to 2,18,92,676, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The US government, corporates, and the people of America are working together to provide Covid-19 relief to India. More than 45 top American companies and its CEOs have joined the task force created by the US Chambers of Commerce and Business Roundtable in association with the US-India Business Council and the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum. Working in close coordination with the Indian government, the task force has so far announced to send 25,000 oxygen concentrators and 1,000 ventilators. US companies like Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Deloitte, Walmart, Boeing and Mastercard among others announced major assistance to India. So far, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has sent six planes carrying health supplies to India. The Biden administration has promised $100 million aid to India. This number is expected to go up in the coming weeks, as US President Joe Biden reviews it. In addition, there has been overwhelming support from the Indian-Americans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-corporate-sector-sending-more-covid-19-help-to-india-983723.html
08-05-2021||National||When, and how, should you start exercising after recovering from Covid-19? Here's all you need to know||Covid-19 patients have reported many symptoms such as sore throat, fever, body ache or loss of taste and smell. Although most symptoms disappear after recovery, a lot of people have complained that fatigue and weakness continue for weeks thereafter. Many recovered patients complain of a lingering sense of fatigue, with limited ability to exercise or even perform daily activities. Several patients have also experienced muscle pain long after recovery. After fighting with this deadly virus, exercising and weight-lifting can be difficult. Now, if you have recovered from Covid-19 and are wondering how and when can you resume your sessions at home, check the advice by doctors below: Start slow Light workout routine You may resume routine work at home but do not stress yourself, Dr Bhattacharya said, adding that "breathing exercises and Pranayam are good". You may also do brisk walking for 15-30 minutes on every alternate day at home itself. If you are someone who enjoys doing intense workouts with weight-lifting, you should hold on for a month. Around 30 days after recovering from Covid, "you can do push-ups and muscle-building exercises," the doctor said. Asymptomatic patients Asymptomatic patients might feel that they are all fine but they need to be cautious too. "If the patient has been asymptomatic, then start off with brisk walking for 15-20 minutes as this can get your muscles moving. This is also a good form of exercise since the intensity can be regulated by the individual," Dr Meenakshi Sharma from Gurugram told India Today. Boost your immune system Covid and immunity go hand in hand. After recovering from Covid-19, you must continue to consume immunity-boosting drinks and healthy food to strengthen your system. "Steam inhalation and practising deep-breathing exercises are the best ways to help rebuild and stabilise immunity," Dr Sharma added. Stay hydrated It is advised to drink 8-10 glasses of water every day to keep your body hydrated. "The most important thing is to keep yourselves hydrated (200 ml water every half an hour). Also, exercise according to your own limitations and don't overdo it," Dr Bhattacharya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-and-how-should-you-start-exercising-after-recovering-from-covid-19-heres-all-you-need-to-know-983726.html
08-05-2021||National||Delhi CM did theatrics over people fleeing lockdown, same in Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Saturday accused Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of "indulging in theatrics" over people moving out of the national capital because of the Covid-19 lockdown, and said the same was being seen in Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab. She demanded that vaccines should be administered for free to everyone, especially the poor, Dalits and tribals, and economic assistance should also be given to them. In a series of tweets in Hindi, the former Mayawati said, "The Delhi chief minister, with folded hands, urging people not to flee Delhi is a drama which was enacted during Covid-19 earlier. Now, the same is being seen in Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab. Many people from Ludhiana in Punjab are fleeing. This is extremely sad." "If these state governments generate confidence among the people that their needs will be fulfilled in time, then they would not flee. These state governments are indulging in varied theatrics to hide their failures. This is not hidden from anyone," she alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cm-did-theatrics-over-people-fleeing-lockdown-same-in-maharashtra-haryana-punjab-mayawati-983732.html
08-05-2021||National||Avoid over-reliance on foreign drugs in Covid-19 treatment: HC||Stating that over-reliance on imported drugs must be avoided, the Bombay High Court has asked the Centre and the Maharashtra government to create awareness about suitable alternatives to foreign-manufactured medicines, such as Tocilizumab, that can be used for treating Covid-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said that in light of the shortage of Tocilizumab, the government must tell the citizens about other locally- manufactured, cheaper, and widely-available drugs that can be used instead. "The Government of India, having placed on record its stand that Itolizumab, Dexamethasone, and Methylprednisolone are equivalent and/or better than Tocilizumab, it is high time all-out efforts are made by it as well as the state to remove the incorrect public perception that has since been created that only Tocilizumab can treat the inflammatory burst conditions in Covid-19 patients," the high court said. "Over-reliance on imported drugs has to be avoided and all concerned ought to be made aware that now it is the time to treat and heal, and not make profit out of sale of essential life-saving drugs," it said. The high court passed the order on May 6, but it was made public on its website on Friday night. It was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on various issues pertaining to the Covid19 pandemic. The PILs cover issues such as the supply of oxygen, medicines, availability of hospital beds etc across the state. During the hearing on May 6, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the state government, had told the bench that Maharashtra was not getting adequate stock of Remdesivir from the Union government. He had said that as per state's data available on May 1, a total of 51,000 vials were needed in the state everyday, but it was receiving only 35,000 vials daily. In its order, the high court said it hoped that the Union Department of Pharmaceuticals, and the Director, Union Ministry of Health and Welfare would intervene in the matter of deficient supply of Remdesivir to Maharashtra. The HC also directed the Maharashtra government to give wide publicity to the May 4 advisory issued by the ICMR on testing for Covid 19. The advisory, meant to streamline testing, and reduce the burden of existing path labs, dissuades one from testing Covid-recovered individuals at the time of hospital discharge. It suggests that an individual once tested positive either by the RT-PCR or the rapid antigen method needn't be tested again, and includes several other guidelines. It also said that the state government must not delay granting approvals to any proposals it receives on setting up new path labs for Covid-19 tests as well as other pathology tests. The high court will continue hearing the PILs on May 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-over-reliance-on-foreign-drugs-in-covid-19-treatment-hc-983739.html
08-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: SC orders release of prisoners to decongest jails||The Supreme Court has stressed limiting arrest, the release of prison inmates and taking care of patients for effective management of Covid-19 pandemic inside overburdened jails of the country. Noting that India has more than four lakh prisoners, the top court said, the requirement of de-congestion of jails is a matter concerning health and right to life of both the inmates and the police personnel. Acting suo motu, a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana directed the high-powered committee, formed last year in every state, to consider releasing prisoners from jails across the country, in view of the raging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. "Overcrowding of prisons is a phenomenon, plaguing several countries including India. Some prisoners might not be willing to be released in view of their social background and the fear of becoming victims of the deadly virus. In such extraordinary cases, the authorities are directed to be considerate to the concerns of the inmates," the court also said. It said the spread of the virus should be controlled by regular testing of the prisoners and staff and maintaining and improving levels of daily hygiene and sanitation. "The rapid proliferation of the virus amongst the inmates of congested prisons is a matter of serious concern," it said. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant, passed a slew of directions on Friday in the suo motu matter 'In Re: Contagion of Covid-19 Virus in Prisons' registered last year, to decongest jails, after hearing Attorney General K K Venugopal and senior advocate Colin Gonsalves. "This court, being the 'sentinel on the qui vive' (watchful guardian) of the fundamental rights, needs to strictly control and limit the authorities from arresting accused in contravention of guidelines laid down in Arnesh Kumar Vs State of Bihar during pandemic," the bench said. The court had in the Arnesh Kumar case (2014) case directed against the mechanical and casual arrest of people in offences with a maximum seven-year of jail term. In addition to considering fresh release, the court directed that the high-powered panel should forthwith set free all the inmates, who had been released earlier following the order of March  23, 2020, by imposing appropriate conditions, as "such an exercise is mandated in order to save valuable time". Further, those inmates who were granted parole, pursuant to earlier orders, should be again be given the same relief for a period of 90 days in order to tide over the pandemic, the bench directed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-sc-orders-release-of-prisoners-to-decongest-jails-983754.html
08-05-2021||National||US assures India help to fight Covid-19 as health minister Vardhan interacts with US counterpart||The US has assured India of its unwavering commitment to engage, collaborate and fight the raging coronavirus crisis together as the health ministers of the two countries discussed the current surge in Covid-19 cases in India. During a virtual meeting between US Health and Human Services (HSS) Secretary Xavier Becerra and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday, the two leaders noted that the India-US bilateral cooperation on Covid-19, which builds on a strong foundation, has been crucial not only for the health of our two countries, but critical to the global response as well. The two ministers discussed the ongoing surge of Covid-19 cases in India and reaffirmed strong US support to India in this time of crisis, according to an official statement here. India is experiencing a raging second wave of the pandemic, with over 400,000 coronavirus infections and over 3,000 deaths being reported daily for the last one week. India saw a record 4,187 fatalities due to Covid-19 in a single day, taking the country's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported in a day, pushing the tally to 2,18,92,676, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. Their meeting highlighted the strong relationship between the United States and India. The US-India bilateral relationship in health, one of the oldest and most successful aspects of the wider US-India relationship, continues to be a major link between the two nations, cutting across several sectors, the statement issued by HSS said. India-US bilateral cooperation on Covid-19, which builds on a strong foundation, has been crucial not only for the health of our two countries, but critical to the global response as well, the two leaders said. Expressing his gratitude to Vardhan for India's help and generosity to the US in the early days of the pandemic, Becerra said he was happy to see the US responding to support India in its time of need. Appreciating recent US donation of urgently needed resources to battle the ongoing surge of cases, Vardhan said that these supplies include oxygen tanks, oxygen generators, therapeutics, vaccine manufacturing components, PPE, and rapid diagnostic tests among other critical items. The US government has announced USD 100 million assistance to India to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. In about a week’s time, as many as six planeloads of Covid-19 assistance have landed in India. In addition, public health experts from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, US, will continue to work hand-in-hand to support the efforts of their Indian counterparts, the readout said. During the call, Becerra also noted the recent announcement of US support for a waiver of intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines and future World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations. Vardhan discussed the need to work closely together in the international arena, including strengthening the WTO and building upon lessons learned from the Covid-19 response. In recognising Vardhan as the chair of the WHO Executive Board, Becerra emphasised that the US looks forward to working closely with India on the WHO reform. Vardhan congratulated Becerra on assuming charge as the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and thanked his gesture to initiate communication to establish formal contact to work closely on bilateral cooperation and address global challenges amid Covid-19 outbreak, the health ministry said in a statement in New Delhi. "Both nations have developed a strong collaboration in the area of public health which extends to build and enhance the co-operation and support in the unprecedented times of the Covid-19 pandemic. "It is highly appreciable to learn that the statements of solidarity between us are quickly manifesting as practical forms of support to enhance healthcare support and fight the pandemic. We are thankful and highly appreciate the support of the United States of America for medical supply," Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement. Secretary Becerra recounted the crisis in his country brought about by Covid-19 and expressed his empathy towards the suffering of Indians. He also assured of US President Joe Biden’s unwavering commitment to engage, collaborate and fight Covid-19 together, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-assures-india-help-to-fight-covid-19-as-health-minister-vardhan-interacts-with-us-counterpart-983770.html
08-05-2021||National||Over 84 lakh vaccine doses still available with states, UTs; 17.49 cr doses provided so far: Govt||More than 84 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories and over 53 lakh doses will be distributed to them in the next three days, the Centre said on Saturday. In an official statement, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said that so far over 17.49 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs, out of which around 16.7 crore doses have been consumed. "Of the vaccine doses provided, the total consumption, including wastages, is 16,65,49,583 doses (as per data available at 8 am on Saturday). More than 84 lakh Covid vaccine doses (84,08,187) are still available with states/UTs to be administered," the ministry said. It said that states with a negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have "not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to the armed forces". "Furthermore, more than 53 lakh (53,25,000) vaccine doses will be received in addition by states/UTs within the next three days," the ministry announced. It said that Delhi received 40.22 lakh vaccine doses, out of which it consumed 36.09 lakh doses. The ministry said that the national capital still has a balance of 4.12 lakh doses available and within the next three days, it is likely to receive one lakh doses more. The projected population of Delhi was taken at 2.04 crore as on October 1, 2020. Out of the 53.25 lakh vaccine doses expected to be distributed among states and union territories in the next three days, Gujarat will get 8.98 lakh vaccine doses, which is the maximum number of doses any state or UT will receive. The state had got over 1.39 crore doses while it consumed 1.35 crore doses. Following Gujarat is Maharashtra, which is likely to receive 6.03 lakh vaccine doses. Rajasthan will receive 4.50 lakh doses and Uttar Pradesh will get four lakh doses. Other states like West Bengal, Bihar and Chhattisgarh will get 3.95 lakh, 3.64 lakh and 3 lakh doses of vaccine, respectively. Jammu and Kashmir will get 84,700 doses in the next three days. It has a projected population of 1.33 crore and had received 26.81 lakh doses out of which it has already consumed 26.72 lakh doses. According to data shared by the ministry, 16 states and union territories, which are not going to get more doses in the next three days, are Haryana, Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Puducherry, Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Manipur, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Goa. The maximum wastage of vaccine doses was recorded at Lakshadweep, which wasted 22.7 per cent of the doses it received. This was followed by Haryana with 6.65 per cent wastage, Assam with 6.07 per cent, Rajasthan with 5.50 per cent, Punjab with 5.05 per cent, Bihar with 4.96 per cent, Dadra and Nagar Haveli with 4.93 per cent, Meghalaya with 4.21 per cent, Tamil Nadu with 3.94 per cent and Manipur with 3.56 per cent wastage. A record 4,187 Covid-19 fatalities in a day took India's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported during the period, pushing the tally of cases to 2,18,92,676, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The 4,187 new fatalities include 898 from Maharashtra, 592 from Karnataka, 372 from Uttar Pradesh, 341 from Delhi, 208 from Chhattisgarh, 197 from Tamil Nadu, 165 from Punjab, 164 from Rajasthan, 162 from Haryana, 137 from Uttarakhand, 136 from Jharkhand, 119 from Gujarat and 112 from West Bengal. Of the 2,38,270 deaths reported in the country so far, 74,413 were from Maharashtra, 18,739 from Delhi, 17,804 from Karnataka, 15,171 from Tamil Nadu, 14,873 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,076 from West Bengal, 10,158 from Chhattisgarh and 10,144 from Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-84-lakh-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-1749-cr-doses-provided-so-far-govt-983774.html
08-05-2021||National||Coronavirus positive test not mandatory for admission to Covid-19 facility||A person suspected of having Covid-19 need not produce a positive test report for admission to a healthcare facility, the health ministry said on Saturday. The ministry revised the admission policy for Covid-19 patients and also made it clear that no person would be denied admission on the ground that he or she does not possess an identity card of a city where the hospital is located. The ministry had received several complaints from patients who were refused admission in government healthcare facilities as they were not domicile residents of the place where the hospital was located. “This patient-centric measure aims to ensure prompt, effective and comprehensive treatment of patients suffering from Covid-19,” the revised policy document said. The new guidelines will be applicable in all hospitals under the Centre, state governments/Union Territory administrations as well as private hospitals managing such patients. “No patient will be refused services. This includes medication such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city,” the revised policy said. It added that no patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he/she is not able to produce a valid identity card that does not belong to the city where the hospital is located. The policy stated that admissions to a hospital must be based on need and beds should not be occupied by people who do not need hospitalisation. “Further, the discharge should be strictly in accordance with the revised discharge policy,” it added. The health ministry has advised the chief secretaries of states/UTs to issue necessary orders and circulars, incorporating the above directions within three days, which shall be enforced till replaced by an appropriate uniform policy. The Health Ministry had outlined a three-tier policy for Covid-19 patients where in mild cases are to be admitted in Covid Care Centres, patients with moderate symptoms to Covid Healthcare Centres and severe cases to Dedicated Covid Hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-positive-test-not-mandatory-for-admission-to-covid-19-facility-983777.html
08-05-2021||National||Give India Foundation promises 2,000 oxygen concentrators to Covid care centres||Give India Foundation, a non- profit organisation, has promised to donate 2,000 oxygen concentrators and handed over 80 of them to the Gandhi Krishi Vignana Kendra Covid Care Centre here on Saturday. These 80 oxygen concentrators of 10 litres capacity each will be installed in GKVK Covid Care Centre and this would certainly help augment the care being given in centre, Deputy Chief Minister and State Covid task force Head, Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said. He added that the infected patients here can undergo treatment without having to panic over the non-availability or shortage of oxygen. Meanwhile, a 250-bed Covid Hospital will be set up in Yelahanka region by Boeing and the work has already been initiated. Boeing is also willing to set up another 250-bed Covid hospital in the same region, the Deputy CM noted. Narayan thanked the Give India Foundation for donating oxygen concentrators and also the Central Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for negotiating with Boeing with regard to establishing Coving Hospitals nearby Yelahanka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-india-foundation-promises-2000-oxygen-concentrators-to-covid-care-centres-983778.html
08-05-2021||National||DCGI approves Covid drug developed by DRDO for emergency use||Indian drug regulator has approved an indigenous anti-cancer drug for emergency treatment of Covid-19 patients as the medicine has shown to significantly reduce the symptoms and oxygen dependence in such patients much ahead of the standard care. Developed by scientists at the Delhi-based Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, one of the DRDO laboratories, the medicine known as 2-DG received permission following two rounds of clinical trials that began in May last year. It is a cancer medicine that was repurposed for Covid-19 treatment. “On May 1, the Drugs Controller General of India granted permission for emergency use of this drug as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients. Being a generic molecule and analogue of glucose, it can be easily produced and made available in plenty in the country,” the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation said in a press statement on Saturday. The drug, manufactured by Dr Reddy's Laboratory, comes in powder form in a sachet, which is taken orally by dissolving it in water. It accumulates in the virus-infected cells and prevents virus growth by stopping viral synthesis and energy production. Its selective accumulation in virally infected cells makes this drug unique. Since a large number of patients face severe oxygen dependency and need hospitalisation in the second wave of the pandemic, the drug is expected to reduce the hospital stay of Covid-19 patients and burden on health infrastructure. In the third phase of the clinical trial carried out on 220 patients at 27 hospitals in 10 states including Karnataka, the medicine has not only significantly lowered the symptoms of Covid-19 patients but also reduced the oxygen dependency in 42% of patients after three days. The standard care, on the other hand, led to the reduction of supplemental oxygen dependence in 31% of patients. In Phase-II trials conducted from May to October 2020, the drug was found to be safe in Covid-19 patients and showed significant improvement in their recovery. Phase IIa of the trial was conducted in six hospitals while phase IIb was conducted at 11 hospitals all over the country. Taken together, the phase-II trial was conducted on 110 patients. In efficacy trends, the patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than Standard of Care on various endpoints. A significantly favourable trend was to achieve normalisation of specific vital signs 2.5 days ahead of the standard treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-approves-covid-drug-developed-by-drdo-for-emergency-use-983786.html
08-05-2021||National||Asaram shifted to AIIMS in Jodhpur after being treated for Covid-19 at hospital||Self-styled godman Asaram, who was being treated for Covid-19 for the past two days at a hospital here, has been shifted to the AIIMS in Jodhpur due to security reasons, a police official said on Saturday. The condition of Asaram, jailed for sexually assaulting a teenage girl, is stable, doctors at the MG Hospital here said. He was moved to the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)here on Friday night and police have cited security reasons behind his shifting. "There were consistent attempts by devotees of Asaram to sneak into the hospital to get a glimpse of him or get close to him since his admission in the MG Hospital. So, assuming threat to his security, we considered shifting him to the AIIMS, where it would not be possible for devotees to get around," the police official said. According to the doctors at the MG Hospital, his oxygen saturation was under control and there was no other negative development in his health condition. "He was being taken care of properly here and he was just on oxygen in the ICU with no immediate risk to his health," a doctor said. Asaram, who is in his 80s, had been put on ventilator support at the MG Hospital, where he was rushed on Wednesday night after he complained of breathing difficulty, sources had said. Sources at the Jodhpur Central Jail had said his samples were taken for testing along with those of other inmates, and his report returned positive two days back, following which his treatment was started. In several court affidavits, Asaram has said he suffers from multiple ailments, and requested he be granted bail on health grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asaram-shifted-to-aiims-in-jodhpur-after-being-treated-for-covid-19-at-hospital-983794.html
08-05-2021||National||'Welfare of India critically important to US': Kamala Harris vows more help to fight Covid-19||Pledging that the Biden administration is determined to help India in its hour of need due to surging Covid-19 infections and deaths, Vice President Kamala Harris has said that India's welfare is critically important to the United States. Describing the surge of Covid-19 infections and deaths in India as "nothing short of heartbreaking”, she said that the entire Biden administration has been galvanized to help the country in its fight against the pandemic. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 4,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. "At the beginning of the pandemic, when our hospital beds were stretched, India sent assistance. And today, we are determined to help India in its hour of need,” Harris said on Friday in her opening remarks at the State Department's Diaspora outreach event on US Covid Relief for India. "We do this as friends of India, as members of the Asian Quad, and as part of the global community. I believe that if we continue to work together - across nations and sectors - we will all get through this,” she said. The Biden-Harris Administration has announced $100 million assistance to India to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. In about a week’s time, as many as six plane loads of Covid-19 assistance have landed in India. The entire administration has been galvanised to help India in this hour of crisis. The White House and the State Department is coordinating with the corporate sector, which has mounted an unprecedented private sector relief for any country ever. Indian-Americans have been raising millions of dollars and have been sending life-saving health care equipment and medicines to India. Sewa International USA has raised more than $10 million, American Association of Physicians of Indian-Origin or AAPI have raised $3.5 million and Indiaspora more than USD2 million, to name some of them. In her remarks, Harris recognised the contribution of Indian-Americans on the issue. Harris, 56, is the first woman, the first Black American, and the first South Asian American to be elected US Vice President. "For years, diaspora groups like Indiaspora and the American India Foundation have built bridges between the United States and India. And this past year, you have provided vital contributions to Covid-19 relief efforts. Thank you for your work,” said the vice president. "As many of you know, generations of my family come from India. My mother was born and raised in India. And I have family members who live in India today. The welfare of India is critically important to the United States,” Harris said. "The surge of Covid-19 infections and deaths in India is nothing short of heartbreaking. To those of you who have lost loved ones, I send my deepest condolences. As soon as the dire nature of the situation became apparent, our Administration took action,” she said, referring to the steps that the Biden-Harris Administration has taken to help India in this hour of crisis. On April 26, President Joe Biden spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to offer America’s support. By April 30, US military members and civilians were delivering relief on the ground, she said, referring to the whole-of-government approach that the administration has taken to help India. "Already, we have delivered refillable oxygen cylinders, with more to come. We have delivered oxygen concentrators, with more to come. We have delivered N95 masks, and have more ready to send. We have delivered doses of Remdesivir to treat Covid patients," Harris said. According to USAID, among the emergency supplies to India include 20,000 courses of remdesivir (125,000 vials) to help treat critically ill patients; nearly 1,500 oxygen cylinders to address critical oxygen shortage, which can be repeatedly refilled at local supply centres and one million rapid diagnostic tests to quickly identify Covid-19 cases and prevent community spread. The six planes, that have landed in just six days, also included nearly 550 mobile oxygen concentrators that obtain oxygen from ambient air. These units have a lifespan of more than five years and can serve multiple patients at once, depending on their oxygen needs. The US has also sent nearly 2.5 million N95 masks to protect health care professionals and other frontline workers.  A large-scale deployable Oxygen Concentration System that can provide oxygen to treat 20 or more patients at a time and 210 pulse oximeters to measure oxygen levels in a patient’s blood to determine whether a higher level of care is needed has also been sent to India, USAID said. In her remarks, Harris also referred to the decision taken by her administration to support a proposal by India and South Africa for a TRIPS waiver for vaccines at the WTO. "We have announced our full support for suspending patents on Covid-19 vaccines - to help India and other nations vaccinate their people more quickly. India and the United States have the greatest number of Covid-19 cases in the world,” Harris said. Senior Advisor Ervin Massinga at the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs said that the US was doing everything we can to help India. "We are bringing to bear the strength, innovation, and unique capabilities of the American people to assist those suffering in India. And we recognize that the pandemic will not be over for anyone until it is over for everyone," Massinga said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/welfare-of-india-critically-important-to-us-kamala-harris-vows-more-help-to-fight-covid-19-983798.html
08-05-2021||National||Remdesivir marketing cos to supply 53 lakh vials for April 21-May 16 period to states/ UTs: Govt||Marketing companies of remdesivir, used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, will supply 53 lakh vials of the antiviral drug to the states/UTs for the period between April 21 and May 16, the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers said in a statement on Saturday. "The companies have been instructed to ensure timely supplies to all states/ UTs strictly as per the supply plan," it added. In continuation to the allocation of remdesivir to states/UTs done on Friday, the company-wise supply plan of the drug for the period April 21 to May 16 has been issued to states/UTs. The plan has been prepared in consultation with the marketing companies, the ministry said. To ensure smooth supply of remdesivir, the allocation of the drug to the states and Union Territories has been made up to May 16, Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Sadananda Gowda said on Friday. As per the supply plan, while Zydus Cadila is to supply a total of 982,100 vials of remdesivir for the April 21-May 16 period to the states/ UTs, Hetero will supply 1,717,050 vials for the duration, the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers said. For the period, Mylan will supply 7,28,000 vials and Cipla is to supply 7,32,300 vials of the drug to the states/UTs, it added. While Jubilant will supply 4,45,700 vials of remdesivir for the period, Syngene/Sun is to supply 3,73,000 vials and Dr Reddy's will supply 3,21,850 vials of the critical drug between April 21 to May 16, the statement said. Demand for remdesivir has gone up manifold in the country amid a massive spike in Covid-19 infections. The government has already waived customs duty on remdesivir, its raw materials and other components used to make the antiviral drug in order to help augment domestic availability and reduce the cost of the injection. On April 11, in view of increased demand for remdesivir, the Centre banned the export of the injection and its active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) till the situation improves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remdesivir-marketing-cos-to-supply-53-lakh-vials-for-april-21-may-16-period-to-states/uts-govt-983801.html
08-05-2021||National||Don't believe in fake photos: Hardeep Singh Puri denies reports of Jamun trees removed for Central Vista project||The Centre on Saturday admitted that “a few trees” along the Rajpath will be transplanted during the Central Vista redevelopment project, and insisted that no jamun trees in the area have been removed so far. “No jamun trees have been removed. Only a few trees will be transplanted in the entire project,” Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said amid a raging political row over the continuance of the Central Vista project in the middle of the pandemic. Congress leaders have been on a warpath against the project that entails constructing a new Parliament building, redevelopment of the Rajpath avenue, new residences for the prime minister and the vice president and office blocks to house all the ministries and departments along the Rajpath. “The only thing that is bizarre is the Modi government thinks spending on a new Parliament, new mansion for the PM, and office buildings is an ‘essential service,’ while the country is reeling from a shortage of oxygen, beds, medicines, and even vaccines. Stop defending the indefensible,” senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said. Earlier, Puri had hit out at the Congress saying the party’s government in Chhattisgarh was constructing a new state Assembly building, while Maharashtra, where it is a partner in the government, had called for bids to build a new MLA hostel during the pandemic. On Saturday, Puri posted a series of photographs and a short video on how the refurbished Rajpath avenue would look like when the project is completed. “It will have more public space with refurbished lawns, paved walkways along Rajpath, improved landscape, clean canals, adequate public amenities, vending areas, public performance facilities, safe road crossings, non-disruptive facilities for public events,” Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-believe-in-fake-photos-hardeep-singh-puri-denies-reports-of-jamun-trees-removed-for-central-vista-project-983802.html
08-05-2021||National||12 states account for over 80% of India's active coronavirus cases||Twelve states accounted for 80.68 per cent of India's over 37.23 lakh active coronavirus cases, according to official data. Maharashtra has the maximum number of active cases at 6.57 lakh, followed by Karnataka with 5,36,661 cases, Kerala with 4,02,997 cases, Uttar Pradesh with 2,54,118 cases, and Rajasthan with 1,99,147 cases. The other states having large active cases are Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana and Bihar. Ten states accounted for 70.77 per cent of the new cases in the last 24 hours, out of which Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 54,022, followed by Karnataka 48,781 and Kerala 38,460 new cases. Among the remaining seven states and union territories with high daily new cases are Uttar Pradesh (27,763), Tamil Nadu (26,465), Delhi (19,832), West Bengal (19,216), Rajasthan (18,231), Andhra Pradesh (17,188) and Haryana (13,867). A record 4,187 Covid-19 fatalities in a day took India's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported during the period, pushing the tally of cases to 2,18,92,676, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The data showed that the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent. The 4,187 new fatalities include 898 from Maharashtra, 592 from Karnataka, 372 from Uttar Pradesh, 341 from Delhi, 208 from Chhattisgarh, 197 from Tamil Nadu, 165 from Punjab, 164 from Rajasthan, 162 from Haryana, 137 from Uttarakhand, 136 from Jharkhand, 119 from Gujarat and 112 from West Bengal. Registering a steady increase, active cases have reached 37,23,446 which account for 17.01 per cent of the total infections, the data showed. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.90 per cent, the data showed, as the number of people who have recuperated from the disease recorded at 1,79,30,960. In the last 24 hours, 3,18,609 recoveries were registered in the country, it said. Ten states accounted for 72 per cent of the new recoveries in the country. These are Maharashtra, with maximum recoveries, followed by Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Haryana. A total of more than 30 crore tests have been conducted so far across the country while the cumulative positivity rate stands at 7.29 per cent, the ministry said. According to official figures shared by the ministry, more than 14.8 lakh beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 have been administered the first dose of vaccine under Phase-3 of the vaccination drive so far. On the other hand, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 16.73 crore on Saturday, it said. In the last 24 hours, nearly 23 lakh vaccination doses were administered with 9,87,909 beneficiaries getting the first dose and 13,09,348 beneficiaries receiving their second dose of vaccine, the ministry said. “As many as 14,88,528 beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid vaccine across 30 States and UTs,” the ministry said. These include Andaman and Nicobar Islands (663 doses), Andhra Pradesh (148 doses), Assam (33,693), Bihar (291), Chandigarh (2), Chhattisgarh (1,026), Delhi (2,41,870), Goa (934), Gujarat (2,47,652), Haryana (2,04,101), Himachal Pradesh (14), Jammu and Kashmir (26,161), Jharkhand (81), Karnataka (8,681), Kerala (112), Ladakh (86), Madhya Pradesh (9,833), Maharashtra (3,08,171), Meghalaya (2), Nagaland (2), Odisha (35,152), Puducherry (1), Punjab (2,785), Rajasthan (2,49,315), Tamil Nadu (10,703), Telangana (498), Tripura (2), Uttar Pradesh (1,02,407), Uttarakhand (19) and West Bengal (4,123). The ministry said that cumulatively, 16,73,46,544 vaccine doses have been administered through 24,37,299 sessions, till Saturday morning. “These include 95,22,639 health care workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 64,30,277 HCWs who have taken the second dose; 1,38,62,998 frontline workers (FLWs) have received the first dose while 76,46,634 FLWs have got the second dose,” it said. As many as 14,88,528 beneficiaries in the 18-45 years age group have got the first dose while among those above 60 years of age, over 5.35 crore beneficiaries got the first dose and 1,42,87,313 got the second dose. Among the ones falling in the age bracket of 45-60 years, 5,47,33,969 got the first dose and 58,69,874 got the second dose, it said. According to data, 10 states accounted for 67 per cent of cumulative doses given so far in the country which include Maharashtra (10.53 per cent), Rajasthan (8.27), Gujarat (8.13), Uttar Pradesh (8.05), West Bengal (7.04), Karnataka (6.19), Madhya Pradesh (5.07), Kerala (4.69), Bihar (4.55) and Andhra Pradesh (4.28 per cent). The ministry said the global community has extended support to India and the country has got 2,933 oxygen concentrators, 2,429 oxygen cylinders, 13 oxygen generation plants, 2,951 ventilators/ Bi PAP/ C PAP and more than three lakh Remdesivir vials delivered so far. “The global community has been extending a helping hand in supporting efforts of India to meet the challenges and requirements of the unprecedented surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the global pandemic. “This is a reflection of solidarity and goodwill towards India. The Union Government has ensured the global aid is being effectively and promptly allocated and delivered to States and UTs to strengthen their efforts during this critical phase,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-states-account-for-over-80-of-indias-active-coronavirus-cases-983820.html
08-05-2021||National||Supreme Court constitutes National Task Force to look into oxygen distribution||The Supreme Court has set up a 12-member National Task Force (NTF) to facilitate public health response, including on supply of oxygen and essential drugs, to tackle "unprecedented human crisis" during the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that the establishment of this Task Force will enable the decision-makers of the Union government to have inputs based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge, which would go beyond finding ad-hoc solutions to the present problems.  The top court noted also said the likely future course of the pandemic, a possible third wave, must be taken into contemplation at the present time. It asked the Task Force to take up the “pressing issue of determining the modalities for oxygen expeditiously within a week”.     "The leading experts in the country shall associate with the work of the Task Force to facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis," the bench said. The Task Force, which has to start working immediately, would continue for a period of six months. The Union Government, which agreed to the formation of such an expert body and suggested names, would have to take a decision on recommendations of the Task Force, the court said. The court also ordered an audit of oxygen in Delhi by forming a panel headed by AIIMS Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria, while maintaining that the Centre should continue to supply 700 MT every day to the capital. It also directed for setting up a sub-group under the Task Force for Oxygen audit for each State and Union Territory. With this, "the projected future requirements can be scientifically mapped in the present and may be modulated in the light of experiences gained. Estimating projected needs is crucial to ensure that the country remains prepared to meet future eventualities, which will cause a demand for oxygen, medicines, infrastructure, manpower and logistics," the bench said.  The terms of reference of the Task Force include formulation and devising a methodology for the allocation of medical oxygen to the states and UTs on a scientific, rational and equitable basis, suggest measures for the availability of drugs and medicines, augment availability of doctors and staff among others. In view of growing demands from states for liquid medical oxygen and other essentials, the court said setting up the NTF would ensure that projected future requirements can be scientifically mapped in the present and may be modulated in the light of experiences gained. The members of the NTF are: Dr Bhabatosh Biswas, Former Vice Chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata; Dr Devender Singh Rana, Chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairperson and Executive Director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru; Dr Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu; Dr JV Peter, Director, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu; Dr Naresh Trehan, Chairperson and Managing Director, Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurugram; Dr Rahul Pandit, Director, Critical Care Medicine and ICU, Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai, Maharashtra) and Kalyan (Maharashtra); Dr Saumitra Rawat, Chairman & Head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, Senior Professor and Head of Department of Hepatology, Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Science (ILBS), Delhi; Dr Zarir F Udwadia, Consultant Chest Physician, Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital, Mumbai; Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India (ex officio member); and the Cabinet Secretary or an officer not below rank of Additional Secretary, to the Union Government as convenor .  The court said the task force can draw upon the human resources of the Union Government for consultation and information, including the following: (i) A member of Niti Aayog to be nominated by the Vice-Chairperson; (ii) Secretary, Ministry of Human Affairs; (iii) Secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade; (iv) Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways; (v) Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi; (vi) Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi; (vii) Director General of Health Services; and (viii) Director General, National Informatics Centre; and (ix) Head, Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-constitutes-national-task-force-to-look-into-oxygen-distribution-983833.html
08-05-2021||National||India's role as major regional and global player will continue to expand: PM Modi and Portuguese PM||India's role as a major regional and global player is set to expand over the coming years and its journey with the European Union in search of new routes of political, economic and technological cooperation will continue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Portuguese counterpart Antonio Costa said on Saturday. In a joint op-ed piece in Politico, they said the India-EU leaders' meeting is an opportunity to expand cooperation in new areas of decisive importance for the development of contemporary societies and economies. "India's role as a major regional and global player is set to continue to expand over the coming years, and a strengthened partnership would offer Europe an opportunity to diversify relations in a strategic region of the world," Modi and Costa said. In the virtual India-EU leaders' meeting on Saturday, the two sides are expected to announce the resumption of negotiations for a free trade agreement after a gap of eight years, besides resolving to further broadbase their ties. "The journey together between the EU and India will be continued and advanced as of tomorrow in search of new routes of political, economic and technological cooperation, with enormous potential for mutual benefits," the two prime ministers said. Modi and Costa said the India-EU meeting will provide new impetus to the partnership that will have a positive effect on international trade and investment. "The meeting is a chance to expand cooperation between the EU and India in new areas of decisive importance for the development of contemporary societies and economies: the digital transition, connectivity, mobility, health, the energy transition and climate action," they said. The two leaders mentioned that the EU is India's biggest trading partner and the second-largest destination for Indian exports, adding the two-way trade has increased 72 percent in the last decade. "It is the right time to resume negotiations toward an ambitious and balanced trade agreement capable of acting as a key driver for sustainable growth and jobs creation, both for India and Europe," they said. "Apart from everything else, an EU-India agreement would send a powerful signal to the world in support of the benefits of international trade cooperation," they added. The two prime ministers noted that a similar rationale applies to investment. "The negotiation of an EU-wide investment protection framework would provide greater stability and certainty to companies from India and EU to expand their presence in each other's markets," they added. Modi and Costa said India-EU relations have always been marked by mutual support and solidarity which was evident during the coronavirus pandemic when both have supported each other and the rest of the world. "India extended medical supplies to Europe earlier and now the EU has extended assistance to India as it experiences a second wave of COVID-19," they said. The two prime ministers also said that Portugal and India have always played a unique role in bringing the two continents together, both in the distant and recent past. Modi and Costa also said that Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore travelled extensively in Europe in different periods of his life. "The great poet was a staunch believer in the principles of mutual understanding between peoples and in India's mission to bring together the East and the West," they said. "He wrote frequently about the meeting of Europe and India, to which he attributed deep cultural, political and even personal significance: “I have felt the meeting of the East and the West in my own individual life,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-role-as-major-regional-and-global-player-will-continue-to-expand-pm-modi-and-portuguese-pm-983837.html
08-05-2021||National||No coronavirus cases in 180 districts in a week: Harsh Vardhan||As the second wave of Covid-19 rages throughout the country, there are 180 districts that have not reported a single new case of the infectious disease. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan shared this nugget during a meeting of the Group of Ministers on Covid-19 response on Saturday. “180 districts have shown no fresh cases in the last seven days, 18 districts in 14 days, 54 districts in 21 days, and 32 districts were bereft of any fresh cases in the last 28 days,” the minister said. However, states such as Karnataka, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala continue to be a cause of worry due to the high growth rate in Covid-19 cases. Karnataka now ranks second in the country with over five lakh active cases of Covid-19 after Maharashtra which has nearly 6.5 lakh active cases Bengaluru (urban), Pune, Delhi, Nagpur, Mumbai, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Thane, Nashik, Mallapuram, Thrissur, Jaipur, Gurugram, Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, are among the top 20 contributors of active cases in the country. During the meeting, Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control stressed on the need to significantly ramp up testing and hospital infrastructure in Tier-II and Tier-III cities in view of the surge in cases in these regions. “States of Maharashtra (1.27%), Karnataka (3.05%), Kerala (2.35%), Uttar Pradesh (2.44%), Tamil Nadu (1.86%), Delhi (1.92%), Andhra Pradesh (1.90%), West Bengal (2.19%), Chhattisgarh (2.06%), Rajasthan (2.99%), Gujarat (2.40%), Madhya Pradesh (2.24%) were highlighted because of their high seven-day growth rate in cases,” according to an official statement from the ministry. The ministry said timely provision of clinical care to reduce morbidity and mortality, advance preparedness in anticipation of rise in cases, increase in rapid antigen test and tracing of those who might have contracted the infection, emphasis on clinic-epidemiological linkage of genomic surveillance with transmission dynamics, clinical severity and age profile of new cases were highlighted as important steps ahead in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-coronavirus-cases-in-180-districts-in-a-week-harsh-vardhan-983839.html
08-05-2021||National||Over 9 lakh Covid-19 patients on oxygen support across India, 1.7 lakh on ventilator: Vardhan||While 1,70,841 Covid patients across the country are on ventilator, as many as 9,02,291 patients are on oxygen support, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. In his virtual address at the 25th meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) to discuss the pandemic situation, the minister said that 1.34 percent of Covid caseload was in ICU, 0.39 percent of cases were on ventilators and 3.70 percent Covid patients were on oxygen support. He said that across the country, the number of patients in ICU beds is 4,88,861 while 1,70,841 patients were on ventilators and 9,02,291 patients were on oxygen support. The meeting was attended by Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways and Chemical and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State, Ministry of Home Affairs Nityanand Rai. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State, Health and Family Welfare and Dr Vinod K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog were present virtually. Paul gave a detailed report on the work of the Empowered Group-1 and highlighted the various efforts made towards ramping up hospital infrastructure for effective clinical management of hospitalised patients. Giridhar Aramane, Secretary, Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (Chair, EG-2) presented the current scenario of Liquid Medical Oxygen Production, Allocation and Supply. Aramane stated that the production of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) has been maximized to meet the present demand of Covid patients. The domestic production has increased to more than 9400 MT/day, the health ministry quoted him, adding that he also enumerated steps to import LMO, the status of establishment of PSA oxygen plants through the support of PMCARES fund with the support of DRDO and CSIR, enhancement of tanker availability, the functioning of the web portal and mobile application for Real-Time Tracking of LMO Tankers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-9-lakh-covid-19-patients-on-oxygen-support-across-india-17-lakh-on-ventilator-vardhan-983844.html
08-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: DCGI approves DRDO's anti-Covid oral drug for emergency use||In your evening news brief, Drugs Controller General of India approves anti-Covid oral drug developed by DRDO for emergency use; Supreme Court stresses limiting arrest and the release of prison inmates, and at least 10 workers killed in a blast at a quarry in Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district. Here is the top news of May 8, 2021:   The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved an anti-Covid oral drug, developed by DRDO, for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients, the defence ministry said on Saturday. It said clinical trials of the drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) showed that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. The drug has been developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a leading laboratory of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories in Hyderabad.   The Supreme Court has stressed on limiting arrest, release of prison inmates and taking care of patients for effective management of Covid-19 pandemic inside overburdened jails of the country. Noting that India has more than four lakh prisoners, the top court said, the requirement of de-congestion of jails is a matter concerning health and right to life of both the inmates and the police personnel. Acting suo motu, a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana directed the high-powered committee, formed last year in every state, to consider releasing prisoners from jails across the country, in view of the raging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.   At least 10 workers were killed in a quarry in the Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh after explosive materials used to break rocks exploded on Saturday. Kadapa district Superintendent of Police K Anburajan told PTI over the phone that the blast occurred when a consignment of gelatin sticks was being unloaded at a limestone mine on the outskirts of Mamillapalli village. The vehicle was fully mangled under the impact of the explosion.   Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-dcgi-approves-drdos-anti-covid-oral-drug-for-emergency-use-983852.html
08-05-2021||National||Covid-19 pandemic shines spotlight around role of societies, companies: Birla||The Covid-19 pandemic has shined a spotlight on not just the role of governments but also of societies, companies and individuals in creating better outcomes for all, Aditya Birla Group Chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said on Saturday. Birla was speaking at the 56th convocation of the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad (IIMA), which was organised virtually. "The pandemic and the past 12 months have again shone a spotlight on not just the role of governments, but also of societies, companies and individuals in creating better outcomes for all of us," Birla said in his address as the chief guest of the event. Birla, who is also the chairperson of the board of governors of IIMA, one of the country's premier B-schools, urged students to not think "unidimensionally" but also add "empathy and humility" to their thinking. "The reality is that you can't build businesses with spreadsheets. The most detailed business plans this year unravelled in the face of factory workers falling sick," he said. Supply chains came undone, as migrant labourers, who were silently powering them, retreated to their communities, he said, urging the graduating class not to get unidimensional in their thinking. "I don't see IQ and EQ as binary qualities, but rather as complementary traits that make a personality wholesome," he said. Expressing confidence that the collective human spirit will triumph over the pandemic, Birla said, "Hidden behind the stories of loss and valour, agony and awe, ruin and revival, is the power of the human spirit. A collective spirit that has enabled us to wrestle with this pandemic for over a year now." Birla further said that with companies and consumers embracing digitisation, the pandemic also encouraged innovation. The country's start-up ecosystem added 10 unicorns in our months of 2021, whose mix represents everything from interest in financial services to business enablers and need for human connectivity, he said. Birla said the graduating class of 2021 is in a unique position, having had the ability to take a student's dispassionate look at a world in turmoil to step into it and leave their mark "as a young leader whose intellectual appreciation of business problems is balanced by a compassionate understanding of the people involved". In his address, IIMA Director Errol D'Souza said this has been the most eventful year for the institute. The PGP batch of 2002 had also experienced a similar turn of events, with the 2001 earthquake and the 2002 riots. It had engulfed the city in the middle of the placement season and many recruiters were reluctant to come to the city for interviews, he said. As many as 605 students graduated this year, including 405 of the flagship two-year post-graduate programme in management and 140 of the one-year post-graduate programme in Management for Executives (MBA-PGPX), the institute said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-shines-spotlight-around-role-of-societies-companies-birla-983855.html
08-05-2021||National||229 taxmen died of Covid; Thakur says nation will remain grateful||Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Saturday condoled the death of 229 taxmen in the line of duty due to Covid-19 complications, saying the nation will always remain grateful to them. The minister said that as many as 110 officials of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) and 119 officials of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) have lost their lives in the line of duty amid the pandemic. "You are risking your lives in service of the nation in this hour of crisis and the nation is grateful for your service. It is because of your service that essential medical supplies such as oxygen cylinders and equipment are being swiftly cleared at various ports of entry. "It is because of your service that the wheels of the government system are running efficiently," the minister said. The Finance Ministry was one of the hardest hit ministries during the pandemic, Thakur said. "I also want to take a moment to remember 110 officers of CBIC and 119 officers of CBDT who have lost their lives in the line of duty. My heart goes out to their families and loved ones," the minister said and appealed to everyone to follow Covid-19 protocols and get vaccinated. The CBDT and the CBIC are primarily into revenue collection. The Finance Ministry has taken various steps, including setting up of testing camps at period interval and motivating officer and staff for vaccination. Besides, the ministry is coordinating with hospitals and medicine suppliers and oxygen supplier to help officers ans staff and their family members who may need help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/229-taxmen-died-of-covid-thakur-says-nation-will-remain-grateful-983858.html
08-05-2021||National||India received 2,060 oxygen concentrators, 3 oxygen generation plants as foreign aid on May 8||India received 2,060 oxygen concentrators, 30,000 vials of Remdesivir, 467 ventilators and three oxygen generation plants from US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), Switzerland, Poland, the Netherlands and Israel on Friday, the government said. An official statement of the Union Health Ministry released on Saturday said that India has been receiving international donations and aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27, 2021 from different countries and organisations. "Cumulatively, 6608 Oxygen Concentrators, 3856 Oxygen Cylinders, 14 Oxygen Generation Plants, 4330 ventilators/Bi PAP and about three lakh Remdesivir vials have been delivered/ dispatched, from April 27, 2021 to May 7, 2021," it said. Praising the global community for its support, the government said, "Reflecting the solidarity and goodwill towards India, the global community has extended a helping hand in supporting efforts of India in this collective fight against Covid19." It said the government has designed a streamlined and systematic mechanism for effective allocation, and prompt distribution and delivery of the support supplies received. "This will help to supplement the medical infrastructure of the tertiary care institutions and recipient States/UTs, and strengthen their clinical management capacities for effective clinical management of the hospitalised Covid-19 patients. "Effective immediate allocation, and streamlined delivery to the recipient states/UTs and institutions is an ongoing exercise. This is being comprehensively monitored by the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis," it said. The ministry informed that around 100 oxygen concentrators were dispatched from Delhi to Assam on Saturday while a German Mobile Oxygen Production and Filling System, producing 360.0 litres of 93 per cent oxygen for medical use, and having a reserve oxygen tank of 420 litres was transported to DRDO in the morning, for use in their health facilities. Ventilators received from the Netherlands are on way from Delhi to Telangana, it said. "A dedicated coordination cell has been created in the Union Health Ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign Covid relief material as grants, aid and donations. This cell started functioning from April 26, 2021. A standard operating procedure has been framed and implemented by the health ministry since May 2," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-received-2060-oxygen-concentrators-3-oxygen-generation-plants-as-foreign-aid-on-may-8-983862.html
08-05-2021||National||PIL in HC seeks drive-in vaccination centres in Delhi like Mumbai||A PIL was moved in the Delhi High Court on Saturday urging it to direct the Centre and the Delhi government to set up drive-in vaccination centres in open areas, including stadiums, as has been done in Mumbai. The plea by Delhi-based trader Amandeep Aggarwal seeks setting up of the drive-in vaccination centres, as done in Mumbai, to ensure citizens do not come into contact with each other and social distancing is maintained when people get vaccinated. The petition, filed through advocate Rushab Aggarwal, contends that the purpose of imposing a curfew or lockdown would be defeated if people are queuing or crowding at closed spaces like vaccination centres or hospitals to get vaccinated. The plea further contends that creating vaccination centres in open spaces would reduce the pressure on the medical staff and infrastructure at hospitals which are struggling to cater to the increasing number of Covid-19 patients in the national capital. "The drive-in vaccination centres will encourage people to get vaccinated at the earliest without compromising themselves from coming in contact with other citizens," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-hc-seeks-drive-in-vaccination-centres-in-delhi-like-mumbai-983863.html
08-05-2021||National||Rishabh Pant donates undisclosed amount to procure oxygen cylinders and Covid-related kits||India wicketkeeper batsman Rishabh Pant on Saturday joined the fight against the raging Covid-19 pandemic, pledging an undisclosed amount to procure oxygen cylinders with beds and kits for the affected patients. The 23-year-old said he will donate the amount to Hemkunt Foundation, a Gurugram-based NGO. "I am supporting the Hemkunt Foundation through a monetary donation that will help provide O2 cylinders with beds, Covid-relief kits and much more to those suffering across the country," Pant said in a statement posted on his Twitter handle. Pant saluted the country's frontline workers, who have been working tirelessly to help the coronavirus-infected people throughout the past year. "However, the cause of helping India overcome these unprecedented times needs all our collective efforts," he wrote. "One of the most important aspects I have learned from sport is the power of working together as a team for a common cause," said Pant, who captained Delhi Capitals in the now-suspended IPL. Essential supplies such as oxygen cylinders and ventilators, hospital beds and some crucial medicines are dwindling in the face of a devastating second wave of coronavirus which is killing more than 3000 people daily in the country. "The scale of despair across our country has been immense and something I have been deeply affected by. As someone who has seen personal loss up close, my heart goes out to all the families who have suffered over the past year and I pray for the souls of those who have left us," Pant said. "I am keen to work with organisations providing medical aid and support to rural India and non-metro cities, which do not have the capacity of medical infrastructure than that of the major cities." Pant asked people to come forward and join the fight against Covid-19. He also urged the people to get vaccinated. "I urge everyone to contribute in their own way so that we can help reach the remotest part of the country and spread awareness about Covid relief and vaccination programs being run by the central and state governments," he said. "Please remember to stay safe, follow safety protocols, and get vaccinated, when possible." Several cricketers, including Virat Kohli, Shikhar Dhawan, Jaydev Unadkat, Hardik Pandya and Pat Cummins have already made contributions to help India's fight against the unprecedented health crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rishabh-pant-donates-undisclosed-amount-to-procure-oxygen-cylinders-and-covid-related-kits-983866.html
08-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Migrant workers face food subsidy struggles amid pandemic, stick to cities||While the country’s first coronavirus wave and subsequent lockdowns forced migrant workers to line up in long queues and scramble home, the more ferocious second wave has brought its own set of problems for the labourers -- lack of food, invalid documentation and higher infection rates. According to a survey of 120 people in Ahmedabad conducted by Aajeevika Bureau, which works with migrant workers, many workers do not have valid documentation for the city they were living in and are likely to be the worst hit by lockdowns. The lack of key documentation keeps them from access to food subsidies and benefits they desperately need. The Centre had launched the One Nation, One Ration Card programme during last year’s migrant crisis to help workers benefit from public distribution scheme benefits even if they were not in their hometown. However, while the scheme was essentially good for workers, there were still some operational pitfalls and communication gaps that needed to be filled. “Workers face a lot of problems because of documentation,” says Vikas Kumar, a labour analyst working at the Aajeevika Bureau in Bengaluru. “Even after they have got registration, after they have received some ration, they were getting calls from their village PDS offices and were told that if they were getting ration from cities, their names would be removed back home.” There have been only 44,210 transactions under the scheme, according to information available on the Integrated Management of Public Distribution System portal. India has over 4.8 crore inter-state migrants, based on census data crunched by the World Bank. The other issue, according to Kumar, is that the Covid wave this time around is far more infectious and many more migrant labourers are contracting it as compared to the last time, calling for larger policy shifts for the informal sector that might take more time. However, he said many migrant workers had decided not to leave cities this time and weather the storm, as restrictions are not as severe as last time. Bengaluru’s migrants are not as badly hit as construction activities have been allowed to carry on during the two-week lockdown, slated to begin on May 10. R. Raja, who works to provide identity cards so migrant labourers can claim benefits under government schemes, said many of the city’s migrants share some of the issues with documentations faced in other parts of the country. “Many migrant workers don’t have proper documentation,” said Raja. “If they have an Aadhaar card, they don’t have the number to which it is linked. We try and help them get past those hurdles.” Several workers live together in shared rooms and may not always be able to follow Covid protocols while working, he added. Vikas Kumar says though the situation in Bengaluru is still under control as long as migrant labourers have work, they could be put under severe stress if the situation deteriorates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-migrant-workers-face-food-subsidy-struggles-amid-pandemic-stick-to-cities-983868.html
08-05-2021||National||SC allows plea to make Health Ministry party to PIL seeking steps to control population||The Supreme Court has allowed a plea to make the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare a party to a PIL that has sought certain steps, including two-child norm, to control the country's growing population. A bench of Justice Sanjiv Khanna passed the directions on May 7 on the plea filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay who had sought impleadment of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in place of the Ministry of Home Affairs in his PIL. "This application for impleadment of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in place of Ministry of Home Affairs is allowed, subject to all just exceptions," the bench said, while listing the matter for further hearing on July 5. Upadhyay had filed the PIL challenging a Delhi High Court order that dismissed a plea seeking certain steps, including two-child norm, to control the country's growing population. The Centre has earlier told the SC that India was unequivocally against forcing family planning on its people and any coercion to have a certain number of children was counter-productive and leads to demographic distortions. In an affidavit filed in the top court, the Centre had told the apex court that the family welfare programme in the country was voluntary in nature, which enabled couples to decide the size of their family and adopt family planning methods best suited to them, according to their choice and without any compulsion. The PIL said the high court failed to appreciate that the right to clean air, drinking water, health, peaceful sleep, shelter, livelihood, and education guaranteed under Articles 21 and 21A of the Constitution could not be secured to all citizens without controlling the population explosion. The plea in the high court had claimed that the population of India had “marched ahead” of China, as about 20 per cent of Indians did not have Aadhaar and therefore, were not accounted for, and there were also crores of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis living illegally in the country. It claimed that “population explosion was also the root cause of corruption”, apart from being a contributory factor behind heinous crimes like rape and domestic violence. It also held population explosion responsible for pollution and the dearth of resources and jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-plea-to-make-health-ministry-party-to-pil-seeking-steps-to-control-population-983872.html
08-05-2021||National||Dr Shivaram Karanth Layout: SC allows purchasers of sites for allotment; orders against demolition||The Supreme Court has said that purchasers of sites in Bengaluru's Dr Shivaram Karanth Layout were entitled to allotment provided they bought the land prior to its August 3, 2018 judgment. It directed for appointment of a committee of retired district judges within four months for examining the claims. In a big relief to site owners, a bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna also noted certain layouts were formed and approved by the Bangalore Development Authority, prior to the judgement and constructions were raised over there. "We are of the view that it is just and proper not to demolish constructions made in these lay-outs," the bench said, directing the BDA not to acquire lands in such lay-outs. The bench asked the Justice A V Chandrashekar Committee to examine the approvals granted to such layouts and submit a report to the court. The court allowed the purchasers of sites to get themselves registered in the BDA within four months. However, it clarified that these purchasers should not be owning any other residential property in Bengaluru and the surrounding vicinity. The top court had on August 3, 2018, passed the judgement directing the Bangalore Development Authority not to drop the land acquisition from the layout originally proposed in 2008, posing serious repercussions to those who built the houses over there. The court said the documents submitted by the applicants along with their applications for allotment of sites, the maximum size of 30 ft x 40 ft, would be referred by the Commissioner, BDA, to a committee of retired district judges, comprising of a Chairman and two Members, to examine the title deed and submit a report on the ownership. "The BDA would allot sites only to those applicants who are duly certified by this committee as the owners, subject to their satisfying other conditions of this order," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-shivaram-karanth-layout-sc-allows-purchasers-of-sites-for-allotment-orders-against-demolition-983877.html
08-05-2021||National||Need to step up measures for well-being, protection of children during Covid-19 second wave: SC judge||Apex court judge and chairperson of the Supreme Court Juvenile Justice Committee S Ravindra Bhat Saturday said there was a need to step up measures to ensure better care, protection and well-being of children during the second wave of Covid-19. He made the remarks during a review meeting held by the Juvenile Justice Committee of the Supreme Court to take stock of actions taken by various states on care, protection and wellbeing of children during this Covid-19 wave. In the meeting, held in coordination with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), possible measures and actions that need to be taken to ensure that every child in need gets appropriate care and protection during this time, were also deliberated upon. Bhat said some children have lost either one or both parents to Covid-19 and there are many without parental supervision and care when their parents are in hospital or under medical care. "These children are more vulnerable now than ever before. Concerted efforts should be made by all the key stakeholders to ensure the care and protection of children during the second wave of Covid," he said. He suggested developing a mechanism to address interim care and needs of orphan, separated, or unaccompanied children, including clear guidance on steps to be taken in the event such a child has been exposed or has symptoms of the virus and requires a period of isolation and treatment. He further emphasised that caregivers and employees of care institutions - both government-managed and private - should be vaccinated, as frontline professionals and also that the services of these institutions should be declared as essential services. Some key priorities outlined by Justice Bhat were - screening and medical care for the children in the institutional care, provision of emergency medicine, supplies, emergency access to hospitals, and a roster of doctors available for tele-consultation for reach CCIs and on priority, vaccination of all staff working in the Child Care Institutions and other frontline Child Protection workers. Nomination of state and district level nodal officers empowered to take decisions and constitute a task force for rapid emergency response for children during Covid-19 was also highlighted. On the needs of orphaned children, he reiterated that a coordinated response, in each district, by a committee to ensure temporary foster homes as well as gather and secure all information relating to the deceased parent or parent, for future use should be set up. Each district CWC should compile all the details of such children, and their needs, it was emphasised. Justice Bhat also stated that "prevention of and response to the second wave of Covid surge requires close coordination and collaboration between child protection system and health system, a multi-sectoral response ensures that children and caregivers' needs are addressed holistically and it leads to a better outcome for children". In the review meeting, judges of all high courts and officials of various states and union territories presented the measures which are being undertaken for care, protection, and well-being of the children during the second wave of Covid. Some of the measures by the state and union territories were setting up a state-level nodal officers and district task force for rapid response for care and protection children during the current pandemic, sponsorship for the children lost parents or the bread earners lost income or facing economic hardship. High Court juvenile justice committees represented by judges, as well as state and union territories also highlighted the measures they are taking to stop the spread of Covid-19 in child care institutions and the medical treatment and care of the children who contracted the disease. Aastha Khatwani, joint secretary in the Ministry of Women and Child Development, said, "Considering the emergency need, the ministry has issued the advisory to stop illegal adoption and care and protection of the children who have lost one either or both the parents to Covid." She further added that the ministry has developed clear, coordinated, easy to understand, community messaging on children's unique risks, vulnerabilities and need of care and protection during Covid-19, and these messages are disseminated and broadcast through social media and other channels. Vandhana Kandhari, child protection specialist of UNICEF India highlighted that "efforts to pre-emptively scale up the capacity of family-based care and social protection systems are critical to enhance family resilience and prevent unnecessary recourse to residential care". Kandhari added that in order to provide interim care to the children, extended family members, trusted friends, good neighbours and or community members can be declared 'fit person'. The review meeting was held with the chairpersons and members of juvenile justice committees of various high courts and was also attended by officials of Departments of Women and Child Development, Social Welfare and Health from various states and union territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-step-up-measures-for-well-being-protection-of-children-during-covid-19-second-wave-sc-judge-983888.html
08-05-2021||National||Sudha Murty, Azim Premji to address lecture series being coordinated by RSS||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Wipro Group founder Azim Premji and Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murty are among the speakers of a lecture series to infuse confidence in people to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The series titled 'Positivity Unlimited' will be held over five days, beginning May 11, and it is being coordinated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The RSS and its affiliates in association with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, and spiritual organisations have started a 'Covid Response Team' (CRT), the Sangh's Delhi Unit publicity in-charge, Ritesh Agarwal, said in a statement. This team is organising the lecture series titled 'Positivity Unlimited' to infuse confidence in the common man to fight the pandemic, he said. Lt Gen (retd) Gurmit Singh is the convener of the CRT while Ramesh Agarwal of Agarwal Packers and Movers is its co-convener, Rakesh Agarwal said. The statement said that as part of the series various renowned personalities such as Wipro Group founder Azim Premji, Infosys foundation chairperson Sudha Murty, Sri Sri Ravishankar of Art of Living, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev of Isha Foundation and several other spritual leaders will address the people. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will also be one of the speakers of this lecture series, it said. The purpose behind organising this lecture series is to inject positivity, unite the society and infuse confidence in the people in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, RSS office bearer Rakesh Agarwal said. The CRT has established nine isolation centres and a 500-bed facility equipped with medical oxygen, the statement said. Seven oxygen vans are being operated by the CRT to provide oxygen to people in Delhi and it has been also providing food to the 28,000 Covid-19 infected families, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sudha-murty-azim-premji-to-address-lecture-series-being-coordinated-by-rss-983902.html
08-05-2021||National||Fungal infection cases rising in second phase of pandemic, warn Maharashtra, Gujarat doctors||Cases of mucormycosis, a fungal infection, are rising among Covid-19 survivors, causing blindness or serious illness and even death in some cases, health officials in Maharashtra and Gujarat said on Saturday. The cost of treatment for this disease is also a matter of concern, some doctors said. Mathur Savani, chairman of Surat-based Kiran Super Multi-speciality Hospital, said mucormycosis patients are coming to his hospital from Surat district as well as other parts of Gujarat. "Fifty mucormycosis patients are being treated at our hospital and 60 more are awaiting (treatment). They all came to our hospital in the last three weeks and have recovered from Covid-19 recently," Savani told PTI. Seven such patients lost eyesight, he said. The civil hospital in Surat has set up a separate facility for such patients, said in-charge Resident Medical Officer (RMO) Dr Ketan Naik. In Ahmedabad, at least five mucormycosis patients are being operated upon every day at the civil hospital at Asarva, a senior doctor said. "We are receiving five to 10 such cases (daily), especially since the second wave of Covid-19 started," said Dr Devang Gupta, ENT specialist at the hospital. "At least one out of five cases is related to eyes. Several of them are suffering from blindness," he said. In Maharashtra, at least eight Covid-19 survivors have died due to mucormycosis while 200 others are being treated, said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, who heads the Directorate of Medical Education and Research of the state government. "They survived Covid-19 but the fungal infection attacked their weakened immune system," Dr Lahane told PTI. This disease is not new, but it is on rise among Covid-19 patients because the use of steroids elevates sugar level and some medicines suppress the immunity of these patients, he said. "In such a situation, the fungus infects the patient easily. If it reaches the brain, it can prove fatal. In one such case, one of the eyes of a patient had to be removed permanently to save his life," Dr Lahane said. The fungus, also called `black fungus', is present in the environment, but those with suppressed immunity or co- morbidities are more vulnerable to its infection, he said. Symptoms of mucormycosis include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision, Dr Lahane said. Speaking about treatment, he said, "A patient generally needs a type of injection for 21 days. The basic cost of this injection is around Rs 9,000 per day." Dr Hetal Marfatia, professor and head of the ENT department at the government-run KEM hospital in Mumbai, said a surge in mucormycosis cases is being witnessed in the last two weeks. "On average, two or three such patients are visiting the hospital every day," he said. Many of these patients come from outside Mumbai and cannot afford the treatment cost, he said. During the first phase of the Covid-19 pandemic the fungal infection typically came to light a couple of weeks after patients were discharged, Dr Marfatia said. "But now, some patients are contracting this infection while undergoing Covid-19 treatment," he added. Niti Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul on Friday had said that mucormycosis cases were being found in patients with Covid-19. "It is caused by a fungus named mucor, which is found on wet surfaces. It, to a large extent, is happening to people who have diabetes. It is very uncommon in those who are not diabetic. There is no big outbreak and we are monitoring it," he said at a press conference after a hospital in Delhi flagged rising cases. "When a patient is on oxygen support, it should be ensured that water does not leak from the humidifier (to prevent the growth of the fungus)," he said, while also calling for "a rational usage" of steroids and medicines such as Tocilizumab to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fungal-infection-cases-rising-in-second-phase-of-pandemic-warn-maharashtra-gujarat-doctors-983904.html
08-05-2021||National||Tankers carrying oxygen exempted from paying toll fee on national highways||Tankers and containers ferrying liquid medical oxygen have been exempted from user fee at toll plazas across national highways for the next two months, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) announced on Saturday. “In order to provide uninterrupted passage for tankers and containers carrying Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) across national highways, the user fee for such vehicles at toll plazas has been exempted,” NHAI said. It said that containers carrying LMO will be treated at par with other emergency vehicles such as ambulances for a period of two months or till further orders. Although toll plazas have nearly zero waiting time after implementation of FASTag, NHAI said it is already providing priority passage to such vehicles for quick and seamless transportation of medical oxygen. “Instructions have also been issued by NHAI to all its officials and other stakeholders to assist the government and private efforts to fight the pandemic in helping them in a pro-active manner,” it said. The NHAI said during the ongoing crisis, the timely delivery of LMO to hospitals and medical centres is of paramount importance to save the lives of patients critically affected by Covid-19. It said the exemption of payment of user fee at toll plazas will ensure faster movement of medical oxygen on the national highways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tankers-carrying-oxygen-exempted-from-paying-toll-fee-on-national-highways-983905.html
08-05-2021||National||Allowing religious intolerance not good for a secular country, says HC||The Madras High Court has said allowing religious intolerance is not good for a secular country and 'resistance' by one religious group if reciprocated by another, could lead to chaos and riots. A bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and P Velmurugan made the remarks while hearing an appeal over the conduct of temple processions by villagers at V Kalathur in Perambalur district in Tamil Nadu on a specified route, objected to by local Muslims. It was 'evident' from the affidavit of the third respondent, Deputy Superintendent of Police, "that three days festival of the aforesaid temples were peacefully conducted till the year 2011 and only from the year 2012 onwards the Muslims started objecting to some of the Hindu festivals, terming them as Sins," the court said in a recent order. The petitioner approached police, seeking protection for conducting temple festivals and processions, which was given with restrictions. The judges noted that before 2012, temple processions were conducted through all the streets in the village and that there was no problem. Even from the year 2012 to 2015, processions were taken out through all the streets and roads which have been approved by this Court, but later objections were raised. As per Section 180-A of the District Municipalities Act 1920, roads or streets should be used as access to the people, irrespective of their religion, caste or creed. "Merely because one religious group is dominating in a particular locality, it cannot be a ground to prohibit from celebrating religious festivals or taking processions of other religious groups through those roads," the court said. "If religious intolerance is going to be allowed, it is not good for a secular country. Intolerance in any form by any religious group has to be curtailed and prohibited." "In this case, intolerance of a particular religious group is exhibited by objecting for the festivals which have been conducted for decades together and the procession through the streets and roads of the village are sought to be prohibited, stating that the area is dominated by Muslims and therefore, there cannot be any Hindu festival or procession through the locality," the judges noted. India is a secular country and merely because one religious group is living in majority in a particular area, it cannot be a reason for not allowing other religious festivals or processions through that area. If the contention of the private respondent is to be accepted, then it would create a situation in which "minority people cannot conduct any festival or procession in most of the areas in India," the court said. "If resistance is being exhibited by one religious group and it is reciprocated by the other religious groups, there would be chaos, riots, religious fights, causing loss of lives and destruction of properties," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allowing-religious-intolerance-not-good-for-a-secular-country-says-hc-983915.html
08-05-2021||National||PM Modi's actions inexcusable: Lancet slams Centre for 'precipitating' Covid-19 crisis||The Narendra Modi government on Saturday came under sharp attack from Lancet medical journal, which blamed the government for precipitating the public health crisis caused by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Quoting an estimate made by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, the journal in an editorial said India may witness more than one million Covid-19 deaths by August 1 and if that outcome were to happen, the Modi government would be responsible for presiding over a self-inflicted national catastrophe. "Modi's actions in attempting to stifle criticism and open discussion during the crisis are inexcusable,” the Lancet said, asserting that the federal government has an essential role in explaining to the public the necessity of masking, social distancing, halting mass gatherings, voluntary quarantine, and testing. The sharp criticism of the Modi government by the Lancet comes on a day India’s active caseload crossed the 37 lakh-mark, of which more than four lakh new cases were added in the last 24 hours. In the same period, 4,187 new deaths were recorded setting up a grim record. Despite warnings about the risks of superspreader events, the government allowed religious festivals to go ahead, drawing millions of people from around the country, along with huge political rallies—conspicuous for their lack of Covid-19 mitigation measures, it said. “The message that Covid-19 was essentially over also slowed the start of India's Covid-19 vaccination campaign, which has vaccinated less than 2% of the population.” The Indian Medical Association too attacked the government in a sharply worded statement for its failure to handle the crisis. Asking the Union health ministry to wake up from slumber, the IMA said even after 15 days of the crisis, the government was not seen at the forefront to solve such issues resulting in people knocking at the doors of courts to get justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-actions-inexcusable-lancet-slams-centre-for-precipitating-covid-19-crisis-983916.html
08-05-2021||National||EU and India agree to restart trade talks at 'landmark' summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called upon the European Union’s leaders to support the proposal for a temporary patent waiver on anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines, even as India and the 27-nation-bloc agreed to relaunch negotiation for the Free Trade Agreement after a gap of eight years. Modi and the leaders of the 27 EU nations had a virtual meeting and agreed to resume negotiations for “a balanced, ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial trade agreement, which would respond to the current challenges”. They also agreed to launch parallel negotiations on separate agreements for protection of investments and geographical indications. Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel, the Presidents of the European Commission and European Council respectively, also attended the summit, which was held on the sideline of a social summit, which was convened and hosted by Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa. The EU has been opposing the proposal mooted by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a temporary waiver from the Intellectual Property Rights protection on the anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines. Notwithstanding President Joe Biden’s administration’s recent decision to reverse the US stand and support the proposal for the waiver at the WTO, the European Council’s President earlier on Saturday said that the waiver was not a “magic bullet” that could ensure “equitable, affordable and timely access” for all to the antidote against the virus. Modi, however, called upon the EU leaders during the virtual meeting to support the proposal for the IPR protection waiver on the drugs and the vaccines required to contain the pandemic caused by Covid-19. Michel and von der Leyen later said that the EU was willing to discuss any concrete proposal at the WTO. The negotiation between India and the EU for a trade and investment agreement went on for six years before hitting an impasse in 2013. As the two sides failed to reconcile differences over market access for some goods and services, government procurement, geographical indications, and investment protection rules, the negotiation remained suspended over the past eight years. The Prime Minister and his counterparts in the EU nations on Saturday agreed to split the negotiations to run on three different tracks. Apart from restarting stalled negotiations for an agreement on trade in goods and services, they also decided to start talks for a stand-alone investment protection treaty as well as a separate pact on geographical indications, which could be concluded separately or integrated into the trade agreement, according to the joint statement issued by the two sides after the virtual meeting. The EU was India’s largest trading partner in goods 2019-20, ahead of China and the United States, with total trade close to $90 billion. Modi and the EU leaders also agreed on a comprehensive and ambitious Connectivity Partnership between India and the 27-nation-bloc. It would cover digital, energy, transport and people-to-people connectivity. It was the first time that the leaders of the 27 EU nations as well as the Presidents of the European Commission and Council had a meeting with the Prime Minister of India. Modi and Costa wrote a joint article, which was published by news portal Politico on Saturday, just ahead of the virtual meeting. Costa’s ancestors lived in Goa in India. During the virtual meeting on Saturday, he displayed his passport issued by the Portugal Government as well as the Overseas Citizen of India card issued by the Government of India. French President Emmanuel Macron and other EU leaders lauded India for providing drugs during the early days of the pandemic as well as for supplying vaccines to other nations. He said that India did not need to “listen to lectures from anyone” about sharing anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines. Modi thanks the EU leaders for the support provided by them to deal with the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eu-and-india-agree-to-restart-trade-talks-at-landmark-summit-983923.html
08-05-2021||National||Tech transfers, supply of materials must to scale up vaccine production: Bharat Biotech joint MD||Partnerships, technology transfers and supply of various critical equipment and materials which go into the production of COVID-19 vaccines are must for scaling up the production to cater to the huge demand, Bharat Biotech Joint MD Suchitra Ella said on Saturday. Speaking at the EU-India Business Roundtable, Ella noted that more than patent relaxations, it is the partnerships and continuous supplies of critical materials which are critical to ramp up the production and cater not only to domestic demand but also to countries across the globe. She noted that collaborations are necessary to cater to vaccination needs of a huge country like India. "We are registering it (Covaxin) in the US and we would be glad to do that in Europe... So, we would be happy to collaborate and to partner with companies and academic institutions from EU. "India is a large country, we cannot vaccinate 2.6 billion (twin dosages for 1.3 billion people) of our population, that needs it in this point in time," Ella said. Even a two billion-odd number of dosages is something which is just not doable for any nation, she added. "I know that we all know this and understand the crux of it. But, I am sure we can bring in more technologies or maybe patents can be relaxed a bit and we as Indian manufacturers would be able to pitch in and run with new technologies and deploy them in our facilities," Ella said. She further said, "We can deploy mRNA technology, subunit vaccines and the whole gamut of biological material, and may a technology transfer." That is all that is required to have enough capacity in India to deliver vaccines not only in the country but also to maybe the rest of the world at the earliest possible time, Ella added. Bharat Biotech is willing to join hands with organisations in this regard, Ella said adding that the company's past track is a proof that it respects partnerships. "We value partnerships and we ensure the knowledge sharing and mutual handholding go a long way in developing many many life-saving solutions not only for India but for global markets," she noted. Ella added that the vaccine major has worked successfully with various organisations earlier to roll out around 6-8 products. "We look at technology as the backbone of our company. We know that we will not exist if we do not have value systems like this," she added. While acknowledging the importance of knowledge sharing and partnerships with the European Union (EU), she also pointed out blockages in supply of certain critical equipment and materials necessary for Covaxin production from the region. "There are process equipment which are backlogged in Europe right now. It is not a complaint, I am just saying that the amount of quantities we are ordering is probably throwing the supplies off. "These are unprecedented numbers. So, I think it is important to share knowledge, technology and to respect each other's area or interest," Ella said. She noted that the vaccine manufacturers in the country needed the raw materials in enormous quantities so that the production of the COVID-19 vaccine could be enhanced. "I want to reiterate that patents are important but I don't see them as a huge challenge right now. "What we need is technology transfers and certain materials for vaccine production which come for Europe," Ella said when asked if relaxations in patents would help vaccine manufacturers. Bharat Biotech is in the process of ramping up manufacturing capacity of Covaxin to 70 crore dosages per annum. Facing the world's fastest-growing coronavirus outbreak, India has seen a near collapse of its health care system in several parts as hospitals ran out of oxygen and did not have enough beds to admit new patients. To deal with the crisis, the government has among other measures opened up vaccination for all above 18 years. But, the procurement of vaccines for those between 18 and 44 years has been left to states and private hospitals. This has led to state after state rushing to vaccine makers who can meet only a small part of the demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tech-transfers-supply-of-materials-must-to-scale-up-vaccine-production-bharat-biotech-joint-md-983927.html
08-05-2021||National||PM Modi seeks EU support on Covid-19 drugs, vaccines' patent waiver||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called upon the European Union’s leaders to support the proposal for temporary patent waiver on anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines, even as India and the 27-nation-bloc agreed to relaunch negotiation for the Free Trade Agreement after a gap of eight years. Modi and the leaders of the 27 EU nations had a virtual meeting and agreed to resume negotiations for “a balanced, ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial trade agreement, which would respond to the current challenges”. They also agreed to launch parallel negotiations on separate agreements for the protection of investments and geographical indications. Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel, the Presidents of the European Commission and European Council respectively, also attended the summit, which was held on the sideline of a social summit, which was convened and hosted by the Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa. The EU has been opposing the proposal mooted by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a temporary waiver from the Intellectual Property Rights protection on the anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines. Notwithstanding President Joe Biden’s administration’s recent decision to reverse the US stand and support the proposal for the waiver at the WTO, the European Council’s President earlier on Saturday said the waiver was not a “magic bullet” that could ensure “equitable, affordable and timely access” for all to the antidote against the virus. Modi, however, called upon the EU leaders to support the proposal for the IPR protection waiver on the drugs and the vaccines required to contain the pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Michel and von der Leyen later said the EU was willing to discuss any concrete proposal at the WTO. The prime minister and his counterparts in the EU nations on Saturday agreed to split the negotiations to run on three different tracks. Apart from restarting stalled negotiations for an agreement on trade in goods and services, they also decided to start talks for a standalone investment protection treaty as well as a separate pact on geographical indications, which could be concluded separately or integrated into the trade agreement, according to the joint statement issued by the two sides after the virtual meeting. The leaders also agreed on a comprehensive and ambitious Connectivity Partnership between India and the 27-nation-bloc. It would cover digital, energy, transport and people-to-people connectivity. It was the first time that the leaders of the 27 EU nations as well as the Presidents of the European Commission and Council had a meeting with the Prime Minister of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-seeks-eu-support-on-covid-19-drugs-vaccines-patent-waiver-983933.html
08-05-2021||National||At India’s funeral pyres, Covid sunders the rites of grief||The lifeless are picked up from infected homes by exhausted volunteers, piled into ambulances by hospital workers or carried in the back of auto-rickshaws by grieving relatives. At the cremation grounds, where the fires only briefly cool off late at night, relatives wait hours for their turn to say goodbye. The scenes are photographed, filmed, broadcast. They are beamed to relatives under lockdown across India. They are shown on news sites and newspapers around the world, putting India’s personal tragedies on display to a global audience. Local residents record the fires from their roofs to show the world why they must wear masks even inside their homes. The smoke and smell of death is so constant, so thick, that it covers the narrow lanes for much of the day, seeping through shuttered windows. The flames bear witness to the devastation wrought by India’s Covid-19 crisis. They show the losses in a country where the dead and infected are widely believed to be grossly undercounted. They stand as a rebuke to a government accused of mismanagement by many of its people. Beyond the images, the cremation grounds bear a painful routine of trauma that will weigh on families long after the headlines fade. The pandemic has stripped the final rites of their usual space and dignity. Instead, this intimate ritual has become both a public display, with the world watching India’s crisis, and a lonely burden. Traditionally, relatives would gather to share their grief. Now, fear of infection keeps most loved ones away — or, in some cases, all of them. “I couldn’t even show my family members those last moments,” said Mittain Panani, a 46-year-old business owner. He and his brother were the only attendees at his father’s cremation in Mumbai last week. His mother remained in the hospital with her own infection. “You could have everything: money, power, influence,” he said. “Even with that, you could do nothing. It felt disgusting.” The virus has spread so fast, with India sometimes recording over 400,000 new cases a day, that no corner of the country remains unaffected. But the devastation has been particularly severe in New Delhi, with more than 300 deaths a day by official figures, a likely undercount. “I used to get six to eight bodies each day before the pandemic,” Jitender Singh Shunty, the founder of a volunteer organization that runs the Seemapuri cremation grounds in eastern New Delhi, said last week. “Now, I am getting around 100 bodies every day for cremation.” Through his organization, the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal, the former businessman has been providing free or discounted cremations for the poor for 25 years. As demand has soared, Shunty’s team of full-time workers has struggled. It has added dozens of new pyres in the adjacent field. During the day, Shunty helps ferry bodies and arrange cremations, changing his protective gown, masks and gloves dozens of times. At night, he sleeps in his car — his own wife and two sons are sick at home. Three drivers are down with the virus. His manager is in intensive care. “But there are about 16 of us still left, and we are working day and night,” he said. “It’s 8:30 a.m. I have received 22 calls for picking up bodies already.” Hindu tradition stipulates cremation as the preferred disposal method for the dead. In a belief focused on the liberation of the soul, cremation breaks attachment to the physical body. After death, the eldest son typically leads a procession of close male relatives carrying the body to the pyre. A Hindu priest, or pandit, leads final prayers before the fire is lit. Ashes are strewn in the Ganges or another holy river, and mourners gather at home to remember and to perform prayer rituals. Families are instructed to collect the ashes right away, to avoid mix-ups. Unclaimed ashes, Shunty said, are kept for up to two months, then poured into the Ganges. “Flames rising from pyres, people wearing PPE and everyone covered in plastic — it felt like the end of the world,” said Dimple Kharbanda, a movie producer who flew to New Delhi last week from Mumbai to arrange the final rites for her father, Dharamvir Kharbanda. The retired businessman had not had Covid-19, but his rites were blighted by the pandemic. Dimple Kharbanda begged relatives, including her father’s sister in a neighbouring state, not to come to Delhi because of the danger of infection. “Those private moments when you want to say goodbye to your loved ones, in private, are being denied,” she said. “Death has become a spectacle.” The sister, Poonam Sikri, watched the funeral on a family video call. “When someone in India dies, we gather and talk about them, their life, their habits, the good things about them. We couldn’t do even that,” Sikri said about her brother. “When I watched his cremation on the phone, I felt a part of my body was being removed. I wanted to caress his head and rub his face and hug him one last time. I could not do that.” For families of Covid-19 victims, the cremation ground can be the last stop of a harrowing ordeal, after dragging their sick from hospital to hospital in search of a bed, after lining up for hours for oxygen. Before the body of Darwan Singh arrived at Seemapuri — the token given to his family indicated that he was No. 41 in line — the family had done all they could to save the 56-year-old guesthouse guard. His fever had persisted. His oxygen level had dropped to a dangerous 42%. For two days, the family could find him neither a hospital bed nor an oxygen cylinder. When they found one, said his nephew, Kuldeep Rawat, he received oxygen for one hour before the hospital ran out. The family took Singh home for the night. The next day, they waited for five hours in the parking lot of another hospital. The family paid a bribe of about $70 to get his uncle a bed at a free government hospital, Rawat said. Singh died overnight. With Seemapuri fully booked, the hospital couldn’t immediately hand over the body. On April 25, it was piled onto an ambulance with five others and taken there. Rawat said he had to go inside the ambulance to identify his uncle, then move him inside the crematory, where they waited for five hours before his turn at the pyre. The cost: $25 for material needed for the final prayer, $34 for wood, $14 in fees for the pandit and $5 for the PPE kit for family members. Rawat said his uncle’s family — mother, wife, daughter, son — were infected. Relatives could not come to the house for mourning and offered their condolences by phone. “And I am still in isolation,” Rawat said, fearing that he had been infected during the final rites. For families living around the crematories, there is no escaping the constant reminder of death as they await what feels like their own inevitable infection. In Sunlight Colony, a neighbourhood of shanty homes and apartments which abuts the Seemapuri cremation grounds, smoke is so constant that many are forced to wear masks inside. Children are given hot water to gargle before bedtime. Laundry is dried indoors. “Our kitchen is upstairs — it’s unbearable in there,” said Waseem Qureishi, whose mother and six siblings live in a two-bedroom house still under construction next to Seemapuri. “If the wind’s direction is toward our home, it’s worse.” Anuj Bhansal, an ambulance driver who lives near the Ghazipur crematory, also in eastern New Delhi, said he was worried about his four children, aged 7 to 12. Bhansal said that as the cremations reached as many as 100 a day, the neighborhood’s children would run to a nearby garbage hill and watch. “When they look at flames and smoke coming out of the cremation ground, they ask why it is not ending,” Bhansal said. “They can hardly understand what is going on.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-india-s-funeral-pyres-covid-sunders-the-rites-of-grief-983956.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||Total collapse of governance: Moily slams Centre over Covid pandemic handling||Slamming the Centre over its handling of the second wave of Covid-19 infections, senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Saturday alleged there is a "total collapse of governance" and an "absence of a national strategy" for providing medical essentials such as hospital beds, oxygen and ventilators to combat the pandemic. Asserting that there is a need to treat the current scenario as a war-like situation, Moily alleged there is no proper policy on oxygen allocation to states for combating the emerging situation. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the country hard and there are numerous hot spots in the country in states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, the former Union minister said. In a statement, he also said, the second wave has also hit the rural areas in its worst form. "It is quite shocking that the Government of India and many of the states are quite insensitive and totally unprepared both in the first and the second wave. The third wave is just knocking at the doors. The third wave, it is said by experts, will be targeting children," Moily claimed. Hitting out at the Centre, Moily said no national policy has been worked out or any strategy for providing beds, supply of oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators and even basic medicines to combat the dreaded pandemic. "The present requirement of oxygen is yet to be met, forget about creating buffer stocks. Nothing is done to end oxygen shortage. There is no proper policy for oxygen allocation to states to combat the emerging situation," he alleged. The Congress leader said the time has come to call the services of the defence forces for building the requisite infrastructure on a war footing. All the oil companies also may be geared to produce oxygen, the former petroleum minister said. "The Prime Minister should have been the commander in such a situation and led the battle against the pandemic from the front. Instead, he has left the position to his bureaucrats. He and his home minister took the command of the political battle in the elections," Moily said, referring to the poll campaigning in the assembly elections held recently in four states and a Union territory. "Universal immunisation is yet to be announced. The government should come out with insurance coverage for those who cannot be covered under the present immunisation programme with proper medical coverage," the Congress leader demanded. "There is a total absence of governance and we are proving to the world that our nation is most inefficient in handling the present situation," he said.   The government allowed religious functions and election battles to go on in spite of being aware of the second wave of Covid-19, Moily alleged. "What is now required is to treat it like a war-like situation. There is a total collapse of governance. Even small amendments like exemption of GST for oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment are not done," he said. Hospital bed strength should be increased on a war footing along with provision for ICUs and ventilators, and the supply of oxygen and basic medicines should be ensured, Moily said. There is only one hope on the horizon that the Supreme Court and High Courts are sending the right signals to alert the government and to make it work, he said. A record 4,187 Covid-19 fatalities in a day took India's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported during the period, pushing the tally of cases to 2,18,92,676, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/total-collapse-of-governance-moily-slams-centre-over-covid-pandemic-handling-983751.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena slams Modi government for Central Vista project amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Shiv Sena on Saturday said that while smaller countries in the neighbourhood are offering help to India to tackle Covid-19, the Modi government is not even ready to stop the work of the multi-crore Central Vista project. The party also said that the system created in the past 70 years by previous prime ministers, including Pandit Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Manmohan Singh, has helped the country live through the tough times that it is facing today. "The UNICEF has expressed fear that there is a threat to the world from India due to the pace at which coronavirus is spreading in the country. It has also made an appeal that the maximum number of countries should help India in the fight against Covid-19. Bangladesh has sent 10,000 Remdesivir vials, while Bhutan has sent medical oxygen. Nepal, Myanmar and Sri Lanka have also offered help to 'Aatmanirbhar' India," the Sena said in an editorial in its mouthpiece 'Saamana'. "In clear terms, India is surviving on the system created by Nehru-Gandhi. Many poor countries are offering help to India. Earlier, countries like Pakistan, Rwanda and Congo used to get help from others. But due to the wrong policies of today's rulers, India is going through that situation now," it said. But while poor countries are helping India in their own way, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not ready to stop the ambitious project of Central Vista worth Rs 20,000 crore, the Sena added. The party expressed surprise that nobody feels regret that on the one hand, India accepts aid from countries like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Bhutan, while on the other, Modi is not ready to stop work on the multi-crore Central Vista project for the construction of a new Parliament building and the house of the prime minister. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista - the power corridor of the country - envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The Sena said that even as the world is battling a second wave of Covid-19, experts have predicted that the third wave will be more severe. But the ruling BJP is doing all it can to corner Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal even today. "A sensitive and a nationalist government would not have thought about the political pros and cons and set up a national panel of all main political parties to discuss ways to defeat the pandemic," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. BJP MP Subramanian Swamy has demanded that Union minister Nitin Gadkari be given the charge of the health ministry and this is a proof that the current union health ministry has been a complete failure, it added. India has reported the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the last 10 days. Globally, one out of the five active patients is in India. In the last ten days, 36,110 deaths have occurred. Every hour, there are 150 Covid-19 deaths in the country. We have left USA and Brazil behind in terms of deaths due to the virus. The world fears India now, the Sena said. According to it, several countries have stopped their citizens from travelling to India and our country is bearing the economic brunt of the pandemic. "The country is presently surviving thanks to the development works, projects set up by and the confidence given by the previous governments of PanditNehru, (Lal Bahadur) Shastri, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, P V Narasimha Rao, Manmohan Singh," it said. The prime minister will have to do a lot of hard work and think of non-political nationalism to help the country come out of the pandemic, it said. On Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had attacked the Union government over the Central Vista project, terming it a "criminal wastage" and asked the dispensation to focus on people's lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-slams-modi-government-for-central-vista-project-amid-covid-19-pandemic-983755.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||Covid-19 crisis result of Centre doing no work in last 6 months: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that the Covid-19 crisis in the country has become so severe because of the inaction of the BJP led Government at the Centre. Addressing the Assembly for the first time after becoming the Chief Minister for the third consecutive term, Mamata further alleged that despite the crisis the leaders of the ruling party at the Centre were preoccupied with their desperate effort to capture Bengal. Lashing out at the Centre the Chief Minister alleged that even with the expenditure of Rs 30,000 crore, Covid-19 vaccines could be provided to everyone for free. “Even though providing Rs 30,000 crore is nothing for the Centre, instead they spent Rs 50,000 crore for building statues, new Parliament, aircraft for the Prime Minister. Their priority should have been vaccination but clearly it’s not,” said Mamata. The Chief Minister said that even as she told the Centre in February that her Government was willing to purchase vaccines on its own expenditure but did not receive any response. Lashing out at the Election Commission (EC) she alleged that in some place in the State polls were rigged under direct watch of the poll panel. “I can challenge that without the EC’s help the BJP could not win even 30 seats. They are refusing to accept the people’s mandate and are trying to incite violence by spreading fake videos,” said Mamata. She instructed the State administration and police to take stern action against those who are inciting violence and communal tension in Bengal. The Chief Minister alleged that the BJP in their desperation to establish “double engine government” - being in power at the Centre and in Bengal - they have pushed the country to the verge of ruin. “For the last six months the Centre did not do anything as they (Union Ministers) were coming here everyday to capture Bengal,” said Mamata. “What crime has Bengal committed? Why this step-motherly attitude? Within 24 hours after I took oath the Centre sent a team… They are unable to accept the people’s victory,” said Mamata. Taking potshots at the BJP, she said that the TMC gave a fitting reply to their slogan of “double engine government” by scoring a “double century” in the Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-crisis-result-of-centre-doing-no-work-in-last-6-months-mamata-banerjee-983758.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||PM Modi speaks to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Covid-19 situation in state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Modi has been interacting with chief ministers over the telephone for the last couple of days to take stock of the pandemic situation in their states. Maharashtra has been the worst-affected state during the second wave of Covid-19 infections. Though some of its cities, including Mumbai, have seen consistent improvement, the situation in many parts of the state remains of concern. The state recorded over 54,000 new cases of Covid-19 in a day, according to the latest update.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-speaks-to-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-on-covid-19-situation-in-state-983775.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||Shivraj Singh Chouhan slams Hemant Soren for his remarks against Narendra Modi||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday condemned his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren's recent remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and said that he has lowered the dignity of the post he holds through his comments. Soren, in a tweet on Thursday night following a telephonic conversation with Modi over the Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand, had taken a dig at the prime minister, saying that he only spoke "Mann ki Baat" and that it would have been better if he had discussed business. आज आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने फोन किया। उन्होंने सिर्फ अपने मन की बात की। बेहतर होता यदि वो काम की बात करते और काम की बात सुनते। Taking to Twitter, Chouhan said, "Hemant Soren ji has lowered the dignity of the chief minister's post by making comments against Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji. No chief minister has ever used such lowest level of language against the PM." प्रधानमंत्री श्री नरेंद्र मोदी जी के लिए हेमंत सोरेन जी अमर्यादित भाषा का प्रयोग कर मुख्यमंत्री पद की गरिमा को धूमिल कर रहे हैं, किसी भी मुख्यमंत्री ने आज तक किसी प्रधानमंत्री के लिए ऐसी निकृष्टतम भाषा का प्रयोग नहीं किया है। Chouhan said that Soren tweeted about his telephonic discussion with the Prime Minister not only for his political gains, but his language also lacked sobriety and dignity. "I strongly condemn it," he said. Chouhan said that Modi hears every chief minister and every other person. "Soren should keep in mind that the Prime Minister himself called over the phone as he was concerned about Jharkhand," he said. "The country and Jharkhand are also struggling with the challenges of Covid-19. So the prime minister talked only about Covid-19. If Hemant ji wanted to talk something else, he should have called the prime minister and made him aware of his problem. Who had stopped him?" he asked. Terming Modi a "sensitive" prime minister, Chouhan said he is working round-the-clock to take the country out of the pandemic. "Hemant ji, the country will not forgive you," he said, while accusing him of making "senseless" comments for political advantage. Chouhan said that Modi gave a good example of work and cooperation in accordance with the federal system||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shivraj-singh-chouhan-slams-hemant-soren-for-his-remarks-against-narendra-modi-983779.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||Assam BJP leaders Sarma, Sonowal meet party chief J P Nadda, Amit Shah in Delhi||Amid suspense over the next chief minister of Assam, the two main contenders for the post -- Sarbananda Sonowal and Himanta Biswa Sarma -- met BJP president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah here on Saturday. After a series of meetings, Sarma told reporters that BJP's Assam legislature party is likely to meet in Guwahati on Sunday and all questions related to the next government will be answered there. Both incumbent Chief Minister Sonowal and Health Minister Sarma were on Friday called to New Delhi by the BJP central leadership, apparently to discuss the leadership issue in Assam. Three rounds of meetings were held at Nadda's residence between both leaders from Assam, Shah, BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh and the party president. The meetings lasted for more than four hours. In the first two rounds of meetings, the BJP's top brass met Sonowal and Sarma separately. While in the final and third round of meeting, the saffron party's top leadership met both Assam leaders together. Talks related to formation of the next government in Assam and who will be the chief minister dominated the meetings. Sonowal and Sarma came to Nadda's residence separately, and left in the same car after the meetings. Sonowal, who belongs to Assam's indigenous Sonowal-Kachari tribals, and Sarma, an Assamese Brahmin who is the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance, are contenders for the top post of the Assam government. The BJP had not announced a chief ministerial candidate before the Assembly polls in Assam. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP had projected Sonowal as its chief ministerial candidate and won, forming the first saffron party government in the northeast. This time, the party has been maintaining that it would decide who would be the next chief minister of Assam after the elections. In the results announced for the 126-member Assam assembly last Sunday, the BJP won 60 seats while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assam-bjp-leaders-sarma-sonowal-meet-party-chief-j-p-nadda-amit-shah-in-delhi-983796.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||Navjot Sidhu once again hits out at Amarinder Singh over Kotkapura firing case||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu once again on Saturday targeted Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, alleging that the state government was "forced" to accept the Punjab and Haryana High Court order in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case due to his "incompetence". The Amritsar MLA further said giving six months to a new special investigation team (SIT) for probing the case involving firing at people protesting against the desecration of a religious text will further "extend the delay" in giving justice. The Congress MLA has been critical of his own government after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report into the firing case last month. He had attacked Amarinder Singh, accusing him of evading responsibility in the case. Reacting to the criticism, the Punjab CM had called the Congress leader's outbursts "total indiscipline" and suggesting that he may be leaving for the AAP. Attacking the CM, who also holds the home portfolio, Sidhu on Saturday tweeted, "Sad !! Due to incompetence of home minister, govt is forced to accept orders of the High Court, which the people of Punjab are standing up against. Giving 6 months to new SIT, extends the delay of govt's biggest poll promise, unfortunately up to next elections code of conduct." He further said the "injustice caused by deliberate delay" is a betrayal of the people's mandate. "After multiple inquiry commissions, SITs and passage of 6 years, evidence has weakened while accused have gained in wisdom, making their defence stronger due to repetitive investigations on the same matter," he said in another tweet. The Punjab government, while acting on the directions of the High Court, had constituted a new three-member special investigation team (SIT), comprising senior IPS officers, and directed it to complete the investigation into the firing incident, preferably in six months. Sidhu's fresh salvo against the CM came barely a few days after he shared a 2016 video clip of Amarinder Singh, in which he was heard "promising to act against the Badals" in the 2015 police firing incident at Faridkot, if voted to power. Amarinder Singh had said that the HC judgment had gone beyond its "brief" and it is "not a judicial but a political judgment". The state cabinet had already announced that it had decided to file an appeal in the Supreme Court with regard to the observations and conclusions of the HC, which were beyond its "remit and even at times beyond the law". The Congress had in the run-up to the 2017 assembly polls promised to take strict action against perpetrators of the desecration of a religious text and the subsequent police firing in 2015. In a 89-page judgment, the court had ruled that the investigation into Kotkapura police firing incident conducted by the then IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who has taken voluntary retirement, was not free from "blemish" and his "personal malice and malafide functioning by totally usurping the powers of SIT was demonstrated on record".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-sidhu-once-again-hits-out-at-amarinder-singh-over-kotkapura-firing-case-983830.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||PM Modi holds one-on-one conversation with 11 CMs, two LGs on Covid-19 situation in last three days||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to Chief Ministers of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu on the Covid-19 situation. Changing track, Modi has this time been speaking to Chief Ministers, LGs of Union Territories individually days after his group meeting with Chief Ministers on April 23 ran into a row with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal going public live telecast of the meeting, which was criticised by Centre. With his telephonic conversation with four Chief Ministers on Saturday, Modi has already spoken to CMs of 11 states and two UTs. On May 6, Modi had spoken to CMs of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand LGs of Puducherry and Jammu and Kashmir about the Covid-19 situation in their states and UTs. On May 7, the Prime Minister spoke to Chief Ministers of Manipur, Tripura and Sikkim on pandemic management. The Prime Minister's individual conversation with CMs is happening at a time when the Covid-19 explosion is being felt in India's hinterlands, something regarding which Modi has time and again spoken urging the states to check the spread of the disease in villages. In the last meeting with CMs, Modi had noted that the virus is affecting several states as well as Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities at once and called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power. However, the Centre has increasingly come under criticism from the Chief Ministers on its Covid-19 handling be it Kejriwal last month of Heman Soren of Jharkhand who attacked Modi for doing only his "Mann Ki Baat" during the telephonic call with him. On Saturday when Modi spoke with the states with high caseloads like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh, a record 4,187 Covid-19 fatalities in a day took India's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported during the period, pushing the tally of a total number of infections to 2,18,92,676. While the BJP Chief Ministers Shivraj Singh Chouhan (MP) and Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur spoke of the Centre's help to the states, the CMs of the Opposition-ruled states Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu cited their problems. Maharashtra, which recorded 54,022 new cases of Covid-19 in a day, has been the worst-affected state during the second wave of the pandemic. Tamil Nadu has reported 26,465 new cases and it announced on Saturday a two-week "total lockdown" across the state to curb the spread of the pandemic, starting May 10. Tamil Nadu, which had on Friday urged the Prime Minister to address the issue of the "severe crisis" of oxygen availability, on Saturday requested the Centre to enhance the medical oxygen allocation to Tamil Nadu to 500 metric tonnes.  Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh reported 11,708 and 4,177 Covid-19 cases respectively in a day. There are already reports of a hiatus between the figures of deaths issued by certain governments including MP and the actual number of deaths in states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-holds-one-on-one-conversation-with-11-cms-two-lgs-on-covid-19-situation-in-last-three-days-983907.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||Congress presses for nationwide Covid-19 lockdown||The Congress on Saturday accused the Centre of abject failure in protecting the lives of people and urged it to follow the suggestions of experts by declaring a national lockdown in the wake of rising cases of the novel coronavirus infection. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “not utilising the vaccination budget”. "Vaccine budget- underutilized. Human life- undervalued. Because PM's ego- overinflated," he tweeted, tagging a media report which claimed that only Rs 4,744 crore has been utilised from the vaccine budget of Rs 35,000 crore. Vaccine budget- underutilized. Human life- undervalued. In another tweet in Hindi on GST on Covid-19 vaccines, Gandhi alleged, "People's lives may be lost, but PM's tax extortion should not". In yet another tweet, he said, "The Movid pandemic” and tagged a small video titled "Modi hai to mumkin hai" which showed a rising graph of Covid-19 cases and a declining graph depicting the vaccination plunge. Congress senior spokesperson Ajay Maken quoted a report from The Lancet journal which claimed that “India will see a staggering one million deaths from Covid-19 by August 1”. 1)Total count of COVID death will reach 10 lakh by 1st Aug (in next 80 days) 😢 He said the report also said that “if that outcome were to happen, Modi government would be responsible for presiding over a self-inflicted national catastrophe”. The Congress leader further said the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and The Lancet have made several suggestions similar to those made by his party leaders. "The government should not shut its eyes on the suggestions given by experts and the opposition. If such things are coming from professionals and experts, the government should listen to them. "If the IMA and reputed journals like The Lancet are suggesting imposition of a national lockdown, the government should impose the lockdown, but with Nyay-like schemes providing Rs 6,000 per month to the poor to tide over the crisis," he said at a virtual press conference. Maken asserted that it is the duty of the national government that people should neither die of the pandemic nor of hunger. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also hit out at the central government over The Lancet report. “The government’s drumbeaters used editorials of the most prestigious Lancet to shower themselves with praise earlier. Now this….,” he tweeted and tagged the report. The government’s drumbeaters used editorials of the most prestigious Lancet to shower themselves with praise earlier. Maken said the IMA has suggested that the Union health ministry should be revamped with a new minister in place, raising health budget to 8-10 per cent of GDP and universal vaccination. He urged the Delhi government to decentralise and learn from Mumbai and Rajasthan in providing better health infrastructure, as he said the AAP dispensation failed to set up even one PSA oxygen plant in the national capital in the past year. The Congress spokesperson also welcomed the setting up of a national task force by the Supreme Court on oxygen distribution, saying the top court had to intervene after the central government "completely failed" in its duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-presses-for-nationwide-covid-19-lockdown-983921.html
08-05-2021||National Politics||Centre should distribute oxygen to states on basis of number of patients, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday urged the Centre to distribute oxygen and medicines to states on the basis of number of Covid-19 patients. He also said that till a large number of people are not vaccinated against the coronavirus, the spread of the infection cannot be controlled. Rajasthan recorded 160 Covid-19 fatalities and 17,987 cases on Saturday, which pushed the death toll to 5,506 and tally of cases to 7,38,786 in the state. Of the fresh fatalities, Jaipur reported the highest of 54 deaths followed by Jodhpur where as many as 19 patients died, according to an official report. In a tweet, the chief minister said, "I plead with the central government with folded hands that it would be appropriate to distribute oxygen, medicines and all other essential items to all the states based on the number of corona infected patients."   मैं केन्द्र सरकार से हाथ जोड़कर निवेदन करता हूं कि सभी राज्यों को कोरोना संक्रमित मरीजों की संख्या के आधार पर ऑक्सीजन, दवाइयों एवं अन्य सभी जरूरी वस्तुओं का वितरण किया जाना ही उचित रहेगा। अन्यथा सभी राज्यों की शिकायत बनी रहेगी एवं यह हाहाकार की स्थिति कभी खत्म नहीं होगी। Rajasthan is a big state and allocation of oxygen and medicines is very important based on the number of infected people, Gehlot said. "I hope that the Government of India will take a decision in this matter as soon as possible," he said, adding that the Centre should make arrangements to get maximum people vaccinated at the earliest.  "Whether it is to get vaccines from abroad or to increase the production of vaccine in India, the corona can be controlled by administering vaccine to more and more people," Gehlot said.  Of the fresh positive cases, the highest of 4,202 were reported from Jaipur while 1,852 persons tested positive in Jodhpur. A total of 5,33,973 persons have recovered from infection and the number of active cases at present is 1,99,307, the official report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-should-distribute-oxygen-to-states-on-basis-of-number-of-patients-says-ashok-gehlot-983934.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Fake e-passes issued in names of Donald Trump, Amitabh Bachchan for entering HP; FIR lodged||The police here have registered an FIR after it came to light that two e-passes, which are mandatory for anyone seeking to enter Himachal Pradesh, have been issued in the names of former US president Donald Trump and Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan. Both e-passes have the same mobile number and Aadhar number, police said on Friday. E-passes were made mandatory for anyone looking to enter the state in view of the rising Covid-19 cases from April 27. Two e-passes — HP-2563825 and HP-2563287 — have been made in the names of former US president Donald Trump and Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan, a police spokesperson said. Both have the same mobile number and Aadhar number, he said. An FIR was registered at Shimla East police station on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Department of Information Technology, Himachal Pradesh, wherein it alleged that misinformation was being spread on social media and news channels about the issuance of e-passes on the basis of wrong information by the district administration, the spokesperson said. An investigation is underway, he said. According to an order issued by the Himachal Pradesh government on April 26, all people desirous of entering the state would register themselves at https://covid19epass.hp.gov.in/applications/epass/apply and the details of their arrival would be shared with all concerned for the purpose of quarantine requirement and contact tracing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fake-e-passes-issued-in-names-of-donald-trump-amitabh-bachchan-for-entering-hp-fir-lodged-983674.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||BJP lawmaker recommends cow urine for 'treating' Covid-19, says he uses it||While experts are yet to find a cure for Covid-19, which has claimed millions of lives across the world, a BJP lawmaker has recommended use of cow urine to 'treat' the infection. BJP legislator Surendra Singh, from Bairia assembly constituency in Ballia district, who is often in the news for his bizarre remarks, said that he himself 'drinks' cow urine daily. "I want to share my experience with you (people).....I have been drinking cow urine daily on empty stomach....I meet so many people every day but see I am quite healthy," Singh was heard saying in a video, which has gone viral on social media platforms. "Science has failed to provide a cure for Corona....people are dying...in such circumstances we should look to our ancestors, who have explained the medical benefits of cow urine....I am certain that regular use of urine can not only cure coronavirus but it can keep many other diseases at bay," he claimed. The MLA is seen having a round yellowish thing in his hand, which he said, was turmeric. On the off chance that direct sourcing is difficult, Singh recommended Patanjali's cow urine as an acceptable substitute. He also advised the consumption of roasted turmeric powder in order to maintain good health. The MLA's advice for using his "magic cure" comes at a time, when as many as four legislators of his own party have died from Covid 19 in the past few days. Despite dubious scientific and academic credentials for its medicinal properties, cow urine has had outspoken support from many corners in India, from practitioners of Ayurveda to political parties. Experts, however, rubbished Singh's claims saying that the efficacy of cow urine in curing Covid 19 was yet to be tested and cautioned the people against using the same. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-lawmaker-recommends-cow-urine-for-treating-covid-19-says-he-uses-it-983735.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Oxygen concentrators hoarding: Delhi Police transfers case to Crime Branch||The Delhi Police has transferred the case of alleged black-marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators in which over 500 machines were recovered to the Crime Branch, officials said on Saturday. On Friday, police recovered 105 oxygen concentrators during raids at two upscale restaurants in the Khan Market area and arrested one person. Police on Thursday recovered 419 oxygen concentrators during raids at a restaurant and a farmhouse in south Delhi and arrested four men. A senior police officer said that the case of alleged hoarding of 524 oxygen concentrators has been transferred to the Delhi Police Crime Branch. "With further seizure of 105 #OxygenConcentrator from Khan Chacha & Town Hall, 2 upscale restaurants in Khan Mkt, total 524 seized frm #blackmarketers Owner Navneet Kalra, also owns Dayal Opticals, is on run. Manager, 3 staffers arrested by #DelhiPolice SouthDist. Further raids on," the Delhi Police had tweeted. Navneet Kalra is the owner of all the three restaurants. His mobile phone is switched off and he is absconding, the police said. The oxygen concentrators had been imported from China by a private company. The cost of one oxygen concentrator was between Rs 16,000 to Rs 22,000. Some of them had a capacity of five litres and some of nine litres. The accused were selling the machines between Rs 50,000, to 70,000, police said. Ninety-six oxygen concentrators were on Friday recovered from popular restaurant Khan Chacha and nine from Town Hall restaurant, both situated in the Khan Market area, they said. The accused were produced before a court, which granted one-day police custody, a senior police officer had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-concentrators-hoarding-delhi-police-transfers-case-to-crime-branch-983746.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Bypoll defeat: MP BJP suspends 6, gives notice to ex-minister||After facing defeat in Damoh Assembly bypoll in Madhya Pradesh, the BJP's state unit has issued a show-cause notice to former minister Jayant Malaiya for indulging in "anti-party activities" and suspended the primary membership of his son and five mandal presidents, a party functionary said on Saturday. The Congress on Sunday retained the Damoh Assembly seat with the party candidate Ajay Tandon defeating his former colleague and nearest BJP rival Rahul Singh Lodhi by a margin of 17,097 votes. Lodhi had later alleged that "massive internal sabotage" by Malaiya (74) and others had led to his defeat. Talking about the action taken against them, state BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said, "As per the directives of MP BJP president V D Sharma, the party's state unit on Friday served a show-cause notice to former minister Jayant Malaiya, seeking clarification for the anti-party activities during Damoh bypoll." The party also suspended the primary membership of its five mandal presidents and convenor of the party's district Prashikshan Prakosht (training cell) Siddharth Malaiya (son of Jayant Malaiya), he said. According to Parashar, the action was taken for their alleged involvement in anti-party activities during the bypoll, for which polling was held on April 17 and the votes were counted on May 2. The bypoll was necessitated after Lodhi left the Congress and joined the BJP late last year. For his bypoll defeat, Lodhi had held Jayant Malaiya and his family responsible. Union minister Prahlad Patel, who represents Damoh Lok Sabha seat, had also blamed "conspiracies" of insiders for the party's defeat in the Damoh bypoll. Jayant Malaiya, who was a BJP MLA for several terms from the area earlier, had stayed away from the bypoll campaign, sources said, adding that there were several local leaders in the party who were upset over Lodhi joining it. In the 2018 assembly polls, Lodhi had defeated Malaiya. At that time, Lodhi was with the Congress. State Home minister Narottam Mishra had also said that the BJP lost the Damoh seat "due to our own Jaichands". It is a common reference for an insider who betrays, the term coming from the role played by Jaichand who back- stabbed Prithviraj Chauhan in the latter's fight against invader Muhammad Ghori in the 12th century.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bypoll-defeat-mp-bjp-suspends-6-gives-notice-to-ex-minister-983750.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||23 Covid patients in Delhi left without informing facility: NDMC mayor||At least 23 Covid-19 patients have left the North MCD-run Bara Hindu Rao Hospital between April 19 and May 6 without informing the medical facility, NDMC mayor Jai Prakash said on Saturday. Hindu Rao, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, is the largest civic hospital in the national capital. The hospital has 250 beds reserved for coronavirus patients and according to the Delhi Corona app, all beds are currently occupied. "Twenty-three patients have left the hospital without informing anyone between April 19 and May 6. If some patient is admitted, they leave without informing since they might be getting better facilities elsewhere. It is happening even in Delhi government hospitals," Prakash said. The mayor said that they have informed the Delhi Police about such patients since it is their duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-covid-patients-in-delhi-left-without-informing-facility-ndmc-mayor-983752.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Farmers protest Covid-19 lockdown in Punjab; shops stay shut despite appeals to defy curbs||Despite appeals by farmers who took out protest marches against the weekend lockdown imposed by the state government, shopkeepers in Punjab kept their shops shut on Saturday. Punjab's 32 farmer unions, protesting the Central farm laws, had announced to hold street protests against the lockdown in the state and had urged shopkeepers to defy the restrictions. Amid a second wave of Covid-19, farmers took out protest marches at several places, including Moga, Patiala, Amritsar, Ajnala, Nabha, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Bathinda. Carrying flags of their unions, farmers, including women, took out marches in the markets and appealed to shopkeepers and traders through loudspeakers to open their shops. However, the shopkeepers kept their shops closed. Police personnel in adequate numbers were deployed across the state in the wake of the protest call by farmers. “We told farmers that we will not go against the law and order of the state and whatever the government decides, we will go by that,” said Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal general secretary Sameer Jain. Another Ludhiana-based trader, Sunil Mehra, said shopkeepers will continue to raise their voice in a democratic way. “How could we open shops when there is a weekend lockdown in the state?,” asked Mehra. Some traders said the district administrations had also assured them to find ways for the opening of shops dealing in non-essential items next week. "We appealed to shopkeepers to open their shops. We told them that we are with them," said Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan in Moga. "The lockdown is not a solution to deal with the Covid-19 crisis,” he said, alleging that shopkeepers were forced to shut their shops. Khokrikalan also accused the government of doing nothing to improve the health infrastructure despite being well aware of the second wave of Covid-19. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday had directed the state DGP to strictly enforce the weekend lockdown in the state and deal stringently with any violation in view of the farmers' call for the protest. The state government has imposed extensive Covid-19 curbs in addition to measures like the weekend lockdown and night curfew till May 15. In Amritsar, a farmer leader said if the state government wanted to impose a weekend lockdown, then it should give ration to shopkeepers and waive their electricity bills and other taxes. A police team took out a flag march in a market in Ajnala with officials saying nobody will be allowed to violate the curbs. Earlier this week, shopkeepers in Punjab had held protests against the state government's order of the closure of shops dealing in non-essential items. The chief minister on Friday had authorised the deputy commissioners to take any decision on the opening of shops or private officers on rotation, after taking the local MLAs and other stakeholders into confidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-covid-19-lockdown-in-punjab-shops-stay-shut-despite-appeals-to-defy-curbs-983769.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal demands 2.6 crore Covid vaccine doses for inoculation of all in Delhi in next three months||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres will be increased three times in Delhi and demanded that the Centre supply of around 2.6 crore vaccine doses for inoculation of all people in the national capital in the next three months. Currently, vaccination is going on at 100 centres in Delhi. The number of centres will be increased to 250-300 by the Delhi government, he said in an online briefing. In order to vaccinate all people in Delhi, over three crore doses will be required, out of which around 40 lakh have already been received, he said. The chief minister urged the Centre to provide it 85 lakh doses per month so that all the Delhiites could be vaccinated in the next three months. He said that due to good arrangements in Delhi, people from NCR towns like Noida, Ghaziabad were also reaching here to get the vaccines. So, Delhi will require a little more than three crore doses, he said. He said that Delhi currently has vaccine doses to vaccinate people for next 5-6 days and urged the Centre to provide adequate doses. He said Delhi is currently administering one lakh vaccine doses per day and it could increase this number to three lakh. Citing warnings of a third wave of Covid 19, he said that vaccination is the only safeguard against the deadly virus. He also urged the Centre and the experts for finding alternatives to vaccinate children below 18 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-demands-26-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-for-inoculation-of-all-in-delhi-in-next-three-months-983772.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||21 die in as many days in Rajasthan village allegedly after burial of man without Covid protocol||Twenty-one people died in as many days at a village in Rajasthan's Sikar district allegedly after a Covid-19-infected corpse was buried without following protocol. However, officials said that only four deaths have occurred due to the virus between April 15 and May 5. According to officials, a Covid-19-infected body was brought to Kheerva village on April 21 and about 150 people attended the last rites and the burial was done without following coronavirus protocol.  The body was taken out of the plastic bag and several people touched it during burial, they said.  "Only 3-4 deaths have occurred due to Covid-19 out of 21 deaths. A majority of deaths are from older age group. We have taken sample of 147 members of families where deaths have occurred to check whether it is Covid-19 community transmission," Lakshmangarh sub-divisional officer Kulraj Meena told PTI on Saturday.  He said that the administration has carried out sanitisation drive in the village. Villagers are explained about the severity of the problem and now they are cooperating. Sikar's Chief Medical and Health Officer Ajay Chaudhary said that a report has been sought from the local authorities following which he will be able to comment on the matter. Kheerva falls in Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra's assembly constituency. He had first shared the information about deaths following burial of infected corpse on social media, but later removed it.  "With profound grief, I have to say that more than 20 people have lost their lives and several are infected," he had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/21-die-in-as-many-days-in-rajasthan-village-allegedly-after-burial-of-man-without-covid-protocol-983790.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||BJP leader Vikram Randhawa demands CBI probe into 'illegal' mining activities in Jammu and Kashmir||BJP leader and former MLC Vikram Randhawa on Saturday demanded a CBI probe into alleged illegal mining activities and operations of the stone-crusher units near the Tawi river. He reiterated his claim that the Jammu and Kashmir government has lost huge revenue due to the "malpractices" of certain officials. Randhawa, who is also president of the Stone Crusher Owners Association, welcomed the setting up of a four-member committee for an in-depth examination of mining activities in the Tawi and a high court stay on the recovery of fine from the unit holders. On May 3, the J&K BJP Secretary had levelled serious allegations of corruption against several officials of the Geology and Mining department and Union Minister Jitendra Singh's office in Jammu and also threatened to immolate himself on coming Monday. The BJP's disciplinary committee served Randhawa a show-cause notice after he went public against Singh, while the Union minister filed a criminal suit against him in a Delhi court for "committing an offence of defamation" against him. "There is a high court ban on mining activities in the Tawi river but it is only on papers as illegal activities under official patronage are going on and we (unit holders) have been made the scapegoat… We want the government to order a CBI probe and find who are involved in such kind of clandestine activities as it has lost revenue worth several hundred crores over the years," Randhawa told reporters here. He said they are ready to cooperate with the government and will provide all relevant information with regard to this theft. "The minor minerals worth Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh are being illegally sold on a daily basis and not a single penny is deposited in the government treasury." Randhawa said the government should also ensure revocation of the high court ban and regularize the mining activities which provide sustenance to a large number of families. Asked about the proposed protest, the BJP leader said he is satisfied with the steps taken by the government and the court and hence "the self-immolation is shelved but our struggle against the mining mafia will continue". In response to a question about the show-cause notice and the defamation suit filed against him, Randhawa said he "lost temper after the unit holders were served notice to pay huge amounts ranging between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 1.25 crore by the mining department even as they were closed for 10 months". "I have nothing personal against the Union minister who is not himself involved in corruption. Someone is taking advantage of his proximity with him and I wanted him to take note of it. "I am sorry for using words which I should not have used against anyone but it was an emotional outburst after we were served huge penalties. The high court has intervened and issued a stay order on the recovery of the fine," he said. Randhawa, who himself was slapped with a penalty of Rs 97 lakh for alleged lapses in the conduct of mining business and stone crusher, said he is a senior worker of the BJP and had put forth his point before the party leadership. "I am a dedicated worker of the party and answerable to it," he said, adding he is responding to the legal notice served on him by the Union minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-vikram-randhawa-demands-cbi-probe-into-illegal-mining-activities-in-jammu-and-kashmir-983795.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Bhopal crematorium gives refuge to kin of deceased Covid- 19 patients||At a time when images of relatives of deceased Covid-19 patients queuing up at crematoriums have become common, a crematorium in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal is giving temporary refuge to people who bring their loved ones to the city for treatment and lose them to the disease. While people are usually scared to enter crematoriums and graveyards at night, Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat here has been providing beds and meals to relatives of Covid-19 patients, who perform the last rites of loved ones. More than half a dozen people spend their night at the facility daily after cremating their loves ones, thanks to the trust looking after the place and providing them food, water and bedding in these difficult times. People from neighbouring districts, who bring their relatives to Bhopal for Covid-19 treatment and lose them, bring the bodies to Bhadbhada crematorium, as mortal remains are not allowed to be taken out of the district to contain the viral spread. Bereaved relatives have to wait in serpentine queues for their turn to cremate deceased patients even late in the evenings due to the heavy rush of Covid-19 casualties. "After the last rites, people wait for the embers to cool to collect ashes for immersion. They can't travel to their homes in other districts at night and then turn up in the morning to collect the urn of ashes," said Mamtesh Sharma, the secretary of Bhadbhada crematorium. Moreover, since hotels and guesthouses are shut due to the coronavirus curfew, many find it difficult to get food and shelter for the night, he said. "With the help of some good Samaritans, we have made arrangements to feed kin of the deceased and make their night halt comfortable in our crematorium," Sharma said. A double-door refrigerator has been donated to the crematorium to store food stuffs and water bottles that are being sent to the facility, he added. According to Sharma, 60 people were cremated at the facility on Friday, and of them, 54 were Covid-19 patients, including 38 locals and 16 from outside Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhopal-crematorium-gives-refuge-to-kin-of-deceased-covid-19-patients-983814.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Shivraj Singh Chouhan discusses Covid-19 situation in Mahdya Pradesh with PM Modi||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the coronavirus situation in the state including the improving recovery rate, the CMO said. The prime minister has been speaking with chief ministers of various states over phone in the last two days to take stock of the pandemic situation. Modi expressed satisfaction about the MP government's efforts and the measures it has taken to curb the infection rate, the Chief Minister's Office said on Twitter. He also assured all possible help from the Centre, it said. "The Chief Minister shared information about the increasing rate of recovery in the state, Kill Corona Campaign, Corona Curfew, Corona Volunteers, temporary Covid Hospitals, Public Awareness Campaign, cure by Yoga, Vaccination, installation of Oxygen Plants and other efforts being made by the state," the CMO said. In separate tweets, Chouhan informed that 299 Covid Care Centres have been started across 52 districts for patients with mild symptoms. These centres offer treatment free of cost and have a total of 19,796 beds including 2,208 oxygen beds, he said. On Friday, Madhya Pradesh had reported 11,708 new Covid-19 cases and 84 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shivraj-singh-chouhan-discusses-covid-19-situation-in-mahdya-pradesh-with-pm-modi-983829.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Sisodia urges Centre to maintain 700 MT of oxygen supply to Delhi||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday urged the Centre to maintain 700 MT of medical oxygen supply to Delhi, claiming that the quantity received by the city has dipped in the past two days. Delhi has a current need of 700 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen. On May 5, Delhi received for the first time 730 MT of oxygen, thanks to the Centre, he said in an online briefing. "However, the supply dipped to 577 MT on May 6 and further 487 MT on May 7. It is very difficult for us to manage the needs of the hospitals at less than 700 MT supply," Sisodia said. He hoped the Centre will cooperate with the Delhi government and ensure daily 700 MT supply of oxygen in view of the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sisodia-urges-centre-to-maintain-700-mt-of-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-983834.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Over 28K Remdesivir injections supplied to different Rajasthan districts: Govt agency||The state-run Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation (RMSCL) has supplied more than 28,000 Remdesivir injections to different districts amid growing cases of the novel coronavirus, Health Minister Raghu Sharma said on Saturday. He said health services in the state are constantly being strengthened to treat Covid-19 patients. Along with oxygen, the minister said, the increasing demand and supply of Remdesivir is also "being managed in a better way". On May 7, the RMSCL supplied a total of more than 28,000 Remdesivir injections in different districts, Sharma said. He said the Centre has allocated 1.41 lakh Remdesivir injections to Rajasthan till May 9. He said more injections are needed as the number of those infected with Covid-19 is increasing rapidly. Due to this, the RMSCL has also procured Remdesivir injection by making extensive efforts at its own level. The minister said that apart from Remdesivir, 340 tocilizumab injections for critically-ill patients have also been allocated in all the districts of the state. To curb black marketing of these injections, allotment of Remdesivir Injection is being done on the recommendations of a committee constituted by the RMSCL to private and government hospitals. The RMSCL was established as a centralized procurement agency for procuring generic medicines, surgical and sutures and medical equipment for the department of Medical, Health and Family welfare department, medical Education department and other departments. It was constituted to provide commonly used essential medicines free of cost to all patients visiting government healthcare institutions in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-28k-remdesivir-injections-supplied-to-different-rajasthan-districts-govt-agency-983838.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis | 144 held for black-marketing, hoarding: Pandemic turns into money-minting opportunity in Delhi||An oxygen concentrator worth Rs 31,000 sold at Rs 1.65 lakh; an oxygen cylinder of Rs 40,000 sold at Rs 1.45 lakh; Rs 14,000 charged for a 6-km ambulance ride from a hospital to a crematorium; an Ayurveda doctor black-marketing medicines and a nurse stealing Remdesivir to sell it for Rs 70,000 -- the Covid-19 pandemic has become a money-minting opportunity for many in Delhi. At least 225 cases have been registered since Delhi Police started a helpline on May 1 to receive complaints related to black-marketing and hoarding of medicines and equipment as well as overcharging by ambulance services. So far, 144 people -- most of them below the age of 40 years -- have been arrested till May 5 in such cases. More cases and arrests have been added to this list in the last three days, a senior police official said. Police have also started intensively taking action against those using the cyber space and mobile network to cheat people and have identified over 200 mobile numbers, 95 bank accounts, 33 UTRs and 17 UPI/Wallets involved in this crime. Most of those arrested in connection with the Covid-19 cases do not have any criminal history. The arrested included an Ayurvedic doctor, a nurse, a nursing assistant, several chemists and ambulance drivers, among others. Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege Ju -- food joints in posh Delhi localities like Lodhi and Khan Market run by businessman Navneet Kalra -- also earned the ignominy of hoarding after police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators, which were being sold at Rs 70,000 each. In one of the cases, one Bharat Juneja was frantically searching for an oxygen concentrator after his mother and wife tested positive for Covid-19. After several failed attempts to procure one, he managed to get in touch with one Anuj Mishra, who promised him one at a price of Rs 1.65 lakh. Juneja paid the amount but soon found out that the oxygen concentrator was not working. When he asked for a refund, Mishra allegedly refused and the matter reached the police, who arrested him along with another person, Gurmeet Singh (36). The scramble for Remdesivir also has given an opportunity for fraud and black-marketing. A 30-year-old Ayurveda doctor Prashant, along with the security guard of a hospital in Nangloi where they are working, used to sell it at a higher price. Parshant used to get Remdesivir injections from Sonia Hospital in the name of admitted serious patients and allegedly used to sell it for Rs 32,000 each with the help of the guard Ashwani (32). Lalitesh, a nurse in a prominent hospital in north-west Delhi, who was deployed in Covid-19 wards, used a different modus operandi to rake in some moolah with her friends. After a patient had been discharged, she used to record the unused Remdesivir injections marked for them as used and hand it over to her friends to sell it for Rs 70,000. A section of ambulance drivers are also using the pandemic to make some quick money, but several have landed in the police net. Kandhi Lal, a driver, was apprehended after police sent a decoy from whom he demanded Rs 14,000 for a 6-km ride from a hospital to NigamBodh Ghat crematorium in north-west Delhi. In another case, Rs 6,500 was demanded by an ambulance driver for taking the body of a Covid-19 patient from a hospital to a crematorium 3 km away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-144-held-for-black-marketing-hoarding-pandemic-turns-into-money-minting-opportunity-in-delhi-983843.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi records over 17,000 Covid-19 cases, 332 deaths||Delhi recorded 332 more Covid-19 fatalities and 17,364 new infections on Saturday, while the positivity rate remained below 25 per cent for the third consecutive day, the Health Department said. There are 87,907 active cases and over 12.03 lakh people have either recovered, migrated out or have been discharged, according to a health bulletin. The infection tally rose to 13,10,231 after the national capital recorded 17,364 new cases in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate stood at 23.34 per cent, lower than 24.92 per cent a day ago. The death toll rose to 19,071 after 332 more people succumbed to the pathogen. Of the 22,289 hospital beds for coronavirus patients in the city, only 2,451 are vacant. As many as 49,865 patients are in home isolation and the number of containment zones have risen to 51,338, according to the bulletin. A total of 79,800 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Friday, of which 67,753 were those who got their first dose, the bulletin stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-over-17000-covid-19-cases-332-deaths-983850.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Indira Gandhi hospital to function as dedicated Covid-19 facility||Delhi government-run Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka will start functioning as a dedicated Covid-19 facility from Saturday, an official order said. The hospital will initially have a capacity of 250 beds which will be scaled up later, it said. The national capital, which is witnessing a surge in Covid cases, currently has 22,289 hospital beds and only 2,451 are vacant. "It is hereby ordered that the Indira Gandhi Hospital at Dwarka, which is a 900 bedded facility will start operations as a dedicated Covid facility w.e.f May 8, initially with a partial capacity of 250 beds, which will be scaled up gradually," the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-indira-gandhi-hospital-to-function-as-dedicated-covid-19-facility-983857.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Over 100 medical staff members at Rishikesh AIIMS test positive for Covid||Over 100 medical staff members at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences here tested positive for Covid-19. A total of 110 doctors and nursing staff here tested positive for the infection, AIIMS PRO Harish Thapliyal said, adding that they were all vaccinated. Being in direct contact with Covid patients daily may have been the reason behind such a large number of them testing positive for the infection, he said. Chief Medical Superintendent of dedicated Covid hospital here, Vijayesh Bhardwaj, was also found infected with the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-100-medical-staff-members-at-rishikesh-aiims-test-positive-for-covid-983861.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana sets up control room to check black marketing of medicines||Haryana minister Anil Vij on Saturday said a control room has been set up in the state to keep a check on "arbitrary charges" being levied by ambulance operators and to clamp down on "black marketing" of medicines. So far, 45 people have been arrested in this regard, he said here in an official statement. Vij, the home and health minister of Haryana, said cases of arbitrary charges being levied by ambulance operators have become rampant these days due to which the government is keeping a strict vigil on it. He said strict action will be taken in cases of black marketing of medicines and overcharging of ambulances, and added that anyone can approach the control room and file a complaint. The minister saluted doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, government employees and other frontline workers working day and night to save the lives of coronavirus patients and hoped that the state would be able to overcome the pandemic with their untiring efforts. Vij said the coronavirus has become a "political issue" in the country. He said that instead of boosting the spirits, the Congress is "trying to pull down the morale of the people fighting the coronavirus every day". "This is affecting the morale of not only the patients but also the healthcare workers," he said. He further added that a decision with regard to lockdown would soon be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-sets-up-control-room-to-check-black-marketing-of-medicines-983864.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Oxygen plant to come up in UP's Moradabad: CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre here on Saturday and reviewed health facilities in the district. During his visit, the chief minister directed the officials concerned to ensure that Covid-19 patients are provided with proper medical facilities. The government is going to install an oxygen plant in Moradabad to help meet the demand for medical oxygen at different hospitals as well as for Covid-19 patients who need the life-saving gas at their homes, Adityanath told reporters. The chief minister also met some public representatives, who discussed with him grievances of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-plant-to-come-up-in-ups-moradabad-cm-yogi-983867.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana to launch Covid vaccination drive for journalists: CM||Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Saturday announced the launch of a vaccination drive for all media personnel in the state, noting that it is the government's responsibility to ensure the well-being of every journalist who is "dedicatedly rendering their services" in this hour of crisis. The chief minister, while presiding over a review meeting with top officials regarding the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the state, said that during this massive vaccination drive the Covid-19 vaccines would be administered to every media person, an official statement said. "Every journalist will be given priority during the vaccination drive and preparations for vaccination administration would be made at media centres in all districts," Khattar was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-to-launch-covid-vaccination-drive-for-journalists-cm-983870.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Bird flu detected at poultry farm in Punjab's Ludhiana||Samples from a poultry farm here tested positive for bird flu, prompting the district authorities to form a committee for a culling exercise and containment operations. The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, on Friday confirmed bird flu in a poultry farm at Qila Raipur, about 25 km from here. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said the Punjab government has notified the poultry farm as an infected area. Additional Deputy Commissioner Sarkartar Singh has been made the incharge of the committee formed to oversee the culling exercise. Sharma said the committee will ensure that no live or dead bird, unprocessed poultry meat, eggs, feeds or any other material is taken out of and brought into the poultry farm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-detected-at-poultry-farm-in-punjabs-ludhiana-983891.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Great enthusiasm among youth to get Covid-19 vaccine: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres will be increased three times in Delhi and demanded that the Centre supply around 2.6 crore more vaccine doses for inoculation of all people in the national capital in the next three months. Currently, vaccination is going on at 100 centres in Delhi. The number of centres will be increased to 250-300 by the Delhi government, he said in an online briefing. He said that Delhi currently has vaccine doses to vaccinate people for next 5-6 days and urged the Centre to provide adequate jabs. In order to vaccinate all people in Delhi, over 3 crore doses will be required, out of which around 40 lakh have already been received, he said. The chief minister urged the Centre to provide it 85 lakh doses per month so that all the Delhiites could be vaccinated in the next three months. Kejriwal who inspected the ongoing vaccination drive at a centre in Chirag Delhi said there is great enthusiasm among the youth to get the jab. He said that due to good arrangements in Delhi, people from NCR towns like Noida, Ghaziabad were also reaching here to get the vaccines. So, Delhi will require a little more than three crore doses, he said. He said Delhi is currently administering one lakh vaccine doses per day and it could increase this number to three lakh. The chief minister said Delhi's population is two crores, and close to one crore fall in the 18-44 age group. Fifty lakh are below 18, and 50 lakh people are above 45 years of age. "Roughly 1.5 crore people are above 18 years of age. We need three crore vaccine doses to vaccinate these 1.5 crore people, but we've received just 40 lakh doses. As a result, we need 2 crore 60 lakh additional vaccines," he said. Delhi has been vaccinating more than one lakh people every day. This includes around 50,000 people in age group of 18-44 years and 50,000 aged 45 years and above, he said. Delhi is not getting an adequate amount of vaccines, and if it were to get the required amount of doses then the Delhi government will be able to vaccinate all within three months, he reiterated. “A major obstacle we're facing is that of vaccine scarcity. If we get adequate doses, then as I have said repeatedly, we will be able to vaccinate the entire Delhi in three months." Citing warnings of a third wave of Covid-19, he said that vaccination is the only safeguard against the deadly virus. He also urged the Centre and experts for finding alternatives to protect children below 18 years of age from Covid-19. "We are particularly concerned about children under 18 years of age who cannot get vaccinated right now. I appeal to all experts and the Centre to arrange a vaccine for them too so that they can also get inoculated," stated the chief minister. He also supported one vaccine programme in the country as a firm possibility. Kejriwal credited the central government for trying its best to provide Delhi with facilities during the pandemic, and hoped it will also assist in ensuring adequate doses for vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/great-enthusiasm-among-youth-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-kejriwal-983895.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||At 60, Jammu and Kashmir records highest single-day Covid-19 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded the highest Covid-19 deaths in a day since the start of the pandemic. According to a daily media bulletin, as many as 60 people succumbed to the virus on the day, taking the toll to 2,672. This was the third day on the trot that the Union Territory (UT) recorded over 50 fatalities due to the deadly virus. Out of 2,694 patients admitted in hospitals in J&K, 2,324 are on oxygen support and 112 are on ventilators, the official figures reveal. The 4,788 fresh cases is lower than yesterday’s 5,443. The low number of cases can be attributed to less tests (46,792) conducted on Saturday compared to 49,781 the previous day. The fresh cases took the tally to 2,11,742. Since May 1, the UT has witnessed 389 deaths and 35,659 positive cases. At 46,535, active cases account for nearly a fifth of the total count. As many as 2,500 people recovered on Saturday, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,62,535. The recovery rate stands at nearly 77% at present. The coronavirus outbreak was reported in Jammu and Kashmir on 7 March 2020, when two persons tested positive for the deadly infection. The peak of the first wave was September 12 when 1,698 positive cases were reported. The high infection rate of the mutant virus as per the doctors is the main reason for the spike which has continued despite lockdown. The ‘corona curfew’ remained imposed in J&K on the 10th consecutive day on Saturday. However, the administration is allowing grocery shops, milk and dairy product shops, fruit and vegetable markets, bakery and meat shops to function between 0900 hrs and 1800 hrs even during the lockdown. Chemist shops, LPG/petrol pumps, ATM, media, FCI, e-Commerce, construction activities, Covid-19 vaccination, inter-state movement are also allowed during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-60-jammu-and-kashmir-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-deaths-983900.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court orders audit of oxygen supplies to states||The Supreme Court has directed the 12-member National Task Force to form a sub-group for each state and Union Territory to conduct an oxygen audit to ensure "accountability" in respect of supplies made to them. However, for Delhi, the top court itself set up a committee comprising Dr Randeep Guleria (Director, AIIMS, Delhi), Dr Sandeep Budhiraja (Director, Max Healthcare) and one joint secretary-level officer each from the Centre and Delhi government, for carrying out the audit exercise.   In a view of recent developments with the Centre opposing enhancement of supplies to Delhi and Karnataka, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah clarified that the purpose of the audit is not to scrutinise the decisions made in good faith by doctors while treating the Covid-19 patients. "We emphasise that the purpose of conducting audits is to ensure accountability in respect of the supplies of oxygen provided to every State/UT," the bench said. It is to be noted Delhi, for which the top court ordered 700 MT oxygen per day, has strongly opposed a suggestion by the Centre for any audit. Realising its order in a contempt matter against the Union government officers, the court said the audit would ensure that the allocated supplies reached their destination through the distribution network to the hospitals or, the end-users efficiently and on a transparent basis, while identifying bottlenecks or issues in utilisation of oxygen.  The court, meanwhile, directed the Union government to continue with the present practice of making allocations of oxygen to states, until the Task Force submitted its recommendations with regard to proposed modalities.  For the purpose of facilitating the audits, the Task Force would constitute sub-groups or committees for each state/UT comprising: an officer of the State/UT Government not below the rank of Secretary; a Union Government officer not below the rank of Additional or Joint Secretary; two medical doctors in the State/UT concerned including at least one with administrative experience of managing the medical facilities of a hospital; and a representative from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), the top court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-orders-audit-of-oxygen-supplies-to-states-983903.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||40-kg high explosive material, IEDs recovered in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda||In a major seizure, security forces have recovered 40 kilograms of high explosive material along with several improvised explosive devices (IEDs) during a joint search operation in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir, the Army said on Saturday. “The timely recovery of the explosives thwarted the nefarious designs of terrorists and their few supporters to destabilise the security situation in the district” a defence spokesman said. He said a joint team of the Army, the CRPF, the SSB and the J-K Police launched a search operation in Chakarandi village on a specific information. During the operation, security forces recovered 40 kilograms of high explosive material, five-liter pressure cooker IEDs, five-inch iron pipe IED, four electrical detonators, electrical wire, power sources, six heavy duty cells, insulation tape and 1.5 kg iron splinters, the spokesman said. “These caches have been created by the terrorists in the remote areas to be used for destabilising the security situation which is heading towards normalcy,” he said. He said security forces have successfully recovered IEDs, explosives, arms and ammunition in recent months to thwart the nefarious designs of terrorists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-kg-high-explosive-material-ieds-recovered-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-doda-983914.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Public transport suspended in Himachal Pradesh from Monday; essential shops to open for 3 hours||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to suspend public transport from Monday to check the spread of COVID-19, an official spokesperson said. The decision was taken during a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday, he said. It was also decided that the daily needs and essential commodity shops will remain open only for three hours in a day and timing of the same will be fixed by the deputy commissioners concerned, the spokesperson said. Coronavirus curfew is already in force in the state from May 7-17. These strict restrictions of suspending public transport and opening essential commodities shops only for three hours a day will come into force on May 10 from 6 am, the spokesperson said. All public transport will remain suspended till further orders and private vehicles will only be allowed in case of emergency services, he added. Chief Minister Thakur said these decisions have been taken to break the chain of virus. He urged people to give their wholehearted support in effective implementation of coronavirus curfew to combat the threat of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/public-transport-suspended-in-himachal-pradesh-from-monday-essential-shops-to-open-for-3-hours-983930.html
08-05-2021||North and Central||Vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group to begin on May 10 in Uttarakhand||Vaccination of people aged 18-44 years will begin on May 10 in Uttarakhand. Announcing this here on Saturday, Health Secretary Amit Negi said the first consignment of one lakh doses of Covishield vaccine for people in that age group has been received. Around 50 lakh people of this age group are to be inoculated for free in Uttarakhand during the drive, he said. Originally scheduled to start on May 1, the drive could not begin on time due to non-availability of vaccines. Apart from registering on the Cowin portal, beneficiaries will have to take a prior online appointment for vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccination-of-people-in-the-18-44-age-group-to-begin-on-may-10-in-uttarakhand-983957.html
08-05-2021||Opinion||Personality traits that make coping with lockdown easier||By Andreas Kluth, In March 2020, still early in the pandemic, I opined that for introverts quarantine can be a liberation. I was extrapolating from personal experience and historical examples. And many other pundits had a similar hunch. But we were speculating before we had empirical data. Now that such information is available, what does it say? By and large, the research shows that I was wrong. But I couldn’t be happier because what the evidence actually says is that the truth, as usual, is more complex, more subtle and more interesting. The studies published since the outbreak agree that personality plays a huge role in how we do or don’t cope with difficult situations such as lockdowns. Obviously there are other factors as well, from age (the young suffer much more from depression and anxiety) to employment (no job, no cheer) and, well, infection. But personality determines how we greet our lot in life. And it’s the combination of several traits that shapes resilience. Scholars break down those traits into five main bundles. One is the aforementioned degree of extroversion — how stimulating (or draining) we find social interactions. Another is openness — how curious, inquisitive, adventurous and creative we are, for example. A third is agreeableness — how helpful, optimistic and kind we are. The fourth is conscientiousness — how organised, focused, prepared and disciplined we are. The fifth is neuroticism — the extent to which we get moody, nervous, worried or unstable. As far as introversion goes, the evidence certainly surprised me. One study of college students at the University of Vermont did find that introverts in lockdown reported improvements over time in their mood, whereas the extroverts said their mood got worse. But the extroverts were still in a better mood overall, thanks to their more cheerful default position. Another study, of people from various ages and backgrounds, found that introversion was clearly associated with more loneliness, anxiety and depression during lockdown. I wonder whether that’s in part because many introverts can’t actually withdraw into solitude when they’re stuck with suite mates or family members. As one introvert joked on Twitter, “This quarantine is not our dream come true. We have people in our house who NEVER leave.” But as a study published in January suggests, other traits appear to be more important than extroversion. In particular — and rather unsurprisingly — neuroticism was strongly correlated with more anxiety and worse depression. People who are worrywarts even in normal times are also at heightened risk of freaking out when a deadly virus is making the rounds. Openness was also associated with increased anxiety, though not with depression. That surprised me. This trait includes abstract, creative and lateral thinking. That’s why, in last year’s column, I used Isaac Newton, an introvert who also had an unusually open mind, as an example of somebody who had stunning intellectual breakthroughs in quarantine. By the same token, perhaps, very open minds are also better at imagining all the things that could go wrong. Being agreeable helped against both anxiety and depression, but not as much as you might think. It’s possible — I’m speculating — that agreeability mainly turbo-boosts the positive effects of that aforementioned other trait, extroversion. After all, it’s no good being a social butterfly, on Zoom or in your dormitory, if you’re not also empathetic and kind. It’s the quality, not the quantity, of human connections that comforts us in bad times. The winner on the positive side of the ledger was clear. The more conscientious people were, the less anxious and depressed when stuck at home. This makes sense. People that score highly on this trait are better at hewing to routines that provide structure during endless days of working or studying remotely. I have a friend who never wore coat and tie in the office, but started dressing up in fancy, and rather eccentric, suits during lockdown. Looking sharp, he ascends every day to his attic to do productive and satisfying work. Conscientiousness, or what we used to call self-discipline, also helps in every other way. It gets us on the yoga mat day after boring day, corks the wine bottle after the fourth second glass, and helps us meet our deadlines on the job, so we can keep it. What I find uplifting about this research is that there are many individual paths toward resilience. For each trait, we’re all somewhere on a spectrum. With self-awareness, we can compensate for risk factors — neuroticism, say — and we’ll be fine. Moreover, we still have recourse to some secret weapons the psychologists forgot to include in their categories. Even (or especially) in a macabre situation like a pandemic, humour is an option.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/personality-traits-that-make-coping-with-lockdown-easier-983792.html
08-05-2021||Panorama||Covid-19 vaccine should be seen as a valuable public good||In a recent press release, the central government said it had given the Serum Institute an advance of Rs 1732.5 crore for 11 crore doses of the Covishield vaccine to be received over May, June and July. It had also paid Bharat Biotech Rs 787.5 crore for five crore Covaxin doses, to be received over the same period. Hence, the central government is paying a price of Rs 157.50 for every dose of the vaccine. The question is, why the price is not a round number. The answer lies in the fact that there is a goods and services tax (GST) of 5% on covid vaccines. Hence, the price of a single dose of the vaccine is Rs 150, on which the central government pays a 5% GST of Rs 7.50 per dose (5% of Rs 150) to the vaccine manufacturers. These companies then subtract the GST they have paid in buying all the inputs they need in the manufacturing of the covid vaccines, or what is known as input credit, against the GST they receive from the central government, and pay the remaining amount back to the government as GST. Given that a public health emergency is currently on, there is a need to lift the GST on the covid vaccines and the inputs that go into their manufacture. This is not the time when the government should be looking at money-making opportunities from the sale of covid vaccines. The fact that there is still a 5% GST on the vaccines perhaps tells us how serious the central government has been about vaccination against covid. While the central government is buying vaccines at a price of Rs 150 per dose to vaccinate those aged 45 and above, the state governments and private hospitals must pay a higher price to vaccinate those in the age group of 18-44. The state governments must pay Rs 300 or Rs 400, depending on whether they buy Covishield or Covaxin. Private hospitals must pay Rs 600 or Rs 1,200 respectively. A clear discrimination is being made between citizens of different ages who face the same risk on the ground of getting the covid disease. The point remains valid even though many state governments have decided to provide the vaccine shots free of cost even to those between 18 and 44. As the Supreme Court recently put it: “Discrimination cannot be made between different classes of citizens who are similarly circumstanced on the ground that while the central government will carry the burden of providing free vaccines for the 45-years and above population, the state governments will discharge the responsibility of the 18 to 44 age group on such commercial terms as they may negotiate…The manner in which the current policy has been framed would prima facie result in a detriment to the right to public health.” The court further said: “The vaccinations being provided to citizens constitute a valuable public good.” A public good is something that should be made available to everyone or, as economists put it, it should be non-excludable. The rule of law, public safety or public infrastructure are good examples of public goods. They should be available to everyone (though they are not). Vaccines lead to a positive externality; the benefit of taking the vaccine goes beyond just the person taking it. Once someone has taken both the doses, their chances of getting covid and spreading it to people around them go down. This is why most countries are vaccinating for free. It is the quickest way to ensure that the pandemic is brought under control and economic activity gets back on track. Further, ensuring that vaccines are available for free to everyone ensures that everyone has access to them on the same terms. As UNESCO said in a statement in February 2021: “Vaccines be treated as a global public good to ensure they are made equitably available in all countries, and not only to those who bid the highest for these vaccines.” The central government’s vaccine strategy falls short on this front. It should basically be dealing directly with the two suppliers, compensating them adequately for the risk they have taken on, and ensure that the competition among state governments, between state governments and private hospitals and among private hospitals, for doses of the covid vaccine is brought to an end. Also, these vaccines should be supplied for free at least at all government vaccination centres, with the central government bearing the cost, and not the state governments as they currently are for the 18-44 age group. The other important characteristic of a public good is that it should be ‘non-rival’ — that is, my consuming it shouldn’t mean there is less of it for others. My breathing of fresh air, which is not polluted, doesn’t mean that there is less of it available for others. Given the demand-supply mismatch that currently prevails when it comes to covid vaccines, if I take the vaccine, it means that someone else can’t. This is likely to get sorted out over the next six to eight months as the current vaccine suppliers expand capacity and foreign suppliers hit the market as well. But that would mean losing out on precious time. In this scenario, India needs more vaccine manufacturers. The Covaxin vaccine has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research. Given this, money of the people of India was used to develop the vaccine. Hence, the government needs to license this vaccine to other vaccine manufacturers, and to as many as possible. This is the only way to ensure that vaccines can become a valuable public good. (The author lives to read crime fiction, and unlike his honest ancestors, makes a living writing on economics)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-vaccine-should-be-seen-as-a-valuable-public-good-983985.html
08-05-2021||Panorama||Clothing the emperor||The emperor is naked, but no one seems to be fooled anymore. So, the courtiers have been summoned to find new ways to keep fooling them. Here’s a crazy thought: How about changing reality to change perception? For starters, why not say sorry for ignoring warnings of a second wave? The virus was already mutating in several countries, leaving destruction in its wake well before it came to our shores. A parliamentary committee report had flagged the shortage in oxygen cylinders and hospital beds as far back as in November. Why not apologise for scoffing at the writing on the wall and declaring premature victory against the pandemic for good press? Why not admit that super-spreader religious gatherings and election rallies should not have been held? Why not repent for bragging about huge crowds at those rallies, while thousands gasped for oxygen and a former Indian ambassador died in a parking lot, waiting for a hospital bed? There’s now a deadline and a well-planned schedule for the completion of a brand new palace in the capital city. This is good news! It is the first sign in a very long time that the State has capacity to ‘plan’ for anything at all. If only that capacity to plan could now be deployed to procure vaccines! And while they are at it, why not divert all that money to vaccinate the country, instead of hiking fuel prices in the middle of an apocalypse? But while we speak of money, here’s another crazy way for the courtiers to boost public perception: Why not set up a transparent real-time database for the money collected and used from the emperor’s fund? Maybe that will encourage some A-list Australian cricketers to donate to it, rather than taking their money to the UNICEF, instead. Some of the courtiers are still busy playing the same old tricks to divert attention from the apocalypse. One of them painted Muslim volunteers as corrupt thugs, trying to take bribes in return for hospital beds in their city. Naturally, the ‘wise and thoughtful’ public began asking the volunteers if they are Hindu or Muslim, before agreeing to take a bed from them. Elsewhere, some courtiers objected to Muslim volunteers helping out families at Hindu crematoria. Another courtier was busy blaming the foreign press for ‘defaming the country’ by reporting about its terrible reality. And yet another courtier began courting his favourite vote bank – the cows – by setting up help desks, oximeters and thermal scanners for them. (Alas, if only the wise cows could speak, perhaps someone would finally be getting some sense through to him!) The heart-breaking fact, though, is that the pandemic has been mismanaged so badly that none of these diversionary tactics are serious enough to outlast it. The virus is mutating, experts warn of a third wave, and thousands more are dying every single day. The spin doctors seem to have met their match in the virus. There is no way to kill it, except by facing up to the truth – and doing the job that one was elected to do. I know I’m asking for a lot. I know we are supposed to just trust the powers-that-be rather than asking them questions or giving them suggestions. But the emperor seems to really care about what folks are saying about him. Maybe I am wrong; perhaps it’s a whole lot better to simply use the propaganda machine, attack the world press and silence dissent on social media, rather than actually clothing the emperor. After all, I have no experience in State propaganda or public manipulation. What do I know! (The author is a student of all things global and, self-confessedly, master of none, notwithstanding his Columbia Master’s, a stint with the UN and with monarchs in the Middle East)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/clothing-the-emperor-983986.html
08-05-2021||Panorama||We all need somebody to lean on||Bill Withers – the singer-songwriter you may know from ‘Ain’t No Sunshine’, ‘Lovely Day’, or ‘Just the Two of Us’ – had only one number-one hit. It was ‘Lean on Me’ (1972), a song as simple and honest as it is transporting: Lean on me/When you’re not strong/And I’ll be your friend/I’ll help you carry on. For it won’t be long/Till I’m gonna need somebody to lean on. We’ve witnessed, and hopefully participated in, an unprecedented amount of exactly this kind of generosity, friendship and mutual support over the last several weeks. Social media temporarily transformed into a volunteer hotline, with people in need reaching out for help for their families or for neighbours or even for strangers. It’s reminiscent of another passage from the song: Please swallow your pride/If I have things you need to borrow. For no one can fill/Those of your needs that you won’t let show. Others more fortunate, or simply desirous to help, have also been sending out unsolicited offers to assist in myriad ways. I saw on Twitter an offer to tend to the house pets of ill owners. All this has been exclusively societal and private, everyday citizens picking up the slack where their government had failed. For an average person, this might seem unremarkable; indeed, all things considered, it might even strike her that people have done too little for each other. But for a political scientist, there’s something vexing about this voluntary mutual support, about how unrelated people have risen to fill the void left by a feckless State. What’s the State for? Why do we even have a Government of India or of Russia or of the UK? The history of political thought – whether Indic or otherwise – has basically offered two alternative baskets of justification for the existence and legitimacy of the sovereign State; that is, the State that exercises power and authority (and at times violence) over its subjects. The first set, more ancient, consists of various claims regarding how persons can only flourish and fulfil their full potential (purpose, destiny) within political communities. Humans are social by nature, communities are necessary, and the institution of the sovereign State emerges from these premises. This kind of conception tends to justify only weak states, usually buttressed by various theological or cosmological claims regarding everyone’s proper place within society and the natural right of the rulers to rule. In modern times, this first group of explanation for the State has fallen out of favour for being too metaphysical. The second, more current account of the legitimacy of the sovereign State derives from social-contract traditions. Here, the State does not enjoy any metaphysical right to exist but is simply the most pragmatic solution to perennial problems like insecurity and injustice, man’s beastliness to other men. To quote Thomas Hobbes, an early advocate of this view, without the State, the life of persons is “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short.” The stronger the State, the more capable it is of assuring its subjects’ security. But there’s a flip side: since the State exists to ensure the health, security, prosperity and justice of its subjects, it is obviously in breach of its obligations – and is thus illegitimate – if the lives of persons within the State were to be as “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short” as it would be without the State. Within this apparent breach of the present moment, people have not become more brutish but often just the opposite. Life for those abandoned by the State has not become more solitary but in many instances, less so. It may still be poor and nasty, and if the healthcare system continues to fail, it will also be short. But contrary to what Hobbes had opined, it is not the ungoverned subjects who bear responsibility for this condition. (The author is a Professor of Philosophy, Politics and Law, author and editor of over 20 books and counting, and as Mr Hyde, one of India’s top-ranking Ironman triathletes)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/we-all-need-somebody-to-lean-on-983987.html
08-05-2021||Panorama||Farewell, Mr Shanbhag||For those who grew up in Bangalore in the eighties and nineties, Premier Book Shop was simply there. Much like the camel, as Borges has reminded us, doesn’t find mention anywhere in The Quran, book lovers took Premier to be a natural part of Bangalore without feeling obliged to claim it as a special asset of the city. The recent passing away of its owner, Mr Shanbhag, from Covid-19, however, makes me think about him and his bookshop’s significance for readers like me. Premier’s, as the regulars to the book shop called it, was inseparable from Mr Shanbhag, a fair, medium-built, balding man with sharp features. Usually in half-sleeved terrycot shirts and trousers and in leather slippers, the pleasant and reticent proprietor had a down-to-earthness about him. If Malgudi had a sizable number of English-speaking Indians, Mr Shanbhag and his shop would have easily belonged there. My father, who loathed the ideologue’s strategy of “Catch them young!”, had made an exception with respect to the reading habit. So he took me to Premier’s frequently during my boyhood. Most of the books I acquired during my school and college years – the comics, the Ladybird books and the Penguin, Picador, Vintage, Faber and Oxford University Press paperbacks – were from here. When anyone asked about a book’s availability, Mr Shanbhag would mutter, “Yes,” or “I’ll check,” and point in their direction or offer to locate it himself or shout — in his North Kanara Kannada — to his assistant at the back of the small, longish two-aisled shop to help find it. Treating all his customers with the same mixture of interest and detachment, he never pushed books. People felt free to hang out in his shop for hours without feeling any pressure to buy. Books appeared crammed inside Premier’s but that didn’t seem to matter: the shop was welcoming, and the books had a rich range. Importantly, the snootiness that could easily pervade an English-language bookshop in India was absent. And, when I wanted a book badly and didn’t have the money for it, I could ask him to hold it for me. He would promptly place it on the pile of books behind where he sat and the book remained there for several weeks. Premier’s had character and felt intimate in ways that the larger, bureaucratically run bookshops in the vicinity did not. Premier’s held out a decided intellectual seriousness. Anyone who came in looking for the Mills and Boon novels or the Robert Ludlum thrillers, for instance, could legitimately incite a smirk among my friends and me. The books inside held a mirror to the power and tastes of the English literary intelligentsia in independent India. The modern and contemporary classics of Indian, European, American as well as “World” literature made up the largest chunk of books among them, with the pulp section having only a modest share. The later entry of books in trendy social and literary theory didn’t mean diminished shelf space for Bertrand Russell and DH Lawrence. The social science community came second in influence at Premier’s. Looking back, I cannot claim to have ever got a sense for Mr Shanbhag’s political or intellectual views. What seems amply clear though is that he had an eye for fine books, a fortuitous fact in a city with a paucity of good bookshops. He let me and countless others stay in step with the books and writers under discussion in metropolitan India and the West. If a book recommendation by Pritish Nandy in The Illustrated Weekly of India or by TG Vaidyanathan in Deccan Herald or The Hindu grabbed you, you could feel confident about finding that book at Premier’s. When little known figures got the Booker or the Nobel, you knew Mr Shanbhag would get their books soon enough. Mr Shanbhag and his book sanctuary nourished the imagination of a few generations of readers in Bangalore. The experience happened quietly and gracefully. It was a precious gift to the city. (The author is a professor with the ISEC who looks for new ways of looking)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/farewell-mr-shanbhag-983988.html
08-05-2021||Panorama||Yell confidently, people will think you really do know something||Nilakantha Dikshita, the famous Sanskrit satirist, writes, “Even if you know nothing, yell it loudly and confidently. Fools will think highly of you, and even the wise will start doubting what they know.” Bengaluru South’s very own MP seems to be following Nilakantha’s dictum very well. And not for the first time either. Two years ago, when the brindavana of Vyasatirtha, the 16th-century scholar-intellectual, was desecrated by unknown persons, Tejasvi Surya’s tweet somehow brought in the Bahmani Sultanate. And now perhaps, the oxygen crisis in the state didn’t seem like enough trouble, so why not add harassment and religious intolerance to the list? As to the exposé of the BBMP ‘bed-booking scam’, it reminds me of Thinthakarala. Thinthakarala lived in Ujjayini and was married to a celestial apsara called Kalavati. He was very curious to see the goings-on in Indra’s grand city of Amaravati, but unfortunately, as we all know, humans are prohibited there. His wife regularly visited though—it was her job. Once, he pleaded with her so much that she sneaked him into a lotus with her magic and pinned the lotus to her ear like an ornament. He then tagged along secretly with his wife and watched the grand dance of Rambha in heaven. He also saw the hilarious performance of a divine goat—a mime! Then he realised that he had seen the goat on earth. It was a divine being masquerading as a plain, boring goat on earth. Now, if he had the good sense to keep quiet, he might have saved himself a lot of trouble, but he cornered the goat on the earth and begged it to perform, hitting it with stones when it refused. The goat complained to Indra, who understood what had happened, and cursed poor Kalavati to become a sculpture on a pillar in a temple. Kalavati would have to remain a sculpture until the temple was razed to the ground. Now, Thinthakarala could not live without his dear wife very long, so he hatched a plan. He secretly buried Kalavati’s gold ornaments in pots at strategic locations—one in the forest, one in the marketplace, many in the city, and one in the temple. Then, he pretended to be an ascetic. As you might have noticed, a suspicious number of fake godmen abound in Sanskrit. Anyway, the king heard of Thinthakarala’s name and came looking for him. As the king was leaving, a jackal howled, and Thinthakarala laughed a great deal. After some persuasion, he told the king that he could understand the language of animals, and the jackal had told him the location of some hidden treasure. Then, he led the king to the ornaments he himself had buried in the city, and sure enough, when the king’s men dug up the ground, they found treasure buried there. He did this several times, until the king, his wives, and the entire court became thoroughly devoted to him. After discovering the gold in the forest and in the marketplace, too, one day he went to the temple with the king. When Kalavati, who was now a sculpture in the temple saw her husband, she began to cry. Tears rolled off the image onto the pillar. The amazed king turned to his trusted Thinthakarala to understand what this strange omen meant. Thinthakarala lost no time in telling the king how the temple had been built incorrectly and would lead to the destruction of the king if he did not raze it to the ground immediately. The scared king immediately had the temple brought down and began to build a temple elsewhere. Kalavati was now free! Thinthakarala fled the city and renounced his asceticism. Even Indra appreciated Thinthakarala’s cleverness. “Just what was so clever about Thinthakarala?” you might ask. “He just found his own wife’s jewellery, and he had hidden it in the first place!” Well, if the ruling political party can get praise and accolades for discovering its own mismanagement, and that too, incorrectly, I rather think Thinthakarala deserves some applause. Don’t you? (The author is a University of Toronto doctoral student in Religion who oscillates between scholarly pursuits and abject laziness)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/yell-confidently-people-will-think-you-really-do-know-something-983989.html
08-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Learning the viral lingo||I was in a queue at the bank when a young man breezed in without a mask. He tried to get ahead of the queue but soon vanished when he was told off. “Covidiot”, muttered the lady in front of me. I smiled to myself, amused that my vocabulary was enriched by another new word, born out of the times we live in. It all began with the word coronavirus over a year ago, a term I had never heard before. I was aware of Corona beer and Carona footwear. As the virus spread, I learned to distinguish between Coronavirus and Covid-19, the disease caused by the former. Gradually, over the months, my vocabulary expanded as the pandemic took hold and brought in its wake a flurry of new words and phrases that travelled as fast as the virus. The new words, a combination of medical jargon and newfangled slang, gained entry into my vocabulary by word of mouth, newspapers and social media platforms. In the early months, the words I picked up seemed a bit daunting – pandemic, quarantine, self-isolating, social distancing, lockdown, asymptomatic, flatten the curve, herd immunity, Covaxin, Covishield, Zoom, etc. Alongside these emerged some abbreviations that initially baffled me – WFH (work from home), PPE (personal protective equipment), BCV and ACV (before and after coronavirus). Now they have become commonplace. As Covid-19 became deadly and lockdowns became frequent, wordsmiths began to lighten the grim situation, injecting humour and creativity in coining words and phrases. Thus came Covideo party, Covexit, Coronacation, Covid-10, Corona babies, elbow bump and a slew of other words in our day-to-day conversations.When I heard Covirgin (one not yet infected) and Quarantini (any cocktail you make with Martini during quarantine at home), I could not help admiring the lexical innovation. Politicians were not far behind to merrily mouth Coronavirus inspired metaphors to drive home their message. Didn’t we hear Donald Trump, Boris Johnson, Modi and others utter war metaphors such as ‘dangerous,’ ‘serious,’ ‘we are at war,’ ‘battle,’ ‘frontline,’ ‘fight this deadly invisible enemy’? Moreover, travel and sports metaphors such as “we are all in the same boat in stormy seas” or “this is not a sprint, this is a marathon,” respectively. Researchers at King’s College, London, say more than 1000 new words have been coined since the pandemic began. Even Dictionary.com has created an official Coronavirus lexicon to welcome humour and humility to cope with Covid-19. Much as we all would like to see the pandemic disappear, there does not seem to be any silver lining just yet. So, more new words may come up, further augmenting my vocabulary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/learning-the-viral-lingo-983655.html
08-05-2021||Second Edit||Covid brutal on children||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic sweeping through India has been particularly brutal on children. Far more than during the first wave, this time around, a worrying number of children have tested positive for Covid-19. Additionally, with the coronavirus infecting entire families, many children have been left to fend for themselves.  In some cases, one or both parents are down with Covid-19 and unable to take care of children. In others, parents are in hospital. Several cases have come to light of children having lost both parents to the disease. These children need immediate support. According to reports, child helplines have been inundated with calls appealing for help for orphaned children. Authorities must intervene to provide immediate support to these children. The Karnataka government has taken a first, albeit long-overdue step, towards dealing with this issue. On Monday, it appointed an IAS officer as the nodal official to identify children orphaned due to Covid-19 and ensure that they have the support they need.  The nodal official has been mandated to make long-term arrangements for the care of such children. The task ahead is enormous and will need the nodal official’s full attention. He must address the multiple vulnerabilities that children are facing. In addition to ensuring that the children’s basic needs are met, the government must address their emotional and mental health needs. Ill-health and death of parents is hard for an adult to cope with. It is far more difficult for a child to comprehend what has happened to her parents.  Affected children don’t always show their grief by shedding tears. Many children withdraw and become silent, throw tantrums or adopt infantile behaviour to deal with the crisis. Sometimes, children will need professional counselling, even psychiatric support. The government must work with NGOs and activists who have experience in dealing with children. Long-term care arrangements need to be made for children. If they are to be put in the care of extended family, authorities must ensure that the new guardians are indeed committed to caring for the child. Child rights activists say that there is an increase in public interest to adopt these children. While this is positive, we need to be cautious in putting children in the care of others. Child traffickers will be looking out for children to prey upon. Authorities must be cautious in putting children up for adoption. The flood of orphaned children in recent weeks should not make adoption officials lax. The welfare of these children is our responsibility. We must remain committed to their long-term wellbeing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-brutal-on-children-983652.html
08-05-2021||South||Malayalam filmmaker Sreekumar Menon held for cheating||Malayalam filmmaker Sreekumar Menon was arrested by the police in an Rs 8 crore cheating case. Menon, director of Mohanlal-starrer 'Odiyan', allegedly cheated the Sreevalsam Group by collecting money for film production. He earlier faced allegations of threatening popular Malayalam actress Manju Warrier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-filmmaker-sreekumar-menon-held-for-cheating-983627.html
08-05-2021||South||Stalin's first day as CM: Covid review, fulfilling poll promises||Muthuvel Karunanidhi Stalin was sworn in as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu on Friday morning in a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhavan, with the newly minted CM getting to work immediately by reviewing the Covid-19 situation and signing five files. As 68-year-old Stalin was being sworn in, his wife Durga, who was seated in the visitor's gallery, was seen wiping her tears. At the ceremony, the AIADMK was represented by former deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, ex-Speaker P Dhanapal. Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan was there; and so was Durai Dayanidhi, son of Stalin's elder brother, M K Alagiri. After the event, Panneerselvam and Dhanapal joined Purohit and Stalin for refreshments, a welcome scene in Tamil Nadu politics known for its high-decibel acrimony. Along with Stalin, 33 ministers were also sworn in, and all of them took oath in the name of “conscience” unlike AIADMK ministers, who usually take oath in the name of god. Once the formalities were done, Stalin got cracking and signed five files, fulfilling promises made during the election campaign. Stalin has got a new team of officials, all known for their integrity and honesty. While seasoned bureaucrat V Irai Anbu is the new Chief Secretary, T Udayachandran, P Umanath, M S Shanmugam and Anu George were appointed as private secretaries to the chief minister. After visiting a new Covid Care Centre established in the city, Stalin asked the district collector to avoid “praising him” and be “honest and transparent” about the situation in their respective areas. The first file that Stalin put his seal of approval related to the disbursing of the first installment of Rs 2,000 of the Rs 4,000 promised as one-time Covid-19 relief for families in the state. The next file that Stalin signed was to reduce the price of Aavin milk by Rs 3 a litre from May 16. While the first two are election promises, another important decision is that the government will bear the expenses of Covid-19 treatment for patients who get admitted to private hospitals under the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. Stalin also announced formation of a separate department 'Chief Minister in your constituency' to look into complaints and petitions received from people during his election campaign. The department will be headed by IAS officer Shilpa Prabhakar, who hails from Karnataka. The fifth decision is to allow free bus travel for women in town buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalins-first-day-as-cm-covid-review-fulfilling-poll-promises-983665.html
08-05-2021||South||HC lauds EC, police for nil violation of Covid-19 norms||The Kerala High Court on Friday appreciated the effort of the Election Commission and the State police in ensuring no violation of the Covid-19 protocols by any political party in connection with the counting of votes for the Assembly elections on May 2. While closing the writ petition seeking to impose restrictions on the activities of political parties in connection with the counting of votes, a Division Bench of the court comprising Justices Devan Ramachandran and Kauser Edappagath commended the petitioner, Dr K P Pradeep of Kannur district, for having brought this grave issue to the notice of the court. The court said the seemingly unbridled and unrestrained euphoria of an inevitable and vital democratic exercise the local body and State Legislature elections was in full display in the last few months and one can only rue in hindsight that, perhaps, "if we had been collectively a little more careful, the present crisis could have been better contained." "The prophylactic 'SMS' against Covid-19 Sanitiser, Mask and Social Distancing was unfortunately lost in the din of the electoral campaigns. There is a general sentiment that we let our guard down, but we cannot let it happen again," the court observed. Considering the plea on April 30, the court had directed police and District Collectors to ensure that no assembly of people takes place in the state for four days from May 1 in connection with the counting of votes. Banning the victory processions of political parties following the counting, the court had also directed that stringent action be taken against those who assemble thereby violating the Covid-19 protocol. The court had directed police and Collectors to take effective and requisite steps to ensure that no social or political assemblages, meetings, gatherings, processions or parades of any kind--be that celebratorial, cheering or otherwise--in violation of Covid-19 protocols, as also directives of the Election Commission and the Government Order-- anywhere in Kerala between May 1 and May 4. The court had given the directive in a PIL seeking to declare all kinds of public and social gatherings, processions in the name of election oriented or organisational activities by the political parties as unconstitutional and illegal during the period when the Covid-19 protocols were in force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-lauds-ec-police-for-nil-violation-of-covid-19-norms-983672.html
08-05-2021||South||Congress leaders own up responsibility for election setback in Kerala||While top leaders of the Congress in Kerala took up moral responsibility for the setback faced by the party in the Assembly election, a strong demand to do away with the jumbo committees of the party has come up. During the political affairs committee meeting of the party on Friday, senior leaders including former chief minister Oommen Chandy and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala owned up for the poor performance of the party in the elections. The demand for the resignation of Kerala PCC president Mullapally Ramachandran was resisted by many. Many leaders opined that over-confidence was the main reason for the defeat, said sources. A strong demand to put an end to candidate selection based on group loyalties came up during the meeting. The party reached at a consensus about doing away with jumbo committees of the Kerala PCC. At present, there are 12 vice presidents, 42 general secretaries and around 100 secretaries in Kerala PCC. A two-day meeting of the political affairs committee would be held later this month for further review.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leaders-own-up-responsibility-for-election-setback-in-kerala-983682.html
08-05-2021||South||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu govt imposes complete lockdown from May 10 to 24||With Tamil Nadu witnessing a sharp increase in the Covid-19 cases, the government on Saturday announced clamping a two-week "total lockdown" across the state to curb the spread of the pandemic, starting May 10. Chief Minister M K Stalin said in a statement that the lockdown was being enforced due to "unavoidable reasons" and pointed out that the decision was taken based on inputs received at a review meeting he had with district collectors on Friday, besides consultations with medical experts. The recommendations made by the Union Home and Health ministries had also been factored in. "The total lockdown will be enforced from 4 am on May 10 to 4 am on May 24 to further intensify the efforts to curb the spread of the disease," he said. Stalin announced relaxing existing restrictions on business hours for shops on Saturday and Sunday, when a full day-long lockdown is supposed to be in effect, allowing them to remain open till 9 pm to aid people since stricter curbs would kick in from May 10. The state-run liquor outlets operated by Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC), all bars, spas, gyms, beauty parlours, saloons, auditoria, cinema theatres, recreation clubs and amusement and zoological parks will be shut during this period. Beaches and tourist attractions in the hilly locations of Udhagamandalam and Kodaikanal will be out of bounds for people. Offices of government departments other than those dealing with essential services including Health, Revenue, Police, Fire and Rescue Services and Disaster Management will not function, he said.  All private offices and companies and IT and ITES firms shall also remain closed and employees can work from home. Existing restrictions regarding places of worship, cap on attendees in wedding and death-related events will continue while educational institutions will remain closed. Inter and intra-district public and private bus services will be suspended while hire taxies and auto rickshaws cannot ply. Those travelling for essential work like wedding, death, interview or exams shall produce proof to be allowed permission to proceed, the chief minister added. Standalone shops selling vegetables, groceries, provision items, fish and meat products can remain open till 12 noon with only fifty percent customers. E-commerce firms distributing these can do so till noon, he added. "Other than the aforementioned shops, no other establishments can run," during the lockdown, Stalin said. There shall be no dine-in services in hotels and tea shops and the former can sell takeaways in staggered working hours through the day. Tea stalls have to down shutters by noon. Among those allowed to work during the lockdown period include media, courier firms, hospitals and related services, fuel outlets, continuous process industries, data centers, and telecom services, he said. State-run Amma Canteens will remain open, platform vendors selling vegetables and flowers can do so till 12 pm and fair price shops will work from 8 am to 12 noon, he said. Stalin urged people to follow the Covid protocols and extend cooperation to the government's pandemic prevention activities. Tamil Nadu saw 26,465 new coronavirus cases on Friday, pushing the caseload to 13.23 lakh while a record 197 deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 15,171. According to the health department, the active cases stood at 1,35,355. Stalin said 23 districts in the state had a positivity rate of 10 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadu-govt-imposes-complete-lockdown-from-may-10-to-24-983697.html
08-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 lockdown: What's allowed and what's not||With Tamil Nadu witnessing a sharp increase in the covid-19 cases, the government on Saturday announced clamping a two-week "total lockdown" across the state to curb the spread of the pandemic. Chief Minister M K Stalin said in a statement that the lockdown was being enforced due to "unavoidable reasons" and pointed out that the decision was taken based on inputs received at a review meeting he had with district collectors on Friday, besides consultations with medical experts. "The total lockdown will be enforced from 4 am on May 10 to 4 am on May 24," he said. Let us take a look at what is allowed and what is not allowed during the 14-day lockdown in Tamil Nadu. What is not allowed? What is allowed?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-covid-19-lockdown-whats-allowed-and-whats-not-983715.html
08-05-2021||South||10 dead, several injured after blast at quarry in Andhra Pradesh's Kadapa district||Ten workers lost their lives in a gelatine stick blast at a limestone mine in the Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh. A few others were injured. The accidental blast of the explosive material used in quarrying took place on Saturday morning near Mamillapalle village in Kalasapadu mandal. According to the police, the blast occurred when a load of gelatine sticks, brought from Badvel town, was being unloaded from a vehicle. The exact cause that triggered the blast is yet to be established. The vehicle was mangled due to the impact and body parts of the deceased were strewn all over the blast site. Police are trying to ascertain the identity of the dead, most of them believed to be from Pulivendula in the same district. Such was the effect of the explosion that the nearby villagers initially believed it to be an earthquake. Police officials said that the limestone mine was licensed and that authorised operators were dealing with the gelatin stick consignment. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy, who represents Pulivendula constituency, expressed shock and inquired about the incident. He extended his sympathies to the families of the deceased. TDP president and former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu expressed his anguish over the death of several workers. “Unfortunate that the tragic incident claiming so many lives took place in Chief Minister's native district. Proper safety standards should be implemented to prevent such incidents.” Naidu sought an explanation from the government as to “why the mining works were allowed when there was an 18-hour curfew in progress all over the State in view of the Covid-19 spread.” The Opposition leader has demanded the YSRCP government to extend all help and also announce Rs 1 crore ex gratia to the kin of the deceased on par the compensation given to the LG Polymers gas leak victims in Vizag in May last year. The TDP has also demanded a probe by a sitting judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/10-dead-several-injured-after-blast-at-quarry-in-andhra-pradeshs-kadapa-district-983724.html
08-05-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala under complete lockdown||Shutting shops, suspending public vehicle transport and strictly restricting the on-road movement of people, Kerala came under complete lockdown from Saturday morning to contain the massive spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The restrictions came into force by 6 am and would be extended up to May 16 midnight, official sources here said. The state government decided to impose a 9-day complete shut as the weekend restrictions and lockdown-like curbs imposed earlier failed to create any desired impact in terms of the daily caseload of the infected persons. The number of daily cases had crossed the 42,000 mark earlier this week but registered a slight dip on Friday- 38,460 cases- in the southern state, according to government figures. As lockdown is in place, only essential services are exempted and people are strictly warned against coming out in public places or travel unnecessarily. Police intensified patrolling in every nook and cranny of the state since morning to ensure that nobody is venturing out without any valid reason. Around 25,000 police personnel have been deployed across the state to ensure adherence to guidelines. They could be seen stopping every single vehicle including two-wheelers and asking the riders about the purpose of their travel and seeking to show their identity cards. Fine is being imposed and vehicles are being seized from individuals who violate the restrictions. According to police sources, an online pass system would come into force by this evening for those who have to go out for urgent needs. With this, people can travel for emergency purposes by obtaining pass from the police, they said. All borders are under the strict surveillance of the police and only freight vehicles and those having permission from the authorities concerned are permitted through check- posts, police added. As per the official guidelines, banks, insurance, financial services, capital and debt market services as notified by SEBI and cooperative credit societies shall function only on alternate days during lockdown -Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Anyone violating the lockdown guidelines would invite punished under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005, Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance-2021 and other relevant laws in force, police added. Railway sources said over 35 train, both long-distance and intra-state, have been cancelled in Kerala. It was not directly due to lockdown by because of poor occupancy in the wake of Covid-19 spread. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday sought the cooperation of the people during lockdown and said the stringent measures were for their welfare and urged them to avoid inter-district travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-under-complete-lockdown-983767.html
08-05-2021||South||If people fail to follow safety norms, lockdown would become inevitable: Puducherry L-G||Puducherry Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday appealed to people to adopt self-discipline and adhere to Covid safety norms so that imposition of total lockdown in the union territory would not be felt necessary  Addressing reporters on the sidelines of a government function near here, the Lt Governor said, "lockdown can be imposed in the current context of surge in Covid-19 cases in Puducherry. It can be done in a minute. But, we should also take into consideration the implications of total lockdown particularly in its impact on livelihood of the poor." "All aspects need to be considered before resorting to total lockdown," she said. Soundararajan urged people to be very cautious and adopt safety norms and specifically not be negligent in wearing masks. She said she could see while driving in her car in and around the city that the youth were totally careless in using masks. "Of late it has been seen that coronavirus was hitting the youth more than others. Hence, no complacency should be shown by the youth," she added. When her attention was drawn to the announcement by Tamil Nadu government to adopt two week long total lockdown from May 10, she said, "we cannot emulate immediately the step taken in some other state. We should consider the local conditions and adopt measures." "We are assessing all the prevailing situations to prevent spread of Covid 19 in Puducherry," the Lt Governor said adding the Centre was coming to the rescue of territorial government in ensuring proper infrastructural facilities, availability of drugs and equipment to tackle the coronavirus. She also promised that she would extend her cooperation to the elected government for implementing its decisions for ameliorating the lot of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/if-people-fail-to-follow-safety-norms-lockdown-would-become-inevitable-puducherry-l-g-983821.html
08-05-2021||South||About 12,500 oxygen beds getting ready, Remdesivir to be available in 5 districts, says Tamil Nadu Minister||The Tamil Nadu government is readying 12,500 beds with oxygen lines on a war-footing to meet the escalating demand for such beds for the Coronavirus infected in government hospitals, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian said on Saturday. In order to ensure that Remdesivir is freely available in other parts of Tamil Nadu, the government would make available the anti-viral drug at Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, Salem, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli for sale over the counter as is being done at the Kilpauk Government Medical College Hospital here, the minister said. Maintaining that the creation of additional infrastructure will help doctors cope with the increasing demand for hospital beds with oxygen supply in all the government hospitals in the state, the minister said these beds will be ready by May 15. "The 200-year-old Stanley medical college hospital here will get additional 750 such beds from Monday," the minister told reporters after inspecting the oxygen plant and RT-PCR lab at the hospital here on Saturday. On Friday, during an inspection by Chief Minister M K Stalin at the health facility in the Chennai Trade Centre, health officials had sought the creation of additional 12,500 beds with oxygen lines at government hospitals in the state. And the chief minister immediately consented, the minister said. "The situation is not so acute as in some of the north Indian states as being reported by the media. There is no shortage of medical oxygen in Tamil Nadu," Subramanian said in reply to a question. He insisted that the priority of the government is to protect the people against the infection and the two-week lockdown from May 10, announced by Stalin, should be seen as a measure to break the virus chain. The government would also explore ways to step up oxygen production in the state, he added. To another question, Subramanian, accompanied by Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department P K Sekarbabu and health secretary J Radhakrishnan during the inspection, said the inoculation drive against Coronavirus would continue unabated during the lockdown period. Earlier in the day, the Tamil Nadu government announced complete lockdown from 4 am of May 10 to 4 am of May 24, to curtail the rising coronavirus graph. "We have opened a war room' to carry out Corona prevention operations on a war-footing," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/about-12500-oxygen-beds-getting-ready-remdesivir-to-be-available-in-5-districts-says-tamil-nadu-minister-983823.html
08-05-2021||South||Maiden session of 16th Legislative Assembly on May 11||The first session of the 16th Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly will be held in the multi-purpose hall of Kalaivanar Arangam here on May 11 at 10 am. The newly elected members will make and subscribe Oath or Affirmation on that day. All the legislators have been asked to bring the Certificate of Election without fail while presenting themselves for making and subscribing the Oath or Affirmation, according to a release from the Assembly Secretary K Srinivasan, on Saturday. The election of Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the Tamil Nadu Assembly will be held on May 12 at 10 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maiden-session-of-16th-legislative-assembly-on-may-11-983840.html
08-05-2021||South||AIADMK, PMK welcome Tamil Nadu lockdown, BJP calls it 'hasty'||The Opposition AIADMK and PMK in Tamil Nadu welcomed the state government's announcement of clamping a two-week lockdown starting May 10, saying it will help break the coronavirus chain and help in slowing the pace of its spread. The BJP, an ally of both parties, however, described the decision as hasty. With Tamil Nadu witnessing a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday announced clamping the two-week "total lockdown" across the state to curb the spread of the pandemic from May 10-24. AIADMK Coordinator O Panneerselvam welcomed the government's decision to keep the low-cost Amma Canteen eateries, an initiative of his party-led previous government, open during this period. "At a time when the second wave of coronavirus is spreading fast, the total lockdown will greatly help in slowing the pace of the spread," he said in a statement. He also welcomed the closure of state-run TASMAC liquor retail outlets during the 14-day period. The former deputy CM added the government should allow plying of taxis and autorickshaws since public transport will not be functional during the period. The government should provide incentive to medical personnel involved in the battle against Covid, he said, adding it should ensure adequate stocks of vaccines and drugs in the hospitals. PMK founder S Ramadoss also said his party has been batting for measures like lockdown and closure of TASMAC outlets and it was a "weclome" move that the government has done both. In a statement, he reiterated PMK's demand for prohibition in the state, saying there were other sources of revenue for the government. BJP spokesperson Narayanan Thirupathy described the decision to enforce lockdown as 'hasty' and alleged there was no announcement for migrant workers. Further, there was no word on vaccination during this period, he said in a series of tweets and urged that the inoculation centres should be increased during the lockdown and Tamil Nadu should also start the universal drive for those over 18 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-pmk-welcome-tamil-nadu-lockdown-bjp-calls-it-hasty-983854.html
08-05-2021||South||Young volunteers help in improving condition of domiciliary care centres in Kerala||Two young volunteers from the Alappuzha district in Kerala who carried a Covid-19 patient suffering from chest pain in a two-wheeler to a hospital are receiving much appreciation as their act had even brought to the government's attention the lack of basic facilities at domiciliary Covid-19 care centres across the state. Domiciliary Covid-19 care centres are set up at grass root level by local bodies to accommodate asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who do not have adequate quarantine facilities at home. Aswin and Rekha, who are in their early twenties, had carried a Covid-19 patient at a domiciliary Covid-19 care centre at Punnapra in Alappuzha on Friday after he suffered from chest pain. The video of the two wearing PPE kits carrying the patient by making him sit in the middle of the motorcycle has gone viral. The two were volunteers involved in supplying food to domiciliary care centres. The absence of medical staff and delay in getting an ambulance made the two swiftly decide to take the patients to the hospital in their two-wheeler. The act of the two had received much appreciation from various quarters. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had also appreciated the act of the two which helped in giving timely medical care to the patient. With the incident highlighting the lack of adequate facilities at the Covid-19 care centres, the Chief Minister also directed the local bodies to ensure adequate basic facilities at the Covid-19 domiciliary Covid-19 care centres. Arrangements for shifting patients from domiciliary care centres to hospitals in case of emergency was also initiated. The medical shifting facilities are being strengthened by directing local bodies to arrange alternative vehicles so as to avoid delay in shifting patients due to the unavailability of ambulances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/young-volunteers-help-in-improving-condition-of-domiciliary-care-centres-in-kerala-983869.html
08-05-2021||South||R Siva appointed DMK legislature party leader in Assembly||Senior DMK leader R Siva was on Friday appointed as the DMK legislature party leader in the territorial assembly. He won the April 6 assembly polls from Villianoor here. A party press release said DMK General Secretary Durai Murugan announced the appointment of Siva to the post. DMK is the main opposition party in the 30-member Puducherry Assembly, having won six seats in the polls. DMK is part of the Congress headed Secular Democratic alliance here. The Congress won two seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/r-siva-appointed-dmk-legislature-party-leader-in-assembly-983881.html
08-05-2021||South||Indian Navy, Vizag Steel extend help in Andhra Pradesh's Covid-19 fight||As Andhra Pradesh tackles the second Covid-19 wave, the Indian Navy and Vizag Steel have decided to help the state in its fight against the disease. Indian Navy's Eastern Naval Command would operate and maintain the oxygen plants in all the government and teaching hospitals across the state. The Navy officials would also provide special vehicles for transportation of liquid medical oxygen containers and oxygen concentrators, D-type oxygen cylinders and other medical equipment required in Covid-19 treatment. The Navy has come forward to donate 200 D-type cylinders, Andhra Pradesh government officials said on Saturday. Eastern Naval Command officials have also agreed to allot 10 oxygen beds along with 60 normal beds for Covid-19 treatment of the public in the INS Kalinga hospital located in Vizag. They have also agreed to develop infrastructure facilities for a 150 bed temporary Covid-19 hospital in Kancherapalem in the city. Vizag Steel Plant has agreed to set up a 50 bed hospital with oxygen facility for Covid-19 treatment at Gurajada Kalakshetram in Visakhapatnam. An additional 150 beds will be arranged in the facility by May 15. The central PSU officials said 250 beds will be made available by May 30 and 600 beds by June there. Visakhapatnam district administration would have to arrange the required doctors and other medical staff in these centres. The Jaganmohan Reddy government has earlier provided 4,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine to the staff and family members of Eastern Naval Command and Vizag Steel Plant. Special teams The ENC based in Visakhapatnam would take up the responsibility of fixing any leakages in the oxygen plants, check the conditions and implement precautions to be taken in the plants. According to AP officials, four special teams were formed and each team has management responsibilities spread over three to four districts of AP's 13 districts. Arrangements are made to airlift these teams to the required locations whenever necessary. The Navy has also agreed to transport 25 cryogenic oxygen cylinders, which are coming to the state from Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indian-navy-vizag-steel-extend-help-in-andhra-pradeshs-covid-19-fight-983909.html
08-05-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala government to ensure food to those on streets||After announcing free ration kit supply to all card holders as Kerala went on a nine day lockdown from Saturday, the state government is also chalking out schemes to ensure food is provided to the hapless people on the streets. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that steps were being initiated to ensure that no one starve during the lockdown. The ward-level committees under local bodies were directed to identify those people in the Kerala who may not get food during the lockdown days. "Beggars and those staying on the streets should be identified. They should be provided food either from nearby canteens or by opening community kitchens," Vijayan said. Meanwhile, the Covid scenario in Kerala remained grim with the test positivity rate remaining at a high level of 28.25 per cent. With 41,971 more Covid positive cases being reported on Saturday the total number of active cases reached 4.17 lakh. Oxygen scarcity was being reported from some major hospitals in the state, even as the Chief Minister said that as of now there was no major cause for concern over oxygen. "However, if the situation continues the state would require additional oxygen and hence steps in this regard were being initiated," he said. He also said that the people generally cooperated with the lockdown by staying at homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-government-to-ensure-food-to-those-on-streets-983924.html
08-05-2021||State||Mysuru stops first dose vaccination due to shortage||The health department has stopped administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. In a communication released by the health department, it had stated that the district is facing a shortage of vaccine, and thus, administering the first dose has been stopped for the time being.  The drive will commence once the vaccine is available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-stops-first-dose-vaccination-due-to-shortage-983753.html
08-05-2021||State||Boeing to set up hospital in Kalaburagi with 250 oxygen beds, says Karnataka Minister||Aviation major Boeing will set up a 250-oxygenated bed hospital in Kalaburagi to tide over the Covid-19 crisis, Karnataka Mines and Geology and district in-charge Minister Murugesh Nirani said on Saturday. "The 250-bed hospital would be set up under public- private partnership (PPP) model and would be completed at the earliest possible time," Nirani, who is district in-charge minister of Kalaburagi district, told reporters. The minister said a suitable land in a prominent location will be identified after consultation with district administration and people's representatives from the district. "The work will start from tomorrow itself and hope that it will be completed in six months," he added. Denying the shortage of oxygen and medicine in Kalaburagi, the minister said transportation was affected due to logistics problems. "We have 1,600 beds in Kalaburagi including 400 oxygenated beds, 378 ICU beds and 500 beds arranged in ESI hospital.We have received 200 Remdesivir vials today and requested Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan to send more vials tomorrow." "We don't have an oxygen shortage but we are facing problems to transport from outside due to logistics challenges," Nirani contended. Elaborating further on oxygen supply, Nirani said arrangement has been made to bring two oxygen tankers apart from government quota. The district needs 30 kilolitres of oxygen for the next one week, he said. According to him, one oxygen tanker will reach Kalaburagi by Sunday morning and 100 oxygen concentrators are expected to reach on Monday. The state is reporting about 50,000 cases daily whereas the daily fatalities touched a new height of 592 on Friday. Kalaburagi is no exception to the trend with over 1,500 fresh cases daily. The district was the first in the country to report a Covid death last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/boeing-to-set-up-hospital-in-kalaburagi-with-250-oxygen-beds-says-karnataka-minister-983913.html
08-05-2021||State||Start fever clinics at gram panchayat level, H D Kumaraswamy urges Karnataka government||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy has urged the state government to start fever clinics in all wards at the gram panchayat-level and equip them with vaccines. In a ten-point list of suggestions to the government, the regional party leader urged the government to ensure that there are at least 3-4 fever clinics in a gram panchayat. These fever clinics should distribute vaccines, he said.  The government must work towards streamlining bed allocation. At the ward and gram panchayat level, only healthcare professionals have to decide who should get the bed, he said.   He has also asked the government to make use of AYUSH hospitals for treating patients with mild symptoms. It is time for the government to strengthen human resources for managing Covid, the former chief minister said. The government must make use of medical teaching faculty and National Health Mission staff for Covid management in places where there's staff shortage. More youth volunteers should be encouraged to take part in Covid management. There has to be one IAS and KAS official to check on all medical colleges to ensure that the patients are being well taken care of, the leader said, asking the government to implement these measures for efficient Covid care management in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/start-fever-clinics-at-gram-panchayat-level-h-d-kumaraswamy-urges-karnataka-government-983946.html
08-05-2021||State||Covid-19: Karnataka private schools demand seroprevalence survey among kids before reopening||The private school managements have requested the state government to conduct a seroprevalence survey among children to prepare for future wave of Covid-19, before reopening of schools. In a letter to the Chief Secretary, the Karnataka Private School Managements Teaching and Non-teaching staff Coordination Committee submitted the request after consultation with public health experts. The consortium of school managements said, “Experts have been predicting that the second wave of Covid-19 will peak in mid or end of May and that we should be prepared for another wave in October-December 2021, which may affect children. The schools have been shut for more than a year, such predictions will lead to further demand for the schools to remain closed, which is impacting children immensely. Unfortunately, we do not have evidence of the infection levels in children and experts are speculating on the third wave and causing some panic among parents and the society in general.” After having discussion with public health experts which includes paediatricians from the city, the committee has requested to conduct a survey at the end of the second wave among the children in the age-group of 10-18 years.  “We urge the government to appoint any leading institution in child health as a nodal agency to conduct the study,” reads the letter. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “We hope the government will consider our recommendations seriously and make sure the schools are opened and children will be safe and continue with the learning process.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-karnataka-private-schools-demand-seroprevalence-survey-among-kids-before-reopening-983948.html
08-05-2021||State||Trial court can’t close complaint when warrant is in force: Karnataka HC||The High Court has held that a warrant will be in force, unless it is cancelled by the court and until execution of the charge sheet. Restoring the complaint in a case under Negotiable Instruments Act, the High Court said the trial court cannot dismiss the complaint for default when the warrant is in force as per Section 70 (2) of CrPC. The complaint was filed in the year 2010. When the non-bailable warrant issued against the accused was returned unexecuted and the complainant and his counsel remained absent, the complaint was dismissed for default. The legal representatives of the complainant filed a review.   Justice K Natarajan said the trial court has committed an error in dismissing the complaint. The court observed that the order sheet does not reveal the step taken after the issuance of warrant. “Such being the case, the question of taking further steps and dismissing the complaint for default does not arise. As per Section 70(2) of CrPC, once the warrant has been issued, until the warrant is cancelled by the said Court and until execution of charge sheet, it remains in force,” the court said. The trial court ought to have received or called back the warrant and the reason for not executing the warrant shall have to be ascertained before dismissing the case for default, the High Court noted. “Therefore, I am of the view that the trial court has committed an error in dismissing the complaint for default on the ground for not taking steps. Therefore, the order under appeal requires to be set aside and requires to be sent back for disposal of the case on merits as per the provisions of law,” the bench said. Since the complaint is from 2010, the High Court has directed that a copy of the order be sent to the trial court to dispose of the matter as early as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/trial-court-can-t-close-complaint-when-warrant-is-in-force-karnataka-hc-983950.html
08-05-2021||State||CT-scan, X-ray to cost Rs 1,500 for BPL; Rs 2,500 for APL patients in Karnataka||A day after capping the charges of HRCT CT-Scanning and X-Ray procedures in private medical establishments across Karnataka for detecting Covid-19 infection, the government, on Saturday, ordered revision of tariff yet again.  As per the fresh notification, patients having BPL cards shall be charged Rs 1,500 and other patients will be charged Rs 2,500. The sudden revision in the tariff was attributed to the detailed representation made by the Association of Diagnostic Centres, Bengaluru (ADCB) to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday. The association members apprised Yediyurappa that they have not been given any concession in electricity bills and that they incur huge costs on the salaries of radiologists and supporting staff, making the working cost of a single CT-scan to be Rs 4,000. “The association had requested to reconsider the price cap and fix a reasonable price between 3,500 to Rs 4,500 per scan,” explained a senior official of the Health and Family Welfaredepartment. The new tariff, as per the order, is inclusive of all expenses incurred on consumables like PPE kits, gloves and sanitisation equipment per patient. Any hospital or diagnostic centre caught violating the rule will be booked under various provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act and KPME Act, as per the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ct-scan-x-ray-to-cost-rs-1500-for-bpl-rs-2500-for-apl-patients-in-karnataka-983953.html
08-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Boeing to set up oxygenated bed hospitals in Bengaluru, Kalaburagi||American aircraft manufacturer Boeing will set up two hospitals with 200 oxygenated beds each in Karnataka.  While one of the hospitals will come up at Yelananka, Bengaluru, the other will be at Kalaburagi.  Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who is a Rajya Sabha member from Karnataka, announced this in a tweet. According to a letter written by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to Sitharaman, Boeing had come forward to setting up a 200-bed hospital only in Yelananka.  But due to surging Covid cases in Karnataka, Yediyurappa had written to the union finance minister to request Boeing to set up another facility in Kalaburagi, as it would help serve many adjoining districts in North Karnataka.  Following the same, Sitharaman announced that Boeing would set up two oxygenated bed hospitals in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/boeing-to-set-up-oxygenated-bed-hospitals-in-bengaluru-kalaburagi-983632.html
08-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid Covid-19, rumours suggest BJP looking to replace Yediyurappa||As Karnataka grapples with the devastating Covid-19 second wave, speculation was rife on Friday that the BJP has set the ball rolling on replacing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. The speculation got some credence when Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra, son of Yediyurappa, arrived in New Delhi on a special flight on Friday night and met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party’s national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of Karnataka. The state’s advocate-general Prabhuling Navadagi accompanied Bommai. Before them, state tourism minister C P Yogeeshwar was in New Delhi on Thursday to meet Singh, and he left for Bengaluru on Friday evening. Bommai and others stayed in a private hotel instead of Karnataka Bhavan and opted for private vehicles instead of official government cars. Bommai and Vijayendra met Shah separately, without Navadgi. According to sources, the party top brass has discussed the idea of replacing Yediyurappa, rumours of which have been making the rounds of political corridors for the last one year.  Yediyurappa is arguably the BJP’s tallest leader in Karnataka. But the Lingayat strongman is aging, and at 78 is way past the BJP’s unwritten 75-year-limit rule for leaders to hold constitutional posts. There is palpable disgruntlement against Yediyurappa's style of functioning, though he has weathered all the storms that have come his way.   Going by speculation, Bommai and Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan are in line for the CM’s post.  Narayan is a Vokkaliga whereas Bommai, like Yediyurappa, is a Lingayat. While Lingayats are traditionally seen as BJP supporters, the saffron party has been working to woo the Vokkaligas.  During a recent discussion with the RSS leadership, Yediyurappa is learnt to have given two options for his exit: making Narayan the CM with Vijayendra as the deputy chief minister, or making Bommai the CM and giving Vijayendra a prominent party position.  Officially, however, the state leaders said they met Shah over the recent Karnataka High Court order on oxygen supply.  “All rumours are bogus,” Bommai told DH. “I've come here to appraise Amit Shah and other central ministers of the state government’s measures to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-covid-19-rumours-suggest-bjp-looking-to-replace-yediyurappa-983664.html
08-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports record 592 deaths, over 50K cases||Karnataka on Friday reported a record 592 deaths and 50,000 new infections, of which 346 deaths and more than 21,000 cases were found in Bengaluru alone. The warning given by experts came true on Friday as the deaths in the districts rose to 246, nearly 45 per cent of the total deaths. Ballari led with 24 deaths, followed by Mysuru (22), Hassan (20), Kalaburagi (19), Shivamogga (14) and others. On May 1, barring Bengaluru Urban, deaths crossed double digits in only two districts, Bengaluru Rural and Tumakuru.  The numbers from districts not only indicate a sudden surge but also limited health infrastructure which is overwhelmed by the high demand for oxygen beds and ventilator-equipped ICU beds. They also show that the curfew restrictions imposed from April 27 were yet to make an impact on the chain of infections. The positivity rate for the day stood at 30.69 per cent. Of the 48,781 cases reported on Friday, Bengaluru accounted for 21,376, followed by Tumakuru (3040), Hassan (2422), Mysuru (2246), Kalaburagi (1722), Ballari (1284) with many others reporting between 500 and 976 cases. With 120 new cases, Chitradurga reported the lowest number. The total active cases across the state reached 5.36 lakh, a big increase from 4.05 lakh as reported on May 1. The number of discharged patients stood at 28,623. Compared to the previous day, the number of tests done by the state has come down by 5,539, which explains Friday's decrease of 277 cases from Thursday's 49,058.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-record-592-deaths-over-50k-cases-983683.html
08-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||70% Covishield vaccines to be used for second dose in Karnataka||70 per cent of the available stock of Covishield in Karnataka would be utilised to vaccinate people above 45 years of age who are due for second dose, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday. The rest 30 per cent would be used to vaccinate the 45 years and above age group seeking first dose, he said. "Covaxin will be administered only to 45+ who are due for 2nd dose after 6 weeks of 1st dose", the Minister tweeted. 📢 Vaccine Update 💉 70% of the available stock of Covishield will be utilised to vaccinate 45+ who are due for 2nd dose and rest 30% will be used to vaccinate 45+ seeking 1st dose. 💉 Covaxin will be administered only to 45+ who are due for 2nd dose after 6 weeks of 1st dose. Karnataka on Friday reported 592 Covid deaths and 48,781 new cases. The State government on Friday announced the imposition of strict lockdown from May 10 to 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/70-covishield-vaccines-to-be-used-for-second-dose-in-karnataka-983740.html
08-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 34,000 Covid-19 patients discharged on a single day across Karnataka||The state discharged a massive 34,881 Covid-19 patients on Saturday. This is the second-largest single-day discharge in the state so far, following from over 35,000 people who were discharged on April 29. The move comes even as the viral outbreak shows little sign of abating, although statewide numbers saw a slight drop over the last three days. On Saturday, 47,563 new cases were made public. This number is slightly less than the 49,058 cases which were disclosed on Thursday.  Out of Saturday’s new figures, 21,534 cases were in Bengaluru Urban, comprising 45 per cent of the total number. The data shows that the city’s share of daily cases has been declining in recent weeks. Up to late April, Bengaluru Urban accounted for an average of 62 per cent of daily cases. Tumakuru recorded the next highest cases (2,419) followed by Mysuru (2,294), Kalaburagi (1,661) and  Dakshina Kannada (1,513) The state recorded as many as 482 new Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday. However, not all deaths were recent. According to the data, at least 121 had happened in the month of April. Twenty-six, however, had happened on Saturday. As per the data, Karnataka conducted 1.57 lakh tests over a 24-hour period on Friday and Saturday. The state’s test positivity rate was 30.29 per cent. As per World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines on pandemic containment, the test positivity rate should ideally be under 5 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-34000-covid-19-patients-discharged-on-a-single-day-across-karnataka-983940.html
08-05-2021||West||Maharashtra to form Task Force for pediatrics to prepare for third wave||With medical experts world over suggesting that the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic would hit children the most, the Maharashtra government has decided to form a Covid Pediatric Task Force. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state’s Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope made the announcements. “Experts are fearing that children would hit hard during the third wave…accordingly we are forming a task force comprising experts and pediatricians,” Thackeray said. “A Covid Task Force of Pediatricians will be formed immediately to treat the Covid-19 infections, especially among children, create the pediatric treatment protocols, etc,” Tope said. The state has till date recorded 1,49,224 infections of children in the 1-10 age group and 3,38,397 in the 11-20 age, totally accounting for 9.97 per cent of the state’s total caseload, with a majority not yet cleared for vaccination by the Centre. Mumbai Suburban district Guardian Minister Aaditya Thackeray asked the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to ramp up facilities for children earlier this week. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, the Director of  the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said that steps are being taken now based on experiences of the first and second wave.  At the government level, all the Divisional Commissioners, District Collectors and Municipal Commissioners have been flagged the issue and asked to make necessary preparations.  At the same time, there are projections that the medical oxygen needs would be high and hence, production in the state is being increased from the existing 1,200 MT to 3,000 MT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-form-task-force-for-pediatrics-to-prepare-for-third-wave-983681.html
08-05-2021||West||Fire on board aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya||An incident of fire was reported on board Indian Navy’s aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. “The duty staff observed smoke emanating from the part of the ship having accommodation for sailors. The ship's duty personnel acted promptly to fight the fire,” a Western Naval Command spokesperson said. All personnel onboard have been accounted for and no major damage has been reported.  An inquiry into the incident will be ordered, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-on-board-aircraft-carrier-ins-vikramaditya-983696.html
08-05-2021||West||Enormous distress: Gujarat pleads Centre to increase oxygen allocation||The Gujarat government has pleaded to the Centre to increase the allocation of medical oxygen at the earliest due to "tremendous distress to the patients seeking hospitalisation and oxygen therapy. It said that nearly 11,500 beds are not operational despite having the infrastructure in place due to a shortage of oxygen, which is causing "enormous distress" especially in rural areas where cases are increasing. The state said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government has not increased the allocation of oxygen to the state despite repeated requests. "The Government of India has not increased the allocation to the state beyond 975 MT (metric tonnes) and the same has been creating tremendous distress to the patients seeking hospitalization and oxygen therapy resulting in denial of medical treatment to the needy despite availability of beds and qualified personnel in hospitals," Chief Secretary, the government of Gujarat, Anil Mukim has stated in an affidavit filed before Supreme Court on Friday. "I had indicated immediate demand on that day (April 26) for medical liquid oxygen (MLO) in Gujarat of 1190 tons and had requested you to allocate 190 tonnes extra to Gujarat from the central allocation. However, the government of India has not increased allocation of Gujarat state beyond 975 tonnes which is creating tremendous distress to the patients seeking hospitalisation and oxygen therapy resulting in denial of medical treatment to needy despite availability of beds and qualified personnel in hospitals," Mukim has said in a letter addressed to Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Home Secretary, Government of India, dated May 5. This letter has been annexed in the affidavit. Mukim's letter also states that from April 26 to May 5, the demand for oxygen beds went up to 6.4 per cent. The letter indicates that the positive rate is increasing in rural areas of the state and hence "requirement of medical oxygen has gone up from projected 1,250 tonnes (April 30) to 1,400 tonnes for today and is likely to increase to 1,600 tonnes by May 15th." The Chief Secretary has stated that despite mobilising additional oxygen from all plants "the state is not able to meet with the rising demand for oxygen and in the consequence, is not able to operationalise additional 11,500 beds created with oxygen line and medical team etc, just for want of oxygen." The letter goes on to say, "This is causing enormous distress in rural areas because now the Covid cases are picking up there and yet, hospitalisation with oxygen therapy is not available resulting in long wait before hospital admission." Mukim has requested to "immediately enhance the allocation of medical liquid oxygen under central allocation to 1200 tonnes for today and 1400 tonnes for May 12. The letter pleads, "Please appreciate the seriousness of the issue and kindly increase the allocation at the earliest." With regard to the court's direction to create an emergency buffer stock of oxygen, the state government's affidavit has said that "the state has addressed a communication dated 06.05.2021 to the Government of India, for the same, whereby a request has been made for the creation of a buffer stock of minimum 400 MT of liquid oxygen in the State of Gujarat." The request letter written by Mukim to Home Secretary, Bhalla, stated, "Gujarat had faced issues of strain in the supply chain due to two shutdowns happening at the production facility of M/S Sriram Oxy, Bhavnagar on April 25 and at M/S Linde, Bharuch on April 27. With great difficulty, the stress was mitigated. However, should a similar disruption were to happen again, then that would have life-threatening consequences. Under the aforesaid circumstances and pursuant to the direction of the supreme court, I request you to create a buffer stock of minimum 400 MT of liquid oxygen in Gujarat and available at disposal of Gujarat government and suppliers to Gujarat..." On Friday evening, Gujarat reported 12,064 Covid-19 cases and 119 deaths, taking the total cases to 6,57,290 and the death toll to 8,145. The number of active cases stood at 1,46,285 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/enormous-distress-gujarat-pleads-centre-to-increase-oxygen-allocation-983765.html
08-05-2021||West||Covid-19 crisis: Shiv Sena slams BJP for going ahead with Central Vista project amid pandemic||The Shiv Sena on Saturday slammed the Narendra Modi government at the Centre for going ahead with the Central Vista redevelopment project even as India reels under the second wave of the deadly Covid-19 pandemic. The Shiv Sena’s observation came in an editorial in Saamna, the party’s mouthpiece, on Saturday. “Nobody feels the regret over Covid-19 relief from countries like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan  being accepted, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not ready to stop work on the Central Vista project to construct a new Parliament building and house of the Prime Minister, spending thousands of crores of rupees,” the editorial stated. It pointed out that the ruling BJP is doing all it can to corner Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal even after the election results are out. The editorial states that BJP MP Subramanian Swamy has demanded that Nitin Gadkari  be made the health minister. “This is proof that the Union health ministry has been a complete failure,” it further stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-crisis-shiv-sena-slams-bjp-for-going-ahead-with-central-vista-project-amid-pandemic-983788.html
08-05-2021||West||Daily average of cases over 50,000 in Maharashtra despite curbs: Health Minister Rajesh Tope||Over three weeks have passed since the Maharashtra government imposed strict restrictions to check the spread of coronavirus but the daily average of cases is still over 50,000 which is a matter of concern, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. Citing the Union government, Tope said Covid-19 cases have dipped in 12 out of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra, but in some other districts, the cases are on a higher side. The lockdown-like curbs announced by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray came into effect on April 14 that included the ban on inter-city as well as inter-district travel and the closure of non-essential services in the state. These measures, including the weekend restrictions on the movement of people, were later extended till May 15. The state government had allowed groceries, vegetable shops and dairies to remain open only for four hours, between 7 am and 11 am from Monday to Friday and banned home delivery after 8 pm till May 1. "The government had introduced lockdown-like measures but the average number of daily cases is still hovering between 50,000 and 60,000. The positivity rate, which is the key factor in deciding the (extent of) outbreak of the pandemic, is still on a higher side," Tope told reporters. The health minister said the government will review the situation and decide on whether to extend these lockdown-like measures or not. "The state government is stressing on tracking, tracing and treating Covid-19 patients to curb the outbreak," he added. As of May 7, Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally stood at 49,96,758 while the overall death toll is 74,413. The state had tested 2,89,30,580 samples so far, the health department had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/daily-average-of-cases-over-50000-in-maharashtra-despite-curbs-health-minister-rajesh-tope-983800.html
08-05-2021||West||Consider allotment of required oxygen, Remdesivir injections to Rajasthan: HC to Centre||The High Court here asked the Centre to consider allotting the required medical oxygen and Remdesivir injections to Rajasthan for the treatment of Covid patients as the state government submitted before it that the needful is not being done as demanded by them. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Vinit Kumar Mathur said this on Friday while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) over the issue. The Rajasthan government in an affidavit said, "The requisitions, which were sent to the High Power Committee of the Government of India by the state, were not being fulfilled adequately." While the state government said efforts are being made to start oxygen generation plants in hospitals attached with medical colleges, it claimed that the Centre allotted only 1,41,600 Remdesivir injections to them between April 21 and May 9, against the daily demand of 20,000 vials. Assistant Solicitor General Mukesh Rajpurohit, representing the Government of India, submitted that a high powered committee has been constituted by the Centre to deal with the supply of oxygen and essential medicines after taking into consideration the number of patients in a state. Following the submissions, the Division Bench asked the high powered committee to consider allotting required oxygen to the state and source it from Rajasthan or around to save the time of transportation. It asked the committee to consider enhancing the supply of Remdesivir injection and other life-saving drugs to meet the demand of the state. Acknowledging efforts of doctors, paramedical staff and government functionaries, the court said, “Although best efforts are being made to utilise the available resources, we feel that the requisite efforts are not sufficient and further efforts need to be made.” PT||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/consider-allotment-of-required-oxygen-remdesivir-injections-to-rajasthan-hc-to-centre-983819.html
08-05-2021||West||Covid-19 crisis: PM Modi praises Maharashtra’s handling of pandemic||In a significant development, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and lauded the way the state has handled the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. While thanking the Centre for guiding the state from time to time, Thackeray urged Modi to increase the quota of medical oxygen in the state. The two leaders also discussed the overall Covid-19 pandemic situation and the vaccination programme. Thackeray took the opportunity to brief the Prime Minister on the state’s plan to tackle the possible third wave, expected to hit soon. The praise from Modi comes at a time when the BJP state leadership has repeatedly been targeting the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over their handling of the pandemic. The Maharashtra government has already decided to form a Covid Task Force on pediatrics as the third wave is expected to hit children the most – an age group that has not yet been covered by vaccines. Thackeray also urged Modi to allow the states to develop their own app to handle the vaccinations – which, in turn, can be connected to the Co-Win app of the central government.  “This will ensure better interface  and experience for citizens who are really keen to take the vaccine shot,” the CM said in a letter, pointing out that the overwhelming rush may often lead to the app malfunctioning or crashing. On the shortage of vaccines – Covishield produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech – Thackeray said the states should be allowed to procure from other manufacturers. “If the states are allowed to procure from other manufacturers as well, we would be able to cover a larger population in a shorter time to help reduce the impact of the possible third wave,” he said. “Nobody feels the regret over Covid-19 relief from countries like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan  being accepted, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not ready to stop work on the Central Vista project to construct a new Parliament building and house of the Prime Minister, spending thousands of crores of rupees,” an editorial in Saamna said. The editorial states that BJP MP Subramanian Swamy has demanded that Nitin Gadkari be made the health minister. “This is proof that the Union health ministry has been a complete failure,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-crisis-pm-modi-praises-maharashtra-s-handling-of-pandemic-983822.html
08-05-2021||West||Allow states to have own apps for Covid-19 vaccination: Maharashtra CM Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged the central government to allow states to develop their own applications for Covid-19 vaccination programme. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Thackeray said the vaccination drive in Maharashtra has been the "fastest and the most efficient in the country". At present, people have to register their names on CoWIN platform introduced by the central government for the vaccination. "As we plan to open up vaccination for the 18 to 45 age group through the state's procurement, the CoWIN app is seeing a sudden surge in the number of citizens wanting to register nationally. There is fear about the app malfunctioning and crashing as it did on the first day of registration of the age group," he said. "We propose either a separate app developed by states, where the data can be shared with the Union government's ministry of health or a CoWIN app for each state, developed and assigned by the government of India," he said. This would ensure better interface and experience for citizens who are really keen to take the vaccine shot, the chief minister added. Thackeray wrote that the vaccine supply was also a major challenge. "If possible, the state is willing to procure the requisite stock of vaccines in a single procurement. However, the producers do not have enough stocks. If the states are allowed to procure vaccines from other manufacturers as well, a large population would be covered in a shorter time and help reduce the impact of a possible third wave," the CM siad. He also requested that the ICMR may set the medical framework for the FDAs of each state, within which various vaccines available to the world may be procured to fight Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/allow-states-to-have-own-apps-for-covid-19-vaccination-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-983825.html
08-05-2021||West||Stricter Covid-19 curbs imposed in Maharashtra's Solapur||In a bid to break the chain of coronavirus, the authorities in Maharashtra's Solapur have announced stricter restrictions for a week in the city as well as other parts of the district. As part of the fresh curbs, which will come into effect from 8 pm on Saturday, shops selling essential commodities, such as milk, groceries, vegetables and fruits, will remain closed and only home delivery of these items will be permitted, officials said. As per the earlier guidelines, shops selling essentials were allowed to operate from 7 am to 11 am in the district. The restrictions will remain in place in Solapur city and other parts of the district till May 15, officials said. "In view of the rise in Covid-19 cases, a decision was taken to make the lockdown stricter in the district. As per the new restrictions, shops selling essential commodities will remain shut, and only home delivery of these items will be permitted from 7 am to 11 am," Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar said. As section 144 of the CrPC is already imposed in the district, the movement of the people is not allowed except for valid reasons, he said. All the essential services, such as hospitals, medicals, diagnostics services, vaccination centres, insurance offices, pet shops, animal care centres, veterinary clinics, banks and all other services, which are related to healthcare will remain open, he added. "Shops selling agriculture-related products are allowed to remain open till 11 am," the official said. According to him, hotels and restaurants are closed, but home delivery of food items has been permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stricter-covid-19-curbs-imposed-in-maharashtras-solapur-983828.html
08-05-2021||West||Black fungus claims eyesight of some Covid-19 survivors in Gujarat||The Gujarat government on Saturday acknowledged that there are more than 100 cases of fungal infection or mucormycosis in the state among coronavirus-infected people. According to various reports, the fungal infection has left many patients, many of whom had recovered from the infection, lose their eyesight, teeth, and jaws. Acknowledging the prevalence of the disease for the first time on Saturday in the second wave of the pandemic, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani announced the setting up of separate wards in civil hospitals in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar, which are the worst affected places.  Although the government has said that 100 cases have been detected so far, it is reported that the numbers could be as high as 500 to 700 at present. The numbers could be in thousands if reports from private hospitals are also included. Private hospitals have been reporting such cases in huge numbers for the past month. "We saw these cases (mucormycosis) even last year but they were not noticeable. This time, like the second wave of the pandemic, which is more severe than last year, cases of fungal infections are alarmingly high and serious," said a top officer in the Health Department. When asked about the number of fatalities caused by this infection, he said, "We don't have any data yet." Rupani also announced that the government has ordered the purchase of 5,000 injections of Amphotericin B 50 Mg at a cost of Rs 3.12 crore for treating the patients. The government said that a meeting of a core committee of experts headed by Rupani at his residence was held to review the condition of Covid-19 in the state and increasing prevalence of mucormycosis in patients post-Covid-19 recovery. The government's press note stated that people with diabetes, cancer, long-term steroid users, among others, are prone to get infected. It noted that some of the common symptoms are swelling on one side of the face, headache, nasal congestion or sinus-related issues, lump in the mouth, nostrils, eye pain, loss of vision, fever, cough, chest pain among others.  It said that antifungal drugs such as "Amphotericin-B, Posaconazole or Isavuconazole" are useful for the treatment. The chief minister also directed the Health Department to make the treatment guidance available to the people by the senior specialist doctors of the state. Meanwhile, the state reported 11,982 new positive cases and 119 deaths. The number of discharge patients rose was 14,737 while the total active cases stood at 1,43,421.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/black-fungus-claims-eyesight-of-some-covid-19-survivors-in-gujarat-983835.html
08-05-2021||West||Maharashtra announces criteria to give hospitality sector a boost||The Maharashtra government has announced the criteria on which taxes and charges will be levied at industrial rates on non-classified hotels in the special hospitality category, officials said on Saturday. The government resolution (GR) on this was issued on Friday, they added. From April 1 this year, all star hotels registered with the tourism ministry have been able to enjoy tariffs and duties on electricity, water as well as property, development and non-agricultural taxes at industrial rates. For hotels which were not registered with the ministry, an expert committee was appointed under Tourism Director Dhananjay Sawalkar to define norms, they said. "The tourism sector can play a major role in economic recovery after the Covid-19 pandemic as it has the potential to grow at an annual rate of 8.5 per cent and add Rs 5,500 crore to the state's GDP. However, the sector is currently losing about 2.8 lakh jobs due to the global pandemic, and hence the need to strengthen the sector," a tourism department statement said. "Under the new criteria, hoteliers will be able to avail industrial concessions after fulfilling the criteria set by the state government's committee. These criteria are categorised in two sections, the first outlines 50 mandatory minimum basic standards that need to be fulfilled by the non- classified hotels," an official said. These include a minimum of six rooms with windows and proper ventilation for letting out, cleanliness, staff conduct etc, while the second criteria comprises 43 norms, attaining some of which would qualify an outlet to be called a 'green hotel', the official added. The green hotel norms include rainwater harvesting system, effective waste management practises, no use of plastics etc, the official pointed out. In order to bolster the hospitality sector, the state government had given it industry status last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-announces-criteria-to-give-hospitality-sector-a-boost-983836.html
08-05-2021||West||Decision on Covid-19 lockdown should have been taken by Centre, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said a decision regarding the coronavirus lockdown should have been made by the Centre for better coordination among states. In a statement, the chief minister said several states have imposed a lockdown to tackle the problem and prohibited the entry of people from other states. "A lockdown is more needed than ever to prevent the infection spread. It is my opinion, on the basis of previous experience, the decision should have been made at the level of the Centre so that the common people, including the labourers, face minimum hardships and at the same time, there is better coordination among the states," Gehlot said. The Rajasthan Chief Minister also expressed concern that the infection is spreading fast in rural areas. He said to stop the virus spread, a strict lockdown will be in place across the state from Monday. It is the duty of every citizen to follow the guidelines, the chief minister said. The state government has decided to implement a strict lockdown in the state from May 10 to 24. During this period, marriage functions, intrastate movement and MGNREGA works have also been suspended. Only shops dealing in essential items will remain open during the period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decision-on-covid-19-lockdown-should-have-been-taken-by-centre-says-ashok-gehlot-983853.html
08-05-2021||West||Stricter Covid-19 curbs in Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal from May 9||District authorities in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal in Maharashtra's Vidarbha region said stricter Covid-19 restrictions will come into force from Sunday. These 'break the chain' curbs will start at noon on Sunday and will be in place till May 15, officials said. As per an order issued by Amravati Collector Shailesh Naval on Saturday, grocery shops, dairies, eateries, bars, vegetable and fruit vending outlets, bakeries etc will remain shut during the period but will be allowed to undertake home delivery between 7am and 11am. The order also curbs movement of people except for emergency and essential purposes. It also directs schools, colleges, parks, swimming pools, tuition classes, theatres, saloons, spas, beauty parlour, parks, playing fields etc to remain shut, though online classes will be allowed. An official said the order exempts private and public hospitals and clinics, medical stores, animal husbandry clinics and eye-wear shops from the curbs. "All government and semi government offices will remain shut, except those engaged in essential services. Petrol pumps too have been told to sell fuel only to those vehicles which are out for valid reasons. Banks and post offices will function between 10 am and 2pm during this period," he said. Similar orders were issued by Akola Collector Jitendra Papalkar and Collector Amol Yedge in Yavatmal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stricter-covid-19-curbs-in-amravati-akola-yavatmal-from-may-9-983873.html
08-05-2021||West||Maharashtra minister accuses Karnataka govt of blocking oxygen supply||Maharashtra minister Satej Patil on Saturday accused the neighbouring Karnataka government of `interrupting' oxygen supply to Western Maharashtra from a steel plant in Bellary, and asked the Centre to intervene. In a statement, Patil, the Minister of State for Home, said "interruption of oxygen meant for Kolhapur and other districts by Karnataka is unfortunate". The Union government should ensure that the supply is not disrupted to avoid loss of life, he said. "The supply of 50 MT of oxygen to Maharashtra especially to Western Maharashtra by the central government was interrupted by the Karnataka government. This will lead to a shortage of oxygen in Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts," the Congress leader claimed. Shortage of medical oxygen is plaguing many states in the country where coronavirus cases have surged massively in the last few weeks. Patil, who is also guardian minister for Kolhapur, informed that to face a possible third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, 14 oxygen plants will be set up in the district. The new plants would generate 23 MT oxygen and can refill 1,800 cylinders daily, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-accuses-karnataka-govt-of-blocking-oxygen-supply-983884.html
08-05-2021||West||Maharashtra to set up committee to study Supreme Court order on Maratha quota||The Maharashtra government will set up a committee under a retired judge to study the Supreme Court order striking down reservations for the Maratha community, state minister Ashok Chavan said on Saturday. The apex court on May 4 struck down the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming the statute as "unconstitutional", and also refused to refer the 1992 Mandal judgement, setting a 50 per cent cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration. Speaking to reporters, Chavan, who heads the state government's sub committee on Maratha reservation, said the panel will study the judgement, which runs into over 500 pages, in detail and then submit a report in 15 days, after which a decision on filing a review petition will be taken by the state government. He also said Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte will take stock of the pending Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) recruitment process in every department, adding that the SC had upheld recruitments till September 9, 2020. "The entire process comprises selection comprises selection and recruitment. The CS will review this process. The state is positively considering giving justice to SEBC candidates affected by the court decision, and the future course of action will be based on the CS report," he added. Chavan said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind on this issue, and ask the Centre to provide quota to the community if the state does not have the right to do so. Meanwhile, state home minister Dilip Walse Patil urged the Maratha community to exercise restraint, asking it to not do anything that would put the police in further stress amid the coronavirus outbreak. State minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde said the MVA government was committed to reservations for the Maratha community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-set-up-committee-to-study-supreme-court-order-on-maratha-quota-983898.html
08-05-2021||West||Maharashtra crosses 50 lakh Covid-19 cases, 75,000 deaths||As Covid-19 pandemic continues to sweep India, Maharashtra breached the mark of 50 lakh progressive cases and 75,000 deaths on Saturday. During the last 24 hours, Maharashtra reported 53,605 positive cases and 864 deaths, taking the progressive total to 50,53,336 and 75,277, respectively. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49 per cent. During the day, a record 82,266 patients were discharged, taking the total to 43,47,592 persons who recovered from the viral infection. The recovery rate in the state stands at 86.03 per cent. Of the 2,91,91,331 laboratory samples 50,53,336 have been tested positive (17.31%) for Covid-19 till date. Currently 37,50,502 people are in home quarantine and 28,453 people are in institutional quarantine. The total active cases in the state stand at 6,28,213. The first set of two coronavirus cases were detected in Pune on 9 March, 2020 while the first death was reported in Mumbai on 17 March. In the last nearly 15 months of the pandemic, the health infrastructure has been upgraded. In March, 2020, when the pandemic broke out, the state had two Covid-19 tests labs – Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai and National Institute of Virology in Pune, however, now the state has 609 testing labs. During this period, the numbers of Covid centres have increased from 2,665 to 5,595, while the bed strength rose from 3,36,384 to 4,31,902. The numbers of oxygen beds have increased from 42,813 to 86,908, while ICU beds have increased from 11,882 to 28,937. Besides, the number of ventilators have been increased from 3,788 to 11,713. The oxygen producing capacity in the state is 1,270 MT while the current use is around 1,615 MT. The state’s quota decided by the Centre is 1,784 MT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-crosses-50-lakh-covid-19-cases-75000-deaths-983906.html
08-05-2021||West||YouTuber protests for concession in educational fees; held||An FIR was registered on Saturday against YouTuber Vikas Phatak aka Hindustani Bhau for protesting at Shivaji Park here in defiance of prohibitory orders demanding concession in educational fees for students, an official said. Phatak travelled in an ambulance to reach Shivaji Park in central Mumbai this afternoon, the official said. An FIR has been registered against him under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and for violating prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, he said. He was detained and served a notice to remain present before the court before he was allowed to go, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/youtuber-protests-for-concession-in-educational-fees-held-983911.html
08-05-2021||West||Goa Covid-19 curfew: Groceries, liquor shops to remain open||Medical shops, grocery stores and standalone liquor shops are allowed to remain open from 7 am till 1 pm during the 15-day curfew in Goa which will come into force on May 9, the state government said on Saturday. The announcement of the curfew to contain the spread of coronavirus infection was made on Friday. In a notification issued on Saturday, the State Administration has banned several activities while allowing the essential services, the hospitality sector and medical facilities to remain operational. Casinos, bars, restaurants, shops (except selling groceries), sports complex, auditoriums, community hall, river cruises, waterparks, entertainment parks, gyms, massage parlours, saloon, cinema hall, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment zones within the shopping malls, swimming pools, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions, religious places and markets will remain shut during the curfew period. Non-residents entering Goa will have to carry a Covid-19 negative certificate or a vaccination certificate, it said. Shops selling medicines, groceries, animal fodder, public distribution system, standalone liquor shops and related activities will remain open from 7 am till 1 pm. There is no ban on the operation of banks, insurance, customs clearance, ATMs, microfinance institutions etc, the notification added. Medical and health services, veterinary hospitals, and laboratories are also exempted from the purview of the curfew. Goa's Covid-19 tally went up by 3,751 on Saturday to reach 1,16,213, while the toll increased by 55 and the recovery count by 3,025 during the day, an official said. The fatality count now stands at 1,612 while the number of recoveries is 82,214, leaving Goa with 32,387 active cases, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-covid-19-curfew-groceries-liquor-shops-to-remain-open-983938.html
08-05-2021||West||This isolation centre in Gujarat treats Covid-19 patients with cow dung and urine||A village in north Gujarat has opened a covid isolation centre to treat patients based on ayurvedic medicines made of cow urine, dung, milk, ghee and curd called "Panchagavya" along with allopathic facilities. The centre is being run in a sprawling gaushala or cowshed that has over 5,000 cows by a trust 'Rajaram Gaushala Ashram' at Tetoda village in Deesa taluka of Banaskantha district. The centre "Vedalakshana Panchagavya Ayurvedic Covid Isolation Centre" was inaugurated on Thursday and on Saturday alone over 30 people with covid-19 symptoms came to the centre. "We have got permission for 100 beds. We have two MBBS doctors and four nurses besides Ayurveda practitioners to take care of patients. For patients who have complications, we have doctors who will attend to them. We have ayurvedic medicines which is a panacea for covid-19. Promoting Ayurveda is our main purpose. We are providing Vedalakshana Panchagavya Ayurvedic treatment which is made of five elements of cow- urine, dung, milk, ghee and curd," said Ram Ratan Das, trustee of the ashram. The district authority permitted the ashram on May 6 to start a 100-bed covid care centre. District collector Anand Patel told DH: "This is an isolation centre. Fifty beds are for patients who want to opt for ayurvedic treatment while the rest is for allopathy which the gaushala trust has arranged on their own. We gave permission to the trust because of its image in the locality. It is quite in the locality for its work on protecting cows. We have been trying to encourage people in rural areas to isolate themselves in case of any symptoms. To create infrastructure for their quarantine, we have created over 6,000 isolation beds across the villages in the district. This Ashram is also part of it. They do provide Vedalakshana Panchagavya Ayurvedic treatment but it's optional." The gaushala is associated with Rajasthan-based Pathmeda Godham, said to be the largest cow shelter home, and is quite popular among the locals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/this-isolation-centre-in-gujarat-treats-covid-19-patients-with-cow-dung-and-urine-983939.html
