09-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru: Daily wage labourers' wait for job continues||Staying in rented rooms in Urwastore, daily wage labourers are awaiting the day when the lockdown would be lifted and they would be allowed to work so that they can send money for the education of children. The labourers wait near the bus stand daily in anticipation that people will come and engage them for work. After waiting till noon, they return back to their rooms empty-handed. About 300 to 400 daily wage labourers from Naragund and Bagalkot are without jobs in Mangaluru since a week following closedown announced by the government to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19. The labourers were earning a livelihood by working as coolies, helping in gardening, and other works. “After the announcement of the closedown, no one are hiring us for any work. We are jobless. Women workers were earning Rs 500 to Rs 600 per day while men were earning Rs 600 to Rs 700 per day,” said Shobha. Another labourer Gangamma, said; “we own farm fields in our native town. When there is no farm work, we come to Mangaluru in search of employment as wages paid here are higher than our native place. Now we are making use of our savings to purchase grocery and vegetables for the day to day living. We don’t know how long this situation will last for. We do not want anything except a job.” “Owing to lack of work, we could not pay rent for the room we are staying in. We have requested the owner to give us some time to pay the rent for the month. Following rise in covid cases, we have already sent our children back to native villages,” another daily wage labour. “We did not have any problem all these days. Now, the closedown is causing many inconveniences to us,” said another labourer Mahesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-daily-wage-labourers-wait-for-job-continues-984029.html
09-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19-infected kills self in Mangaluru||A Covid infected person killed himself by hanging inside a toilet of a Covid facility in Mangaluru on Sunday. Devaraj of Udayagiri was undergoing treatment at Trauma Care Centre. The reason for the suicide is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-infected-kills-self-in-mangaluru-984104.html
09-05-2021||National||Supreme Court forms task force to set right Covid-19 mess||The Supreme Court on Saturday set up a 12-member National Task Force (NTF) to facilitate the country's public health response, including on supply of oxygen and essential drugs, to tackle the raging pandemic amid criticism from several quarters over the Centre's handling of the unprecedented crisis. The Task Force, which has to start working immediately, would continue for a period of six months. The Centre, which agreed to the formation of the panel and suggested names, would have to take decisions based on the recommendations of the Task Force. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that the establishment of the Task Force will enable the Union government to have inputs based on specialised domain knowledge, which would go beyond finding ad-hoc solutions to the present problems.  The top court also noted that the future course of the pandemic, a possible third wave, must be taken into consideration at the present time. It asked the Task Force to take up the “pressing issue of determining the modalities for oxygen expeditiously within a week”. "The leading experts in the country shall associate with the work of the Task Force...to facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis," the bench said. The court also ordered an oxygen audit in Delhi by forming a panel headed by Dr Randeep Guleria, Director of AIIMS-Delhi, while maintaining that the Centre should continue to supply 700 MT every day to the capital. It also directed for setting up a sub-group under the Task Force for oxygen audit of each state and Union Territory. "Estimating projected needs is crucial to ensure that the country remains prepared to meet future eventualities, which will cause a demand for oxygen, medicines, infrastructure, manpower and logistics," the bench said.  The terms of reference of the Task Force include formulation and devising methodology for the allocation of medical oxygen to states and UTs on a scientific, rational and equitable basis, suggest measures for availability of drugs and medicines, augment availability of doctors and staff among others. The members Dr Bhabatosh Biswas, Former Vice Chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata; Dr Devender Singh Rana, Chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairperson and Executive Director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru Dr Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu Dr JV Peter, Director, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu Dr Naresh Trehan, Chairperson and Managing Director, Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurugram Dr Rahul Pandit, Director, Critical Care Medicine and ICU, Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai, Maharashtra) and Kalyan (Maharashtra) Dr Saumitra Rawat, Chairman & Head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, Senior Professor and Head of Department of Hepatology, Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Science (ILBS), Delhi Dr Zarir F Udwadia, Consultant Chest Physician, Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital, Mumbai Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India (ex officio member) Cabinet Secretary or an officer not below rank of Additional Secretary, to the Union government as convenor||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-forms-task-force-to-set-right-covid-19-mess-984000.html
09-05-2021||National||A history of violence: Making sense of political rage in Kerala and West Bengal||Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high; Where the world has not been broken up into fragments by narrow domestic walls; Where the clear stream of reason has not lost its way into the dreary desert sand of dead habit; Into that heaven of freedom, my Father, let my country awake. Rabindranath Tagore's iconic lines from Gitanjali come to mind looking at the irony of the latest bout of political violence that has erupted in West Bengal. As many as 16 people were killed in violence within five days after the result of Assembly elections, in which names of Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Ramakrishna Paramahansa were invoked, as both the TMC and the BJP vied with each other to claim the legacy of Bengal's icons. When Mamata Banerjee took oath for the third time as West Bengal Chief Minister, she said tackling Covid was her first priority and checking the clashes second. Governor Jagdeep Dhankar, in the presence of Mamata, said this should be "first priority". The opposition parties in the state — the BJP, the Congress and the CPI-M — were on the same page, lashing out at Mamata over the post-poll violence. Ironically, none of them have a clean record on the issue. Every state in India is vulnerable to political violence, but nowhere it is as intense and relentless as in West Bengal and Kerala. In Bengal, violence seems to be woven into the fibre of its politics, with West Bengal being scarred by it right from the days when the Congress and Left ruled the state. Violence also marked the 2011 Assembly polls, in which Mamata Banerjee trounced the Left and ended its 34-year-long unbroken rule. The phenomenon has continued to haunt the state as seen by the ghastly visuals coming after the latest Trinamool victory. The days-long clashes broke out soon after results of one of most acrimonious elections in the state were announced. For the 'bhadralok' of Bengal, the killings were a sombre reality check as Bengal was the only state which could not come out of this cycle even amid the pandemic. Kerala, another state with a history of political violence, was relatively calm this time, while Tamil Nadu, where sporadic violence used to mar the polls, was by and large peaceful. Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai says that political violence in Bengal points to the "lack of acceptance of the mandate at the grassroots". "In states like Bihar, UP, MP, Rajasthan and many others, once an election concludes, the bitterness of rivals subside, at least to the point of accepting the cardinal principle of democracy — that the group having 51 has won over the one having 49, and so try your luck next time," says Kidwai. This time, Kidwai speculates, political violence in Bengal is more about "power politics" than "political ideology". "The message to the defeated group in the respective areas is to shut up. All cases of violence are not purely political in nature. Personal scores are settled, property disputes play a part in the garb of political rivalry," he says. With the BJP increasing its Assembly seats to 77 in 2021 from a mere three in 2016 and Lok Sabha tally from just two in 2014 to 18 in 2019, the polity in West Bengal has already undergone a tectonic shift. Consequently, the bitterness between the TMC and the challenger knocking at the doors of power is at an all-time high. In Kerala, violence is limited mainly to the region around Kannur. But unlike Bengal, the BJP is on a decline ever since its best show of 16% votes in the 2016 Assembly polls. This time, the party got 11.3% votes and lost its lone seat in the state. The saffron party claims that since 2001 around 150 of its workers have been killed in the state by Left cadres. Official statistics, however, show almost an equal number of political workers from CPI-M have been killed in political violence in this period. Mercifully, Kerala was relatively peaceful during the polls. While in Kerala, Kannur is the epicentre of political violence, the entire West Bengal is prone to political killings. And the state has 30% Muslim population, which by and large does not vote for the BJP. As Bengal witnessed another cycle of blood-letting in 2021, the BJP went big with the issue. But an incensed Banerjee said violence and clashes were taking place in areas where BJP candidates emerged victorious in the Assembly polls, a contention which was also backed by the Shiv Sena. While claims and counter-claims in Bengal muddy the political waters, a return to long-lasting peace will take much effort. BJP's IT Cell head Amit Malviya's tweet was an indicator of the times to come. "The BJP now has 18 MPs and 77 MLAs in West Bengal. We will respond in adequate measure within the constitutional framework," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-history-of-violence-making-sense-of-political-rage-in-kerala-and-west-bengal-984028.html
09-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 9||India on Sunday logged more than 4,000 coronavirus deaths over 24 hours for the second day in a row. 4,03,738 more infections took the overall tally above 2.22 crore. Meanwhile, the health ministry has revised the national policy for admission of patients to Covid-19 facilities.  Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,22,96,414 as of May 9, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,42,362 as of May 9, 2021 No. of people discharged: 1,83,17,404   Total Vaccination: 16,94,39,663 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-may-9-984036.html
09-05-2021||National||DH Toon | What happened to a united Opposition?||While talks of a United Front dominated the news before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, it all appears to have vanished. Two years on, the Congress, CPI(M), and the TMC, who vowed to dethrone the BJP together have fought their own battles in the recently concluded Assembly elections. The Congress, having been reduced to nought in Bengal and failed to oust the BJP in Assam and the UDF in Kerala now remains in power in just two states - Tamil Nadu and Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-happened-to-a-united-opposition-984037.html
09-05-2021||National||India logs over 4,000 new Covid deaths for second day in a row; over 4 lakh new infections||India on Sunday logged more than 4,000 coronavirus deaths over 24 hours for the second day in a row. Meanwhile, 4,03,738 more infections were recorded. This is the fifth time that the country saw a single-day rise of over 4 lakh new Covid-19 cases. India now has 37,36,648 active cases as more states imposed lockdowns in a desperate bid to halt the devastating new surge. The caseload stands at  2,22,96,414 — second only to the United States. The 4,092 new deaths took India's overall toll to 2,42,362 since the pandemic started. Experts, who have expressed doubts about the official death toll, say the new wave may not hit a peak until the end of May and there have been mounting calls for tough nationwide measures. The government, stung by criticism of its handling of the new crisis, has largely left individual state administrations to handle pandemic clampdowns. The fatality rate, as on Friday, stood at 1.09 per cent. While major cities such as New Delhi and Mumbai have been boosted by extra supplies of oxygen — much of it from abroad — and new hospital beds opened up, the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala have all ordered lockdowns to counter an explosion in cases. So far, 1,83,17,404 recuperated from the disease in India. The rate of recoveries is 82.15 per cent. India has been hit hard by a second Covid-19 wave with cases and deaths hitting record highs every other day. With an acute shortage of oxygen and beds in many hospitals and morgues and crematoriums overflowing, experts have said the actual numbers for Covid-19 cases and fatalities could be far higher. Many Indian states have imposed strict lockdowns over the past month to stem the surge in infections while others have announced restrictions on public movement and shut down cinemas, restaurants, pubs and shopping malls. India on Saturday reported its highest ever single-day Covid-19 death toll of 4,187 fatalities. The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation estimates that India will see 10 lakh Covid-19 deaths by August. Support has been pouring in from around the world in the form of oxygen cylinders and concentrators, ventilators and other medical equipment for overwhelmed hospitals   (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-over-4000-new-covid-deaths-for-second-day-in-a-row-over-4-lakh-new-infections-984056.html
09-05-2021||National||Variant accelerating India's Covid explosion: WHO top scientist||A Covid-19 variant spreading in India is more contagious and may be dodging vaccine protections, contributing to the country's explosive outbreak, the World Health Organization's chief scientist said Saturday. In an interview with AFP, Soumya Swaminathan warned that "the epidemiological features that we see in India today do indicate that it's an extremely rapidly spreading variant". India on Saturday for the first time registered more than 4,000 Covid-19 deaths in just 24 hours, and more than 400,000 new infections. New Delhi has struggled to contain the outbreak, which has overwhelmed its healthcare system, and many experts suspect the official death and case numbers are a gross underestimate. Swaminathan, an Indian paediatrician and clinical scientist, said the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19, which was first detected in India last October, was clearly a contributing factor to the catastrophe unfolding in her homeland. "There have been many accelerators that are fed into this," the 62-year-old said, stressing that "a more rapidly spreading virus is one of them". The WHO recently listed B.1.617 -- which counts several sub-lineages with slightly different mutations and characteristics -- as a "variant of interest". But so far it has stopped short of adding it to its short list of "variant of concern" -- a label indicating it is more dangerous than the original version of the virus by being more transmissible, deadly or able to get past vaccine protections. Several national health authorities, including in the United States and Britain, have meanwhile said they consider B.1.617 a variant of concern, and Swaminathan said she expected the WHO to soon follow suit. "B 1.617 is likely to be a variant of concern because it has some mutations which increase transmission, and which also potentially could make (it) resistant to antibodies that are generated by vaccination or by natural infection," she said. But she insisted that the variant alone could not be blamed for the dramatic surge in cases and deaths seen in India, lamenting that the country appeared to have let down its guard down, with "huge social mixing and large gatherings". Mass election rallies held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other politicians have for instance partly been blamed for the staggering rise in infections. But even as many in India felt the crisis was over, dropping mask-wearing and other protection measures, the virus was quietly spreading. "In a large country like India, you could have transmission at low levels, which is what happened for many months," Swaminathan said. "It was endemic (and) probably gradually increasing," she said, decrying that "those early signs were missed until it reached the point at which it was taking off vertically." "At that point it's very hard to suppress, because it's then involving tens of thousands of people and it's multiplying at a rate at which it's very difficult to stop." While India is now trying to scale up vaccination to rein in the outbreak, Swaminathan warned that the jabs alone would not be enough to gain control of the situation. She pointed out that India, the world's largest vaccine-making nation, had only fully vaccinated around two per cent of the 1.3 billion-plus population. "It's going to take many months if not years to get to the point of 70 to 80 per cent coverage," she said. With that prospect, Swaminathan stressed that "for the foreseeable future, we need to depend on our tried and tested public health and social measures" to bring down transmission. The surge in India is frightening not only due to the horrifying number of people who are sick and dying there, but also because the exploding infection numbers dramatically increase the chances of new and more dangerous variants emerging. "The more the virus is replicating and spreading and transmitting, the more chances are that... mutations will develop and adapt," Swaminathan said. "Variants which accumulate a lot of mutations may ultimately become resistant to the current vaccines that we have," she warned. "That's going to be a problem for the whole world."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/variant-accelerating-indias-covid-explosion-who-top-scientist-984063.html
09-05-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Tagore, Gokhale, Maharana Pratap on their birth anniversaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore on his 160th birth anniversary.  Tagore was born on May 7 but his birthday is celebrated in West Bengal, where he was born and is revered, according to the traditional Bengali calendar, and this year it falls on Sunday.  "On Tagore Jayanti, I bow to the great Gurudev Tagore. May his exemplary ideals keep giving us strength and inspiration to build the India he dreamt of," he said, paying tributes to the man of many talents. On Tagore Jayanti, I bow to the great Gurudev Tagore. May his exemplary ideals keep giving us strength and inspiration to build the India he dreamt of. Tagore was a playwright, philosopher, composer and poet. He had won the Nobel prize for literature.  The prime minister also paid tributes to freedom fighter Gopal Krishna Gokhale and celebrated warrior king Maharana Pratap, both of whom were born on this day.  Gokhale's life was devoted to serving the nation, and it will always inspire the countrymen, the prime minister said.  Paying tributes to Maharana Pratap, Modi said he brought glory to India with his valour, boundless courage and battle skills. His sacrifice and devotion to the motherland will always be memorable, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-tagore-gokhale-maharana-pratap-on-their-birth-anniversaries-984071.html
09-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Arvind Kejriwal to address press conference at 12||With the Covid-19 cases showing a slight decline in the national capital, and the lockdown nearing its end, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will address a digital press conference on Sunday at 12 pm.  On April 19, Kejriwal had imposed a six-day lockdown, later extending it on April 25th to May 3. Amid a surge of Covid-19 cases in the city, it was further extended till May 10. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-arvind-kejriwal-to-address-press-conference-at-12-984075.html
09-05-2021||National||Covid-19 lockdown in Jammu & Kashmir extended till May 17||As the deadly Covid-19 continues to threaten the Union Territory (UT), the Jammu and Kashmir government extended the lockdown-like restrictions for one more week till May 17. “Corona Curfew imposed in all 20 districts of J&K till 7 am on Monday, 10/5/21 is extended further by 7 days till 7 am on Monday, 17/5/21. The curfew will be strict except for a few essential services,” government said in a tweet on DIPR handle. Further, the gathering permissible for marriages has been reduced from 50 to 25 only with immediate effect.  The lockdown was first imposed in J&K on April 29. It was then extended on May 2 and again on May 6. At present, vegetable shops, grocery stores and milk outlets are allowed to function between 9 am and 6 pm. Essential services have been exempted from the purview of the curbs. While the lockdown has been extended by another week, there has been no decline in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in J&K. The UT reported its highest death toll of 60, including a special secretary to government, while 4,788 cases were reported on Saturday. Meanwhile, for the 11th consecutive day on Sunday, restrictions remained imposed across the UT to contain unabated rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths. Despite Eid just four days away, the majority of the people remained confined to their homes even as streets continued to wear a deserted look, while shops and business establishments remain closed and traffic off the roads.   Police and paramilitary forces have closed the majority of the roads with barbed wires and barricades to stop the movement of people. But, reports of violation of lockdown were coming from some areas in Srinagar city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-in-jammu-kashmir-extended-till-may-17-984105.html
09-05-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi speaks to chief ministers of four states on Covid-19 situation||As India India clocked plus 4 lakh new Covid cases for the fourth day and the pandemic creates havoc in the rural hinterland, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to the Chief Ministers of four more states — Punjab, Karnataka, Bihar and Uttarakhand — on the counter Corona strategy in their states. Modi's latest round of talks with CMs (CMs of 15 states and LGs of two UTs in last four days) took place on a day Centre released an amount of R. 8,923.8 crore to 25 states for providing grants to the Rural Local Bodies (RLBs), which may be utilised, among other things, for various prevention and mitigation measures needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Thus, it will augment resources to the three tiers of Panchayats for fighting the contagion, the government said. Karnataka, which is reporting the second-highest number of cases daily after Maharashtra, is among 10 states that account for 71.75 per cent of the 4,03,738 new Covid-19 cases registered in a day. States like UP and Bihar have witnessed an upsurge in Covid cases in villages. Bihar in particular, which was not affected so much by the first wave of Covid-19, has recorded a sharp rise in death cases this time. By Sunday, the total number of people who died due to the disease in the state rose to 3,139 and 13,466 fresh cases were reported taking the overall tally 5.67 lakh. The active caseload was 1.15 lakh. Bihar is in lockdown till May 15. According to health ministry data, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh cumulatively account for 82.94 per cent of India's total active cases. Amid the rising Covid graph, states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu have opted for a total lockdown while Chhattisgarh came out with new guidelines limiting the attendance to only 10 persons at weddings and funerals and prohibiting religious, social, political, social and other programmes. Delhi and UP on Sunday extended lockdown till May 17 and DMRC suspended metro services till then. While West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee wrote to Modi, asking for a waiver of all forms of taxes and customs duty on equipment and drugs being used to fight the pandemic, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to whom the Prime Minister spoke on Sunday, requested the Prime Minister to increase the state’s oxygen quota and ensure urgent supplies of Covid-19 vaccines. According to a statement by the state government, Singh told the Prime Minister the state was unable to initiate phase-III of vaccination for the 18-44 age group, but it will now begin in government hospitals from Monday following the delivery of one lakh doses. The CM also flagged that the vaccine was in short supply for the 45-plus age group. Tirath Singh Rawat, Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, where the daily positivity is 7,000 to 9,000,  apprised the PM of the "present situation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-speaks-to-chief-ministers-of-four-states-on-covid-19-situation-984111.html
09-05-2021||National||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh comes to the rescue of boy in viral video selling socks on streets||After a video of a boy selling socks at a traffic crossing in Ludhiana caught Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s attention, the minister said this morning that he has offered a financial help of Rs 2 lakh to the boy’s family. The boy in conversation is a 10-year-old who dropped out of school. Vansh Singh is a class 2 dropout who resorted to selling socks on the streets to support his family. His widely-circulated video prompted the Chief Minister to speak to the officials concerned and help the boy continue his studies and rejoin his school. In a tweet, Captain Amarinder Singh wrote: "Spoke on phone to young Vansh Singh, aged 10, a Class II drop out whose video I saw selling socks at a traffic crossing in Ludhiana. Have asked the DC to ensure he rejoins his school. Also announced immediate financial assistance of ₹ 2 lakhs to his family." The video shows that the boy is selling socks at traffic crossings and refusing to accept anything less than the actual cost of the socks. It then shows a conversation recorded by a man in the car with Vansh about his schooling. The second half of the clip shows a video call between the Chief Minister and Vansh. In the call, Captain Amarinder Singh assures the boy that he will take care of his family’s financial problems and advises him to focus on his studies. "Don't worry, I will ask the deputy commissioner to ensure your return to school and I will help your family," Singh tells Vansh in Punjabi. Twitter users have appreciated the boy's honesty and hard work. People have also praised the Chief Minister for his intervention. Thank you sir for your kind gesture but there are many who need support due to this pandemic, please make team to find such people who are not able to survive, they may don’t need money but food or job according to their skills.. A good initiative of course. I wish you make this a policy matter. There are thousands of such kids in our state. This gesture is highly appreciated !Do make sure that no kid in Panjab undergoes such hurdles ! Exemplary gesture. Good idea to instruct all DMs to identify such kids n put them back into education system. Sure Punjab has enough resources. If needed public will gladly fund it! This’ll be very well appreciated by your people! They will always remember and thank you!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-comes-to-the-rescue-of-boy-in-viral-video-selling-socks-on-streets-984112.html
09-05-2021||National||Over 72 lakh Covid vaccines still available with states, UTs: Govt||More than 72 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories, while over 46 lakh doses will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The government of India has so far provided more than 17.56 crore vaccine doses (17,56,20,810) to states and union territories free-of-cost. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 16,83,78,796 doses (as per data available at 8 am today). "More than 72 lakh Covid vaccine doses (72,42,014) are still available with states and UTs to be administered. States with a negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to the armed forces," the ministry said. Furthermore, more than 46 lakh (46,61,960) vaccine doses will be received in addition by states and UTs within the next three days, it said. Vaccination forms an integral component of the five-point strategy of the government of India of containment and management of the pandemic (including Test, Track, Treat and Covid-appropriate Behaviour), the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-72-lakh-covid-vaccines-still-available-with-states-uts-govt-984113.html
09-05-2021||National||How to protect yourself against more Covid-19 waves in future||With the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic ravaging the country and concerns being raised about a possible third wave, experts caution that the next wave could be less severe if people keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour and a large portion of the population is vaccinated. According to the Union Health Ministry data released on Sunday morning, India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the country's cumulative tally to 2,22,96,414, while the death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths. There has been a sharp surge in infections over the past couple of months, making the second wave much worse than the first one that began in early 2020 and peaked in the last quarter of that year before the tally hit a trough in the first quarter of 2021. Several experts believe that a casual approach that followed the trough of the first wave could be a possible reason for the pandemic raising its head again, though others are also putting the blame on the new mutants and variants of the virus being more virulent. K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser, had said on Wednesday last week that the third wave was inevitable and it was necessary to be prepared for new waves, but clarified two days later that the "insidious asymptomatic transmission" can be stopped if prescribed guidelines about precautions, surveillance, containment, treatment and testing are followed. "If we take strong measures, the third wave may not happen in all places or indeed anywhere at all. It depends on much how effectively guidance is implemented at the local level in the states, districts and cities everywhere," he said.  According to experts, in a few months when the immunity people have developed naturally or with the help of vaccination fades, the virus strikes again and the only thing that can stop the virus from bouncing back is how people are guarding themselves. "Early this year, as the new cases receded, people started interacting as if there was no virus. The immunity had already started declining. They organised mass gatherings, they stopped wearing masks, giving the opportunity to the virus to strike again," said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integral Biology, New Delhi. "While we anticipate a third wave, we cannot say when exactly it will come or how severe it will be. But if people keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour in coming months and we are able to vaccinate a large number of people, the third wave could be less severe," Dr Agarwal added. While the sudden surge in the number of cases during the second wave has led to panic among people, what is adding to their fear is the constant threat of new mutants of the virus and how these mutants could potentially harm them. Some experts, however, believe that mutations are a common phenomenon, and the mutations do not generally affect the prevention, treatment, or vaccination. 'Every virus, while replicating in the host's body, mutates. The virus is a prolific multiplier, but its replication is error-prone and so every copy it makes of itself may not be its exact replica. "Any change, minor or major, that occurs in its structure is known as a mutation. A virus undergoes hundreds and thousands of such mutations," said Dr Saumitra Das, Director, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG ), Kalyani, and professor, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Experts also said that every mutation cannot be a cause of concern and genome sequencing of a virus is done to keep a track of any mutation that can make a virus more dangerous. "What concerns us is whether a mutation is making it more transmissible, or virulent; whether a mutation has the potential to make the existing medicines or vaccines ineffective against the virus. If so, the mutant is classified as a variant of concern (VoC)," said Dr Das. Mutations shown so far in the novel coronavirus have not warranted any change in the required treatment or vaccines, but experts believe it is technologically possible to tweak the medicine or a vaccine quickly to fight a mutant that poses a threat to their efficacy. "But in the case of Covid-19, since its spread has been so rapid, it is not giving our scientists enough time to identify all the mutants. And so, the role of Covid-appropriate behaviour is as critical as ever in controlling its spread," said Dr Arun Sharma, a community medicine expert and director of NIIRNCD (ICMR), Jodhpur. He said a virus mutant can escape the body's immunity and undo the efforts to developing an effective vaccine or medicine against it, but chances of it escaping the shield called Covid-appropriate behaviour are low. "A three-ply mask, frequent hand washing or sanitising, maintaining physical distance, avoiding crowd, especially indoors, are still most effective in controlling the spread of Covid-19 virus," Dr Sharma added. He said any virus starts a chain of transmission by infecting the most vulnerable population and it keeps infecting till the time everyone susceptible is infected and then it starts dying out. "We treat the patients with antiviral drugs, and we protect the population through vaccination. These measures help us break the virus's chain of transmission," he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-to-protect-yourself-against-more-covid-19-waves-in-future-984116.html
09-05-2021||National||World turns to China for Covid-19 vaccines after India, US stumble||By Iain Marlow, Sudhi Ranjan Sen and James Paton The world is fast becoming ever more reliant on China for vaccines, with India’s raging virus outbreak stifling its ability to deliver on supply deals, even as the US tries to position itself as a champion of wider access. Over the past few weeks, leaders of some of the globe’s most populous nations have sought more shots from China despite concerns about their effectiveness. Demand is expected to rise even further now that the World Health Organization has authorized a vaccine from China’s Sinopharm Group Co. Ltd. and is expected to soon do the same for Sinovac Biotech Ltd.’s. That will allow developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America to access them through Covax, the global vaccination effort. “China has become not just the largest exporter,” said Yanzhong Huang, a China specialist and senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations. “In many countries it has become the only option.” China’s reliability as a vaccine supplier is increasing its geopolitical clout at a time when the US and the EU have been slow confronting the global pandemic as Covid hot spots rage out of control in India, Brazil and elsewhere. Compounding the difficulties, India’s crisis has dried up vaccine supplies and prompted many countries to turn toward China. Amid this backdrop, the US, for months preoccupied with its domestic vaccination push, has come under intense criticism for hoarding shots at the expense of a global response. Covid-Fighting Arsenal President Joe Biden made it clear this week that the US intends to start playing a more active role. On Wednesday, the US threw its weight behind a movement to waive patents on Covid-19 vaccines to allow other countries to manufacture them. He’s vowing that the US will become an “arsenal for fighting Covid-19” globally as outbreaks elsewhere in the world risk spawning dangerous variants that could prolong the crisis. The administration’s efforts so far include plans to give away 60 million doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s shot and to ramp up production of doses made by Moderna Inc., Pfizer Inc. and Johnson & Johnson. In the meantime, countries from Uruguay to Senegal to Indonesia have few places to turn apart from Beijing -- and China is making the most of it. The country has already shipped out about 240 million doses, more than all other nations combined, and has committed to providing another 500 million, according to Airfinity Ltd., a science information and analytics company. India, the world’s third-biggest supplier after China and the European Union, had exported 67 million doses to nearly 100 countries until the devastating Covid-19 outbreak prompted it to halt most deliveries in recent weeks. Access to the shots will provide a boost to the WHO-backed Covax effort, which relied heavily on the Serum Institute of India before the clampdown on exports. Covax has shipped more than 50 million doses to 121 countries and territories, well short of its goal and just a fifth of what the US has administered domestically. A new pact with Moderna has expanded Covax’s portfolio, but only a fraction of the 500 million doses it pledged will be available this year. WHO authorisation of Chinese vaccines could make an immediate difference for governments waiting for that stamp of approval before giving them to citizens. Sri Lanka, for instance, has so far used less than 1 per cent of its 600,000 Sinopharm shots on foreign Chinese workers. Some experts, though, are worried about the potential public-health impact of widely deploying Chinese vaccines that have demonstrated lower efficacy rates than those made Pfizer and Moderna. And Chinese shots have already been hampered by a lack of trial data and a preference for vaccines from the Western companies. “The WHO approval of Chinese vaccines will, in the medium term, help to strengthen Chinese power and authority within the region,” said Nicholas Thomas, an associate professor at the City University of Hong Kong and editor of several books on global health and foreign policy. “However, the low efficacy rate of the Chinese vaccines means that this is an easily contestable position if the Western countries can ramp up their own supplies.”   Seize the Moment That’s all the more reason for China to seize the moment while it can. Foreign Minister Wang Yi vowed last week that China would provide vaccines to countries that had been dependent on India during a call with counterparts from South Asian nations. On the same day, Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe spoke with Bangladesh about military cooperation. The country later approved emergency use of the Sinopharm shot after the bulk of 15 million doses it paid for from the Serum Institute failed to arrive. Last month Chinese President Xi Jinping vowed to oppose “vaccine nationalism” in a call with Indonesia leader Joko Widodo, whose government green-lit Sinopharm for emergencies soon afterward. Indonesia also secured as many as 15 million more shots of Sinovac. “In plain view, India’s export ban has made Indonesia increasingly dependent on vaccine supplies from China,” said Pandu Riono, an epidemiologist at the University of Indonesia. Other countries have had to play nice with China on geopolitical spats. India’s export delays deprived the Philippines of its biggest vaccine order at a time it’s sparring with China over a territorial dispute. President Rodrigo Duterte rebuked his top diplomat this week for an expletive-laced tweet denouncing Beijing over the spat while his government negotiates with Sinovac for a monthly delivery of as many as 4 million doses. “China remains our benefactor,” Duterte said. “Just because we have a conflict with China doesn’t mean to say that we have to be rude and disrespectful.” Confident of Supplies Some countries relying on Chinese vaccines such as Chile have moved relatively swiftly. However, worries persist about their potency: A Chilean government study found in April that Sinovac’s vaccine is 67 per cent effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 infections and wards off 80 per cent of fatalities. In Israel, meanwhile, Pfizer’s mRNA shot was found to be 92 per cent effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 infections and 99 per cent effective at preventing deaths -- though it’s harder to transport and must be stored at ultralow temperatures. India is confident it can ramp up supplies again in a few months once the current outbreak is contained, according to a Foreign Ministry official in New Delhi who asked not to be identified. The government sees China trying to exploit India’s crisis but is confident that other countries understand its predicament, the official added. “The shipments are being repurposed for domestic purposes given the demand,” said Indian Foreign Ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi. “We have already stated that our external supplies would be done keeping in mind our domestic requirements.” Meanwhile, from Pakistan to Brazil and Africa, many ordinary people have expressed a lack of confidence in Chinese vaccines. In some areas of Africa, which is using shots from the U.S., India, Russia and China, skepticism on vaccines mirrors that in parts of the developed world. “We are being told that these vaccines are meant to get rid of Africans, so for now I will watch and observe those that have been inoculated,” said Passmore Mwanza, a 29-year-old worker in Zimbabwe. “I don’t want to be part of an experiment of an outcome I don’t know.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-turns-to-china-for-covid-19-vaccines-after-india-us-stumble-984117.html
09-05-2021||National||These 10 states account for majority of new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi are among 10 states that account for 71.75 per cent of the 4,03,738 new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The other states in the list of 10 are Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Haryana. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 56,578. It is followed by Karnataka with 47,563 while Kerala reported 41,971 new cases. A total of more than 30.22 crore tests have been conducted so far across the country while the daily Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 21.64 per cent, the ministry said.  India's total active caseload has reached 37,36,648 and now comprises 16.76 per cent of the country's total infections. A net incline of 13,202 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh cumulatively account for 82.94 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry stated. "The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.09 per cent," the ministry said.  Besides, 4,092 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 74.93 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (864). Karnataka follows with 482 daily deaths. Twenty states and UTs have deaths per million population lower than the national average (176), while 16 states and UTs have deaths per million population higher than the national average. the ministry highlighted. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 16.94 crore. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.78 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. Cumulatively 17,84,869 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose of Covid vaccine. More than 20 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours. As on Day-113 of the vaccination drive (May 8), 20,23,532 vaccine doses were given.  Across 16,722 sessions, 8,37,695 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 11,85,837 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine. Besides the global community is extending a helping hand to support India's efforts to meet the challenges and requirements of the unprecedented surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the global pandemic.  The Centre has been ensuring the global aid is being effectively and promptly allocated and delivered to states and UTs to supplement their efforts during this critical phase, the ministry said. It said 6,608 oxygen concentrators, 3,856 oxygen cylinders, 14 oxygen generation plants, 4,330 ventilators/ Bi PAP/C PAP and more than 3 lakh Remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched, so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-10-states-account-for-majority-of-new-covid-19-cases-984123.html
09-05-2021||National||Mucormycosis: Gujarat sets up special wards in hospitals, procures anti-fungal drug vials||Amid the rise in cases of mucormycosis or 'black fungus' infection among Covid-19 survivors, the Gujarat government has started setting up separate wards in hospitals for such patients and has procured 5,000 vials of a medicine used in its treatment. Gujarat has so far reported over 100 cases of mucormycosis, a serious but rare fungal infection that has left many patients blind and is also causing other serious issues. Currently, 19 patients are undergoing treatment for it at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, as per the state government. Two separate dedicated wards having 60 beds each have been set up at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital for treating such patients, it said. Similar facilities will also be set up at civil hospitals in Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and other places, the government said in a release on Saturday after a core-committee meeting on Covid-19 situation in Gujarat under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. The state health department has also purchased 5,000 vials of Amphotericin B 50 mg injections at a cost of Rs 3.12 crore for its treatment, the release said. In neighbouring Maharashtra, at least eight Covid-19 survivors have lost vision in an eye due to mucormycosis and 200 others are being treated, Dr Tatyarao Lahane, who heads the state government's Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said on Saturday. Niti Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul on Friday said mucormycosis is being found in patients with Covid-19 disease. "The infection is caused by a fungus named mucor, which is found on wet surfaces. To a large extent, it is happening to people who have diabetes. It is very uncommon in those who are not diabetic. There is no big outbreak and we are monitoring it," he had said. According to Dr Paul, mucor attacks people with uncontrolled sugar. If a diabetes patient is taking immuno-suppressive medicines, steroids, or has cancer, then the impact of mucormycosis is more on him/her. The chances of getting this disease increase in such patients if they have been exposed to wet surfaces, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mucormycosis-gujarat-sets-up-special-wards-in-hospitals-procures-anti-fungal-drug-vials-984128.html
09-05-2021||National||Over 50,000 people die every year from snake bites: Varad Giri||More than 50,000 people die annually of snakebites in India and the majority of the incidents are because of human mistakes, says Dr Varad Giri, a senior scientist with the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). Dendrelaphis girii or Giri's bronzeback tree snake, is named after Dr Giri, who is considered an expert on snakes and has worked extensively in the Western Ghats.   “It is an estimation that more than 50,000 people die of snake bites in the country… it also needs to be understood that only 20 to 30 per cent cases of snake bites reach hospitals,” said Dr Giri. India is home to 330 species of snakes of which 65 are venomous. “Among the 65 species of venomous snakes, four of them, the Indian Cobra (Naja naja), Common Krait (Bungarus caeruleus), Russell’s Viper (Daboia russelii) and Saw-scaled Viper (Echis carinatus), stay in proximity of human settlements, and are responsible for majority of the deaths,” he said. Often, these are referred to as the “Big Four” and are responsible for the majority of the deaths – which continue to be a major medical concern in India. Stressing on the need for education about snakes, he said: “We need to educate people through public science. Our understanding of any subject governs our reactions. We are afraid of snakes due to a lack of knowledge. Let us understand them.” Dr Giri, a researcher par excellence, herpetologist, explorer and conservationist, stressed on the understanding and conservation of snakes while conducting BNHS-run twin weekend courses – ‘Understanding Snakes’ and ‘Snake Taxonomy’. According to him, it needs to be understood that there is an effective treatment for snake bites and many lives could be saved. The Snake Venom Anti Serum (ASVS) are available in hospitals and in case of a suspected snake bite, the person has to be rushed to hospital. “Immediately take the snakebite patient to the nearest hospital, strictly avoid any local therapy or witchcraft, use any available mode of transport or ambulance and tell the doctors about the symptoms,” he said. Dr Giri also expressed concern over the snake rescuers using live snakes to tell stories. “They catch snakes and display them in public and teach people… they are nothing but another form of snake charmers… When you speak and tell someone about a tiger or elephant, do you take a live tiger or elephant? "So why a snake? Never use live snakes for awareness. Never make videos of your rescue, it is not needed…no stunts…as it endangers the safety of others and some people try those stunts and die because of snakebite.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-50000-people-die-every-year-from-snakebites-varad-giri-984135.html
09-05-2021||National||Explained | What patent waivers on Covid-19 drugs mean for low-income countries||India, South Africa and other developing countries are likely to push for a wider waiver of intellectual property rights for Covid-19 drugs and medical tools after US President Joe Biden and Trade Representative Katherine Tai backed their call to waive off intellectual property rights on Covid-19 vaccines. So far, The United States has backed talks to scrap only vaccine patents but has stayed mum about other medical supplies that are crucial in the fight against the pandemic for low-income countries. "Intellectual property is not the only barrier but definitely a significant barrier that can impact the production of medical tools.... The scope (of the waiver) should cover health products and technology, including diagnostics, therapeutics, medical products and personal equipment," South Africa's ambassador to the WTO Xolelwa Mlumbi-Peter said at an online panel discussion. Patent rights ensure pharmaceutical companies that develop medical equipment have the sole right to monetise or license them to recover costs and generate revenue off them, prompting some to claim that scrapping them would set a dangerous precedent and discourage future medical innovation. However, critics have said that honouring the patents during a global pandemic has robbed economically weaker nations of the chance to vaccinate their large populations. India has been the worst-hit developing nation, with its health system buckling under the pressure of a large and sudden upsurge of cases in its second Covid wave. While the Centre’s vaccination drive has had a sluggish start, with vaccine production taking time to ramp up, hospitals have also been clamouring for supplies of life-saving drugs and medical supplies like oxygen. If patents on Covid-adjacent medical supplies are dropped, it would make it easier for countries like India and South Africa to increase their availability and impose price caps without incurring hefty financial hits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-patent-waivers-on-covid-19-drugs-mean-for-low-income-countries-984142.html
09-05-2021||National||Emirates launches India humanitarian air-bridge to transport Covid-19 relief for free||Middle-Eastern airliner, Emirates has set up a humanitarian air-bridge between Dubai and nine Indian cities including Bengaluru to transport urgent medical and relief items linked to the Covid-19 pandemic. Emirates will offer cargo capacity free of charge on an "as available" basis on all of its flights to nine cities in India, to help international Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) rapidly deliver relief supplies, where it is needed, the airline said in an official statement. Over the past weeks, Emirates SkyCargo has already been transporting medicines and medical equipment on scheduled and charter cargo flights to India. Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Emirates’ Chairman and Chief Executive, said: "We stand with the Indian people and will do all we can to help India get back on its feet." Emirates has 95 weekly flights to nine destinations in India. "The International Humanitarian City in Dubai is the largest crisis relief hub in the world and we will work closely with them to facilitate the movement of urgent medical supplies." The first shipment sent as part of the air-bridge is a consignment of over 12 tonnes of multi-purpose tents from the World Health Organization (WHO), destined for Delhi, and coordinated by the IHC in Dubai. Last year over 1,292 shipments were dispatched from the IHC in Dubai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emirates-launches-india-humanitarian-air-bridge-to-transport-covid-19-relief-for-free-984144.html
09-05-2021||National||Govt extends anti-dumping duty on seamless tubes, pipes till October||The government has extended anti-dumping duty on certain types of seamless tubes, and pipes till October 31 this year with a view to guarding domestic manufacturers from cheap Chinese imports. The duty on 'seamless tubes, pipes and hollow profiles of iron, alloy or non-alloy steel (other than cast iron and stainless steel), whether hot finished or cold drawn or cold rolled of an external diameter not exceeding 355.6 mm' was first imposed in May 2016 for five years. "...the anti-dumping duty imposed under this notification shall remain in force up to and inclusive of the 31st October, 2021, unless revoked, superseded or amended earlier," the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has said in a notification. The commerce ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) had recommended for extension of the duty, after concluding a probe. While DGTR recommends the duty to be levied, the finance ministry imposes it. Countries initiate anti-dumping probes to determine if the domestic industry has been hurt by a surge in below-cost imports. As a counter-measure, they impose duties under the multilateral WTO regime. Anti-dumping measures are taken to ensure fair trade and provide a level-playing field to the domestic industry. They are not a measure to restrict imports or cause an unjustified increase in cost of products. India has initiated maximum anti-dumping cases against dumped imports from China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-anti-dumping-duty-on-seamless-tubes-pipes-till-october-984147.html
09-05-2021||National||Covid-19 management: Centre releases Rs 8,923 cr to 25 states as grants for rural local bodies||The finance ministry on Sunday said it has released Rs 8,923 crore to 25 states for providing grants to the rural local bodies for various prevention and mitigation measures needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. The Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, on Saturday released an amount of Rs 8,923.8 crore to 25 states for providing grants to the rural local bodies (RLBs). The grants are meant for all the three tiers of Panchayati Raj Institutions – village, block and district, an official statement said. It may be utilised by the RLBs, among other things, for various prevention and mitigation measures needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, and will augment their resources. As per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, the 1st instalment of grants was to be released to the states in the month of June 2021. However, in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation and at the recommendation of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, the Ministry of Finance has decided to release the grant in advance of the normal schedule, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-management-centre-releases-rs-8923-cr-to-25-states-as-grants-for-rural-local-bodies-984148.html
09-05-2021||National||TMC writes to RS chairman, LS speaker requesting parliamentary panel meetings be held virtually||The Trinamool Congress has written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, urging them to let parliamentary committee meetings be held virtually to enable them to address issues of public interest amidst the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. This is the TMC's third letter on the issue, the party said, adding that the first letter was written in July 2020 and the second letter in August 2020. "India has reported more than 3 lakh new Covid-19 cases per day for the past two weeks. In light of the prevailing circumstances, I urge your good offices to reconsider our request for conducting virtual meetings of parliamentary committees, including departmentally related standing committees, consultative committees and select committees," the letter from RS MP and the party's national spokesperson Derek O'Brien said. He also said that the party had received a letter from the chairman's office dated August 27, which stated that it was "decided in a meeting that the matter regarding holding of virtual meetings of the Parliamentary Committees vis-à-vis existing provisions on confidentiality of the proceedings of the Committees, may be referred to the Committees on Rules in both the Houses". "I further request you to share any findings/decisions that the Committees on Rules of both the Houses may have reached. I urge you again to allow the Parliamentary Committees to function virtually so that issues of public importance can be taken up timely and discussed, especially in light of the serious circumstances in the country," O'Brien said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-writes-to-rs-chairman-ls-speaker-requesting-parliamentary-panel-meetings-be-held-virtually-984153.html
09-05-2021||National||Kashmir’s female healthcare workers at forefront of Covid-19 battle||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is harming health, social and economic well-being worldwide, women health workers are at the forefront of waging a war against the deadly virus. The female doctors and health care workers have gone the extra mile to heal the Covid-19 patients in the Valley. For Dr Sadaqat Rehman, 56, a mother of a lone child, treating patients is something beyond one’s profession. Sadaqat, who is also an assistant professor at the Institute of Health and Neuro-Sciences Kashmir, has dedicated herself to treating Covid-19 patients of Valley. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, she has been continuously treating coronavirus-infected individuals non-stop. For her, humanity is more than being a doctor first. “Since March 2020, the workplace has now become my home as most of the time, we don’t get time to go back home. I think this is more important than anything else,” she says. Sadaqat is not alone, there are many like her who share similar thoughts and have the same mission. Shabeena Rehmat, a nurse posted at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar, says over the last few months she and her other colleagues have been under constant exposure to Covid-19. “At times it gets difficult to go home after being in Covid-19 wards, as we don’t want to jeopardize the health of our families too,” Rehmat said. “For us, the hospital is our home and patients are our family.” The long working hours, incessant exposure to pathogens, and a disturbed social life couldn’t overturn her from the path she has chosen as a career. “Nurses are frontline workers and have equal contribution in fighting against the pandemic,” Rehmat adds. A senior doctor Talat Jabeen says despite huge challenges posed by the Covid-19, medicos have never shown their back as they have chosen the profession to serve humanity. “It’s a part of our profession to deal with the Covid-19 patients. Whosoever is in the frontline has to face the problems to save the community,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-s-female-healthcare-workers-at-forefront-of-covid-19-battle-984161.html
09-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Himanta Biswa Sarma to be Assam CM; Delhi lockdown extended by one week||In your evening news brief, Himanta Biswa Sarma to be new Assam chief minister; lockdown in Delhi extended by one more week and  Karnataka to commence vaccination of 18-44 age group from Monday.  After a week-long tussle, BJP on Sunday named senior minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, a former "dissident" in Congress, as the new Assam Chief Minister, replacing Sarbananda Sonowal, who was the party's face of identity politics in the state since the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Sarma was named as the new CM in the legislature party meeting in Guwahati on Sunday afternoon. The incumbent CM Sonowal proposed Himanta's name hours after tendering his resignation to Governor Jagdish Mukhi. Sarma, 52, had quit Congress after allegedly leading dissidence against Congress veteran and former CM Tarun Gogoi. Sarma's demand to be the next CM was reportedly rejected by Congress chief Rahul Gandhi then. The Covid-19 lockdown in the national capital has been extended by one more week with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing that metro trains will also not run during this period. Delhi has been in lockdown since April 19 night even as the cases and positivity rate are on a decline, which Kejriwal attributed to the stringent measures taken in the past over a fortnight. Kejriwal said Covid-19 cases and positivity rate came down in the last few days but there is no reason for giving leniency at this point. He said the positivity rate was around 35 per cent on April 26 but due to the lockdown, it has come down to around 23% After launching the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18 to 44-years group ‘symbolically’ a few days ago, the state government on Sunday announced that the vaccination of the 18 to 44 age group will begin from Monday in Bengaluru. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted about the commencement of vaccination in various government-run hospitals of Bengaluru. The minister in his tweet said, “Covid-19 vaccination will be provided for citizens aged between 18 to 44 years at KC General Hospital, Jayanagar General Hospital, Sir CV Raman General Hospital, Government Medical Colleges, ESI Hospitals and NIMHANS from Monday, May 10.” Clarifying that no walk-ins will be allowed at any vaccination centres, Dr Sudhakar said, “Vaccination will be provided to only those who have registered and scheduled an appointment on Co-win portal. All centres will have an exclusive session site earmarked for them.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-himanta-biswa-sarma-to-be-assam-cm-delhi-lockdown-extended-by-one-week-984170.html
09-05-2021||National||Heinous crime to export vaccines when people dying in our own country: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Sunday attacked the Centre over the export of coronavirus vaccines, saying a large number of lives could have been saved in India if the doses were given to people in the country first. "It's a heinous crime committed by the Central government to sell vaccines to other countries only for its image management at a time when people were dying in our own country," he told an online briefing. Citing a newspaper report, Sisodia said the Centre sold coronavirus vaccines to 93 countries of which 60 per cent had Covid-19 under control, and also where there was no threat of loss of life due to the virus. A large number of youths in the country perished to the coronavirus in the second wave of the pandemic, he said, adding their lives could have been saved if the vaccines were given to them instead of exporting the doses. He said the Centre should now ensure that the vaccines manufactured in the country are provided to the states that are facing a shortage. He reiterated the Delhi government can vaccinate everyone in the city within three months if adequate doses are made available to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heinous-crime-to-export-vaccines-when-people-dying-in-our-own-country-manish-sisodia-984171.html
09-05-2021||National||Nirav Modi's appeal against extradition awaits UK High Court judge decision||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, whose extradition to India was ordered last month by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has filed an application for permission to appeal against the order in the High Court in London. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) confirmed an appeal has been lodged but a High Court judge who will make a decision on the matter is yet to be assigned. “The matter has not been sent to a judge for consideration on the papers,” the Administrative Division of the Royal Courts of Justice in London said this week. In the first instance, a High Court judge will make a decision “on the papers” submitted for the appeal and determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the Home Secretary’s decision or the Westminster Magistrates Court February ruling in favour of Modi’s extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering. Following that decision, there is scope for the defence team to seek an oral hearing to plead their case. There are no certain time-frames for the legal processes involved, which could take months. “We are waiting to see if they do apply for permission to appeal. If they are allowed to appeal then we would contest any appeal proceedings on behalf of the GOI (government of India),” a CPS spokesperson had said earlier. Meanwhile, 50-year-old Modi remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest over two years ago on March 19, 2019. In his ruling in February, District Judge Sam Goozee said that the diamond merchant has a case to answer before the Indian courts and that the bars to extradition under UK law do not apply in his case. As part of a very comprehensive judgment, the judge concluded that he was satisfied that there is evidence upon which Modi could be convicted in relation to the conspiracy to defraud the PNB. “A prima facie case is established,” he said, in relation to all counts of charges brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) -- including money laundering, intimidation of witnesses and disappearance of evidence. The court had also accepted that while Modi's mental health had deteriorated due to the lengthy incarceration in a London prison, exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, his risk of suicide did not meet the high threshold to conclude that it would be "unjust or oppressive" to extradite him.   Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added on to the CBI case. As witnessed in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya -- who remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” matter, believed to be related to an asylum request, is resolved -- there is still some way to go before Modi can be moved from Wandsworth Prison in London to Barrack 12 Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and face trial in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modis-appeal-against-extradition-awaits-uk-high-court-judge-decision-984177.html
09-05-2021||National||Impossible for PMO alone to tackle Covid-19, call all party meeting: Kharge to Modi||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to adopt a “collective and consensual” approach in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic contending that the Prime Minister’s Office alone cannot tackle a crisis of this magnitude. Kharge, the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, shot off a letter to Modi asking him to convene an all-party meeting to “collectively forge a holistic blueprint to tackle the pandemic” and accused him of ignoring the advice and recommendations of experts and activists. “It is impossible to tackle a crisis of this magnitude through the Prime Minister’s Office alone,” Kharge said. In a separate letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, Kharge asked him to allow virtual meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committees, saying Parliament cannot be a mute spectator to the sufferings of the people. Kharge was asked to write letters to Modi and Naidu by Congress President Sonia Gandhi during a meeting of the Congress party in Parliament on Friday. In the letter to Modi, Kharge noted that the Centre had set aside Rs 35,000 crore in the Union Budget for Covid-19 vaccines to ensure free vaccines and urged him not the “relinquish the state’s moral duty” in immunising its citizens. Kharge also urged the Prime Minister to invoke the provisions of compulsory licensing in the Patents Act to step up production of vaccines to ensure speedy vaccination of 595 million Indians in the age group of 18-44. Kharge also sought a waiver of taxes on life-saving products and flagged GST on vaccines, purchase of ambulances, personal protective equipment, sanitisers, oxygen and ventilators. “The union government must not be earning monies from the plight of the people,” he said. Kharge also asked for speedy distribution of foreign relief material and an increase in minimum pay and workdays from 100 to 200 under MGNREGA to help unemployed migrants. Earlier, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Lok Sabha member Rahul Gandhi had written letters to the Prime Minister on the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/impossible-for-pmo-alone-to-tackle-covid-19-call-all-party-meeting-kharge-to-modi-984182.html
09-05-2021||National||Centre gives nod to recruit retired 400 medical officers for Covid-19 duty||With Army opening up its hospitals for civilian patients battling Covid-19, the Defence Ministry on Sunday ordered recruitment of 400 retired medical officers under the ‘Tour of Duty’ initiative for a period of 11 months. The Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) has been asked to recruit medical officers who retired from the Army Medical Corps and the Short Service Commission between 2017 and 2021. “Under the 'Tour of Duty' scheme, 400 ex-AMC/SSC medical officers, released between 2017 and 2021, are expected to be recruited on contract basis for a maximum period of 11 months,” a Defence Ministry statement said. These medical officers will be paid a fixed monthly lump sum amount, which will be calculated by deducting the basic pension from the salary drawn at the time of retirement, it said. If there is any additional pay for specialists, it will be given on top of this lump sum amount, it added. “The amount would remain unchanged for the term of the contract and no other allowances would be paid. The medical officers to be recruited are required to be medically fit as per civilian standards,” it said. The Army had unveiled the ‘Tour of Duty’ scheme last year to allow youngsters to voluntarily serve for a period of three years to fill up vacancies in the officer ranks. The AFMS has already deployed additional doctors, including specialists, super specialists and paramedics, at various hospitals, to deal with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The SSC doctors of the AFMS have also been granted extension till December 31, which has augmented the strength by 238 more doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-gives-nod-to-recruit-retired-400-medical-officers-for-covid-19-duty-984214.html
09-05-2021||National||Free distribution of AYUSH-64 at 7 locations in Delhi from May 10||Polyherbal formulation 'AYUSH 64' will be available free-of-cost for asymptomatic, mild and moderate Covid-19 patients at seven centres in Delhi starting from Monday. Patients or their representatives can visit these centres with a hard or soft copy of the patient's RT-PCR positive report and Aadhar card to get a free pack of 'AYUSH 64' tablets, the AYUSH Ministry said in a statement. Replenishment, if and when required, will also be provided free of cost. The seven centres are All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA)  (9.30 am-1 pm); Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, (all seven days, 8.30 am–4.30 pm); Regional Research Institute of Unani Medicine (9 am–5 pm); Unani Medical Centre at Safdarjung Hospital (9 am– 4 pm); Unani Speciality Clinic, Dr M A Ansari Health Centre, Jamia Millia Islamia (9 am-4.30 pm); Central Ayurveda Research Institute in Punjabi Bagh (9.30 am-4 pm) and Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy(9 am-12 pm).  The Naturopathy Hospital of CCRYN in Sector 19, Rohini will also start distributing free 'AYUSH 64' from Wednesday (9 am–12 pm). Apart from this, a sale counter has also been set up at the reception of Ayush Bhawan, B block, GPO Complex where both AYUSH 64 and AYURAKSHA kits are available. It may be noted that 'AYUSH 64' is a polyherbal formulation that has been found useful in the treatment of asymptomatic, mild and moderate Covid-19 infection.  It is recommended in the National Clinical Management Protocol based on Ayurveda and Yoga which is vetted by the National Task Force on Covid Management of ICMR and Guidelines for Ayurveda Practitioners for Covid-19 Patients in Home Isolation, the statement said. It has been repurposed as an add on to standard care for coronavirus patients after a robust multi-centre clinical trial which was monitored by the Ministry of AYUSH-CSIR Joint Monitoring Committee under the chairmanship of Dr V M Katoch, former DG, ICMR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-distribution-of-ayush-64-at-7-locations-in-delhi-from-may-10-984216.html
09-05-2021||National||Himanta Biswa Sarma to be sworn in as Assam Chief Minister on May 10||BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma will be sworn in as chief minister of Assam at the Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra here on Monday. Governor Jagdish Mukhi invited him to be sworn in after Sarma met him Sunday. Sarma, who was elected leader of both the BJP and NDA Legislature Party earlier in the day, had called on the Governor at Raj Bhawan and submitted a list of elected legislators owing allegiance to the NDA. Sarma will be administered the oath of office by the Governor on Monday at the Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra at 12 noon though the names or the number of ministers to be sworn in with him is yet to be announced. He was accompanied to the Raj Bhawan by outgoing Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Union Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh, National Vice-President and Party In-charge Assam, Baijayant Jay Panda, state party President Ranjeet Kumar Dass, AGP leaders Atul Bora and Keshab Mahanta and UPPL leader Pramode Boro The powerful North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convenor was elected as the legislature party leader, a week after the ruling alliance won the assembly elections with a clear majority for the second successive term, after his name was proposed by outgoing Chief Minister Sonowal and seconded by BJP state party president MLA Ranjeet Kumar Dass and seconded by newly elected Haflong MLA Nandita Garlosa. This ended speculation over who would get the top job as both Sonowal and Sarma were seen as contenders. The BJP leadership had called the duo to Delhi on Saturday to sort out that issue and its expected that Sonowal will be given an alternate leadership position possibly in the central government. 52-year-old Sarma in his address, after being elected unanimously, was effusive in his praise for Sonowal and described his tenure as ''unblemished without a single charge of corruption or any other allegations''. The BJP leader who owed his early rise to two former chief ministers from Congress had to toil for many years with dogged determination to achieve his goal. A five-time MLA and a minister in all cabinets since 2001, Sarmas political acumen and the ability to get work done against all odds was not only noticed but rewarded by his mentors- former Congress Chief Ministers Hiteswar Saikia and Tarun Gogoi- with both giving him ample opportunities to rise. After he fell out with Gogoi, he joined the BJP in August 2015. However despite steering the party to its maiden victory in Assam in 2016, he was made a Minister but the chief ministers berth went to his rival Sonowal, forcing him to wait for the top job. Sarma, later in a tweet thanking the Prime Minister, said he ''feels enormously blessed for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's faith in me. This is the biggest day in my life, and I so fondly cherish your generous affection. I assure you we shall leave no stone unturned to carry forward your vision of taking Assam and North East to greater heights''. In another tweet, thanking the people of Assam, he said, ''with fragrance of Assam in my heart and love of my wonderful people in my veins, I offer my deepest gratitude to you all. I would not have been what I am had it not been for your pious faith in me. On this day, I vow to work with each one of you with greater passion''. The opposition Congress and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) along with the newly floated Assam Jatiya Parishad on Sunday conveyed their greetings to the chief minister-designate. The ruling BJP alliance is the first non-Congress government in the state to win the state assembly elections for a second consecutive term. Of the 126 assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance has secured 75 seats with BJP winning 60 while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himanta-biswa-sarma-to-be-sworn-in-as-assam-chief-minister-on-may-10-984219.html
09-05-2021||National||Tata Memorial Centre strengthens response to second Covid-19 wave||A FedEx 777 cargo plane landed in Mumbai on Sunday with 81,000 kgs of medical equipment for Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) and its associated hospitals for distribution across India. The chartered flight carried in 3,400 portable oxygen concentrators along with 3 lakh N95 masks. An Air India passenger plane landed in Delhi with an additional 400 concentrators. These are the third and fourth shipments that Tata Memorial Centre has brought in over the past two weeks. The memorial, besides providing life-saving services, is also sourcing and allocating medical equipment for over 200 hospitals across India that are part of the National Cancer Grid (NCG). “We have the singular focus of getting these units to the hospitals throughout India so that many can breathe well,” said Dr Rajendra Badwe, Director, TMC. This expedient and organised response to the pandemic is fitting with TMC’s role as an 80-year-old institution focused on delivering quality care to all, including the most vulnerable and underserved in the country. Tata Memorial Centre is a tertiary cancer centre under the Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India. It sees up to 1 lakh new cancer cases each year. Two-thirds of its patients are treated at a highly subsidised rate or completely free of charge. Consolidating efforts at TMC along with Dr Badwe are Dr CS Pramesh, Director of Tata Memorial Hospital, and Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi, the Deputy Director of Epidemiology. Dr Pramesh, also the Coordinator of the National Cancer Grid, says, “We are collecting requests for equipment and consumables from hospitals across the NCG, and mapping the current incidence of Covid-19 infections to determine where the greatest needs are and prioritising government and charitable organizations to finalise the allocation of oxygen concentrators].” Throughout the pandemic, TMC has been responsible for protecting cancer patients who are far more susceptible to an adverse event from Covid-19 than others. Adding to the risks that Covid-19 presents, the risk of untreated cancer looms large as it can be more fatal than the virus. All seven TMC centres across India—Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Sangrur, Varanasi, Guwahati, Vishakhapatnam and Muzaffarpur—have continued cancer care throughout the pandemic. Together, they have managed to treat over 80,000 patients with cancer in spite of a raging pandemic. In addition, over 2,000 patients with cancer and Covid-19 have been treated for the virus in the various TMC centres. In June 2020, TMC partnered with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Maharashtra government and helped set up an ad-hoc, 518 bed and 10 ICU bed Covid-19 facility at the NSCI Dome in Mumbai. As soon as the second wave hit, TMC’s team of experts drew on this experience to identify lightweight, portable, high-flow oxygen concentrators that would have the maximum impact in saving lives, especially in hospitals that don’t have oxygen pipelines. When asked about how TMC has been able to respond so effectively to the recent shortage in oxygen supply, Dr Badwe states, “Besides local industry stepping up production of medical grade oxygen, philanthropists like Tata Trusts and other NGO’s in India have been helping in procuring large oxygenators. We have had an overwhelming response globally, with the Indian diaspora and medical community joining hands to support, Air India, our national carrier, has been superlative in their services and has been instrumental in the speedy delivery of the consignment without any added cost of transit.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tata-memorial-centre-strengthens-response-to-second-covid-19-wave-984242.html
09-05-2021||National||Centre issues advisory on management of Mucormycosis fungal infection in Covid-19 patients||Mucormycosis, a fungal infection being found in Covid-19 patients with uncontrolled diabetes and prolonged intensive care unit (ICU) stay, may turn fatal if uncared for, the Centre said on Sunday. In an advisory, it also said the fungal infection mainly affects people who are on medication that reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens. The evidence-based advisory for screening, diagnosis and management of the disease was released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Union health ministry. "Mucormycosis, if uncared for, may turn fatal. Sinuses or lungs of such individuals get affected after fungal spores are inhaled from the air," it said. Warning symptoms include pain and redness around eyes and nose, fever, headache, coughing, shortness of breath, bloody vomits and altered mental status, the advisory stated. In Covid-19 patients with diabetes and immuno-suppressed individuals, one must suspect of mucormycosis if there is sinusitis, one-side facial pain or numbness, blackish discoloration over the bridge of the nose or palate, toothache, blurred or double vision with pain, skin lesion, thrombosis, chest pain and worsening respiratory symptoms, it said. Major risk factors for this disease include uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, immunosuppression by steroids, prolonged ICU stay, malignancy and voriconazole therapy, the ICMR-health ministry advisory stated.        To prevent the disease, blood glucose level should be monitored post-Covid discharge and also in diabetic patients, steroids should be used judiciously in correct timing, dose and duration, clean sterile water should be used in humidifiers during oxygen therapy, and antibiotics and antifungal medicines should be used correctly, it said. The disease can be managed by controlling diabetes, discontinuing immunomodulating drugs, reducing steroids and extensive surgical debridement- to remove all necrotic materials, according to the advisory. Medical treatment includes installing peripherally inserted central catheter, maintaining adequate systemic hydration, infusion of normal saline intravenously before Amphotericin B infusion and anti-fungal therapy for at least six weeks besides monitoring the patient clinically with radio imaging for response and to detect disease progression, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-advisory-on-management-of-mucormycosis-fungal-infection-in-covid-19-patients-984244.html
09-05-2021||National||SC puts Prashant Kishor's appointment as advisor to Punjab CM under scanner||A Punjab government's decision to appoint political strategist Prashant Kishor as advisor to the Chief Minister in the rank of a Cabinet Minister has come under scanner of the Supreme Court. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta on May 6 issued notice to the Capt Amarinder Singh government on a joint plea by Labh Singh and another questioning the validity of the order by the state government. In their plea, Singh, a retired boxing coach and Satinder Singh, an advocate, contended Kishor is an expert in organising elections and is assisting parties in various states. They claimed the appointment of Kishor as principal advisor to the Chief Minister, that too in the rank and status of a Cabinet Minister, at the cost of public money is not permissible. They, however, added that the state government may have any advisor with any particular expertise for governance purposes. The court sought a response from the Congress government and has put the matter for consideration after summer vacations. Capt Amarinder had appointed Kishor as his principal advisor in March this year.   They claimed there was no advertisement or interview conducted for the appointment, which was in clear violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. The decision also smacked of mala fide as Kishor worked as strategist for the Congress party in 2017. There is a reasonable apprehension that Kishor has been appointed principal advisor just to make election strategies for the 2022 Assembly elections, their petition claimed. The petitioners challenged validity of the Punjab and Haryana high courts' order of March 5, dismissing their plea Kishor has recently acted as the political strategist for Trinamool Congress Party in West Bengal, where Mamata Banerjee won the Assembly elections and got appointed as Chief Minister for the third consecutive term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-puts-prashant-kishors-appointment-as-advisor-to-punjab-cm-under-scanner-984275.html
09-05-2021||National Politics||From Congress dissenter to 'biggest player' in BJP: Twists and turns in Himanta Biswa Sarma's career||Himanta Biswa Sarma was Tarun Gogoi's "trusted lieutenant" in Congress for years till he led the dissidence against the Congress veteran for more than a year and switched over to BJP in August 2015. Sarma, according to late Gogoi had led the dissidence as his demand to be named as the next CM candidate in the 2016 Assembly polls was turned down. He along with a few loyal MLAs quit the Congress and joined the BJP. Four months later, the BJP named Sarbananda Sonowal as its CM candidate, putting water into Sarma's aspiration for the top post. When the BJP wrested power from the Congress and formed its first government in Assam in 2016, Sarma was not even considered as he was new in the party.  On Sunday (May 9), Sarma's dream was finally fulfilled as BJP legislature party elected him as the next CM, replacing Sonowal, a week after the BJP and its allies AGP and UPPL won the mandate to form their government for the second consecutive term. The BJP-led alliance won 75 of Assam's 126 Assembly seats.  Sarma was credited for steering the BJP to victory in the elections Assam faced since 2016, be it the Lok Sabha polls or the autonomous council elections. The BJP's better show under Sarma as a poll strategist catapulted him as the tallest and the most visible leader of the party in the North East.   Born in 1969, Himanta was in the All Assam Students' Union before he began his political career by joining the Congress. He was mentored by former Chief Minister Hiteswar Saikia. He contested the first Assembly elections in 1996 from Jalukbari against AGP strongman Bhrigu Kumar Phukan but lost. In 2001, Sarma defeated Phukan and since then he has been elected to the Assembly from Jalukbari for the fifth consecutive term. He was made a minister in the Tarun Gogoi Cabinet first in 2002 and later became a Cabinet minister in charge of health, education, IT, Guwahati Development, and Assam Accord. Under Sonowal, Himanta was a minister in charge of finance, health, education, and PWD. Sarma has also done his PhD and has written four books in Assamese as well.  After joining the saffron party, he became the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance, a forum of BJP's allies in the North East. Sarma's clout in the BJP grew as he was instrumental in helping the party form its government in Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur. He also had a role in helping BJP's allies wrest power from Congress in Nagaland, Mizoram, and Meghalaya.  The BJP found itself on the backfoot during the violent agitation against the CAA in December 2019. Himanta again led the government and the party from the front. By taking a tough stand in controlling the violence and its after-effects on the BJP, and the hard work in tackling the coronavirus pandemic, Sarma, 52, once again proved himself to be a crisis manager for the party. From the selection of candidates to carrying out strong campaigns against the Congress and Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF in the 2021 Assembly polls, Sarma yet again proved himself as effective in challenging times.  Hindutva face Sarma also gained praise of the top leadership and RSS by constantly pushing the Hindutva agenda and the polarisation narratives against both Congress and Ajmal, who stitched an alliance of seven opposition parties against the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls this year. He was the first BJP leader to reject the NRC as the final list reportedly left out names of more Hindus than Muslims. He has been strongly saying that Hindus cannot be termed as foreigners and be deported back to Bangladesh, even as the Assam Accord promised to detect and deport all post-1971 migrants, irrespective of religion.  Corruption charge Months before Sarma joined the BJP in 2015, the saffron party released a "charge sheet" in New Delhi against the then Congress leaders in which it alleged Himanta's involvement in a scam in a water supply scheme involving a US-based firm and also in the Sarada scam. Sarma's name was also dragged in the alleged Rs 1,000 crore scam in North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council, which rocked the state during Gogoi's tenure. But not much has been heard about the allegations as Himanta's clout grew in the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-congress-dissenter-to-biggest-player-in-bjp-twists-and-turns-in-himanta-biswa-sarmas-career-984130.html
09-05-2021||National Politics||India needs 'breath', not Prime Minister's residence, says Rahul Gandhi||Hitting out at the Centre for continuing the construction work for the Central Vista redevelopment project amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the country needs breath and not the prime minister's residence. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat, the revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The government has brought the construction work for the ambitious project under the ambit of "essential services" to ensure smooth movement of labourers during the ongoing lockdown in Delhi. "The country needs breath, not the prime minister's residence," Gandhi said in a tweet, sharing pictures of people standing in a queue for refilling oxygen cylinders and the construction work for the Central Vista project on Rajpath. Amid rising Covid-19 cases, several states have been facing a crippling shortage of oxygen, leaving hospitals and family members of patients scrambling to ensure a steady supply. Gandhi and his Congress party have been asking the government to shelve its plans on the Central Vista project and give priority to improving the country's medical infrastructure amid the Covid-19 pandemic to save people's lives. The opposition party has also criticised the Centre for according the construction work for the Central Vista project the "essential services" tag and accused the government of having its priorities wrong. In another tweet, Gandhi said the pandemic is spreading fast in rural areas. "After cities, now villages are also dependent on God," the former Congress president tweeted in Hindi. On Sunday, India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414 while 4,092 more fatalities took the death toll to 2,42,362, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-needs-breath-not-prime-ministers-residence-says-rahul-gandhi-984183.html
09-05-2021||National Politics||Himanta Biswa Sarma, another Congress leader who made it big outside the party||After being named BJP's choice for the next Assam Chief Minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma has joined the league of several Congressmen, who did not find a prominent position within the party but rose to top positions elsewhere, either by hitching their wagons to the BJP or charting out an independent course. In cases of many, it was not any principled choice but the passion of power that made them move their seats. Himanta, N Biren Singh, Prema Khandu left Congress and made a political capital for them in the BJP, while Jaganmohan Reddy in Telangana made fortunes charting an independent course like Mamata Banerjee and Sharad Pawar in West Bengal and Maharashtra. Jyotiraditya Scindia awaits his luck in Madhya Pradesh, while Vijay Bahuguna in Uttarakhand has not been so lucky. Sarma, once a key strategist of Congress will take oath as Assam Chief Minister of Assam, albeit as a leader in the BJP nearly six years after he had quit his parent party in September 2015 over power tussle with incumbent Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi. In 2016, he took revenge, helping the BJP oust Congress and form its form government in Assam, and opening its account in the North East. Five years later, he managed to get the coveted CM chair after ensuring a second consecutive win to the BJP as Congress got pushed further in the background. Sarma, a Brahmin, is a not lone Congressman who deserted the party after complaining of not getting his due. A number of them chose the resurgent BJP after 2014 Lok Sabha elections and made big gains in their political career for themselves. In another North-East state, Manipur, the BJP lapped up N Biren Singh in October 2016, the number 2 in the Congress state hierarchy then. Singh revolted against then Chief Minister of Congress Okram Ibobi Singh and joined the BJP with his supporters. In the Assembly election next year, the BJP managed to form a government with support from allies even as the Congress was the single largest party. Singh became Chief Minister and continued to rule the state weathering many storms including the one in 2020 when his Deputy Chief Minister resigned with nearly half a dozen MLAs. The BJP is in power in all eight north-eastern states. While it ruled Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, and Manipur on its own, it is in power with coalition partners in the rest. The current Arunachal CM Prema Khandu had quit the Congress in October 2016 with 43 MLAs to join the People's Party of Arunachal, which in alliance with the BJP formed the next government. Three months later, Khandu along with 33 MLAs broke away from PPA, joined the BJP, and became Chief Minister. Khandu-led BJP won the 2019 Assembly polls and stayed as the CM. After the death of his father Y S Rajasekhara Reddy, a two-term Congress Chief Minister in a plane crash in 2009, his son Y S Jaganmohan Reddy staked claim for the Chief Ministership. The Congress refused and Jagan formed a new party YSRCP in 2011. In the 2014 Assembly polls, he lost to the TDP-BJP alliance, getting two per cent fewer votes than them. In the very next poll in 2019, the YSRCP decimated other parties and Jagan became CM at the age of 46. The Congress was lost into oblivion. "Several young leaders, who quit Congress have managed to stay afloat on their own while the Congress, which could not retain them lost relevance in those states, be it West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and now you see it happening in Assam. Something seriously needs to be done by the party to correct this trend. Most of the leaders who left complained they did not get an audience when they raise the issue," says political commentator Rasheed Kidwai. Apart from these recent names, there is a history of Congress leaders deserting their parent party and standing on their own. The most glaring example is Mamata Banerjee, who became the third Chief Minister of West Bengal this month. She had quit the Congress in 1997 and formed Trinamool Congress, bringing an end to the 34-year-long rule of Left Front in West Bengal in 2011, and is the Chief Minister of the state since then. Though the contexts are different, even Jyotiraditya Scindia, the erstwhile Congress leader who was a minister in two UPA governments in past, helped the BJP reclaim Madhya Pradesh by resigning from the Congress in March 2020. This was just one and a half years after the fighting trio of the state Congress, Scindia, Digvijay Singh, and Kamal Nath, had come together and brought an end to the Congress's 15-year-long exile from power in 2018. Scindia after a prolonged power tussle with Kamal Nath and Digvijay and after having denied the state Presidency for long, chose to hitch his wagon to the BJP. While Scindia has not been given any big position so far, age is on his side and he could just be staring at his cherished dream as the BJP has exception relations with Scindia family starting with his grand mother Vijaya Raje Scindia, who nurtured and nourished the Jan Sangh and the BJP in its early days. The not so go lucky In Uttarakhand, Vijay Bahuguna (another Brhamin) leader revolted his Congress Chief Minister Harish Rawat in March 2016 leading to the imposition of President Rule in the state, paving the way for victory of the BJP in the Assembly election in the state the following year. He along with his supporters, joined the BJP. His brother and son got accommodated while Bahuguna was last considered for a Rajya Sabha nomination. However, he is yet to make anything big for himself in the BJP so far. Bahuguna's sister Rita Bahuguna Joshi, a former Congress chief for Uttar Pradesh, quit the party, joined the Samajwadi Party and then the BJP and is currently a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government. After leaving the Congress in 1999, Pawar formed the NCP with Tariq Anwar and P A Sangma. Pawar came back to UPA as Union Minister, Anwar back to Congress, and Sangma failed to make an impact in creating an alternative political platform. Pawar, has, however, managed to stay afloat as a powerful voice in political circles with relations across the political spectrum. Many believe, he could play a major role in creating a non-NDA alternative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/himanta-biswa-sarma-another-congress-leader-who-made-it-big-outside-the-party-984210.html
09-05-2021||National Politics||Congress Working Committee to meet on Monday to assess its disastrous performance in Assembly elections||The Congress Working Committee is meeting on Monday morning to assess its disastrous performance in the recent round of assembly elections, particularly in Kerala and Assam, where the party had pinned hopes for a turnaround of its fortunes. Hoping to make a comeback, former Congress president, Rahul Gandhi had focused his energies on campaigning in Kerala – spending time with the youth in schools and colleges and diving into the sea with fishermen – in a concerted bid to overthrow the LDF government. However, the Congress could manage to win only 21 seats in the 140-member assembly. In Assam, where Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had launched a charm offensive, the Congress failed to prevent the return of BJP despite a well received campaign and a rainbow coalition involving the AIUDF. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel had spent weeks in Assam, micro-managing the campaign, which did not click with the electorate. Congress scored a duck in West Bengal and lost Puducherry to the AINRC-BJP alliance. The dismal results have given ammunition to the G-23 change-seekers within the Congress to make a fresh push for internal elections for a more visible and active leadership of the party.   Since its loss in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the Congress has managed to win only in Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu as a minor partner of JMM and DMK respectively. It had finished fourth in Maharashtra, but found itself in power after NCP supremo Sharad Pawar roped in the Shiv Sena and Congress to keep the BJP out of power. Congress’ insistence of contesting 70 seats in Bihar assembly elections last year and managing to win only 19 left it facing accusations of dragging down the coalition with RJD which had come close to toppling the JD(U)-BJP alliance. “Most unfortunately, our own performance in all the states was very disappointing and if I may say, unexpectedly so,” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said addressing a virtual meeting of the Congress party in Parliament on Friday. She had said that the party must draw appropriate lessons from this setback in a spirit of humility and honesty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-working-committee-to-meet-on-monday-to-assess-its-disastrous-performance-in-assembly-elections-984220.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Massive vaccination drive in Uttar Pradesh for all above 18 to begin on May 10: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said a massive coronavirus vaccination drive will be initiated for 18-44 years age group in the state from May 10. He said the drive will be conducted in 17 municipal corporations and Gautam Buddh Nagar area. “The vaccination drive will be held in Aligarh, Agra, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Jhansi, Bareilly, Meerut, Moradabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Saharanpur, Firozabad, Mathura-Vrindavan, Ayodhya and Shahjahanpur municipal corporations and Gautam Buddh Nagar,” the CM said. Speaking to reporters in Bareilly, Adityanath said despite being the most populous state in the country, Uttar Pradesh is fighting the disease effectively. He underlined that vaccination is the best way to defeat the infection, adding that 45 lakh vaccines have been administered to people above the age of 45 years. In the age group of 18-44 years, more than one lakh vaccines have been administered. The vaccination for people in this age group started on May 1 for seven districts in the state, namely Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Meerut and Bareilly, he said. Talking about the achievements of his government in fighting the pandemic, the chief minister said, "There were doubts that Covid-19 positive cases will touch the one lakh-mark by May 5, and today is May 8. The count of fresh cases on Saturday stands at 26,847. We have proved to be successful in Covid management. “The second doubt was that cases will increase during the panchayat polls. The panchayat elections ended on April 19, and there has been a continuous drop in the number of cases,” he underlined. The BJP leader said UP recorded the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases at 38,055 on April 24, and the highest count of active cases of 3.10 lakh was recorded on April 30. “In the past eight days (from May 1 to May 8), the Covid-19 cases have registered a drop at 65,000; and the number is continuously decreasing. In the past one week, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Bareilly has dropped by 2,800,” he noted. Adityanath said there were 20-30 oxygen beds in a 500-bed hospital, but today in a 500-bed hospital, every person is feeling the need for oxygen. "Special plans have been made as the demand for oxygen has grown many times, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved 61 new oxygen plants for UP. The process is on to set up one oxygen plant in every district by the sugarcane department," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/massive-vaccination-drive-in-uttar-pradesh-for-all-above-18-to-begin-on-may-10-cm-yogi-adityanath-984030.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi likely to get remaining 18 oxygen plants from France later this month||The national capital has received three out of the 21 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants from France and is likely to get the remaining later this month, officials said on Saturday. The three PSA oxygen plants donated by France have been installed at Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital in Narela, Ambedkar Hospital and Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. "The Union Health Ministry and the Ministry of External Affairs are monitoring it. They are expected to reach us during this month," Ashish Kundra, prinicpal secretary, Transport and OSD (Health) said at an online briefing. Of the total oxygen supplied to Delhi presently, an average of 29 per cent is supplied by the Railways and an average of 71 per cent is via roadways, Kundra said. An average of 507.5 MT of oxygen is supplied to Delhi on a daily basis, he said. Ten SOS calls were received on May 7 and but they have reduced, the official said. He pointed out that the central government hospitals consume about 9.39 per cent of the total allocated oxygen, Delhi government hospitals consume 20.20 per cent and private hospitals consume 50.20 per cent. The remaining 15.67 per cent is reserved for emergency SOS calls while 3.03 per cent quota is given to districts for providing the facility to citizens, he said. "A fair distribution and allocation strategy is being prepared for the optimal utilization of the given oxygen. GPS tracking system is helping to monitor the real time time locations of the tankers for the seamless supply of oxygen in Delhi. "A network team has been formed which is giving real-time information from different parts of the country on the oxygen management system. District Magistrates are tracking through their teams whether the oxygen is reaching the earmarked hospitals and institutions on a timely basis," he said. The national capital is ramping up the capacities in terms of transportation of liquid oxygen across the city, the government had earlier said. "The supply chain of oxygen has become more efficient through the railway movement. All the DMs are tracking each and every re-filler and making sure that it reaches the destination which is earmarked," he said. Kundra said there are officers deployed at plants in West Bengal, Odisha, etc and they get real time information about when the tanker starts its journey. "Real time monitoring of oxygen tankers is being done by the team formed by the government to mitigate the challenges and obstacles in the supply chain management of the oxygen in the national capital," he said. The Delhi government has also deputed a team of officers to each of the oxygen plant locations, which makes sure that there are no glitches and any administrative obstacles in the oxygen supply to Delhi, he added. Kundra said citizens can log on to delhi.gov.in to access cylinders donation sheet and can also book cylinder refilling at https://oxygen.jantasamvad.org. More than 1,100 cylinders were distributed on May 7 for home isolation patients, he said. The senior official also cautioned against black marketing of oxygen cylinders or medicines and said the government has zero-tolerance for black marketers. The government has set up 174 hunger relief centres, he said, adding that this initiative will make sure that the poor and needy are being given food on a daily basis. In the last one week, close to nine lakh meals have been distributed for the needy in the city, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-likely-to-get-remaining-18-oxygen-plants-from-france-later-this-month-984032.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | Construction of PM's new residence in midst of devastating second Covid-19 wave draws flak||The Narendra Modi-led government has been under heavy criticism over the past few days after a proposal to build a brand new residence for the prime minister was approved in the midst of a devasting Covid-19 second wave. The project is set to be completed by December 2022 and is currently under way. The Central Public Works Department on Tuesday was given a nod to begin the project by a government-appointed panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-construction-of-pms-new-residence-in-midst-of-devastating-second-covid-19-wave-draws-flak-984034.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt will consider importing Covid-19 vaccines: CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said his government will consider importing Covid-19 vaccines to ensure that people in the state are inoculated against the viral disease at the earliest. Speaking at a high-level meeting held to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, the chief minister stressed the need to accelerate the pace of vaccination to stem the spread of the pandemic and bring down the fatality rate. Gehlot said all options should be considered to ensure the availability of vaccines in the state. The state government will also consider importing vaccines as there is a need to inoculate the state's residents against Covid-19 at the earliest, he said. The chief minister also directed officials to conduct special campaigns to generate awareness about the vaccination drive in rural areas as the pandemic is spreading very fast in villages. Health machinery should be fully activated in rural areas to prevent its spread and provide immediate treatment to those infected, he said. To generate awareness, Gehlot said, maximum participation of all state government personnel and panchayat level representatives should be ensured. It is too late by the time people from villages arrive in cities for treatment. In such a situation, a door-to-door survey and distribution of medicine kits should be carried out, he said. This will enable timely examination of symptomatic patients and it will be easier to save lives by providing medicines at the initial stage of the infection, he added. Gehlot said experts are also anticipating a third wave of Covid-19 that could be more deadly. It is feared that it will affect children more. In view of this, infrastructure should be strengthened in children's hospitals. Intensive care facilities like NICU and PICU, etc., should be strengthened in these hospitals, he said. Health Minister Raghu Sharma suggested setting up oxygen plants at children's hospitals, too, to prepare the state for the potential third wave of the pandemic. Rajasthan recorded 160 Covid-19 fatalities and 17,987 fresh cases on Saturday that pushed the death toll to 5,506 and the infection tally to 7,38,786, according to an official report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-will-consider-importing-covid-19-vaccines-cm-ashok-gehlot-984038.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||65% traders surveyed want Delhi to extend Covid-19 lockdown: Chambers of Trade and Industry||Traders' body CTI on Saturday said 65 per cent respondents in a survey conducted by it favoured extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Delhi government imposed a weeklong lockdown in the city in the wake of steep rise in Covid positive cases in April. After two extensions, the lockdown is scheduled to come to an end at 5 AM on May 10. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday had said that a decision on extending the lockdown further will be taken after reviewing the situation. "Right now the citizens of Delhi themselves want this lockdown to continue, to stop the spread of this virus," he had said. Brijesh Goyal, chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) said that "65 percent of Delhi's traders favour increasing (extending) the lockdown in Delhi." He said that "480 traders and industrial organisations gave their opinion in the survey". About  315 of these 480 organisations said that the lockdown in Delhi should be extended by one week. Two week extension was favoured by  60 organisations, said a CTI statement. Nearly 100 organisations said that the lockdown in Delhi should be lifted and traders be allowed to open shops and markets three days a week or on an odd-even basis, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/65-traders-surveyed-want-delhi-to-extend-covid-19-lockdown-chambers-of-trade-and-industry-984040.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Seven in UP held for selling pneumonia injections as remdesivir||With the arrest of seven persons, the Noida police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang that sold vials of injections used in pneumonia treatment packaged as remdesivir. Remdesivir is an antiviral drug that is being used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Due to its high demand, it is not easily available in the market. The accused have been identified as Musir, Salman Khan, Shahrukh Ali, Azharuddin, Abdul Rahman, Deepanshu alias Dharamvir Vishwakarma and Bunty Singh, all residents of Uttar Pradesh, the police said. While some work as nursing staff with hospitals in Delhi-NCR, others are medical representatives of pharmaceutical companies, they said. The accused used their credentials to target gullible people who needed remdesivir injections in hospitals and at pharmacies, they said. The accused sold a vial between Rs 40,000 and Rs 45,000 when it normally does not cost more than Rs 3,500 depending on the manufacturer, the police said. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said police in Gautam Buddh Nagar district have been alert and are tracking such elements engaged in hoarding and black marketing of resources, including medicines, which are in demand during the ongoing pandemic. "Today, the teams of ACP 2 and Sector 58 police station met with success after they arrested these seven people who were part of a gang that sold injections used in pneumonia treatment to needy persons after wrapping them in labels of remdesivir injection," he said. Singh said the gang members used their credentials to illegally make huge profits by defrauding gullible and needy people. Nine vials of genuine and 140 vials of fake remdesivir injections and Rs 2.45 lakh cash, among other items, were recovered from the accused, the police said. An FIR has been lodged against the accused at Sector 58 police station under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act besides sections 420 (cheating), 468 and 470 (both related to forgery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-in-up-held-for-selling-pneumonia-injections-as-remdesivir-984050.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh extends partial Covid curfew till May 17||Uttar Pradesh on Sunday extended the partial 'corona curfew' till May 17 as Covid-19 cases continue to be on the rise. Partial 'corona curfew' imposed in Uttar Pradesh extended till May 17: ACS Information Navneet Sehgal As many as 298 people died from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday as 26,847 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection count to 14,80,315, according to a statement. So far, the infection has claimed 15,170 lives in the state. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-extends-partial-covid-curfew-till-may-17-984079.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 17; metro services to be shut||The Covid-19 lockdown in the national capital has been extended by one more week with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing that metro trains will also not run during this period. Delhi has been in lockdown since April 19 night even as the cases and positivity rate are on a decline, which Kejriwal attributed to the stringent measures taken in the past over a fortnight. Kejriwal said Covid-19 cases and positivity rate came down in the last few days but there is no reason for giving leniency at this point. He said the positivity rate was around 35 per cent on April 26 but due to the lockdown, it has come down to around 23 per cent. "However, we have not reached that point that we can lift the restrictions. The lockdown has been extended till 5 AM on May 17. We are taking more stringent measures. We are shutting metro services also," he said. An order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority extending the lockdown said that the situation in the national capital has been reviewed again and it has been observed that Covid-19 cases and positivity rate are "still very high". It also noted that the bed occupancy in hospitals is also on the "higher side and in order to contain the spread of the virus and to further break the transmission chain, curfew needs to be extended for another week". According to the order, marriages can be held at court or at homes with not more than 20 people in attendance. "There will be a complete prohibition on marriage ceremonies at public places, banquet halls, hotels, and similar places during the period," it said.  For the marriage function, disco jockeys, sound system, tentage, catering or similar services will not be allowed. Owners of marriage halls, catering services, and sound systems will have to either return the advance amount or will have to mutually agree to organise the marriage at a later date. Only essential services will be allowed during the curfew. Government officials have been tasked with ensuring people follow appropriate Covid-19 behaviour like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing at inter-state bus terminals, railway stations, markets, and shops providing essential goods. Police have been asked to check the movement of people and vehicles by putting an adequate number of checking points with the "objective to prevent unnecessary movement of people on roads during curfew".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-17-metro-services-to-be-shut-984087.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||UP police to penalise those spreading rumours that Covid-19 spreads through 5G trials||The Uttar Pradesh Police has directed all commissioners, DIGs and superintendents of police to initiate action against those spreading rumours that Covid-19 infection spreads through 5G trials. In a letter to all the commissioners of police, DIGs and superintendents of police, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said that rumours are being spread on social media that radiation during 5G testing is the reason behind the sudden surge in Covid-19 infection and deaths. Apart from this, an audio went viral in which a youth can be heard speaking to a person in Bihar claiming that the 5G testing is the reason behind the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and a man can be heard saying that because of the 5G testing people are dying. Some posts were also uploaded on social media that 5G towers were closed and uprooted in villages in Fatehpur, Siddharthnagar, Gorakhpur and Sultanpur. Issuing instructions that these rumours be contained, ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said that intelligence mechanism be activated on this front, and immediate action be initiated on even the smallest piece of information. "The rumours must be immediately refuted, and necessary action be initiated," he said. An audio message claiming that the 5G trials were the reason behind the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in India has been doing the rounds. In the message, a man can be heard saying that because of 5G testing people are dying in states like UP, Maharashtra and Bihar. The Department of Telecom on Tuesday approved applications of telecom companies – Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and MTNL – for conducting 5G trials. According to DoT, 5G technology is expected to deliver ten times better download speed than that of 4G and up to three times greater spectrum efficiency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-to-penalise-those-spreading-rumours-that-covid-19-spreads-through-5g-trials-984107.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Terrorist hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch; 19 grenades seized||Security forces on Sunday unearthed a terrorist hideout in the Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, leading to the recovery of 19 hand grenades and scuttling of a terrorist plan to disturb peace in the border district by carrying out grenade attacks, a defence spokesman said. No one was arrested during the operation which was jointly carried out by the Army and police in the Phagla area of Surankote, the spokesman said. Based on a specific input that terrorists were planning to target security forces on NH 144A (Jammu-Poonch highway), a well-coordinated joint operation was launched by the Rashtriya Rifles and police in the Phagla area. “The relentless development of intelligence by both the agencies led to the discovery of a huge cache of grenades, hidden in a well-concealed natural (cave) hideout. A total of 19 hand grenades have been found,” the spokesman said. He said the recovery of the grenades foiled the designs of inimical elements to disrupt peace and tranquillity in Poonch. “This busting of hideout has averted a likely major plan of attack on security forces. The Army and police have yet again proven their mettle in the fight against terrorism and their commitment towards stability in the region,” the spokesman said. This is the second major recovery of explosives in the Jammu region in as many days. On Saturday, security forces recovered 40 kg of high explosive material, a five-litre pressure cooker Improvised Explosive Device (IED), five-inch iron pipe IED, four electrical detonators, electrical wire, power sources, six heavy-duty cells, insulation tape and 1.5 kg iron splinters from Chakarandi village of Doda district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-hideout-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-19-grenades-seized-984114.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi lockdown extension: What's allowed and what's not allowed||The Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi extended the Covid-19 lockdown on Sunday to curb the spread of the fatal virus. Delhi will remain under shutdown till May 17. "We are taking more stringent measures. We are shutting Metro services also," Kejriwal said in his press conference. He said the lockdown was extended to further curb the spread of the infection. Here's a look at what's allowed and what's not allowed  in this extended lockdown 1. Delhi Metro will not function this week. 2. Weddings will be prohibited unless they are happening at a court or at home. Not more than 20 people will be allowed to gather at weddings. Movement for the purpose of weddings will be allowed on the production of a soft or hard copy of a marriage card. Sound systems, DJs, catering and tentage for the same will not be allowed. 3. E-pass issued earlier for movement related to essential services will continue to remain valid. 4. Essential services are exempted from the lockdown. Print and electronic media, government officials working in departments such as health, police, electricity board, water, etc. Healthcare staff are also exempt. Patients and pregnant women are exempt from the lockdown restrictions. 5. Those going to get tested for Covid-19 and vaccination are exempt from providing a valid ID card. Those caring for medical patients are also exempt. 6. Travel to catch a flight, train, a bus will be allowed on production of a valid ticket. 7. Shops selling essential goods and providing essential services will be allowed to function, such as grocery shops, vegetables, fruits, milk, bank employees, private security companies. 8. All modes of transport will be allowed to carry passengers, however, only those exempt from the lockdown will be allowed to travel on these modes of transport. 9. Only home delivery of food and takeaways will be allowed. Dine-in facilities at restaurants will be suspended. 10. Public places such as parks, gyms, swimming pools will be shut and only training of those participating in national and international games will be allowed. 11. If workers are present within a construction site or factory, they will be allowed to work. If workers need to be transported to the worksite, such an activity will not be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lockdown-extension-whats-allowed-and-whats-not-allowed-984115.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir could see 10,000 Covid-19 cases, 100 deaths per day by May-end: Experts||With Covid-19 cases and deaths continuing to rise in Jammu and Kashmir despite the lockdown, experts have warned that the Union Territory may record up to 10,000 positive cases and around 100 deaths per day by the end of May. Chairman of J&K government’s apex level advisory committee for Covid-19, Prof M. S Khuroo said the pandemic is likely to peak within three to four weeks and stay at a plateau for several weeks before showing regression. On an average, J&K is reporting around 5,000 positive cases and over 50 deaths daily in the recent days. “The next six to eight weeks are crucial as J&K is likely to witness 6,000 to 10,000 Covid cases and 60 to 100 deaths a day. All efforts need to be made to control the spread, save human lives and give comfort and care to the needy,” Prof Khuroo said. Explaining the recent massive surge, he said that apart from mutation, the inability of society to follow Covid appropriate behaviour has been instrumental to bring us to this stage. “The vaccination programs should continue in full force even especially with variants circulating in the community,” he said. Prof Khuroo added that implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination shall reduce the occurrence of infections and once the virus replication is reduced occurrence of variants is also inhibited. However, vaccination has slowed down in the UT due to shortage of supplies. J&K’s Health and Medical Education Commissioner, Atal Dulloo says vaccination would “pick up” as a fresh consignment of vaccines was expected soon. He said that the lockdown could have already slowed down the rise of cases in J&K. “When the lockdown was imposed on April 29, the cases were rising steeply. They are still rising but the numbers that could have been there in one week, may now span over two weeks,” Dulloo added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-could-see-10000-covid-19-cases-100-deaths-per-day-by-may-end-experts-984118.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Doctors, medical staff attacked by kin of deceased Covid-19 patient in Uttar Pradesh||Two doctors and 2 healthcare workers of a government Covid-19 hospital here were injured on Sunday after the family of a 65-year-old woman attacked them alleging delay in admission and oxygen supply, police said. Chief Medical Officer Dr Rajendra Prasad said the Covid-infected woman was admitted to the hospital in Phephana village around 3.00 am in serious condition and passed away soon afterward. The family alleged that they were made to wait for around half-an-hour at the hospital before admission and their patient was given oxygen after one hour of being admitted, police said. Chief Medical Officer Prasad said after the woman passed away, her family members got angry and accused the hospital staff of negligence. They indulged in vandalism and attacked the hospital staff in which Dr Pritam Kumar Pandey, Dr Sharad Kumar, and health workers Kishan Kumar and Rizwan injured, the CMO said. The family members also damaged the personal vehicles of some doctors, he said. Police reached the spot after it was informed about the incident, the CMO said, adding a case will be filed in this connection. Phephana police station SHO Sanjay Tripathi said the woman's family members were adamant on taking her body for cremation, and also demanded action against the doctors and a compensation for the deceased. He said the police was able to pacify them after much effort. The SHO also said a case will be registered after a complaint is received from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-medical-staff-attacked-by-kin-of-deceased-covid-19-patient-in-uttar-pradesh-984140.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 curfew extended in Bhopal till May 17||The district administration on Sunday extended the Covid-19 induced curfew in the Madhya Pradesh capital till May 17, an official said. The curfew was supposed to be lifted at 6 am on May 10. Enforced on April 12 given the rise in coronavirus positive cases, the curfew was later extended subsequently after every one week till May 10. "The corona curfew is extended in the areas under the Bhopal Municipal Corporation and Berasia town till 6 am on May 17 as per the order issued by district collector Avinash Lavaniyam," the official said. He said essential services and emergency travel are exempted from the purview of the restrictions on the movement of people. As of Saturday, Bhopal's Covid-19 caseload stood at 1,02,776 while the death toll stood at 788, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-curfew-extended-in-bhopal-till-may-17-984164.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Centre may delay Central Vista project amid criticism||The Modi government may go slow over the implementation of the Central Vista redevelopment project, which has come under intense criticism for spending a huge amount of money at a time when the country was battling a raging Covid-19 pandemic.  Barring two ongoing projects, New Parliament Building and Central Vista Avenue (Rajpath), the Centre may slow down the execution of remaining projects in the Central Vista Redevelopment Scheme, sources in the government said. The Central Vista redevelopment project involved building a new Parliament building, re-modeling of Central Vista Avenue (Rajpath), building new residences for the vice president and the prime minister, inter-connected common secretariat comprising 10 new buildings and demolishing some buildings on either side of the Rajpath. “Since work on the Parliament building (cost Rs 862 crore), and the Central Vista Avenue (cost Rs 477 crore) is going on, there is no meaning in stopping it midway. However, the other projects can be taken up once the pandemic is over,” said an official in the Urban Affairs Ministry. The officials said the Urban Affairs Ministry has secured the environment clearances for building new residences for the vice president and the prime minister, but the bidding process had not yet begun. “The ministry is yet to decide on calling for tenders for these buildings,” the official said, adding that the green clearances were applied for when there was no sign of the second wave. As per the original plan, the residential buildings were to be completed by end of 2022, but now the government is thinking of delaying these two projects. The work on the new prime minister’s residence and the SPG buildings can begin only after some offices on Dalhousie Road are shifted to new buildings on Africa Avenue and Kasturba Gandhi Marg. “These two buildings are not yet ready,” the official said. Besides, the government is yet to finalise on which buildings would be razed to build the common secretariat complex that would come up on either side of the Rajpath, the official said. The Centre had planned to complete the entire Central Vista project, entailing an expenditure of Rs 23,000 crore by 2024, but the deadline had already been extended to 2026. Due to the impact of the second wave of Covid-19, the government is now expected to further delay the project, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-may-delay-central-vista-project-amid-criticism-984192.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi court sets aside order for use of seized oxygen concentrators for police, judges||A Delhi court has found that a Metropolitan Magistrate faltered on the touchstone of morals and principles of law in directing the use of seized oxygen concentrators for the police personnel and judicial officers and their families during the Covid-19 pandemic. Principal District and Sessions Judge, Dwarka courts, Narottam Kaushal on Saturday set aside the May 5 order by the Metropolitan Magistrate, saying the judicial officer was greatly influenced by the fact that two of his colleagues have lost their lives in battle with Covid-19. "In his zeal to provide life-saving machines to front line workers i.e the Delhi Police and to his judicial fraternity, the Metropolitan Magistrate was so dazzled that he forgot that a judge on account of the office he occupies has to act and behave like a self-less, dispassionate saint," the court said. Judge Kaushal said even when this order was being penned down, the judicial fraternity lost one more officer, who succumbed to the Covid-19 virus, still, the order by the metropolitan magistrate was not sustainable. "He (Metropolitan Magistrate) has to rise above the interests of self and his ilk. Benevolent and well-intended, his act may be, the same cannot breach the constitutional provisions of equality," the court added. Acting on a revision petition by the prosecutor, the judge asked Delhi Police's investigating officer to file an application before the District Magistrate without wasting time, to pass a direction for suitable utilisation of the 12 oxygen concentrators.  The prosecutor claimed that the order for utilisation of seized article was in violation of the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, which provided that the Collector would be the competent Authority to order possession, delivery, disposal, release or distribution of the case property. The court, on the contrary, found that there was no notification declaring oxygen concentrators to be an essential commodity. The court, however, agreed that in view of the Delhi High Court's judgement in 'Venkateshwar Hospital Vs Government of NCT and Ors' of April 29, 2021, the seizure of medicines or oxygen cylinders should be informed to the concerned District Commissioner and the District Commissioner, who should pass orders for their release without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-sets-aside-order-for-use-of-seized-oxygen-concentrators-for-police-judges-984201.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Fake Remdesivir containing salt and glucose circulated in Madhya Pradesh||An inter-state gang supplied at least 1,200 spurious Remdesivir injections, which contained glucose water and salt, in Madhya Pradesh in the last one month, police said on Sunday. These injections were sold as genuine Remdesivir, which is in high demand for treating Covid-19 patients, at exorbitant rates, a probe has revealed. The Gujarat Police recently busted this racket in Surat and arrested six persons, Indore's Vijay Nagar police station inspector Tahjib Kaji told PTI. "Investigation revealed that the gang with the help of one Sunil Mishra had supplied 1,200 fake Remdesivir injections in Madhya Pradesh in the last month," he said. Kaji said Kaushal Vora, who was among the six persons arrested in Gujarat, had delivered a consignment of 700 fake injections to Mishra in Indore. Mishra later went to Surat and brought a consignment of another 500 spurious injections, the police officer said. "Of these 1,200 fake injections, 200 were sent to adjoining Dewas district from Indore, while 500 others were delivered to one Sapan Jain in Jabalpur," he added. He said the Gujarat Police arrested Mishra in that state after the MP police passed on the information, while five accomplices of Mishra were arrested in Indore. Kaji said the gang used to look for customers on social media under the garb of helping patients. They used to charge anywhere between Rs 35,000 to Rs 40,000 per injection, he said. Police have seized seven such injections, manufactured in Gujarat, with the same batch numbers in Indore. He said that MP police would seek the custody of the accused from Gujarat Police. The investigation is also underway at the local level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fake-remdesivir-containing-salt-and-glucose-circulated-in-madhya-pradesh-984202.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 tentacles reach UP's hinterland, deaths going unreported||With very little testing and treatment facilities in smaller towns and districts, Covid-19 may be silently claiming lives of people in large numbers in the villages across Uttar Pradesh. According to the reports over one hundred people have died after exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 at several villages in Deoria, Ballia, Sultanpur, Hapur and some other districts in the past few days. Reportedly, at least 32 people died at Andila and Baida villages in Deoria district in the past fortnight. Similarly, 25 people have died at Kheda village in Sultanpur district, about 150 kilometres from here in the past one month, the reports said. Testing has now started at Kheda, sources said. Deaths have also been reported from Tatarpur village in Hapur district. Incidentally, a majority of the people, who died, had cough, fever and breathlessness. Reportedly, there was very little the villagers could do in such cases. There was virtually no facility at the local level to conduct RT-PCR tests or provide medical care to the patients requiring oxygen support. ''At times we run short of testing kits....during the door-to-survey we only measure SpO2 level and temperature,'' a senior health official admitted. As those, who died, had not been tested, it could not be said that they had Covid-19, said another official. What makes the situation worse is that the dead were being cremated without following the Covid-19 protocols. It further contributes to the spread of the virus. Officially the number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh has come down from a little over three lakh on April 30 to 2.45 lakh on Sunday. The state reported 26,847 new cases in the past 24-hours. As many as 298 people died from Covid in the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-tentacles-reach-ups-hinterland-deaths-going-unreported-984206.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court to take up matter on Covid-19 management on May 10, may focus on vaccination policy||The Supreme Court is to scheduled to take up on May 10 a suo motu matter related to ensuring essential supplies and drugs and vaccine policy during the Covid-19 pandemic. After the formation of National Task Force for ensuring adequate supplies of oxygen, its audits and availability of essentials drugs, the court may now focus on vaccine policy of the Centre, which came under criticism for allowing differential pricing for the states. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat would take up the matter on May 10, along with a host of petitions, including the one seeking withdrawal of all advertisements for Kumbh Mela at Haridwar. On April 30, the top court had asked the central government to revisit its initiatives and protocols on availability of oxygen, vaccines, and its pricing, and essential drugs at affordable prices and respond by May 10. It had then also directed the formulation of a national policy on admissions of patients to hospitals to be followed by all states to ensure that no patient is denied hospitalisation or essential drugs for lack of local residential proof. The court had earlier also directed the central and state governments to notify all Chief Secretaries and Directors General of Police that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking or delivering help on any platform will attract a coercive exercise of jurisdiction. However, there were reports that the Uttar Pradesh lodged an FIR on May 5 against Sun Hospital at Lucknow for "spreading rumour" on oxygen supply and asking relatives to take away their patients. The court had also ordered the Centre to prepare, in collaboration with the states, a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency purposes and decentralise the location of the emergency stocks.  However, in a separate case, the court set up a 12-member National Task Force (NTF), comprising experts from medical field, to facilitate public health response, including on supply of oxygen and essential drugs. As the terms of reference for the NTF did not include vaccination policy, the top court on Monday may put its thrust on the issue as it had already on April 30 asked the Centre to revisit vaccine pricing policy for it constituted public good where there should not be any discrimination between different class of citizens. It had then said compelling the state governments to negotiate with manufacturers on the ground of promoting competition will result in a serious detriment to the people, particularly the 'Bahujans' or other underprivileged and marginalised groups, having no ability to pay.  The West Bengal government has already filed an application seeking disbanding the “Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination” policy, saying it was detrimental to state's interest and will result in an inequitable distribution. "Figures of Rs 400 (now Rs 300) and Rs 600, for Covishield and Covaxin, respectively, is completely opaque and in fact higher than the cost per dose for vaccines across the world,” it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-take-up-matter-on-covid-19-management-on-may-10-may-focus-on-vaccination-policy-984218.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir reports 5,190 new Covid-19 cases, 54 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 5,190 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 2,16,932, while 54 new deaths on Saturday took the toll to 2,726. On Thursday, the union territory reported the highest single-day cases at 5,443. The highest death toll of 60 was recorded on Saturday. The 5,190 new positive cases came out of 48,553 tests conducted the previous day, according to the daily media bulletin. The active caseload in J&K crossed the 4,900 mark on Sunday. With the fresh jump of 5,190 cases, the active case tally in the UT rose to 49,248, accounting for over a fourth of the total count. In the last 24 hours, 2,423 patients have been discharged. Total discharges in J&K now stand at 1,64,958. The recovery rate in J&K stands at nearly 76 per cent at present. In the first week of May, the active cases have increased by 20,889. The UT has also recorded 443 deaths in the first nine days of this month. The coronavirus outbreak was reported in Jammu and Kashmir on March 7, 2020, when two persons tested positive for the deadly infection. The peak of the first wave was September 12 when 1,698 positive cases were reported. The high infection rate of the mutant virus as per the doctors is the main reason for the spike, which has continued despite lockdown. The ‘corona curfew’ remained imposed in J&K on the 11th consecutive day on Sunday. J&K is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country, which is over 17,400 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is over 16,000. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, the Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-5190-new-covid-19-cases-54-deaths-984221.html
09-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown by a week till May 17||The Haryana government on Sunday announced extending the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state by a week till May 17. Making the announcement on Twitter, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said that stringent measures will be taken to contain the spread of coronavirus infections in the state. "Detailed order to be issued soon,” he said in a tweet. Mahamari Alert / Surkshit Haryana announced from 10 May to 17 May Stringent measures will be taken to contain spread of Corona in Haryana. Detailed order to be issued soon. Vij later told PTI that the restrictions which are currently in force will continue till May 17. In the past few weeks, Haryana has registered a surge in Covid-19 infections as well as fatalities. Haryana on Sunday reported 151 Covid-19-related deaths taking the cumulative toll to 5,605 and another big surge of 13,548 infections pushed the total case count to 6,15,897. Last week, the state government had imposed a lockdown in the state from May 3 to May 10 (5 am).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-by-a-week-till-may-17-984252.html
09-05-2021||Opinion||Many call for shifting Bengaluru's Covid-19 vaccination centres from hospitals to open spaces||Why should Covid-19 vaccination centres be located within risky hospital premises and not open spaces? This is the question being asked by hundreds queuing up for their first and second shots, worried about contracting the dreaded virus from places with a higher density of Covid-positive patients. The high spread rate of the second wave has left everyone on the edge. Vaccination centres have been set up in Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and hospitals, both government and private, across the city. Symptomatic and asymptomatic patients frequent these locations, coming dangerously close to the vaccination queues. Paucity of space in many PHCs has meant the mandatory social distancing is rarely adhered to. At one PHC in Hesarghatta, queues for RT-PCR tests and vaccination were so close that senior citizens awaiting their shots were visibly scared and jittery, recalled Devaiah, a local resident who had been to the health centre last week. It is nothing but ‘common sense’ to set up vaccination centres away from these high-risk places. This was the collective observation of several who took to Twitter and other social media platforms on Friday, raising the issue. 'Too close for comfort' The vaccine shortage has forced many to travel long distances to get the shot. One of them, Anitha Jha was happy that she finally found one at the PHC in Kannur. But the crowd there was unsettling. “There were many with visible symptoms waiting for their tests. The vaccination queue was too close for comfort,” she told DH. “Vaccination centres need to be in an open space for better area management. People in the 18-45 age group are anxious. Closed hospital spaces are not ideal as they need ramping up of capacity. Choultries are a good alternative too,” opined Dr Ravindra Mehta from Apollo Hospital. Since most big hospitals have allotted beds for Covid patients, the best option would be to create multiple options to take the vaccine outside. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had earlier opened vaccination session sites in apartment complexes, slums and industries. Schools, both private and government, could be another option. Drive-in centres where patients are administered the vaccine shots right inside their vehicles is also being talked about as safety boosters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/many-call-for-shifting-bengalurus-covid-19-vaccination-centres-from-hospitals-to-open-spaces-984023.html
09-05-2021||South||Kerala poet Satchidanandan allegedly blocked by Facebook for posts against BJP||Known poet and critic K Satchidanandan has been reportedly blocked by Facebook for allegedly making a post 'sarcastically criticising' Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP. Satchidanandan told a section of media that the ban came after he posted a video sarcastically criticising Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP for its poor performance in Kerala elections and a sarcastic video on Modi. Both were forwards. He said that he had received an alert earlier from the social media giant after posting or sharing contents against BJP. The reason being cited for the 24-hour ban is that he violated the community standards. Apart from the 24 -our ban, he was also directed not to come live on Facebook for 30 days. He said that these developments show that those who criticise the right wing were under surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-poet-satchidanandan-allegedly-blocked-by-facebook-for-posts-against-bjp-984027.html
09-05-2021||South||Puducherry announces lockdown from May 10 to 24||With the union territory of Puducherry witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases, the territorial government on Saturday imposed a two-week lockdown starting from May 10, in a bid to curb its spread. The Secretary to Government (Relief and Rehabilitation), Ashok Kumar, in an order, said the lockdown would be in addition to the night curfew already in force from 10 pm to 5 am the next day. The lockdown was being imposed as there was no let up in the increased cases of coronavirus in the Union Territory, he said. "The lockdown will be in force for two weeks from May 10 midnight to May 24," he said in the order. During the period, beaches, parks, gardens would remain closed to the public, as also all places of worship and religious centres, petrol bunks, power service, and water supply will function and banks will operate till 12 noon. Industries and industrial production would also be permitted. The order said people should remain indoors and not come out except for permitted and essential activities. Their movement would be subject to verification of the purpose and their identities by enforcement agencies, he said. Provision shops, vegetable sales outlets, shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits, meat and fish and cattle feed would be allowed till 12 noon without AC facility. Shopping complexes and malls would not be permitted to function, as also tea shops. Delivery of food and takeaways, medical services and newspaper distribution would be allowed. Passenger buses can operate, but with 50 per cent occupancy. Taxies can ply, subject to carrying a maximum of three passengers excluding drivers, while autorickshaws would also be permitted with a maximum of two passengers, excluding drivers. For marriage functions, only 25 people would be allowed, and 20 in funerals. Stringent action would be taken against those violating the lockdown rules, the order said. The Union Territory on Saturday logged 1,703 cases and 19 deaths, taking the tally to 70,076 and the toll to 939.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-announces-lockdown-from-may-10-to-24-984045.html
09-05-2021||South||Rajiv Gandhi case convict Perarivalan should be given parole: VCK MP D Ravikumar||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) MP D Ravikumar has written to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin asking him to direct officials to release Perarivalan, one of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, on parole for 90 days, citing a Supreme Court order. Ravikumar, MP from Villupuram, cited an order by the Supreme Court dated May 7, 2021, saying those inmates who were granted parole, “pursuant to our earlier orders”, should be again granted parole of 90 days to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic. “Perarivalan's parole was extended by the Supreme Court in November, and he is currently at the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai. Since he has co-morbidities, doctors have said Perarivalan's life could be in danger if he is infected with Covid-19,” Ravikumar said in his letter to Stalin. Hence, the Chief Minister should direct granting of 90 days parole to Perarivalan, keeping his health in mind, Ravikumar said in the letter. The Supreme Court had in 2020 extended Perarivalan's parole twice. Perarivalan is among the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case whose release have been recommended by the Tamil Nadu government. However, Governor Banwarilal Purohit has shifted the responsibility of deciding on the issue to the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajiv-gandhi-case-convict-perarivalan-should-be-given-parole-vck-mp-d-ravikumar-984083.html
09-05-2021||South||TV journalist Vipin Chandh dies of Covid-19||Television journalist Vipin Chandh, the chief reporter of Mathrubhumi News here, died of Covid-19 related complications in the city early on Sunday, his family said. He was 42 and is survived by his wife and child. Chandh, who was very active in reporting even during the second wave of the pandemic, had tested positive for the virus two weeks ago and was in home quarantine. Later, he was admitted to a private hospital in the neighbourhood. When his condition deteriorated after an attack of pneumonia, he was shifted to a better medical facility in Kochi, where he died at 2 am on Sunday. A native of Alangad in Ernakulam district, Chandh began his journalism career in 2005. He joined Mathrubhumi News in 2012. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala condoled the demise of Chandh. "This is a sad loss to Malayalam journalism. My heartfelt condolence to the bereaved family", Khan tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tv-journalist-vipin-chandh-dies-of-covid-19-984131.html
09-05-2021||South||Ensure proper usage of oxygen, Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin tells ministers, officials||In the first Cabinet meeting, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday took six key decisions, including ensuring proper usage of oxygen supply and avoiding its wastage, enforcing the 14-day lockdown, and creating awareness among people to get vaccinated. At the meeting attended by all 34 members of the Cabinet, Stalin said enforcing the lockdown properly was key in controlling the cases and reducing the death rate in the state. In this regard, the chief minister asked ministers to ensure that the lockdown is enforced completely in the districts that they are in-charge of. As the state continues to report a record number of fresh cases every day, the chief minister told officials to ensure that oxygen is provided to patients and that there is no wastage. Also, Stalin asked ministers and officials to ensure that patients who are admitted to government hospitals are taken good care of, and attend to their complaints, if any. “Sale of Remdesivir has now been extended to four other cities and the government is also selling them to patients who are getting treated at private hospitals. While keeping an eye on the sales, officials should ensure that the drug is not sold in the black market,” Stalin told the Cabinet meeting. The chief minister also said enough efforts should be taken to create awareness among the people on getting vaccinated. The state has vaccinated just about 65 lakh people in the past four months, one of the lowest in the country. He also asked ministers to hold review meetings periodically by coordinating all departments that are involved in Covid-19 containment efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ensure-proper-usage-of-oxygen-tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-tells-ministers-officials-984156.html
09-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu constitutes Covid-19 War Room; appoints 8 officers||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a War Room that will function as a single nodal point for Covid-19 containment efforts like requirement of oxygen, bed availability in both private and government medical facilities, and monitoring requests for admissions or support to critically-ill patients. The War Room which will function as the Unified Command Centre (UCC) will be headed by senior bureaucrat Dr Darez Ahmed, while K Nanthakumar IAS will be the nodal officer for state oxygen monitoring and emergency response. Six more officers have also been appointed to oversee several activities related to Covid-19 prevention/controlling efforts. The constitution of the Covid-19 War Room is one of the first decisions of new Chief Minister M K Stalin even before he assumed office. Officials said the Command Centre has been established to help manage the Covid-19 crisis by creating situational awareness of the most urgent issues in the Covid-19 crisis such as bed and oxygen availability in Tamil Nadu and directing the public on the same. “The Unified Command Centre will monitor the Government of Tamil Nadu's bed management portal to understand the dynamic vacancy status and support the general public who are in need of appropriate Covid beds. The Command Centre will liaison with line departments, Industries department & GCC PWD, to increase the bed availability in the State,” an order issued by Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu dated May 8, 2021, said. The UCC can act and ensure that all treating hospitals (government & private) should admit and resuscitate 'Code Red' patients on a priority basis referred by UCC, the order said, adding that the UCC through field inspections teams will also monitor both government and private health facilities. Tamil Nadu has over 1.39 lakh active cases with the state adding over 25,000 fresh positive cases a day. With several patients now requiring oxygen support, the state's oxygen requirement has also gone up. After the state's request, the Centre has allotted 419 MT oxygen to Tamil Nadu. The Unified Command Centre will provide support in increasing the Covid-19 bed capacity and ensuring the availability of oxygen in both the government and private hospitals, new Health Minister Ma Subramanian said on Saturday that the state will add another 12,000-plus oxygen beds in the next few days. Enhancing response capabilities of 108, 104 and 102 and also social media handles of 104 and field inspection of all empanelled (under CMCHIS) and non-empanelled private medical colleges and hospitals in and around Chennai, major medical colleges and other dedicated Covid hospitals in and around Chennai are some of the other activities the UCC will oversee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-constitutes-covid-19-war-room-appoints-8-officers-984180.html
09-05-2021||South||Shanmugasundaram appointed Advocate-General of Tamil Nadu||Senior advocate and former Rajya Sabha MP R Shanmugasundaram was on Sunday appointed as the Advocate-General of Tamil Nadu, two days after the DMK Government led by Chief Minister M K Stalin assumed office. Shanmugasundaram will take over as the Advocate-General on Monday, and is likely to begin his work immediately. His appointment comes days after Vijay Narayan resigned as Advocate-General after the defeat of the AIADMK government in the April 6 elections, results of which were announced on May 2. In 1995, Shanmugasundaram escaped a murderous attack on him by alleged AIADMK men when he was preparing to file a complaint against the then Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. The senior lawyer was Rajya Sabha MP from 2002 to 2008.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shanmugasundaram-appointed-advocate-general-of-tamil-nadu-984184.html
09-05-2021||South||Senior bureaucrat Gagandeep Singh Bedi takes charge of Chennai Corporation||As Chennai grapples with over 30,000 active Covid-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday brought in a senior bureaucrat who handled relief operations in Cuddalore district after the 2004 tsunami as Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to take charge of Covid-19 controlling measures. Gagandeep Singh Bedi, the 1993-batch IAS officer, will be the new Commissioner, replacing G Prakash, who came under criticism for “poor handling” of the Covid-19 efforts in Chennai last year. Bedi is one of the top officers in the bureaucracy and appointing him as the Commissioner of GCC, a relatively low-weight post when compared to his seniority is aimed at controlling the Covid-19 spread in the city. Chennai has been adding at least 6,000 fresh cases to its tally every day, and sources in the government said, an efficient administrator was needed to spearhead the efforts. Bedi, who was Agriculture Secretary, will continue to retain his rank, Principal Secretary, in his new assignment. Bedi shot to limelight in 2004 after he spearheaded the relief work post-Tsunami in Cuddalore district as Collector. He was made in charge of Covid-19 containment efforts in Cuddalore last year. When cases increased in 2020, the government brought in J Radhakrishnan as a special officer for Chennai. He is now the Health Secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-bureaucrat-gagandeep-singh-bedi-takes-charge-of-chennai-corporation-984195.html
09-05-2021||South||Kerala hospitals to focus on Covid-19 and emergency care till May 31||Kerala is strengthening its Covid-19 care facilities by converting fever clinics at all government hospitals to Covid-19 clinics as the surge in the state remains unabated. While 35,801 more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, the test positivity rate remained high at 28.88 per cent. Almost all hospitals, including private ones, were witnessing bed scarcity. All hospitals were also directed to focus on Covid-19 cases and other emergency cases only till May 31. Steps to ensure the maximum possible number of oxygen beds at taluk hospitals was also being initiated. Meanwhile, despite the lockdown around one lakh persons had applied for emergency travel passes in the state within hours after the online pass facility was opened. Police sources said that passes would be issued only for genuine cases. Already the police and health authorities have raised concerns over certain relaxations in the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hospitals-to-focus-on-covid-19-and-emergency-care-till-may-31-984200.html
09-05-2021||South||Puducherry CM N Rangasamy tests positive for Covid-19; to be treated in Chennai||Puducherry Chief Minister N Rangasamy on Sunday tested positive for coronavirus. A spokesman of the Health Department here told PTI that Rangasamy underwent an examination at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital here Sunday and tested positive for the virus. The spokesman said that Rangasamy was stable and had preferred to get treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. He left for Chennai in the evening. Rangasamy assumed office as the Chief Minister on Friday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-n-rangasamy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-to-be-treated-in-chennai-984272.html
09-05-2021||State||Former minister K B Shanappa dies due to Covid-19||Former minister and Rajya Sabha member K B Shanappa (79) succumbed to Covid-19 at GIMS hospital in Kalaburagi on Sunday. He was admitted to the hospital after contracting the virus but breathed his last after failing to respond to treatment. He is survived by his wife, two sons and three daughters. Hailing from Ravoor village in Chittapur taluk of the district, Shanappa was an influential Dalit leader in Kalaburagi. The deceased who was a labour leader of the ACC Cement factory in Wadi made it to Assembly twice on CPI from then Shahabad Assembly Constituency. He was excise minister in late J H Patel's cabinet. Shanappa who joined the BJP later was made a Rajya Sabha member and nominated to the state Legislative Council. He joined the Congress in 2018 ahead of the Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-minister-k-b-shanappa-dies-due-to-covid-19-984176.html
09-05-2021||State||Sudden closure of procurement centres in Ballari, Raichur leaves paddy growers in lurch||The state government’s decision to close down the procurement centres has left the paddy growers of the undivided Ballari and Raichur districts high and dry. The region comprising Ballari, Raichur and Koppal districts is the leading producer of rice in the state. This season, the farmers of the undivided Ballari have raised paddy in 1.34 lakh acres while it is 2.30 lakh acres in Raichur. Over 82,000 acres were brought under paddy cultivation in Koppal. Even if the average yield of 25 quintals per acre is considered, the net value of yield would amount to more than Rs 2,000 crore. The pandemic-hit farmers were expecting good profits this season after having lost the crop to bacterial blight and floods last year. But the sudden closure of the procurement centres on May 5 came as a shocker to hapless growers, who cannot even take their paddy to other states or local markets due to Covid-induced curbs. The growers had lost 40% of paddy to bacterial blight in the last kharif season. Also, this time they could salvage only 70% of the yield due to improper release of water. As if this was not enough, the government has now stopped procurement, J Karthik, general secretary, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene, told DH. The state government has announced a minimum support price of Rs 1,886 per quintal. With the closure of procurement centres, the middlemen are quoting Rs 1,400 per quintal. Millers are not showing any interest to buy paddy from farmers. The paddy growers in the region are helpless, he lamented. The state government should take a cue from its Telangana counterpart, which has set aside Rs 32,000 crore to procure agri and horticulture produce at MSP, and come to the rescue of the farmers, the Raitha Sangha leader demanded. When contacted, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti said, “There is no money with the state government. The procurement centres are closed due to pandemic. The centres will be opened once the situation becomes normal.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sudden-closure-of-procurement-centres-in-ballari-raichur-leaves-paddy-growers-in-lurch-984223.html
09-05-2021||State||Kerala temple puts on hold Chikkaballapur man's Rs 526-crore donation||The Cochin Devaswom Board in Kerala has put on hold a Rs 526-crore donation from a man in Karnataka's Chikkaballapur to the famed Chottanikkara Bhagavathy Temple in the suburbs of Kochi, owing to suspicions over his credentials. A petition filed by the Devaswom Board with the Devaswom bench of the Kerala High Court seeking approval to accept the offer from Chikkaballapur native Gana Shravan was withdrawn as Shravan failed to submit details about the source of the funds. Devaswom Board president V Nandakumar told DH that since Shravan did not submit details about the source, the petition was withdrawn. If he decides to submit the information, it would be taken forward. Since there were certain allegations about his credibility, the matter would be dealt with cautiously so to avoid a misuse of the temple’s name, he said. Meanwhile, Shravan said that he had already submitted the details to the HC bench and the court would take further steps after the summer vacation. He said he could not divulge the fund details as it was confidential.  The temple authorities said Shravan, who used to visit the temple every month, was not coming after doubts were raised over his credibility. But Shravan said that he was not visiting the temple these days due to Covid. According to Shravan, he was involved mainly in the trade of gold, diamond and rare metals and is the director of SwaamyG companies. He said that funds are brought from abroad through a company registered here about a year back, named Munnangi Infrastructure Private Limited. Prosperity in business after regularly visiting the temple was stated to be the reason for making the huge donation. Apart from renovation of the temple, he also offered schemes for developing the entire region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kerala-temple-puts-on-hold-chikkaballapur-mans-rs-526-crore-donation-984235.html
09-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru to begin Covid-19 vaccination for 18-44 years age group from May 10||After launching the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18 to 44-years group ‘symbolically’ a few days ago, the state government on Sunday announced that the vaccination of the 18 to 44 age group will begin from Monday in Bengaluru. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted about the commencement of vaccination in various government-run hospitals of Bengaluru.  The minister in his tweet said, “Covid-19 vaccination will be provided for citizens aged between 18 to 44 years at KC General Hospital, Jayanagar General Hospital, Sir CV Raman General Hospital, Government Medical Colleges, ESI Hospitals and NIMHANS from Monday, May 10.” ಸೋಮವಾರ, ಮೇ 10ರಿಂದ ಬೆಂಗಳೂರಿನ ಕೆ.ಸಿ.ಜನರಲ್, ಜಯನಗರ ಜನರಲ್, ಸರ್ ಸಿ.ವಿ.ರಾಮನ್ ಜನರಲ್, ಇಎಸ್ಐ ಮತ್ತು ನಿಮ್ಹಾನ್ಸ್ ಆಸ್ಪತ್ರೆಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಸರ್ಕಾರಿ ವೈದ್ಯಕೀಯ ಕಾಲೇಜುಗಳಲ್ಲಿ 18-44 ವರ್ಷ ವಯೋಮಾನದವರಿಗೆ ಕೋವಿಡ್-19 ಲಸಿಕೆ ವಿತರಿಸಲಾಗುವುದು. 1/4 The minister further said, “In other districts, initially vaccination will be provided at district hospitals, government medical colleges and Taluka Hospitals. The number of vaccination centres will be increased as and when more vaccines will become available.”  Clarifying that no walk-ins will be allowed at any vaccination centres, Dr Sudhakar said, “Vaccination will be provided to only those who have registered and scheduled an appointment on Co-win portal. All centres will have an exclusive session site earmarked for them.”   The minister specifically appealed to the youngsters to wait for their turn and the government will ensure that they will get their jab.  On Saturday, Karnataka received 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield as part of its two crore doses order. So far, the centre has supplied 1,10,49,470 doses including 99,58,190 doses of Covishield and 10,91,280 doses of Covaxin to Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-to-begin-covid-19-vaccination-for-18-44-years-age-group-from-may-10-984090.html
09-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka continues to see surge in infections with 47,930 new Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 numbers picked up slightly on Sunday as the state disclosed 47,930 new cases. This was 367 more than the numbers announced on Saturday. Bengaluru Urban alone contributed about 44 per cent of the share of new cases as 20,897 cases had been found in the city on Sunday. These numbers have largely been on par with daily case numbers being found in the city since May 2. Although 31,796 patients were discharged on Sunday, the state’s active caseload refused to decline. Sunday’s figures increased the active caseload to 5,64,485 cases, which is 15,644 cases higher than that of Saturday’s. As many as nine districts, apart from Bengaluru Urban, have recorded fresh infections in four figures. Hassan continued to see a surge in cases with 2,349 in the last 24 hours. Two worst-hit districts in the second wave - Ballari and Tumakuru registered 2,000-plus cases. Mandya saw 1,959 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Officials also disclosed 490 new Covid-19 deaths. Some 116 of these fatalities are reconciled into the government’s mortality database and hark back to April. A further 337 are people who died in previous days in May. Only 35 of the fatalities disclosed on Sunday had died in the day. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 281 new fatalities while seven other districts witnessed Covid-19 deaths in double figures. 9-yr-old girl succumbs The youngest victim was a 12-year-old girl, who died on May 7, within 24 hours of being diagnosed with the disease. She had no known comorbidities but had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). In fact, 161 of the new fatalities had no recorded comorbidities, as per the state’s data. High positivity rate With the state having conducted 1.46 lakh tests over a 24-hour period from Saturday to Sunday, the test positivity rate stood at 32.72 per cent. Meantime, in Bengaluru Urban, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said it had conducted 51,772 tests over a similar period. However, the city’s test positivity rate is even higher at 38.86 per cent. Ideally, as per the WHO, it needs to be less than 5 per cent. According to the health bulletin, 2,349 cases were reported in Hassan, 2,001 in Tumakuru, 1,959 in Mandya, 1,854 in Mysuru, 1,694 in Dakshina Kannada, 1,315 in Bagalkote, 1,066 in Bengaluru Rural and 1,062 in Kalaburagi. Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Dharwad, Kodagu, Raichur, Ramanagara, Shivamogga, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir were among the districts with over 500 cases. The department said 17 deaths each took place in Tumakuru and Shivamogga, 15 in Chamarajanagar, 13 each in Mysuru and Ramanagara, 12 in Kalaburagi, 9 each in Uttara Kannada and Mandya, 8 each in Hassan and Haveri. Deaths were reported in 16 other districts as well. As many as 1,46,491 tests were carried out on Sunday including 1,36,663 using the RT PCR and other methods taking the total tests done so far to 2.70 crore, the department added. As of Sunday, 1.52 lakh inoculations were done in the state comprising first and second dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-continues-to-see-surge-in-infections-with-47930-new-covid-19-cases-984205.html
09-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rising black fungus cases among Covid-19 patients in Karnataka raises alarm||For 38-year-old Vishwanath (name changed), an autorickshaw driver in the city, surviving Covid-19 should have been cause for celebration. But even before he was discharged, he started to feel an unusual pain in his face and a swelling of his eye. Doctors now say that he has developed a life-threatening fungal infection called mucormycosis (black fungus) which, if untreated, results in blindness followed by death. Diabetics at risk Similar infections had been reported during the first wave last year, But for two weeks now, such cases are being found in larger numbers among Covid-19 survivors with uncontrolled diabetes, they added.  There is concern that the surge of such cases could be the result of the new mutant B.1.617 variant of the novel coronavirus. Dr V Ravi, eminent virologist and member of the State’s Technical Advisory Committee, acknowledged that this variant is “spreading fast” in Karnataka. “It is not that mucormycosis did not exist before Covid-19. Previously, I used to see one or two cases per year. In the last three weeks, I have seen 38 cases,” said Dr Deepak Haldipur, a senior ENT surgeon at Trust Well Hospital. He stressed that the cases have been restricted to patients with uncontrolled diabetes. Vishwanath’s 16-year-old daughter, Aditi, told DH that in her father’s case, the mucormycosis had developed while he was still being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital. “On the day of his discharge we noticed that his right eye was swollen, but we thought it was an insect bite. A checkup one week later found that it was due to the fungal infection,” she said. She added that the family is now struggling to secure affordable treatment. That the infection appeared while patients are still under Covid care is something new, pointed out Dr Anoop Amarnath, a member of the State’s Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU). “Previously, this infection would roughly be seen 10 days after the patient was discharged. Now, we are seeing it in the active phase of Covid-19,” he said. Water infection Such trends have left the medical profession grappling to find the cause. One senior government official told DH that the infections are due to the poor quality of water used in humidified oxygen. “It is much like the fungus which develops on bread due to moisture, if kept for a long time,” the official said. Dr Amarnath added that “a higher than normal ferritin level and a new strain of the novel coronavirus” could also potentially be responsible. It is suspected that the mutant B.1.617 of the novel coronavirus is the culprit. As per government data, the first disclosure of B.1.617 cases in Karnataka was on April 27 - roughly at about the same time that the mucormycosis cases started to increase. “This mutant virus is not behaving like the previous virus variants. We are also realising that this novel coronavirus is doing something to the sinus immunity, which is also part of the breathing system,” Dr Haldipur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rising-black-fungus-cases-among-covid-19-patients-in-karnataka-raises-alarm-984224.html
09-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Additional Drug Controllers involved in illegal Remdesvir sale in Karnataka: Ramalinga Reddy||Congress working president Ramalinga Reddy has alleged the involvement of Assistant Drug Controllers (ADCs) in the illegal trade of Remdesivir in the state. He has urged Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar to initiate strict action against such officials. "The ADCs who are supposed to monitor safe and secure procurement of this injection are themselves selling it to middlemen and making money. "There is a nexus between the drug controller and these middlemen (involved in the sale of Remdesivir)," he said in a letter. While the retail price of the drug ranged from Rs 900-Rs 4,000 per vial in the market, it was being sold at Rs 25,000-Rs 30,000 illegally, Reddy alleged. The government should take strict action against such officials and middlemen and ensure that essential medicines are easily available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/additional-drug-controllers-involved-in-illegal-remdesvir-sale-in-karnataka-ramalinga-reddy-984228.html
09-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision to restrict vehicular movement during Karnataka lockdown 'thoughtless': Siddaramaiah||Prohibiting private vehicles from plying while allowing essential commodity shops to open is a "thoughtless decision" of the government during the lockdown, Congress leader Siddaramaiah has said. Asking the government to make rules after considering all factors, the former chief minister said that people in rural areas will have to walk back home after buying groceries in the market. "How can senior citizens and others walk with goods in hands?" he said. His remarks came ahead of the statewide lockdown, which will be in place from May 10 to May 24. "More than the pandemic, people are suffering due to the diseased administration of BJP. Lockdown guidelines are very confusing," he said. It will not be a surprise if people from rural areas start large-scale protests. In a letter, Siddaramaiah advised the government to streamline Covid-19 management to reduce the hardships faced by patients in getting the required facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-to-restrict-vehicular-movement-during-karnataka-lockdown-thoughtless-siddaramaiah-984229.html
09-05-2021||West||IMA questions unavailability of medicines, oxygen amid Covid-19 crisis||At a time when India is reeling under severe shortage of medicines and medical oxygen to treat patients of Covid-19, the Maharashtra chapter of the IMA has asked the administration to make available everything needed for treatment. “While the supply of necessary drugs like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and medical Oxygen is extremely deficient, how are hospitals or doctors are supposed to procure it? The deficient supply should not be masked by putting the onus of procurement on doctors and hospitals. This is unacceptable,” IMA-Maharashtra president Dr Ramkrishna Londhe and honorary state secretary Dr Pankaj Bandarkar said. The professional body of doctors also called upon the government to put an end to the unethical trade of drugs and oxygen. “It is the duty of our doctors to give the best treatment to patients and we are doing that. It is the duty of the administration to make available all the necessary requirements for proper treatment of the patients. "Unfortunately the concerned authorities have not made adequate arrangements to make the supply of drugs and oxygen adequate and seamless and the onus of procuring the same is put on the shoulders of the medical practitioner which is unacceptable and if continued would make it difficult for doctors and hospitals across the state, especially in small towns and villages, to continue catering to Covid patients,” said IMA-Maharashtra president-elect Dr Suhas Pingle. “The IMA is fighting this war for people. But severe scarcity of the necessary injections like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and medical oxygen is creating havoc. Hospitals and doctors are feeling helpless. While doctors are responsibly delivering righteous healthcare against every odd, we are not receiving the responsible backbone support from the administration. Lack of proactive arrangements of the necessary drugs, oxygen is causing problems,” the IMA-Maharashtra said in a statement. “Doctors are struggling day and night to save lives in this pandemic. It is highly unfortunate that the same doctors have to witness the death of their patients and their own colleagues for the lack of oxygen and medications; thereby causing tremendous stress on their psychological well being.   "IMA with its all doctors is fighting this war for people & should fight against the virus till we win. We assure people about our dedication and devotion for the human cause. IMA values the ethicality and professionalism,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ima-questions-unavailability-of-medicines-oxygen-amid-covid-19-crisis-984067.html
09-05-2021||West||103-year-old man from Maharashtra's Palghar beats Covid-19||A 103-year-old man from Palghar in Maharashtra has recovered from Covid-19 despite being in the vulnerable age group, officials said on Sunday. Shamrao Ingle, a native of the Virendra Nagar area here, was admitted to a rural Covid-19 hospital in Palghar after he contracted the infection. He was discharged on Saturday after recovering from the disease, a spokesperson of the district collectorate said in a release. According to doctors at the hospital, the elderly man responded well to the medical treatment provided to him and co-operated with the staff at the facility. He walked out of the hospital with a smile on Saturday. Palghar Collector Dr Manik Gursal and the hospital staff greeted the centenarian with flowers at the time of his discharge. The district has so far reported a total of 95,682 Covid-19 cases and 1,715 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/103-year-old-man-from-maharashtras-palghar-beats-covid-19-984070.html
09-05-2021||West||'Masala King' Dhananjay Datar honours Corona warriors with Alphonso mangoes from Konkan||Corona warriors from the Pune city, who are engaged in performing last rites, were in for a delicious, sweet and aromatic surprise! Businessman Dhananjay Datar, CMD, Al Adil Group, UAE, popularly known as 'Masala King', added sweetness to the life of these volunteers, sent 150 boxes of Alphonso mangoes procured directly from Konkan. The boxes were gifted at the hands of  Dhanashree Patil, President, Swadesh Sewa Foundation and also the coordinator for this initiative. The volunteers- who are helping to perform the last rites of the deceased bodies in Pune and surrounding areas- are mainly from 4 groups: namely Mulniwasi Muslim Manch, Kailas Smashan Bhumi Kamgar Gat, Ummat organisation and Swarupvardini Gat at Vaikunth cemetery. Patil, who felt the need to bring their great work before society and also to honour their services, approached Dr. Datar from Dubai. Datar, a well-known philanthropist heartily responded to her appeal. As it was not possible for him to travel to Pune during the current pandemic, he procured Alphonso mango boxes from Konkan and sent them to Pune, which were later handed over to the volunteers by Patil herself with the help of Sabir Sheikh from Mulniwasi Muslim Manch, Lalit Jadhav from Kailas Smshanbhumi Kamgar Gat, Javed Khan from Ummat and Avinash Dhayarkar from Swarupvardhini Sangh. Patil said: “Last year when thousands of penniless and jobless Indian workers were stranded in UAE due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdown, Dr. Datar whole-heartedly helped to evacuate them safely to India. This time also he reciprocated promptly to honour the Corona Warriors from Pune and made the initiative a success. “I felt the need to bring the contribution of these volunteers before society as they are relentlessly engaged in performing last rites on the Covid deceased bodies without expecting any remuneration. They are a group of Hindu and Muslim volunteers who treat this work as a mission and perform last rites on every dead body adhering to that person’s religious rituals, may it be a burial or a cremation.” Lalit Jadhav from Kailas Smashanbhumi Kamgar Gat, said, ‘We have been engaged in this work day and night, but the current wave of the pandemic is so harsh that the number of dead bodies coming every day in various cemeteries is on a rise. As a result, we are also under tremendous pressure like never before. We follow all health and safety norms like wearing a PPE kit all the time and washing hands frequently with a sanitiser. Besides we have to bury or cremate the bodies without delay.” The volunteers from the Ummat organisation perform last rites not only in Pune city but in surrounding villages also. “Muslim volunteers fast during the holy month of Ramadan which teaches humanity and charity. Without caring for hunger, thirst or hard work these warriors travel to places wherever their service is needed,” Javed Sheikh said. “I haven’t done anything special but just added some sweetness to the life of these volunteers,” said Dr Datar in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/masala-king-dhananjay-datar-honours-corona-warriors-with-alphonso-mangoes-from-konkan-984073.html
09-05-2021||West||NIA takes over probe into seizure of natural uranium worth over Rs 21 crore in Mumbai||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the sensitive probe involving the arrest of two persons with 7.1 kgs of natural uranium valued at Rs 21.30 crore. After prolonged investigations between February-May, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has made the breakthrough. The accused were identified as Jigar Jayesh Pandya (27), resident of Thane and Abu Tahir Afzal Hussain Choudhary (31), a resident of Mankhurd. The Bhabha Atomic Research Centre has confirmed that the material seized was natural uranium. The NIA has re-registered the case, initially lodged at ATS Kalachowki police station, on Sunday in pursuance of an order of the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-takes-over-probe-into-seizure-of-natural-uranium-worth-over-rs-21-crore-in-mumbai-984154.html
09-05-2021||West||Nashik city to have online details on crematoriums||At a time when long queues are being witnessed outside crematoriums in wake of Covid-19 deaths, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has launched an online portal to help people find a closer location and a time slot. The portal – www.cremation.nmc.gov.in has now gone live. It is something that municipal bodies across the country can replicate. “People would be able to choose the desired time and slot after checking the availability. Also, it would give details of the nearest crematorium,” NMC officials said. “It’s a user-friendly software,” the official added, adding that it has been launched to ensure that people do not face hassles.  Once the slot is booked, they will receive messages on their mobile phone – and can download the receipt. The Nashik city has 17 crematoriums and 70 pyres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nashik-city-to-have-online-details-on-crematoriums-984165.html
09-05-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray launches Majha Doctor campaign||As coronavirus spread in India snowballs into the biggest-ever national crisis, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday launched the ‘Majha Doctor’ (My Doctor) initiative involving the family doctors in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Over the last one year, Thackeray has launched several campaigns in the worst-affected state, like – ‘War Against Virus’, ‘Chase the Virus’, 4-Ts - 4Ts strategy – ‘Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating’ in hotspots, ‘‘Majha Kutumb, Majhi Javabadari’ (My Family, My Responsibility), ‘Me Jawabdar’ (I Am Responsible), Mission Oxygen and now ‘Majha Doctor’ (My Doctor). ''Family doctors play an important role. If they guide the patients at the initial stage it will be helpful to curb the virus spread,” said Thackeray, the Shiv Sena President, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “Family doctors can identify symptoms and check whether the patient is asymptomatic or needs hospitalisation. Family doctors should focus on patients in home isolation take a call so that they can be shifted to hospitals on time if required,” he said, adding that family doctors can give tremendous mental support to patients. “If the doctors keep a check on the treatment of patients in home isolation and update ward officers regularly, the civic body can make treatment management of patients in a proper way,'' Thackeray said in a virtual online meeting with 700-plus doctors from different parts of the state. The chief minister appealed to private doctors to register themselves in the Covid Care Centres and Jumbo Field Hospitals in their localities and visit the places for consultations. “There is a necessity to have uniformity in the treatment protocol,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-launches-majha-doctor-campaign-984186.html
09-05-2021||West||Exotic South American Apple Snail discovered in Mumbai||An international team of wildlife biologists based out of Mumbai, Karnataka and Scotland, in the UK, discovered a breeding population of the exotic South American Apple Snail, Pomacea diffusa, in the waters of Mumbai. Popularly known as Spike-topped Apple Snail, its discovery was part of their ongoing research on urban wildlife and the ecology of introduced species in the Mumbai region. The landmark study is funded by Scotland-based conservation organisation ‘Caledonian Conservation Limited.’ The discovery was published in the October-December 2020 issue of 'ELA Journal of Forestry and Wildlife', a peer reviewed science journal, which is also the official journal of Maharashtra State Forest Department. The study team was steered by the principal author and lead researcher, Javed Ahmed, in collaboration with Scotland-based wildlife biologist Chris Cathrine; Moodbidri-based environmentalist and surgeon, Dr Krishna Mohan; naturalist, arachnologist and landrace dog expert, Rajashree Khalap and wildlife photographer and researcher, Bhushan Jadhav. Javed Ahmed, along with his colleagues, Dr Krishna Mohan and Rajashree Khalap, had earlier discovered many new species of spiders in the country. “Prevalence of Spike-topped Apple Snails in Mumbai and other parts of India is a direct result of the aquarium trade, either as accidental or deliberate releases from home aquaria. However, compared to other snails in the genus Pomacea, which are native to South America, they are not dangerously invasive and are generally considered harmless,” informed Dr Krishna Mohan, who co-authored the paper.   The discovery of this foreign species of snail raises many issues of concern to native ecology. Though Spike-topped Apple Snails are considered harmless, the same is not true for other species which are known to proliferate through the aquarium trade. “Other species of apple snails in the genus Pomacea also make their way into aquarium trade. One such species, Pomacea caniculata, popularly known as Channeled Apple Snail, is particularly troublesome as it has a voracious appetite for aquatic vegetation. If established locally, Channeled Apple Snails can wreak havoc on riceland ecosystems. They also prey on amphibian eggs and can greatly damage native aquatic ecosystems,” Javed Ahmed said. Dr Krishna Mohan said: “Though the Channeled Apple Snail is yet to show up in our waterways, the discovery of Spike-topped Apple Snails does highlight the important concern to regulate global aquarium trade and promote responsible aquarium culture. The aquarium trade in India needs to be closely monitored and wisely regulated to prevent any future potential ecological disasters due to the introduction of dangerously invasive species. Those who keep aquariums should be responsible," Dr Krishna Mohan said. “Be a responsible hobbyist. Ensure that fish, plants and aquatic invertebrates are bred, legally and ethically sourced. Always strive to emulate natural conditions. Do not sell, acquire or keep endangered or protected species and do not release exotic fish, plants, and invertebrates in local water bodies,” he appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/exotic-south-american-apple-snail-discovered-in-mumbai-984261.html
