10-05-2021||Comment||India's vaccine debacle||The world’s second-largest market for vaccines is India. The world’s largest vaccine producer is in India. This should be a simple case of, ‘ergo, problem solved!’ But we have turned this on its head. It is clear that we don’t have enough vaccines. Citizens stand in long lines for vaccination, and crowding is common. Many will have to take their chances another day because vaccines run out. All this in the midst of a deadly second wave that has caused nationwide havoc. Even if we take the missteps that led us to the misery of the second wave in our stride, the missteps on the vaccines are a new order of failure. The planning, pricing and actual rollout are nothing short of a callous and culpable act for which the ordinary people of India will pay a terrible price—in money spent, in lives lost, and in terms of signalling the pharma giants of the world that India has become a place to make money even in the midst of untold misery. Barely four years ago, the Government of India under Narendra Modi cut prices of stents by as much as 80% in some cases and stood up to strong lobbies of stent manufacturers and traders. Prices were force-dropped with the intention of making advanced cardiac care affordable to a wide section of people. Why then would such a government allow the Serum Institute of India, which makes the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine called ‘Covishield’, a juicy deal on a direly-needed vaccine in the midst of a crisis? What is the secret behind this pact that will generate Rs 60,000 crore in revenue, if one is to count just 50 crore people (roughly 40% of Indians) taking two doses each at Rs 600 per dose in the private sector alone? Would this not be a case of usurious profits when even at Rs 150 a shot charged to the Union government, the company admittedly made money? Similar questions can be asked of the other Indian vaccine manufacturer, the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International, the manufacturer of the indigenous vaccine named ‘Covaxin’. Further, what is the difference between the Union government and the state governments in so far as vaccination for citizens is concerned, with the former paying Rs 150 but the latter being charged a higher price of Rs 400 per dose? After a hue and cry, this price then was reduced to Rs 300 per dose for the states, a drop of 25% “as a philanthropic gesture” that “will…save countless lives,” as the CEO of the Serum Institute of India Adar Poonawalla put it. Isn’t that an admission in some sense that vaccine manufacturers have been allowed to profiteer in so blatant a manner that philanthropy is being invoked to save lives? Bharat Biotech followed suit, reducing the price of its vaccine to the states from Rs 600 to Rs 400 a dose. Both vaccine manufacturing companies are private sector entities entitled to their profits. They are at the forefront of the war against Covid-19. A pandemic response demands that vaccination coverage be universal and free. With numbers of doses known, orders could have been placed in advance. But the government did none of this. In the initial days, it paid almost nothing to the companies to support or ramp up production. It has instead now set the stage for public-private sector mismatches that will occur in a differential pricing system. Expect the free vaccine stations to dry up soon. The Central government, under normal circumstances, must advise states to pay no more than it is paying, and negotiate with the suppliers for a bulk order with the Centre-state cost-sharing to be decided as policy. Is it at all possible for a state authority to pay more for any set of goods and services that are bought in bulk at a price negotiated by the Centre, that too in an emergency? Raises questions The sudden departure of Adar Poonawalla for Britain at the beginning of the month raises questions. There is likely more here than we know. It is a mirror to the nature of the dealings, and to the hubris, callousness and dressing-up that has been the hallmark of the government’s response to the pandemic. Consider that on April 19, the prime minister announced a “liberalised and accelerated phase 3 strategy” of vaccination effective May 1 that brought in a public-private and states-Centre distinction in vaccination policy and rollouts. Within two days, on April 21, Serum Institute announced differential pricing for states and the private sector, keeping silent on prices for the Centre. On April 22, Dr Krishna M Ella, the founder-Chairman and MD of Bharat Biotech reportedly said that he would “like to get the maximum price… to recover all costs…” Poonawalla is known for his high-flying ways. Dr Ella is known for his simple living. Both have now begun talking the language of profits. This is quite a change from the vision of the founder of Serum Institute, Dr Cyrus Poonawalla, the current CEO’s father, who has often stressed on affordability.Worse, the current pricing games are about a vaccine that has not yet been fully licensed, and is only approved for “restricted use”. Because of this, these vaccines technically cannot be sold, at least not yet. It may be futile to look to the vaccine-makers for answers when the government of the day is mired in games and projections, not facts and solutions. It would have been possible to stand tall and write a story of grit and growth; to be affordable and profitable. If the vaccine-makers insisted on higher prices, compulsory licensing could have been invoked. We could have said when the time came, we stood together and tall. Alas, we were all pulled down. (Rattanani is a journalist and faculty member at SPJIMR. Dr John is a retired Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC Vellore, and past President of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics)(The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/indias-vaccine-debacle-984311.html
10-05-2021||First Edit||Interventions by HCs welcome||At a time when the Centre and many state governments were caught napping, totally unprepared to handle the current wave of the pandemic, high courts across the country have emerged as beacons of hope, offering succour to the common man. While the courts might expose themselves to criticism of encroaching into the executive’s domain, they cannot, at the same time, turn a blind eye when the government fails to fulfil its Constitutional obligation of protecting the rights of the citizens. The Gujarat High Court flagged the Vijay Rupani administration for failing to control the pandemic and directed that correct data of test results be released. The Bombay High Court intervened when the Centre cut the supply of oxygen and also passed orders to ensure that essential drugs were available. Taking into the note the growing cases in Goa, the court ordered that nobody could enter the state without a Covid-negative certificate. The Allahabad High Court virtually brought the Yogi Adityanath government to its knees and minced no words when it observed that death of patients due to oxygen shortage amounted to genocide. The Karnataka High Court is giving sleepless nights to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa over the shortage of oxygen and medicines even as it ordered a court inquiry into the Chamarajanagar deaths. The Delhi High Court ordered contempt proceedings against the Centre for failing to comply with its orders. Instances like these are many. The Supreme Court is no less strident, especially after Justice N V Ramana took over as the chief justice, though on many occasions it is forced to strike a balance between high court orders and the Centre’s limitations. The apex court has hauled the Narendra Modi government over the coals for mismanaging the inoculation drive and has asked it to evolve a national vaccination policy that does not discriminate among people. While such interventions by the court are welcome considering how thick-skinned our governments have become, the judiciary should guard against over-activism like ordering lockdowns because the executive, which is in touch with ground realities, is better equipped to take such decisions. The Centre and state governments, excepting a few, have been most inconsiderate and are solely responsible for the situation in which we are, with people left to fend for themselves for beds, oxygen, medicines or vaccinations. This crusade of the judiciary should not end as a momentary flicker, but should continue as a flame providing hope to the people in these uncertain times, and guidance to the government. Politicians and the bureaucracy have failed us miserably and the judiciary is now our last and only hope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/interventions-by-hcs-welcome-984310.html
10-05-2021||In Perspective||Demise of Great Indian Bustards||The Great Indian Bustard (GIB), scientifically called ardeotis nigriceps, appears to be on the verge of extinction, with barely around 110 of these majestic birds left in the entire country. Just 50 years ago, India was home to over 1,000 of them. The GIB, one of the heaviest flying birds of Indian grasslands, is endemic to India, with some occurrence in the bordering areas of Sindh and Cholistan in Pakistan, where it is hunted. Currently, these birds are scattered around in a few fragmented pockets. Rajasthan has the biggest population, while the rest are distributed in Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra. In 1994, GIB was listed as an endangered species on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species. However, the tag could not protect it. Time seems to be running out for the GIB, a bird that is often compared to the ‘flying fortress’ heavy bomber planes of the 1930s and 1940s. “The GIB today survives in large human-dominated landscapes. So, while developing conservation action plans for the GIB, it is necessary to factor in the needs of the traditional farmers and protection of pasture lands so as to ensure co-existence of humans and GIBs. This is not just the responsibility of the government and a few NGOs, but of all 1.3 billion Indians,” says Kedar Gore, Director, the Corbett Foundation, and a Member of IUCN Species Survival Commission, Bustard Specialist Group. “This is perhaps the finest judgement of the Supreme Court for the long-term protection of the GIB, but we must see that the ruling is strictly followed by the power companies and the governments,” says Dr Asad R Rahmani, former director, Bombay Natural History Society and Scientific Adviser to The Corbett Foundation, who has worked on the GIBs for almost three decades. The male GIB is about one-metre (3.3-ft) tall, with a long neck and long legs. The females are considerably smaller. Irrespective of the size, GIB faces several threats. The species normally lays one egg in a year, or sometimes every two years, depending on rainfall and insect abundance. A male bird lives for about 15 years and female for 12 years. The birds reach sexual maturity around 3-4 years of age. This lifecycle itself is a great threat to the bird’s multiplication. Exponential growth in the population of stray or community-owned dogs is a grave threat for GIBs. Dogs disturb them and affect successful breeding. In addition, the GIB faces threats from its natural predators such as wolves, foxes, jackals, jungle cats, monitor lizards, crows, coucals and Egyptian vultures. Much of the bustard habitat in India lies outside the purview of protected areas, and comes under the category of “revenue wasteland”. These areas, especially in the last decade, have seen a boom in the renewable energy sector in India—especially the Thar region of Rajasthan and Kutch region of Gujarat, the last promising abodes of bustards. These birds have low frontal vision and at least 10 of them have officially died because of collision with power lines, including two tagged ones, according to a study by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII). The Supreme Court, in its order, gave a timeline of one year, and ordered that all the future power lines must go underground in the areas identified in the order. Installation of bird-diverters on the power lines is another step suggested by the court. For power lines that cannot go underground due to technical reasons, the installation of bird diverters has been made mandatory. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2013, when he was the chief minister of Gujarat, during his visit to Kutch District, called the bird “a unique gift of nature to the district” and said his government would protect it. Ironically, between the years 2013 to 2021, the population of GIB declined heavily in Kutch. The two documented deaths of GIBs between 2014 and 2018 due to the collision with the overhead power lines were a testimony to the threat these power lines pose to the safety of the critically endangered species. Since 2018, no male GIBs have been traced in Kutch. Researches by the Wildlife Institute of India have shown that nearly 18 GIBs are estimated to be dying every year due to collisions with power lines in Thar, Rajasthan. With most of the surviving GIBs inhabiting Rajasthan’s Thar landscape, the power lines would deal a death knell for the magnificent bird species, if not mitigated quickly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/demise-of-great-indian-bustards-984312.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Siddaramaiah, DKS, HDK should lock their mouths, help govt contain Covid: Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa asked KPCC President D K Shivakumar, Congress Legislature Party Leader Siddaramaiah and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy to lock their mouths till the completion of lockdown and join hands with the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. Speaking to media persons, on Monday, he said Congress leader has urged the government to impose complete lockdown and provide financial aid to workers in the unorganised sector. But where is the money to give? he questioned and said the opposition parties must stop criticising the government. Instead, they must give some useful suggestions to the government.  If they shut their mouths till May 24, the cases of Covid-19 are likely to come down, he taunted. Slamming the opposition leaders, Eshwarappa said they are under the impression that their duty is to criticise the government. but they must remember that this is not the time as people are losing their lives due to Covid-19. Referring to the inconvenience caused by lockdown norms, he said he has received complaints that the vehicles of milk distributors, farmers, workers of drug stores have been seized by police. He would hold a meeting with the deputy commissioner, superintendent of police in the evening on May 10 and take steps to ensure that people are not affected by lockdown. He also exuded confidence that people of the district would extend complete support to the lockdown and join hands with the district administration in containing Covid-19.   He said Seva Bharathi and Covid Suraksha Pade are providing accommodation facility and food to the caretakers of Covid patients in District Mcgann General Hospital in the city. They would be given breakfast, lunch and dinner. The Minister also urged eligible people to utilise it as caretakers are not allowed to enter the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddaramaiah-dks-hdk-should-lock-their-mouths-help-govt-contain-covid-eshwarappa-984434.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Labourers leave Mangaluru by trains fearing lockdown||The 14-day strict lockdown announced by the state government to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19 has prompted north Indian labourers in Mangaluru to return to their native places. Unlike the previous lockdown announced by the Centre during the first wave of Covid-19, the labourers need not walk back home. “With the running of trains for the confirmed tickets, we could easily get back to our native,” said Ghansham from Uttar Pradesh, who was running to catch a train at Mangaluru Central Railway Station on Monday. "I, along with my three friends, were working in Moodbidri. We were on a contract to paint the buildings. After the announcement of lockdown, we felt it is not safe to stay back in the district as we do not know how long the lockdown will continue,” he said. Ramlal, another youth said, “They are saying 14 days now but we really don’t know, so it is better that I return home. At least I can survive in my native by working with my family. I will return once the situation becomes favourable.” Vilaschandra from Bengaluru said, “I was studying in a private college in Moodbidri. Now, the college authorities have asked us to leave for our native. I requested a KSRTC bus that was operating on the route to ferry government officials, to drop me near the railway station, to board a train to Bengaluru.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/labourers-leave-mangaluru-by-trains-fearing-lockdown-984493.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister visits Jubilant Generics||In the wake of an unprecedented demand for Remdesivir, due to the second wave of Covid-19, District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar visited Jubilant Generics in Nanjangud, Mysuru district, on Monday. Somashekar, also Cooperation Minister, held a meeting with vice-president of Jubilant Generics Lakshminarayan and sought his support as Covid cases are increasing in Mysuru and also across Karnataka. He urged the Jubilant management to ramp up production of Remdesivir, until the cases reduce. As related to Mysuru, the minister asked the company to directly supply Rmdesivir to the Mysuru district Aaministration, as per the needs of the patients. District-level officer and also other people’s representatives were present. Lakshminarayan said, “If the Mysuru District Health department writes a letter on the need for Remdesivir, he will try to get the allocation after bringing it to the notice of the management board.” It can be recalled that Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics, was in the news as a Covid-19 cluster in March and April, 2020. It manufactures Active Pharma Ingredient (API) for Remdesivir, launched by Jubilant Life Sciences, under the brand name ‘Jubi-R’. Jubilant Generics, a subsidiary of Jubilant Life Sciences, launched Remdesivir ‘Jubi-R’ for injection at a price of Rs 4,700 per vial of 100 mg (lyophilized injection).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-visits-jubilant-generics-984550.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ch’nagar: Lockdown restrictions to be tightened for four days||In an effort to check the surge of Covid-19 cases and deaths, Chamarajanagar district administration has decided to tighten the norms and announced a four-day total lockdown, effective from this week. Addressing media persons here, on Monday, District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the district will go into total lockdown for four days, from Thursday (May 13) to Sunday (May 16). However, shops selling essentials will be open from 6 am to 10 am on the remaining three days - Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Except hospitals and pharmacies, everything else will be closed on the four days, like total bandh, he said. We have appealed to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to increase oxygenated beds in the district hospital and to provide additional facilities to the hospital, in case of emergencies during the total lockdown.  He also appealed to supply oxygen, on time, from Mysuru to Chamarajanagar, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ch-nagar-lockdown-restrictions-to-be-tightened-for-four-days-984551.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Preparation on to face third wave of Covid: Suttur seer||Suttur seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami said that the religious institution and also its educational and healthcare institutions are preparing to face the third wave of Covid-19. He was speaking to media persons, after holding a meeting with Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on ramping up health infrastructure, to manage the present crisis of the second wave of Covid here, on Monday. “The minister and MP Pratap Simha have assured to provide adequate supply of oxygen to the JSS Hospital of the mutt. Thus, steps would be taken to increase the number of oxygenated beds to 300, in phases,” he said. The pontiff said that the JSS Hospital already has a tank to store 13KL (kilo litre) of liquid oxygen. “A similar capacity tank would be added and talks are on in this regard with the Drug Controller of Gujarat. The authorities of the JSS Medical College have initiated steps to get oxygen concentrators from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu. Steps are on to buy portable oxygen concentrators also,” he said. The minister assured all support to the institutions of the Suttur Mutt in its initiatives to manage the Covid crisis. “I will speak to Union Minister Prahalad Joshi and D V Sadananda Gowda in this regard,” he said. Regarding oxygen supply to the hospitals in Mysuru, he said that he has personally appealed to Deputy CM Dr C N Ashwatha Narayan and also Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar and the quota for the district would be fixed in a couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/preparation-on-to-face-third-wave-of-covid-suttur-seer-984553.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Patients allege irregularities over bed allocation at MIMS||There are allegations over irregularities in allocation of beds for Covid-19 patients at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), in Mandya. While the hospital authorities claim that there is no bed for patients, those with influence get beds, it is alleged. Lack of coordination between the district health officer (DHO) and MIMS director is said to be a reason for the problem. The patients wait for days in front of the hospital, seeking a bed, despite the authorities asking them to make alternative arrangement. There are instances when the staff provide oxygen for those grappling for a breath on the corridors, on humanitarian grounds.  While the waiting patients are denied beds, patients with recommendations easily get beds, irking the people, who pick up a quarrel with the doctors and staff. When asked, the MIMS director points the finger towards the DHO and vice versa. The Health Department officials have failed in admitting the patients to private hospitals under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka (ABRK) scheme. The patients can be admitted to private hospitals, after filling ABRK form and registering the details on the Health department's software. But, the department personnel refuse to register the patient's information, the patients allege. A patient said, "After filling ABRK form, we went to G Madegowda Hospital in Bharati Nagar. But, they returned us saying that the name was not registered. The DHO is not giving any information. The officials are involved in bed-blocking". Meanwhile, MIMS doctors have lodged a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner, alleging that DHO Dr H P Manchegowda has failed in getting the patients admitted to private hospitals. The DHO does not issue notice to the private hospitals which deny admission to Covid patients, they said. Though a 150-bed building, with oxygenated beds, is ready at MIMS, the patients could not be admitted, due to oxygen shortage. Presently, 10 KL oxygen is being supplied to MIMS. An additional 4 KL oxygen is required to open the new ward. Unless, an assurance is given in writing, the new ward cannot be opened, said MIMS director Dr M R Harish.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/patients-allege-irregularities-over-bed-allocation-at-mims-984556.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||40 MT oxygen from Kuwait reaches Mangaluru||INS Kolkata reached New Mangalore Port (NMP) on Monday carrying life-saving 40 MT oxygen from Kuwait. In addition, 200 oxygen cylinders weighing 10 MT and four 10-litre high-flow oxygen concentrators also arrived from Kuwait. The oxygen was loaded on to the Naval vessel and sailed out from Shuwaikh Port in Kuwait on May 5. This is one among the nine vessels under the "Samudra Setu-II" operation launched by Indian Navy. The medical oxygen and medical equipment were donated by the Government of Kuwait to the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) in support of the nation’s health care and to overcome the current pandemic situation in the country. INS Kolkata is the second such vessel carrying medical aid to reach NMP under Samudra Setu-II operation launched by the Indian Navy. "Navy launched operation Samudra Setu-II recently. Indian navy deployed its vessels to Kuwait, Bahrain, and Qatar to get oxygen and other medical aid. It is a matter of great honour that Naval fraternity could contribute in India’s fight against covid-19,” said Rear Admiral Ajay Kochhar, Flag Officer Commanding Western Fleet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/40-mt-oxygen-from-kuwait-reaches-mangaluru-984557.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two-pronged approach to manage Covid in Mysuru||The Mysuru district administration has adopted a two-pronged approach to contain the spread of Covid-19 and also to provide timely treatment for both Covid and non-Covid patients, since last Monday (May 3). The present Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign is also focusing on the new approach. If the initiative becomes a success, it can be a model, that can be replicated in other districts. “While TTT (testing-tracking-treatment) was the mantra in the first wave, immediate triage and treatment, from Day-1 of the onset of symptoms, when patients are relatively healthy and can fight the virus much better, is the solution for the second wave. Triage is sorting out and classification of patients or casualties, to determine priority of need and proper place of treatment. Early identification and prevention of transmission is the focus during triage,” said Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. The DC said, "All government healthcare centres have been transformed into Covid Mitras. Besides, Panchasutra, a set of five principles, is advised for recovery and also to check the spread of Covid." Rohini said, “The effects of Covid in the second wave are too early, compared with the first wave. So, every day, hour and minute is crucial. Waiting to get a test done and waiting for the results eats into the early five to seven days, from the onset of symptoms." "Early intervention is the key to avoid people flocking to the hospitals with complications, requiring oxygen and ventilators. Treatment should begin once a patient shows symptoms. So we started Covid Mitra, wherein one can be diagnosed, if one has any symptom and immediate treatment can be started. No need for a RT-PCR test for availing treatment,” she added. The DC said, "The new approach has started giving results. Over the past seven days, an average daily patient triaged and treated in each PHC Covid Mitra Centre is about 50. So the number of persons triaged everyday in a taluk is almost equal to the daily fresh cases. Thus, the delay in treatment of Covid patients is eliminated. This results in reduced need for hospital admission, medical complications and need of ICU and ventilator beds,” she said. “While all primary health centres (PHC) in Mysuru district have been declared as Covid Mitras, three hospitals in Mysuru city, Seth Mohandas Tulsidas Maternity Hospital, District Government Ayurveda Hi-Tech Panchakarma Hospital and Central Hospital For Beedi Workers, have been transformed into Covid Mitras. More hospitals may be converted into Covid Mitras in Mysuru city, as per need,” she said. All Covid Mitras will be supplied with necessary medication and corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of various companies is being used for some of them. Panchasutras or five principles are: Mask and isolate (stay at home); Take medication; Proning (sleep position for improved breathing); Steam; and Eat healthy food. Besides, the district administration has released a short jingle for the IEC campaign. The jingle is based on ‘Aadisi noodu, bilisi noodu...’ song of Dr Rajkumar starrer ‘Kasturi Nivas’ film. “On the analysis of the calls we receive on the helpline, we realised that we cannot just keep ramping up beds, although all efforts have parallelly been made to ramp up our oxygen bed availability in government hospitals and to secure 50% beds in private hospitals. However, the solution is in tackling the first five days, from the onset of symptoms,” Rohini said. “In the first wave, RAT and RT-PCR tests were done to ascertain the virus. RT-PCR was more reliable than RAT. In the second wave, about 25% to 30% of the cases went undetected even by RT-PCR. Most of these patients with false negatives suffered severe lung infections later and eventually succumbed to Covid. This was reported to the state and accordingly, the testing targets have been cut by half. Our earlier target was 6,000 and now it is reduced to 3,573,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-pronged-approach-to-manage-covid-in-mysuru-984559.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Summer rain continues to lash north, central Karnataka districts||Heavy showers, accompanied by hailstones and intense thunder activity, continued to bring relief from sweltering heat in parts of north Karnataka and central districts on Monday. Thundershowers, coupled with strong winds, brought down several trees in Talikote, Nalatwad, and parts of the taluk in Vijayapura district. Evening showers had a cooling effect in Bagalkot city. The city was reeling under sweltering heat, where daily maximum temperatures hovered around 35 degrees Celsius. Heavy rain with the heightened thunder activity disrupted power supply for hours. The sudden showers did not cause any major hardships to residents as they stayed indoors owing to the Covid-induced lockdown. The Hubballi-Dharwad twin cities, Hangal and Laksmeshwar also experienced a brief spell of heavy showers in the evening. Thundershowers lashed many parts of Vijayanagara district, including Hosapete, Hampi and Kamalapur in the evening. A cow and a buffalo were struck dead by lightning at Punabhaghatta in Arsikere hobli of the district. As many as 18 sheep were killed in a lightning strike near Kanahosahalli in Kudligitaluk. Parts of central districts including Nyamati, Santebennur and Mayakonda of Davangere district and Chikkajajur taluk in Chitradurga received a good spell of showers. Moderate rain accompanied by strong wind lashed Shivamogga and Bhadravathi towards the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/summer-rain-continues-to-lash-north-central-karnataka-districts-984561.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||100 workers of MM Hill temple volunteer to serve at Covid hospital||Around 100 employees of Male Mahadeshwara temple have turned into volunteers, to serve the district Covid hospital in Chamarajanagar. Responding to an appeal by the district administration, for volunteers to tackle the Covid pandemic, the employees serving in various posts, under Male Mahadeshwara Swami Temple Development Authority, have come forward to work at the Covid hospitals across the district. In a press release, authority secretary Jayavibhavaswamy has said that there was a need for additional security and housekeeping personnel to serve at the district hospital and Covid Care centres. As devotees are not visiting the temple now, our employees have been deputed at the hospitals. We will continue to serve the public in future also, the release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/100-workers-of-mm-hill-temple-volunteer-to-serve-at-covid-hospital-984563.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gadag: Four Covid-19 patients die for want of ventilator beds||Four Covid-19 patients, in need of beds with ventilator support, died at the taluk hospital here on Monday. All for victims had comorbid conditions like high blood pressure, diabetes and asthma. The deceased are: Kasturavva Mattur of Bidaralli in the taluk (admitted to hospital on Friday), Mabubi of Mundargi (admitted on Monday), Kanakappa Talavar of Budhihal (admitted a week back) and Neelamma of Koppal taluk. The doctors at taluk hospital had referred all four to a hospital equipped with ventilator beds. But the family members of the patients could not find beds with ventilator support. All four died for want of ICU beds, the taluk hospital sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gadag-four-covid-19-patients-die-for-want-of-ventilator-beds-984564.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||PFI workers shift Covid-19 victim’s body on bike, conduct final rites||As the residents of the village refused to help for cremation, members of Popular Front of India (PFI) conducted the last rites of a 65-year-old man, Mahadevaiah, after two days of his death, at Tagarapura village in Kollegal taluk, Chamarajanagar district on Monday. According to sources, Mahadevaiah, who was staying alone, passed away at his house on Friday. As his death created fear among the residents, that he might have died of Covid, the villagers stayed. As he did not have any relatives in the village, the news of his death was communicated to his nephew Lakshmikanth in Bengaluru. As none came to help, Lakshmikanth brought this to the notice of PFI volunteers. The volunteers visited the house and shifted the body on their motorbike, to conduct the last rites on Mahadevaiah’s farmland. As the body had to be taken via Alanahalli, the villagers  opposed, as no safety measure was taken. However, the police intervened and ensured that the last rites were performed on a government land, according to Kafil Ahmed, district president of PFI. Rural Police Inspector Ashok said, “The villagers stayed away due to the fear of Covid. PFI men had to shift the body to Mahadevaiah’s farmland, via Alanahalli. But, they too refused to allow entry. Finally, the volunteers conducted the rituals on a government land.” Kollegal Tahsildar Kunal said, “The issue was not brought to my notice. If it was informed earlier, all arrangements would have been made to send an ambulance and conduct the last rites.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pfi-workers-shift-covid-19-victim-s-body-on-bike-conduct-final-rites-984565.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Retired deputy tahsildar shoots himself dead after testing positive for Covid-19||A retired deputy tahsildar, who'd tested positive for Covid-19, allegedly shot himself dead inside his car at his Belenahalli plantation near here on Monday.   The deceased has been identified as Somlanaik. In the death note, he had stated that he was responsible for spreading Covid-19 among his family members and that he cannot see anything happening to his family members. Hence decided to end his life. Somlanaik is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/retired-deputy-tahsildar-shoots-himself-dead-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-984567.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Top brass arrange steaming for cops on duty for safety||In an effort to protect the police personnel, who have been serving as frontline workers during the Covid crisis, Gundlupet town police have arranged steaming facility for those on duty, as a safety measure. The steam facility has been arranged at Gundlupet police station. The personnel, reporting for duty, inhale ayurvedic steam for around five minutes before commencing work and for five minutes after getting relieved from duty, every day. This is an effort to improve immunity among the police personnel, said PSI Rajendra. Turmeric powder and pepper is added to water and boiled in a pressure cooker. The steam from the outlet is connected to pipes and inhaled by the personnel. Four to five people can use the facility at a time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/top-brass-arrange-steaming-for-cops-on-duty-for-safety-984568.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Women vegetable vendors forced to walk around 10 kms to return home amid Covid-19 lockdown||A group of women vegetable vendors walked for about 10 kms by carrying unsold vegetables from the city to their homes on Monday as police banned the movement of vehicles as part of effective implementation of Covid-19 lockdown. Some women of the villages in and around Chitradurga city have been purchasing vegetables from farmers for the past many years and selling the same in the market in the city and this has been the source of their livelihood for many years. They used to return to their homes in autorickshaws or two-wheelers after selling the vegetables. But on Monday, they walked towards their villages carrying sacks of unsold vegetables on their heads, braving the scorching heat. They were from Gonuru and Bachchaboranahatti in Chitradurga taluk and they walked towards their homes from the city around 11:30 am. Of the eight-member team, only two were male and the remaining vendors were female. Gonuru villager Chandramma said, "We get up around 3:00 am everyday. We come to the city in an autorickshaw by ferrying vegetables at 4:00 am.  After selling those in Thyagaraja market in the city, we used to return home in autorickshaw by afternoon. Following the lockdown, we are forced to walk towards our homes ferrying vegetables." "We have been part of this business for the past 16 years. We purchase tomatoes, brinjals, beans, carrots and other vegetables from farmers in the evening and sell them in the city the next morning. We earn around Rs 400 to 600 per day. But the lockdown has caused a huge blow to our income," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/women-vegetable-vendors-forced-to-walk-around-10-kms-to-return-home-amid-covid-19-lockdown-984602.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hombale Films to donate funds for 50 ICU beds, two oxygen units in Mandya||Vijay Kiragandur, filmmaker and managing director of Hombale Films of 'KGF' fame, has offered to donate funds for 50 ICU beds and two oxygen units with 50 MLP capacity in his native Mandya district. In an e-mail to the Deputy Commissioner, Vijay has requested the DC to accept the financial assistance. The mail read, "with Covid cases on the rise, it is not possible for the government alone to provide all support for the treatment of patients." "The society should extend help and save the patients. Around Rs 2 crore will be offered for the medical facility," the mail reads. Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi said that the funds will be utilised for Covid management. Kiraganduru village of Mandya taluk, is the native of Vijay. He established Hombale Films and is involved in production of several high-budget films.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hombale-films-to-donate-funds-for-50-icu-beds-two-oxygen-units-in-mandya-984610.html
10-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fake identity card printing shop in Belagavi raided||Police raided a fake identity cards printing shop at Kadolkar Galli here and arrested two accused on Monday evening. Printing shop Muchandi Printers was involved in the printing of fake identity cards in the name of financial institutions, industries, cooperative societies, and others. Shop owner Vishwanath Muchandi, a resident of Kadolkar Galli, and system and printer operator Rohit Sunil Kutre, a resident of Bhatkande Galli were arrested. Fake identity cards making systems and a printer were seized. Khade Bazaar police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fake-identity-card-printing-shop-in-belagavi-raided-984611.html
10-05-2021||Mysuru||Mysureans yet to come to terms with Covid-19 lockdown||Mysuru's citizens are yet to come to terms with the state-wide lockdown that began on Monday morning. People, mostly in vehicles, were seen on roads beyond the 10 am deadline to step out of their homes.  The government granted permission only to buy essentials within walking distance. However, people gave excuses for stepping out during the lockdown, when stopped and asked. The Police let off a few with a warning but a few vehicles have been seized. The Police were doing rounds in the central business district (CBD) of Mysuru, however, the movement remained unchecked in residential and outer areas. A video of a person rolling on the road, to protest against the police intercepting his motorbike in Hulahalli, Nanjangud taluk, went viral social media. The man picked up an argument with the police personnel and parked his motorbike and fell on the ground and started rolling over when the cops did not concede.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysureans-yet-to-come-to-terms-with-covid-19-lockdown-984419.html
10-05-2021||National||Over 17 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far: Union Health Ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered across the country has exceeded 17 crore, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. It said 2,43,958 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received their first dose of the vaccine on Sunday and cumulatively 20,29,395 people across 30 states and union territories. The total number of doses administered across the country so far stands at 17,01,53,432, the ministry said. The beneficiaries include 95,46,871 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose of the vaccine and 64,71,090 HCWs who have taken the second dose; 1,39,71,341 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 77,54,283 FLWs who have taken the second dose; and 20,29,395 people in the 18-44 age group who have taken the first dose. Besides, 5,51,74,561 and 65,55,714 beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,36,72,259 and 1,49,77,918 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and second dose respectively. As many as 6,71,646 vaccine doses were administered on Sunday, the 114th day of the vaccination drive, the ministry said. "In view of today being a holiday/Sunday, many States and UTs did not organise vaccination sessions," the ministry said. According to provisional data, 3,97,231 beneficiaries were administered the first dose of the vaccine and 2,74,415 were given the second dose, it said, adding that final reports for the day would be completed by late night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-17-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-union-health-ministry-984285.html
10-05-2021||National||17.56 crore free Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states: Anurag Thakur||Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur on Sunday said the government has provided 17.56 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses so far to states and union territories for inoculation of people of all age groups and 46 lakh doses will be supplied to them in the next three days. Thakur's remarks came in response to senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge's letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to use Rs 35,000 crore allocated in the Union Budget to ensure free vaccine for all citizens instead of the current system of multiple pricing for various users. Pune-based Serum Institute of India is supplying Covishield to the Centre for Rs 150 a dose while to states for Rs 300 a dose. Private Hospitals are getting it at double the state's price at Rs 600. Whereas, Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech has priced its vaccine at Rs 150 a dose for the Centre, Rs 600 a dose for state governments and Rs 1,200 a dose for private hospitals. Both anti-Covid vaccines are administered in two doses. Calling for free inoculation, leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Kharge in his letter said the Parliament had allocated Rs 35,000 crore in the Union budget to ensure free vaccines for all. He also urged the prime minister to immediately convene an all-party meeting to collectively forge a holistic blueprint to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic Dispelling claims of vaccine shortage in states, Thakur said 72 lakh doses are still available with states and union territories. On further supply of vaccines, he said that "1.5 lakh doses of Sputnik V have already reached India and RDIF has also tied up with local Indian companies for bulk production." In a series of tweets, the minister highlighted various measures taken by the government to increase supply of medicine and liquid medical oxygen, add more beds and distribute foreign aid to various states to fight the pandemic. The minister stressed that India is running the world's fastest and largest vaccination drive and 15 crore people have been administered doses in the past three months. "Covid vaccines are being provided free of cost by the government of India to those who are 45 years of age and above and to all frontline workers," Thakur said. On exempting vaccines from the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the minister said a nominal five per cent GST is in interest of the domestic manufacturer of vaccine and in the interest of citizens.  If full exemption from GST is given, vaccine manufacturers would not be able to offset their input taxes and would pass them on to the end consumer or citizen by increasing the price, he added. "Five per cent GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Exemption to vaccine from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer," a tweet by Thakur said. He also said the government has provided full exemption from Customs duties, including integrated GST, is already available to all Covid relief material imported by the Indian Red Cross Society for free distribution in the country to help contain the spread. India recorded more than four lakh cases in a 24-hour span for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. According to Union health ministry, 4,03,738 new COVID-19 cases were recorded in the said period, which took the nationwide tally to 2,22,96,414. The death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths, as per the data released on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1756-crore-free-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-anurag-thakur-984322.html
10-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Lancet slams Modi govt's Covid-19 management||The Narendra Modi government on Saturday came under sharp attack from Lancet medical journal, which blamed the government for precipitating the public health crisis caused by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Quoting an estimate made by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, the journal in an editorial said India may witness more than one million Covid-19 deaths by August 1 and if that outcome were to happen, the Modi government would be responsible for presiding over a self-inflicted national catastrophe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-lancet-slams-modi-govts-covid-19-management-984326.html
10-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 10||India on Monday logged more than 3,500 coronavirus deaths over 24 hours for the second day in a row. 3,66,161 more infections took the overall tally above 2.22 crore. Meanwhile, the health ministry has revised the national policy for admission of patients to Covid-19 facilities.  Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,26,62,575  as of May 10, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  2,46,116 as of May 10, 2021 No. of people discharged: 1,86,71,222  Total Vaccination: 16,94,39,663 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-10-984329.html
10-05-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices at record highs; Petrol crosses Rs 100-mark in Maharashtra||Petrol and diesel prices on Monday hit record highs across the country after rates were increased for the fifth time in a week, following which Maharashtra joined Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh in the league of states where petrol rates breached the Rs 100-a-litre mark. Petrol price was hiked by 26 paise a litre and diesel by 33 paise per litre, according to a price notification by state-owned fuel retailers. This was the fifth increase in prices since May 4, when the state-owned oil firms ended an 18-hiatus in rate revision during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. The increase took petrol and diesel prices to their highest-ever level. In Delhi, petrol now comes for Rs 91.53 per litre and diesel is priced at Rs 82.06 per litre. While petrol prices had crossed the Rs 100-mark in some places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh a few days back, Maharashtra's Parbhani joined the league on Monday. Petrol in Parbhani was priced at Rs 100.20 a litre, while in Bhopal it came for Rs 99.55 a litre. The fuel is sold at Rs 102.42 a litre in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan and at Rs 102.12 in Anuppur of Madhya Pradesh. This is the second time this year that rates in some parts have crossed the Rs 100-a litre mark. Rates had breached the physiological mark for the first time in mid-February. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh. In five increases in the last one week, petrol price has risen by Rs 1.14 per litre and diesel by Rs 1.33 - more than neutralising all of the reduction that came between March 24 and April 15. After raising petrol price by a record Rs 21.58 per litre and diesel by Rs 19.18 since the government raised excise duty to an all-time high in March last year, state-owned fuel retailers, IOC, BPCL and HPCL had reduced petrol price by 67 paise a litre and diesel by 74 paise per litre effected between March 24 and April 15. Oil companies, who have in recent months resorted to unexplained freeze in rate revision, had hit a pause button after cutting prices marginally on April 15. This coincided with electioneering hitting peak to elect new governments in five states including West Bengal. No sooner had voting ended, oil companies indicated an impending increase in retail prices in view of firming trends in international oil markets. They said prices have been on a continuous uptrend since April 27, crude oil price is hovering near USD 70-per-barrel mark. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 on diesel. In Mumbai, the petrol price was hiked to Rs 97.86 a litre on Monday from Rs 97.61, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 89.17 from Rs 88.82, the price notification showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-at-record-highs-petrol-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-maharashtra-984344.html
10-05-2021||National||Dip in single-day Covid-19 infections, fatalities: 3.66 lakh new cases, 3,754 deaths||After recording over four lakh fresh cases for four consecutive days, India witnessed a single-day rise of 3,66,161 Covid-19 cases on Monday, which pushed its tally to 2,26,62,575, according to the health ministry. The death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 2,46,116 with 3,754 more people succumbing to it, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country has gone up to 37,45,237, accounting for 16.53 per cent of its total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.39 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has climbed to 1,86,71,222, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, according to the data India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The figure crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 30,37,50,077 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 14,74,606 on Sunday. The number of positive results from the tests was not immediately clear, however. Many states have imposed strict lockdowns over the last month while others have placed curbs on movement and shut cinemas, restaurants, pubs and shopping malls. But pressure is mounting on Modi to announce a nationwide lockdown as he did during the first wave of infections last year. He is battling criticism for allowing huge gatherings at a religious festival and holding large election rallies during the past two months even as cases surged. "A failure of governance of epic and historic proportions," Vipin Narang, a political science professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the United States, said on Twitter. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has also called for a "complete, well-planned, pre-announced" lockdown. New Delhi, the capital, entered a fourth week of lockdown, with tougher curbs such as the shutdown of the suburban rail network, while residents scrambled for scarce hospital beds and oxygen supplies. "This is not the time to be lenient," Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. "This phase is so tough, this wave is so dangerous, so many people are dying...the priority at this hour is to save lives," he said in a televised address. Late on Sunday, the northern state of Uttarakhand said it would impose curfew from Tuesday until May 18, just days after mass religious gatherings held in the state became virus super spreading events. Shops selling essential food items will stay open for some hours in the morning, while malls, gyms, theatres, bars and liquor shops are among the enterprises that will be shut, the government said. Measures announced by India's central bank last week for relief to lenders and borrowers during the new devastating wave of infections will only delay the stress for financial institutions, Fitch Ratings said. Fitch said disruptions could persist longer and spread further than its baseline case scenario, especially in case of more regional lockdowns or one nationwide, adding that a drop in April-May activity would delay recovery. Organisers of the popular and lucrative Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket tournament conceded the remaining games would have to be played overseas after having suspended the contest over the virus this month. Global support, in the form of oxygen cylinders and concentrators, ventilators and other medical gear, has poured in. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dip-in-single-day-covid-19-infections-fatalities-366-lakh-new-cases-3754-deaths-984348.html
10-05-2021||National||US outpouring of Covid-19 aid to India touches $500 million||Less than a fortnight after President Joe Biden in his conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi pledged his country’s steadfast support for the people of India, America has responded with unprecedented financial and other assistance worth nearly half a billion dollars. Biden spoke at length with Modi last month and conveyed solidarity with India in its fight against the viral disease. He assured the prime minister that the US and India will work closely together in the fight against Covid-19. "Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need," Biden had said in a tweet. Reflecting an overwhelming support for a "natural ally", the entire country not only the administration, but also the corporate sector which created a global task force, as well as Americans and Indian-Americans have opened their coffers for India. This half a billion dollars includes $100 million pledged by the Biden administration, $70 million by pharma major Pfizer and 450,000 Remdesivir doses, the governmental purchase price of each of which in the US is $390. Thousands of oxygen concentrators, planeloads of life-saving drugs and health care equipment are flying from the United States to India almost every day. Several companies like Boeing and Mastercard have announced financial assistance worth $10 million each, Google has pledged $18 million, which the Global Task Force that comprises CEOs of top American companies have already pledged $30 million worth of life-saving equipment. Describing it as a “Berlin Life Moment”, Mukesh Aghi of the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum, told PTI he expects the assistance to touch almost $1 billion by the end of the month. “It is emotional for the diaspora, almost everyone has someone who has been touched by Covid-19,” he said. Nisha Desai Biswal, president of the US India Business Council, said, “The outpouring of support from the United States over the past two weeks was a spontaneous mass mobilisation of support for the Indian people from across the America government, business community and diaspora community and the American people.” “It is unprecedented, and it reflects both the deep bonds between our two countries and the gratitude that Americans feel for the role India played in supporting the United States when we were experiencing our Covid surge last year,” she said. However, given the “speed and severity” that have overwhelmed the capacity of hospitals and local authorities, more assistance will be needed and for a sustained period of timescale of the pandemic, Biswal said. People of the country and the Diaspora too have come out in large numbers. Indian-American Vinod Khosla has committed $10 million, top corporate leader John T Chambers has promised $1 million. For the first time in its history, Sewa International has raised $15 million; American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin ($3.6 million), Indiaspora ($2.5) million and Jai Shetty has raised $4 million. “There has been overwhelming support and offers of assistance from the US Government, private sector, diaspora and the American public at large. In fact, in my interactions in recent days, the US interlocutors across the board ask me, ‘tell us what more we can do for India’”, India’s ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu told PTI. “They recall with fondness the help India gave. These are reflective of strong partnership and close people to people ties between our both nations. We deeply appreciate these gestures. We will continue to engage with the US in our collective fight against the pandemic,” he said. Among other major financial contributions announced include Procter and Gamble ($6.7 million); Merck ($5 million), Walmart ($2 million), Salesforce ($2.4 million), and Caterpillar ($3.4 million). Companies like Deloittee have announced to 12,000 oxygen concentrators to India. While Microsoft is partnering with the US government in providing aid and oxygen, FedEx and UPS have taken up the mantle of taking care of the transportation of life saving health care equipment like oxygen cylinders, ventilators and oxygen concentrators to India. On Sunday, Indian-Americans from Tamil Nadu including eminent philanthropist M R Rangaswami, held a “Help Tamil Nadu Breathe” to raise $1.5 million in few hours. “This is an incredible outpouring of generosity, which people have come to expect from America. When the world has a crisis, beyond politics, beyond dispute, America steps up,” Rangaswami said. “It is comforting to see US cargo jets with much-needed medical supplies landing at the Delhi airport regularly,” said Karun Rishi, president of the USA-India Chambers of Commerce. Noting that the stakes are very high for the entire world, he said India’s success or failure to come out of this once-in-a-century crisis will have a direct impact throughout the world. Echoing Biswal, Rishi said that more needed to be done. “The scale of assistance to India needs to increase and speeded up. To make some reasonable impact to tide over this crisis, India may need between $25-$50 billion in assistance in the form of vaccines, technology transfers, increasing vaccines and therapeutics manufacturing capacity, medical equipment and public health measures,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-outpouring-of-covid-19-aid-to-india-touches-500-million-984357.html
10-05-2021||National||Bharat Biotech commences direct supply of 'Covaxin' to 14 states||Bharat Biotech has commenced direct supply of its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' to 14 states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, with effect from May 1, according to the company's Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella. The Hyderabad-based firm has started supplying its Covid-19 treatment vaccine to the states based on the allocations received by the central government. "Bharat Biotech confirms direct supplies of COVAXIN to the following state govt's since 1/5/21, based on the allocations received by GoI. Requests have been received from other states, & will be processed for distribution based on availability of stocks 24x7," Ella tweeted. The company is supplying vaccines to Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. On April 29, Bharat Biotech announced a cut in the price of 'Covaxin' for states to Rs 400 per dose from the earlier Rs 600 per dose. This followed widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it sold Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. India has announced expansion of its Covid-19 vaccination drive by allowing its large 18-plus population to get inoculated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-commences-direct-supply-of-covaxin-to-14-states-984386.html
10-05-2021||National||Delhi HC to hear plea against Central Vista project on Tuesday||The Delhi High Court on Monday agreed to consider a plea for halting the construction of the Central Vista Project due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The court will hear the plea on Tuesday. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Jasmeet Singh allowed a plea made by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra for giving an early date of hearing in the matter. The Delhi High Court had earlier on May 4 fixed the matter for consideration on May 17 in order to go through the Supreme Court's judgement giving the green signal to the Rs 20,000 crore project. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma asked the court to fix the matter for Wednesday to allow the Centre to file a reply to the petition. On Friday, the top court had granted the petitioners liberty to mention the matter for early hearing before the High Court, which was already seized of the issue. Petitioners Anya Malhotra and Sohail Hashmi claimed that the country is facing a humanitarian health crisis, and if this project is deferred by four to six weeks, nothing will happen. They also said that the IPL has already been suspended.   "Construction is going on in eight sites. We are not concerned about all of them, but the Rajpath, Central Vista stretch and the gardens," they said. The petitioners asked the court to halt the construction due to the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and the threat posed by the construction work as a potential super spreader.  The apex court on January 5 gave the Union government a go-ahead for constructing new Parliament and other buildings for ministries here with a proposed cost of Rs 20,000 crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project on December 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-against-central-vista-project-on-tuesday-984387.html
10-05-2021||National||3-week bail to jailed activist Natasha Narwal whose father passed away due to Covid||The Delhi High Court on Monday allowed a plea by 'Pinjra Tod' activist Natasha Narwal for interim bail in "hours of grief" after her father passed away on Sunday evening due to Covid-19. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambani granted her relief for three weeks on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000. Delhi police did not oppose her plea for bail as her counsel informed the court that her father Mahavir Narwal died of Covid-19 on Sunday evening at a Rohtak hospital and her brother was also positive of the infectious disease. "We are of the view that release of the applicant is imperative in this hour of grief and personal loss," the bench asking her to maintain "radio silence" on social media and other platforms on pending matter or it would cancel the bail. The court directed Natasha to provide her telephone number to the Special Cell of Delhi Police and to concerned SHO, to keep the phone number operational.  The court also asked her to wear a PPE kit at the time of the cremation and should undergo RTPCR test at the time of surrender.  Natasha was arrested on May 23, last year in a case of larger conspiracy, relating to northeast Delhi riots, registered under stringent provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.  She was named an accused by the Delhi Police in three FIRs. Her father was a retired senior scientist from CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, and a senior member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist).  'Pinjra Tod' (Break the shackle) is a collective of women students and alumni of Delhi fighting for easing restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-week-bail-to-jailed-activist-natasha-narwal-whose-father-passed-away-due-to-covid-984388.html
10-05-2021||National||Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala among 10 states that account for over 73% of new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi are among 10 states that account for 73.91 per cent of the 3,66,161 new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Haryana are the other states in the list of 10. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 48,401. It is followed by Karnataka with 47,930 while Kerala reported 35,801 new cases. India's total Covid-19 active caseload has reached 37,45,237 and now comprises 16.53 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 8,589 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours.  Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh cumulatively account  for 82.89 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said. "The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.09 per cent," the ministry said. Besides, 3,754 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 72.86 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (572). Karnataka follows with 490 daily deaths. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,86,71,222 with 3,53,818 people recuperating in a span of 24 hours. Ten states also account for 74.38 per cent of the new recoveries. "Average daily recovery of more than 3.28 lakh cases has been recorded in last 10 days," the ministry said. The ministry also said that 6,738 oxygen concentrators, 3,856 oxygen cylinders, 16 oxygen generation plants, 4,668 ventilators/ Bi PAP/ C PAP and more than 3L Remdesivir vials received as part of global aid to India have been delivered or dispatched to states and UTs to augment and supplement their infrastructure. The Centre is ensuring that the global aid is being expeditiously delivered to states and UTs through fast custom clearances, and use of air and road transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-karnataka-kerala-among-10-states-that-account-for-over-73-of-new-covid-19-cases-984397.html
10-05-2021||National||Intra-Kashmir train service suspended again amid Covid-19 resurgence||Intra-Kashmir train service, which had resumed in February after nearly a year’s suspension, has been suspended again till May 16 due to the prevailing surge in Covid-19 cases. After remaining suspended for 11-months in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the train service from Baramulla in north Kashmir to Banihal in Jammu region (138 km), had resumed on February 22 much to the joy of thousands of commuters. However, the train service will again remain suspended for six days from May 11 to May 16 in a bid to contain the transmission chain of Covid-19, Chief Area Manager Northern Railways in Srinagar, Saqiq Yousuf said. He said the decision has been taken upon government directive in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. On a normal day, at least 15 pairs of the train run regularly from Baramulla to Banihal and carry almost 30,000 passengers, including students and employees. The suspension of the train service puts commuters to immense hardships. Meanwhile, the government of India plans to connect Kashmir to Kanyakumari through train service and work on the project has been going on for years. However, it has been delayed due to several reasons which include hilly terrain where the train has to pass.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intra-kashmir-train-service-suspended-again-amid-covid-19-resurgence-984402.html
10-05-2021||National||Lookout notice against Navneet Kalra in oxygen concentrator black-marketing case||The Delhi Police has issued a lookout notice against businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the recovery of over 500 oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, officials said on Monday. It is suspected that Kalra has left Delhi along with his family. "A lookout notice has been issued against Kalra in connection with the alleged hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators," a senior police officer said. The police had earlier said that teams had been formed and raids were being conducted in the Delhi-NCR and neighbouring states. On Friday, 105 oxygen concentrators were recovered from two upscale restaurants in south Delhi's Khan Market area. The restaurants are owned by Kalra. On Saturday, the police transferred the case to the Crime Branch. On Thursday, 419 oxygen concentrators were recovered from another restaurant owned by Kalra and a farmhouse in south Delhi. Four men were arrested during the raids. The oxygen concentrators had been imported from China by a private company. Kalra is on the run since the raids, and his mobile phone is switched off, according to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lookout-notice-against-navneet-kalra-in-oxygen-concentrator-black-marketing-case-984411.html
10-05-2021||National||Vaccination strategy equitable, 'overzealous' judicial intervention to have consequences: Centre to SC||The vaccination strategy for Covid-19 has been formulated by the Centre in a "just, equitable, non-discriminatory" manner and any "overzealous" judicial intervention may result in unforeseen consequences, the government has told the Supreme Court. In an affidavit filed by the Centre in response to the points raised by the top court, it said as vaccination of the entire country is not possible in one stretch due to the very suddenness of the pandemic, limited availability of vaccine doses and the vulnerability are the prime considerations. The submission was made in a suo motu by the apex court case for ensuring essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court has taken up issues such as the projected demand for oxygen in the country at present and in the near future, how the government intends to allocate it to "critically affected" states and its monitoring mechanism to ensure supply. The central government submitted that the vaccination policy conforms to the mandate of Article 14 and Article 21 of the Constitution and was made after several rounds of consultations and discussions with experts. State governments and vaccine manufacturers require no interference by the top court as dealing with a pandemic of this magnitude, the Executive does have room for free play in the joints, in the larger public interest, it said. "Any overzealous, though well-meaning judicial intervention may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences in absence of any expert advice or administrative experience, leaving doctors, scientists, experts and executive very little room to find innovative solutions on the go," the Centre told the apex court in its 200-page affidavit. It submitted that in the times of such grave and unprecedented crisis which the nation is fighting the disaster of an unprecedented magnitude, the executive functioning of the government needs the discretion to formulate policy in the larger interest. "It is submitted that in view of the unprecedented and peculiar circumstances under which vaccination drive is devised as an executive policy, the wisdom of the executive should be trusted," it said. The government told the apex court that the price factor of vaccines will not have any impact on the ultimate beneficiary namely, the eligible person getting the vaccine since all state governments have already declared their policy decision that each State will be administering the vaccine to its residents, free of cost. "Thus, while it is ensured that the two vaccine manufacturers are not unduly enriched from out of public money, the citizens are not supposed to make any payment for getting both doses of the vaccine," the Centre said. The Centre said that the apex court in a plethora of judgements has laid down the parameters for judicial review of executive policies, which can only be struck down or interfered with on the grounds of manifest arbitrariness, allowing sufficient play in the joints to the executive, to function in accordance with its Constitutional mandate.  On the issue of invoking compulsory licensing of provisions under the Patents Act to ensure availability of vaccines and drugs, the government told the apex court that the main constraint is in availability of raw materials and essential inputs and therefore, any additional permissions and licenses may not result in increased production immediately. The affidavit stated that the Ministry of Health is making all efforts to enhance the availability of antiviral drug Remdesivir through ramping up of production and sourcing through imports. "However, in view of the current constraints on the availability of raw materials and other essential inputs, the mere addition of more production capacity may not lead to the desired outcomes of enhanced supplies," it said.   The Centre submitted that when there is a surge in cases and in demand of patented medicines/ drugs/ vaccines from all over the world the solution needs to be found out essentially at an executive level engaging at diplomatic levels. "Any exercise of statutory powers either under the patents act 1970 read with Trips agreement and Doha declaration or in any other way can only prove to be counter-productive at this stage, the central government is very actively engaging itself with global organisations at a diplomatic level to find out a solution in the best possible interest of India," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-strategy-equitable-overzealous-judicial-intervention-to-have-consequences-centre-to-sc-984414.html
10-05-2021||National||Covid-19 surge causes sharp decline in footfalls at Srinagar Airport||Amid huge surge in Covid-19 cases, there has been a sharp decline in footfalls at the Srinagar International Airport in the first 10 days of this month. From daily arrivals of 6,000 to 8,000 passengers in March and April, the number has reduced to just 2,200 to 2,500 this month, official data revealed. “The number of daily flights have been reduced to just 21 to 23 from a peak of 40 to 45 in April. In the first week of May, we have even had days when there were just 14 flights,” said Director, Airports Authority of India, Srinagar, Santosh Dhoke. In April, 2,429 travelers at the Srinagar Airport tested positive for Covid-19, making it the month with highest cases since the domestic flight operations resumed last year in May after remaining suspended for nearly two months in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. Tourism in Kashmir has taken a hit since August 5, 2019, when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on the movement of people and communication for months. The situation was then further aggravated by the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020. However, the reduction in the number of Covid-19 infections in Kashmir late last year and a few spells of snowfall in December and January led to tourists arriving in the valley in large numbers after 16 months, and both the number of flights and passenger arrivals saw huge rise till April. The month with the highest number of flight and passenger arrivals at Srinagar Airport was April this year when a record 1,077 flights touched down at the tarmac carrying as many as 80,630 passengers. Prior to this, the onset of the Tulip festival had attracted tourists in large numbers and as a result, 1,064 flights carrying 1.10 lakh passengers arrived at the Srinagar Airport in March.   In the last week of March, the commencement of night flights had made the airport abuzz with activity as it was beneficial for both locals as well as tourists. Apart from Bengaluru-Srinagar direct flight, various airliners had also started direct flights between Srinagar and several other cities such as Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-surge-causes-sharp-decline-in-footfalls-at-srinagar-airport-984420.html
10-05-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi speech plays out in SC; hearing on Covid-19 postponed to May 13||The Supreme Court hearing related to the management of the Covid-19 pandemic on Monday saw a strange situation when Congress leader Sonia Gandhi's speech started playing out during the online proceedings. Just minutes before a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud could start the proceedings, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested the administrator for unmuting senior advocates Kapil Sibal and P Chidambaram, both are also senior Congress leader. While judges and lawyers were getting disconnected due to technical glitches, Sonia Gandhi, whose meeting with Congress leaders was on at the time, was beamed during the proceedings, triggering immediate laughs from all the participants. Sibal had to ask his party colleague Chidambaram to switch off Gandhi's speech being played at another system at his office. Meanwhile, the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, decided to adjourn the hearing to Thursday due to frequent disruption. The matter related to Suo Motu case related to the distribution of essential supplies during the Covid-19 pandemic. "In the context of a global pandemic, where the response and strategy is completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion, there is even little room for judicial interference,'' it said. "Any overzealous, though well-meaning judicial intervention, may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences, in absence of expert advice or administrative experience, leaving doctors, scientists, and executive very little room to find innovative solutions," it maintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-speech-plays-out-in-sc-hearing-on-covid-19-postponed-to-may-13-984429.html
10-05-2021||National||Congress decides to postpone party president election in view of Covid-19 situation||The Congress Working Committee unanimously decided on Monday to postpone the election to the post of party president until the Covid-19 situation in the country improves, sources said. The Congress had earlier decided to have a new Congress president in place before June 2021 and the party's central election authority chaired by Madhusudan Mistry had proposed holding the election on June 23. However, top Congress leaders were of the view that holding the election right now would not be proper as the coronavirus situation in the country was very grim. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot proposed that there should be no election to the post of Congress president currently in view of the Covid-19 situation and senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad seconded him. Azad, a prominent member of the group of 23 leaders who had demanded organisational elections, said at the meeting that no one in the party was seeking an election right now and thus the election as proposed by the central election authority should be postponed, the sources said. Mistry had earlier proposed that the election be held on June 23 and counting on June 24. Hw also proposed the notification for the election of a new Congress president be issued on June 1 and nominations for the same be accepted between June 2 and 7. "The CWC unanimously decided to postpone the election of Congress president till the Covid situation in the country improves," a top leader told PTI. The CWC had in its meeting on January 22 decided that the process for electing a Congress president would be completed by end-June and had asked the election authority chairman Madhusudan Mistri to prepare a schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-decides-to-postpone-party-president-election-in-view-of-covid-19-situation-984432.html
10-05-2021||National||Hospitals directed no Covid patient be refused admission for lack of valid ID, Centre tells SC||All central and state government hospitals managing Covid patients have been directed to ensure that no patient is refused admission due to lack of a valid identity card and a positive test report for coronavirus, the Centre has told the Supreme Court. In an affidavit on the points raised by the top court, the Centre submitted that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has intimated all state governments regarding the policy of setting up three-tier Health infrastructure for appropriate management of suspect/ confirmed Covid-19 cases. As the vaccination of the entire country is not possible in one stretch due to the very suddenness of the pandemic and limited availability of vaccine doses, vulnerability is the prime consideration, it said. The Centre's affidavit was submitted late Sunday night in a suo motu case by the apex court for ensuring essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic. It further said that the guidance document issued in this regard on April 7, 2020, envisages/mandates setting up of Covid Care Centre (CCC) for mild cases and these have been set up in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums and lodges, both public and private. "Functional hospitals like Community Health Centres (CHCs), etc, which may be handling regular, non-Covid cases may also be designated as Covid Care Centers as a last resort. Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) that shall offer care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate.  "These should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry/exit/zoning. Private hospitals may also be designated as Covid Dedicated Health Centres. These hospitals would have beds with assured Oxygen support," the Centre said. It said that a dedicated Covid hospital shall offer comprehensive care primarily for those who have been clinically assigned as severe. "These hospitals should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry/exit. Private hospitals may also be designated as Covid Dedicated Hospitals. These hospitals would have fully equipped ICUs, Ventilators and beds with assured Oxygen support," it said. The Centre further said: "It is submitted that the Central Government has also directed that the hospitals under the Central Government, State Governments and Union territory administrations including private hospitals (in States and UTs) managing Covid patients shall ensure -- Requirement of a positive test for Covid-19 virus is not mandatory for admission to a Covid health facility if clinically hospitalisation is necessary otherwise. "A suspect case shall be admitted to the suspect ward of CCC, DCHC or DHC as the case may be. No Patient will be refused services on any count. This includes medications such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city. No patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he/she is not able to produce a valid identity card that does not belong to the city where the hospital is located." The government told the apex court that admissions to the hospital must be based on need and it should be ensured that beds are not occupied by persons who do not need hospitalisation. "The Chief Secretaries of States/Union Territories have been requested to issue circulars, incorporating the above directions within three days, which shall be in force till replaced by an appropriate uniform policy. "The Centre also submitted that Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has written to all the Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary Health/Medical education of all States and UTs, to provide for extraordinary measures to augment the need of medical staff in the country," the bench said. In view of the need for increasing the availability of trained human resources to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the guidelines and directions have been issued in consultation with the National Medical Commission and the Indian Nursing Council, the Centre said. "It is submitted that depending upon the progress in this direction, the Central Government shall consider other incentives without compromising with the merits which can never be compromised in the field of medicine," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospitals-directed-no-covid-patient-be-refused-admission-for-lack-of-valid-id-centre-tells-sc-984438.html
10-05-2021||National||PIL in Delhi HC to declare medicines, equipment for Covid-19 as essential commodities||Medicines and equipment required for treatment of Covid-19 patients should be treated as essential commodities, a PIL urged in the Delhi High Court which on Monday sought response of the Centre and Delhi government on the issue. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli issued notice to the Union Health Ministry and Delhi government on the plea which has also sought setting up of fast track courts to deal exclusively with cases of black marketing and hoarding of medicines and equipment. The petition by Delhi resident Manisha Chauhan has also sought the appointment of special public prosecutors for dealing with such cases before the special fast track courts. Advocates Sanjeev Sagar and Nazia Parveen, appearing for Chauhan, told the court that in the absence of a notification declaring medicines and equipment meant for Covid-19 as essential commodities, these are being hoarded and black marketed. They also told the bench that in the absence of any such notification, people hoarding or black marketing such items are trying to claim the benefit of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-delhi-hc-to-declare-medicines-equipment-for-covid-19-as-essential-commodities-984440.html
10-05-2021||National||Come out, will help in Covid-19 treatment, Telangana police appeal to Maoists||Telangana Police on Monday appealed to Maoists to come out and get treated for Covid-19. Bhadradri Kothagudem Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt in a press release said they have information that some of the leaders and members of the banned organisation are suffering from the virus. "If any leaders or members of the Maoists party are suffering from Covid-19, we request them to come out. The police will help in getting treatment," Dutt said. When contacted, Dutt told PTI that so far no one has approached the police seeking help. The police official further requested the members to desert the organisation if leaders of Maoist object their cadre seeking police help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-out-will-help-in-covid-19-treatment-telangana-police-appeal-to-maoists-984448.html
10-05-2021||National||Centre can use Rs 35,000 crore 'Transfers to States' funds for Covid vaccines: Finance Ministry||The finance ministry on Monday said provisioning Rs 35,000 crore-expenditure for vaccines in the Union Budget for FY22 under the title 'Transfers to States' does in no way inhibit the central government from using the funds to buy Covid-19 shots. The amount of Rs 35,000 crore provided in the Union Budget for fiscal year starting April 1, 2021 (FY22) under the Demand for Grants No. 40, titled 'Transfers to States' has been done for several administrative advantages, including expenditure under such head being exempted from the quarterly control restrictions. Also, it allows the Union government to procure the vaccines and pass them on to the states as grants in kind. Refuting reports that no provision for expenditure on Covid-19 vaccination has been done by the central government, the finance ministry said, "vaccines have actually been, and are being, procured by and paid for by the Centre through this head of account (Demand for Grants No.40 Transfers to States)". Since expenditure on vaccine is one-off expenditure outside the normal Centrally-Sponsored Schemes of the health ministry, separate funding ensures easy monitoring and management of these funds, the ministry noted. The amount provided under this head for vaccinations is operated by the Ministry of Health. Vaccines are passed on to the states as grants in kind and the actual administration of vaccines is being done by states, it said. Further, there is enough administrative flexibility to change the nature of the scheme between grants in kind and other forms of grants, it said in a statement. "The use of the Demand titled 'Transfers to States' in no way implies that expenditure cannot be incurred by the Centre," the ministry said. Currently, Covid-19 vaccines are being provided free of cost by the Centre to those who are 45 years of age and above and to all frontline workers. The Centre has so far provided more than 17.56 crore vaccine doses to states/ UTs free of cost. The Centre has placed total orders of 26.60 crore doses for Rs 3,639.67 crore with the Serum Institute of India which is manufacturing Covishield vaccine while an order for 8 crore doses involving an amount of Rs 1,104.78 crore has been placed with Bharat Biotech for Covaxin. India is facing the world's worst outbreak of Covid-19 cases with more than 3 lakh new daily cases being reported for two weeks now and the new cases reached more than 4 lakh daily over the weekend. More than 2.46 lakh people in India have died from the virus infection. Public health system is buckling under the weight of surging infections and deaths, with several parts of the country reporting shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen, medicines and vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-can-use-rs-35000-crore-transfers-to-states-funds-for-covid-vaccines-finance-ministry-984456.html
10-05-2021||National||Covaxin doses unavailable for 2nd day in Mumbai; citizens fume||Vaccination centres in Mumbai did not administer Covaxin for the second consecutive day on Monday because of lack of stock, leaving citizens fuming as many of them are due for their second dose of the vaccine against Covid-19. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), through its Twitter handle, released a list of 105 vaccination centres that would be functional on Monday, but informed that these would be administering only the Covishield vaccine. On Sunday also, the BMC had not administered Covaxin to the beneficiaries due to unavailability of the vaccine. Several citizens expressed anger and frustration at the state of affairs as many of them are due for their second dose since they had taken the first jab over 42 days back. As per the government guidelines, the recommended gap between two doses of Covaxin is four-six weeks and for Covishield the suggested interval is four-eight weeks. Local resident Rupesh Lingayat took to Twitter to express his frustration. "My father took 1st dose of Covaxin, now it is impossible to get 2nd dose of Covaxin and its been 43 days since took 1st dose. He is 63. Please help," he tweeted. Another resident Param Sampat also tweeted that his sister had got a booking on Saturday for 3-5 pm slot, but when she reached at 2.45 pm, authorities told her they were out of stock gave her a token for Monday. "Today when she reached at 8, she was denied a vaccine. This is absolutely irresponsible," he tweeted. The BMC's executive health officer, Mangala Gomare, did not respond to calls or text messages on the lack of Covaxin doses in the city. According to a BMC report, a total of 1,76,505 people have been administered Covaxin doses in the city, including 1,20,167 who have received the first dose and 56,338 who have got the second dose as well. Till Sunday evening, 27,00,431 people were vaccinated in Mumbai against Covid-19. These included 20,52,963 beneficiaries who have taken the first dose and 6,47,468 people who have received their second dose, the report said. Currently, there are 175 active vaccination centres in Mumbai, included 81 run by the BMC, 20 by the state government and 74 private facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-doses-unavailable-for-2nd-day-in-mumbai-citizens-fume-984458.html
10-05-2021||National||The Lead: All questions about Covid-19 vaccines answered||In this episode, Dr Prashant answers some of the questions and queries related to the vaccines against Covid-19.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to DH Radio. Today we are joined by Dr Prashant, he is a neonatologist. Dr Prashant: Hi, Ahmed. Ahmed: Doctor, we are in the phase of the pandemic where the vaccine is the most important thing. There are also on social media and WhatsApp, myths that have spread about the vaccines. I am going to ask you certain questions to burst these myths. Dr Prashant: Definitely. This is the need of the hour. It's a good thing to dissipate correct knowledge about the vaccine to the public. Ahmed: There was a post on social media that said that women who are on their periods should avoid taking the vaccine. Dr Prashant: Vaccine is given to healthy individuals to induce protection against the specifically directed bacteria or virus. Usually, the normal physiological processes that go on in our body, will not have any impact. Anybody can get the vaccine, anytime... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-all-questions-about-covid-19-vaccines-answered-984461.html
10-05-2021||National||Naya Bharat — where we make virtue out of sympathy earned by failures: Tharoor's swipe at govt||Taking a dig at the government over foreign aid in the wake of the Covid-19 second wave, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday said 'Naya Bharat' is one where a virtue is made out of the sympathy earned by failures and "governmental apathy that led us to needing it" is denied or glossed over. In his tweet attacking the Centre, Tharoor tagged External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's tweet on the aid of oxygen, Remdesivir vials and other Covid-19-related medical assistance India is getting from various countries. "From US to Singapore, Germany to Thailand. The world continues to stand with India," Jaishankar had tweeted Sunday. In a swipe at the government, Tharoor said, "Naya Bharat - Where we make a virtue out of the sympathy earned by our failures and deny or gloss over the governmental apathy that led to us needing it." He used the hashtag 'Parmatmanirbharta', in a dig at the government initiative of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. As India reels under a calamitous second wave of the coronavirus infection, it has received large amounts of medical supplies from a significant number of countries, including the US, Russia, France, Germany, the UK, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Singapore, Sweden and Kuwait. The Congress had last week also demanded transparency and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make public the details of all the relief material received by India from different countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naya-bharat-where-we-make-virtue-out-of-sympathy-earned-by-failures-tharoors-swipe-at-govt-984463.html
10-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Vaccines in India’s private sector among the costliest in the world||India’s private hospitals are charging some of the steepest rates in the world for administering Covid-19 vaccines with Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield priced between Rs 700 and Rs 900 and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin costing Rs 1,250 to Rs 1,500 per dose. The current prices represent an increase of up to six times the cost citizens had to pay before the Centre relaxed price controls on the vaccines from May 1. Bharat Biotech set the price of its vaccine at Rs 600 per dose, while Serum Institute had announced a price of Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, which is double what states are charged in both cases. India’s vaccination drive is struggling to keep up with the massive swell in the country’s Covid caseload, even as many countries are providing vaccines for free. According to data on the CoWIN portal, four private players — Apollo, Max, Fortis and Manipal — are conducting the bulk of the vaccination in the private sector. Adding to woes, several state governments in the country have flagged shortages in stocks to continue their vaccination drives. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said the capital had only four to five days of stock left, while Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope has announced that SII would not be able to supply vaccines to the state until May 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-vaccines-in-india-s-private-sector-among-the-costliest-in-the-world-984470.html
10-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Centre defends its vaccination strategy in Supreme Court||In your evening news brief, Shashi Tharoor takes a dig at the government over foreign aid; Centre defends its vaccination strategy in Supreme Court and Germany is to make Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine available to all adults.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 10, 2021: Taking a dig at the government over foreign aid in the wake of the Covid-19 second wave, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday said 'Naya Bharat' is one where a virtue is made out of the sympathy earned by failures and "governmental apathy that led us to needing it" is denied or glossed over. In his tweet attacking the Centre, Tharoor tagged External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's tweet on the aid of oxygen, Remdesivir vials and other Covid-19-related medical assistance India is getting from various countries.   The vaccination strategy for Covid-19 has been formulated by the Centre in a "just, equitable, non-discriminatory" manner and any "overzealous" judicial intervention may result in unforeseen consequences, the government has told the Supreme Court. In an affidavit filed by the Centre in response to the points raised by the top court, it said as vaccination of the entire country is not possible in one stretch due to the very suddenness of the pandemic, limited availability of vaccine doses and the vulnerability are the prime considerations. The submission was made in a suo motu by the apex court case for ensuring essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic.   Germany is to make Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine available to all adults, Health Minister Jens Spahn said on Monday, adding that they will be able to receive the shot on the advice of a doctor. Europe's drug regulator backed J&J's vaccine last month after examining cases of a rare blood clotting issue in US adults who received a dose. But it left it up to the European Union's member states to decide how to use it. Germany's move to offer the J&J single-dose vaccine widely follows the lifting of restrictions last week on the AstraZeneca vaccine. (Source: PTI/Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-defends-its-vaccination-strategy-in-supreme-court-984479.html
10-05-2021||National||How decentralising vaccine procurement cost the government||The Centre has come under fire for its vaccine procurement policy as many states are left with days' worth of vaccine supply, with citizens fuming for the lack of proper management in Covid-19, as India continues to report a high number of cases. Distribution at the beginning of the vaccination drive was seamless to an extent amid supply concerns as the vaccine stocks were coming through the Centre. Now that the government greenlit the decentralisation of procurement from May 1, new challenges have come up in the supply chain. As public or private establishments can now procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers, delays and higher transportation costs lead to a pricier product for the end-consumer as well. What was happening before May 1? From January to May, the government's universal immunisation programme (UIP) infrastructure was used for logistics, which had close to 29,000 cold chain points across India for vaccine storage. Before May 1, the process was smoother as manufacturers started shipping only after it received an order, which was only from the Centre. Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII) sent their stocks via commercial flights or by road to the Centre's depots in key cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai. These depots or Government Medical Store Depots (GMSDs) were hubs of the central government, and once vaccines reached here, the state governments took over, distributing doses to districts and cities.  From the nearest GMSD, vaccines are sent to primary and community healthcare centres. After May 1 The Centre now receives 50 per cent of the doses and distribute these among states which need it the most based on 'extend of infection'. Apart from this order, the vaccine makers are expected to fulfill the needs of individual private hospital chains and state governments.  There are nearly 58,250 government sites and 2,300 private sites for vaccination. As for logistics, the GMSDs will continue to be used for the Centre's 50 per cent, but states and hospitals are on their own. State depots of the same scale may have to be set up with cold chain equipment to conserve the vaccine. Private hospitals will also have to make arrangements with manufacturers for the logistics of vaccine procuement. This has made procurement a 'first-come-first-serve' process for private centres. “While they have the logistics network, the costs of logistics do not match with what the Central government asked for when it managed the supply chain," a source in a private hospital told IE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-decentralising-vaccine-procurement-cost-the-government-984484.html
10-05-2021||National||Shun personal agenda, atone for mistakes in Covid-19 handling: Congress tells PM Modi||Congress on Monday expressed revulsion at the shocking expenditure priorities of the BJP government over continuance of the Central Vista project and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “atone for his mistakes”. The Congress Working Committee (CWC), at a meeting chaired by Congress President Sonia Gandhi, found fault with the vaccination strategy unveiled by the government, the “opaque” pricing policy and the shortage of medicines, oxygen, and hospital beds, at a time when Covid-19 has spread through rural parts of the country. The CWC said the second Covid-19 wave was nothing short of a grave calamity and a direct consequence of the Modi government's “indifference, insensitivity and incompetence”. “At a time when the nation’s resources should be devoted to ensuring expansion of vaccination coverage and supply of essential medicines and oxygen, the Modi government is indulging in criminal waste of money by continuing with the personal vanity project of the Prime Minister in the national capital,” a resolution adopted by the CWC said. “The public health system across the country has all but collapsed,” Gandhi said in her opening remarks at the meeting. The CWC also questioned the Modi government on the data on Covid-19 cases and fatalities, and allegations of “massive non-reporting of deaths”. “The solution lies in facing the challenge and stopping the casualties from Covid-19 and not in concealing the truth by burying the data on deaths and infections,” it said. The CWC said the desperate need for assistance was also a “sad reflection” of the governance and policy failures of the Modi government. It underscored the need to show an unwavering sense of national unity, purpose and resolve. “In order that it may become a reality, the Prime Minister must atone for his mistakes and commit to serving the people instead of carrying on with a personal agenda, oblivious to the suffering all around,” the CWC resolution said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shun-personal-agenda-atone-for-mistakes-in-covid-19-handling-congress-tells-pm-modi-984488.html
10-05-2021||National||Malicious Covid-19 vaccine SMS that compromises Android phones spreading: Cyber agency||A fake Covid-19 vaccine registration SMS that "maliciously" gains entry into a users' Android phone leading to compromise of individual contact list is in circulation, the federal cybersecurity agency has alerted. The harmful SMS has been identified by at least five variants. "It has been reported that a fake SMS message is in circulation that falsely claims to offer an app to let users register for Covid-19 vaccine in India." "The SMS carries a link that installs the malicious app on Android-based devices, which essentially spreads itself via SMS to victims' contacts," the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team or CERT-In said in a public advisory issued on Saturday. The agency is the federal technology arm to combat cyberattacks and guarding the Indian cyberspace against phishing and hacking assaults and similar online attacks. It added that the "app also gains unnecessary permissions that attackers could leverage to acquire user data such as contact list." Some of its identified variants are: Covid19.apk; Vaci__Regis.apk; MyVaccin_v2.apk; Cov-Regis.apk and Vccin-Apply.apk. The advisory said that the only "official" online link to register for coronavirus vaccination in the country is the portal-- http://cowin.gov.in. It asked users to be alert against all attempts of phishing through fake domains, emails and text messages that promise registration for a jab against the pandemic. As part of measures to check such malicious attempts of data breach, it advised users to tune their phone setting in a manner that disables installation of apps through "untrusted sources" and that sides should undertake safe browsing and use trusted anti-virus and internet firewall tools. India at present is administering two Covid-19 vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- to its citizens and according to official data, the central government has so far provided nearly 18 crore vaccine doses to states and union territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malicious-covid-19-vaccine-sms-that-compromises-android-phones-spreading-cyber-agency-984494.html
10-05-2021||National||Govt seeks applications for post of CVC chief, aspirants to write 300-word essay||The Centre has sought applications for the post of chief of anti-corruption watchdog CVC from eligible candidates who have to write a 300-word essay to explain their suitability for it. Incumbent Central Vigilance Commissioner Sanjay Kothari completes his term next month. Kothari joined the probity watchdog in April last year. "It is proposed to appoint the Central Vigilance Commissioner in the Central Vigilance Commission, against the vacancy due to arise in June, 2021, as the incumbent Central Vigilance Commissioner will demit office on completion of tenure," an order issued by the Personnel Ministry said. The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) consists of a Central Vigilance Commissioner and not more than two Vigilance Commissioners. There is a vacancy of a Vigilance Commissioner in the CVC. Suresh N Patel is the lone Vigilance Commissioner in the Commission. The Central Vigilance Commissioner shall hold office for a term of four years from the date on which he/she enters upon his/her office or till he/she attains the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier, the Personnel Ministry said in the order. The Central Vigilance Commissioner, on ceasing to hold the office, shall be ineligible for reappointment in the Commission, it said. Applicants have to indicate their suitability assessments for the post, in not more than 300 words, according to the order. The Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Vigilance Commissioners shall be appointed from amongst persons who have been or are in all India service or in any civil service of the Union or in a civil post under the Union having knowledge and experience in the matters relating to vigilance, policy making and administration, including police administration. They should be amongst those who have held office or are holding office in a corporation established by or persons who have expertise and experience in finance, including insurance and banking, law, vigilance, and investigations, it said. "All applicants should be of outstanding merit and impeccable integrity and should have knowledge and at least 25 years of experience in the relevant field(s)," the order said. Persons fulfilling the criteria for appointment as Central Vigilance Commissioner and interested in being considered for appointment to the post may send their application by June 7, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-seeks-applications-for-post-of-cvc-chief-aspirants-to-write-300-word-essay-984495.html
10-05-2021||National||India's Covid battle stokes vaccine worries in Africa||Africa is watching aghast as India struggles with coronavirus, fearing a long-running shortfall in the Indian-made vaccines that it needs to help shield its people. Often dubbed the "world's pharmacy", India is one of the biggest suppliers of the AstraZeneca vaccine under the Covax programme to help immunisation in poorer countries. But India has been hammered by an explosive growth in infections -- accelerated, say scientists, by a new variant. The country has recorded 22 million cases out of a population of 1.3 billion, inflicting a death toll of nearly a quarter of a million. After sending more than 60 million doses abroad, India announced at the end of March that it was delaying overseas supplies as it works to meet its own needs. African Union (AU) health ministers held emergency talks online on Saturday to discuss the vaccine gap. "The vaccines situation is extremely complex now because of the situation in India," said Cameroonian virologist John Nkengasong, director of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, the AU's health watchdog. "We are hoping that there will be a continuous supply of vaccines through Covax from India, but we are watching in total horror and disbelief what is going on in India and we don't expect that vaccines will be shipped out of India anytime soon." Of all the continents, Africa has been relatively spared the worst of the pandemic so far with just over 124,000 deaths officially recorded for 4.6 million cases. On the other hand, Africa has overcrowded cities, with slums that are a breeding ground for the virus, and a fragile health infrastructure -- risk factors that also feature prominently in India's tragic experience. The continent has administered 19.6 million doses, or just two percent of the global total -- according to the World Health Organization (WHO), 80 percent of doses have been administered in wealthier countries. Lacking the means to manufacture their own vaccine in bulk, African countries have so far had to turn to the open market or the Covax scheme. The AU's African Vaccine Acquisition Task Team (AVATT) hopes to acquire vaccines through its own programme by the end of July or early August, and Nkengasong said that while he hoped that date could be brought forward he could make no guarantees. Nkengasong said he did not expect the vaccine market to open up again until the third quarter, and urged African leaders to adjust their strategy accordingly. The virus variant wreaking havoc in India has already been detected in several African countries, notably Kenya, South Africa and Uganda. Nkengasong pushed for a three-pronged strategy -- step up testing; improve prevention through awareness programmes; and boost supplies of vaccines and oxygen. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus pleaded with African countries to maintain the utmost vigilance until the vaccine crunch is resolved. "What's happening now in many other parts of the world can happen in our Africa if we let down our guard," he told the AU meeting. "In many countries, the emergence of rapidly spreading variants, combined with premature easing of public health and social measures and the inequitable distribution of vaccines is having tragic consequences." The AU ministerial meeting in the meantime urged strict respect of social distancing guidelines in a continent where there is some resistance to vaccines. The Democratic Republic of Congo announced at the end of April that it had "redeployed" 1.3 million "surplus" AstraZeneca vaccines to five neighbouring countries. The health ministry admitted that some sections of the population had simply refused to have the jab. In some rich countries, the problem of vaccine under-supply is starting to switch to one of a surplus of vaccines that are least popular with the public. "The inequitable distribution of vaccines is not just a moral outrage. It's also economically and epidemiologically self-defeating," Tedros said scathingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-battle-stokes-vaccine-worries-in-africa-984502.html
10-05-2021||National||Tested positive for Covid, Asaram seeks bail for 'ayurvedic treatment' in Haridwar||Self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, who is serving life term at a jail for raping a teenage girl, has sought bail from the Rajasthan High Court for "ayurvedic treatment" in Haridwar after testing Covid-19 positive. Last Wednesday, after he tested positive for the infection and complained of breathlessness, Asaram was shifted to the MG Hospital from the Jodhpur Central Jail, and later on Friday, to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Jodhpur. A two-judge bench of justices Sandeep Mehta and Devendra Kachhawaha, after hearing the petition, directed that the AIIMS submit Asaram's medical report in the court. The court has listed the matter for next hearing on May 13. Asaram's counsel Pradeep Choudhary said the court was on Monday hearing an application moved by him for suspension of sentence and interim bail. The application was moved in the high court some time back, he said. Choudhary told the court that Asaram is suffering from many diseases and recently, contracted Covid-19. He has been admitted to the AIIMS-Jodhpur for the disease's treatment, the counsel said. "He has been suffering from many ailments and has interest in taking ayurvedic treatment in Haridwar (in Uttarakhand). We have sought bail so that he can go there and avail treatment of his faith," Choudhary said. Asaram was sentenced to life in prison in 2018 after a court here found him guilty of raping the girl in his ashram in 2013. She was 16 years old. The charge sheet against Asaram and four other co-accused was filed by police on November 6, 2013, under various sections of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act, the Juvenile Justice Act and the Indian Penal Code. The teenager had said in her complaint that Asaram had called her to his ashram in Manai area near Jodhpur and raped her on the night of August 15 2013. The girl from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh was studying at Asaram's ashram in Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tested-positive-for-covid-asaram-seeks-bail-for-ayurvedic-treatment-in-haridwar-984519.html
10-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India finally sees a dip in cases but situation still remains grim||Monday bore a grim reminder to India's continuing struggle with the ravaging second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Migrant labourers, yet again, started making arduous journeys back home, while bodies of Covid-19 victims were found floating in the Ganga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-finally-sees-a-dip-in-cases-but-situation-still-remains-grim-984524.html
10-05-2021||National||Compulsory licences of drugs, vaccine may not ramp up production, Centre tells SC||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that its suggestion for compulsory licensing of drugs and vaccines during the Covid-19 pandemic, may not result in enhanced production due to constraints on availability of raw materials. It said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare with the support of the Ministry of External Affairs, is making all efforts to enhance the availability of Remdesivir through ramping up of production and sourcing through imports. "In the current scenario, the main constraint is in availability of raw materials and essential inputs. Therefore, any additional permissions and licenses may not result in increased production immediately," the Centre said in an affidavit filed in the top court. The government also pointed out it is difficult to predict the trend of the pandemic and therefore difficult to forecast the demand for Remdesivir, anti-viral drug with a reasonable degree of certainty.  However, it said that resorting to statutory powers either for essential drugs or for vaccines having patent issues would have “serious, severe and unintended adverse consequences” in the country’s efforts being made on global platform. In its order on May 2, the bench had referred to the emergency provisions under the Patents Act to ask if the Centre will invoke the law to suspend the intellectual property rights in respect of essential drug such as Remdesivir and grant compulsory licenses to some other manufacturers for ramping up their production. With regard to vaccines, the government said in order to speed-up the regulatory process of use of offshore vaccines within the country and to accelerate the access, the regulatory and testing processes have been simplified that may shorten the time by four months.   Foreign vaccines which were administered globally in large numbers after approvals by USA, UK, EU and WHO will go straight for market deployment while bridging trials will be carried out simultaneously. Earlier, it was mandatory to conduct bridging trials prior to market deployment.  Noting that the maximum retail price of Remdesivir was fixed at Rs 3500, the court had asked the government to consider invoking the statutory powers of Drugs (Prices Control) Order to cap the prices of several other essential drugs like Favipiravir, Tociluzumab, Enoxaparin, Ivermectin, Methylprednisolone, Paracetamol and Hydroxy-chloroquine.  The government said that such a step was under their consideration and that exercise of statutory power shall have to be a calibrated executive response keeping several factors, national and global factors, in mind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/compulsory-licences-of-drugs-vaccine-may-not-ramp-up-production-centre-tells-sc-984536.html
10-05-2021||National||'Oxygen Express' bring relief to Covid-hit states||As states scramble to acquire medical oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients, Indian Railways has played a key role in transporting liquid medical oxygen across the country. Oxygen tankers- carrying trains are crisscrossing the country for the past four weeks to deliver the life-saving gas to hospitals to treat the patients.  Starting from April 19, Indian Railways operated 121 Oxygen Express trains and transported 4,709 tonnes of medical oxygen. Mostly, the oxygen was transported from Andhra Pradesh, Chhatisgarh, Odisha and Jharkhand to other parts of the country. More than 295 tanker load of oxygen was delivered to states such as Maharashtra, MP, Haryana, Telangana Rajasthan, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma said here on Monday. On Sunday, Oxygen Expresses delivered a record 831 tonne. For quick movement of the Oxygen Express trains, the railways created a green corridor. Sharma also said 1952 railway employees died due to Covid-19 so far. The railways are operating its system efficiently despite several of its employees succumbed to Covid-19, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-express-bring-relief-to-covid-hit-states-984540.html
10-05-2021||National||Amid the Covid gloom, models suggest a sliver of hope for Delhi and Maharashtra; India’s R value improves||Though it may be early days, multiple mathematical models suggest a sliver of hope for Delhi and Maharashtra where the Covid-19 numbers have been dropping while the R-value – a mark of the Covid-19 virus’ ability to infect - for the country has also improved from what it used to be in April. In one such model developed by researchers at the University of Michigan, USA the R value for Delhi stands at 0.9 on May 5 as against 2.3 on April 12. Similarly, for Maharashtra, it was 0.99 on May 9. R or reproduction number denotes how many healthy individuals will get the infection from a Covid-19 positive person. An R value of 1.9 means 10 Covid positive persons will spread the infections to 19 others. For the epidemic to shrink, the R value has to come down below 1. “The curve for Delhi shows that public health interventions work and they save lives. We have a lot more work to do, people are still suffering and in tremendous pain, but after Maharashtra, Delhi is also looking hopeful. However, we cannot declare premature victory, never again!” tweeted Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of Michigan. Her model received corroboration from another disease tracking model developed by Sitabhra Sinha at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. It shows Maharashtra has been showing an R value of less than one for more than two weeks now (starting from April 24). Mumbai is showing a decreasing trend for its active cases since April 11. “It would seem that Maharashtra, and especially Mumbai, is on the road to recovery. For India as a whole, most trustworthy models have suggested a peak around the middle of May, although with large uncertainties about that date, and it currently appears as if daily cases may have stalled around 410,000,” Gautam Menon, a professor of biology and physics at the Ashoka University told DH. Sinha said the national R value trend improved riding on better R value from Maharashtra. Although it is still above one, the rate of growth has slowed down considerably. The University of Michigan model came out with an R value for India as 1.18 on May 5 as compared to 1.61 on April 18. In Sinha’s model, the R value for India was 1.31 between March 9 and April 21, which has now come down to 1.09 between April 30 and May 8. But Sinha also cautioned against early celebrations citing the examples of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh – two states that showed a decrease in R but a subsequent rise, reversing the gains. Madhya Pradesh went from R of 1.35 (between Mar 4-Apr30) to 0.92 (between Apr 28-May 3) but then again rose to 1.26 (between May 5-9). Similarly the R for Chhattisgarh went from 1.56 (Mar 10-Apr 6) to around 0.93 (between Apr 18-28) and then again rose to values above 1 during Apr 29-May 6. Experts are also concerned about a reduction in the daily tests, which can miss out infections resulting in an artificial slowdown. “The growth appears to have slowed down a bit but we need to test more,” tweeted Mukherjee. “The state of testing is dismal and test positivity is too high across India. So this sense of a drop in the number of cases may be illusory,” noted Menon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-the-covid-gloom-models-suggest-a-sliver-of-hope-for-delhi-and-maharashtra-india-s-r-value-improves-984587.html
10-05-2021||National||5G trials not responsible for Covid-19 surge: DoT||The Department of Telecom (DoT) has dispelled rumours doing rounds on various social media platforms that 5G trials are responsible for the recent surge of Covid-19 cases in the country. These messages are false, absolutely not correct and have no scientific basis, the DoT said in a statement on Monday. "The general public is hereby informed that there is no link between 5G technology and spread of Covid-19 and they are urged not to be misguided by the false information and rumours spread in this matter," the statement said. "The claims linking the 5G technology with the Covid-19 pandemic are false and have no scientific basis. Moreover, it is informed that the testing of the 5G network has not yet started anywhere in India. Hence, the claim that 5G trials or networks are causing coronavirus in India is baseless and false," the DoT said. "Mobile towers emit non-ionizing Radio frequencies having very minuscule power and are incapable of causing any kind of damage to living cells including human beings. Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has prescribed norms for exposure limit for the Radio Frequency Field (i.e. Base Station Emissions) which are 10 times more stringent than the safe limits prescribed by International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) and recommended by WHO," the DoT said. Uttar Pradesh Police had earlier directed all commissioners, DIGs and superintendents of police to initiate action against those spreading rumours that Covid-19 infection spreads through 5G trials. Several people posted on social media that the 5G towers were closed and uprooted in villages in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5g-trials-not-responsible-for-covid-19-surge-dot-984608.html
10-05-2021||National Politics||Had govt done its job, it would not have come to this: Rahul Gandhi on foreign Covid-19 aid||Hitting out at the Centre, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the government's "repeated chest-thumping" at receiving foreign aid to tackle the Covid-19 crisis in the country is pathetic and had it done its job, it would not have come to this. The Congress had last week demanded transparency and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make public the details of all the relief material received by India from different countries. "GOI's repeated chest-thumping at receiving foreign aid is pathetic. Had GOI done its job, it wouldn't have come to this," Gandhi said in a tweet. As India reels under a calamitous second wave of the coronavirus infection, it has received large amounts of medical supplies from a significant number of countries, including the US, Russia, France, Germany, the UK, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Singapore, Sweden and Kuwait.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/had-govt-done-its-job-it-would-not-have-come-to-this-rahul-gandhi-on-foreign-covid-19-aid-984372.html
10-05-2021||National Politics||Poll results tell us clearly that we need to put our house in order: Sonia Gandhi||With Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra facing poll setbacks, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday offered to take responsibility for the defeat in the assembly elections, which was rejected by the party. 74-year-old Gandhi, who had stayed away from the election campaign on health grounds, made the offer at the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) called to deliberate on the poll reverses and asked party leaders to face the reality and draw lessons from it. Rahul, who led the party’s campaign in Kerala and Assam, did not attend the meeting as he was recuperating from Covid-19, while the dissenters Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma remained largely silent during the deliberations. After the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Rahul had stepped down as Congress president taking moral responsibility for the party’s defeat, but continued to be the de facto leader of the party having a say in all the crucial decision-making processes in the organisation. “These results tell us clearly that we need to put our house in order,” said the Congress president and announced the setting up of a fact-finding committee to analyse the results. Gandhi also asked the party to conduct the elections for the post of Congress president on June 23, as per the schedule drawn by the party’s Election Authority. However, the CWC unanimously resolved to defer the elections temporarily in the midst of these challenging times, read a resolution adopted at the meeting which cited the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said the deferment of polls was not open-ended and could be held in the next two-three months after the abatement of the pandemic. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot opposed the holding of elections for the post of Congress president citing the Covid-19 situation and was supported by Azad and Sharma. During the meeting, AICC in-charges of the poll-bound states made presentations on the reasons for the party’s defeat in Kerala and Assam, and its failure to open its account in West Bengal. AICC General Secretary Tariq Anwar said in Kerala that the Left parties had benefited immensely due to the relief work carried out during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, while AICC General Secretary Jitendra Singh blamed the loss in Assam to a divided leadership and the dent in the party’s vote-share by local outfits such as Rajor Dal. In West Bengal, AICC in-charge Jitin Prasada said the alliance with the Indian Secular Front led by the Furfura Sharif cleric had damaged the prospects of the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/poll-results-tell-us-clearly-that-we-need-to-put-our-house-in-order-sonia-gandhi-984383.html
10-05-2021||National Politics||'Instead of vaccinating people, AAP busy advertising': BJP hits out at Kejriwal govt over Covid-19 crisis||The BJP on Monday slammed Delhi's Arvind Kejriwal government over the Covid-19 crisis, claiming the chief minister has been busy spending crores on publicity and "misleading" people while washing his hands of responsibility and leaving everything to the Centre. Addressing a virtual press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited a RTI reply to say that the Kejriwal government has spent around Rs 805 crore on advertisements since 2015 but not opened a single new hospital in the city. He has been making daily appearances on the TV, "misleading" people and "lying", Patra said, attacking the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader. "You keep advertising, claiming there will not be any lockdown, no shortage of oxygen and that people will be delivered oxygen at home. When you saw that you cannot control the situation, then you pointed fingers at the Centre and washed your hands of your responsibility," he said. Patra noted that Kejriwal had claimed on April 26 that his government will order 1.34 crore vaccines, which is worth nearly Rs 1,400 crore. "Today, he's saying he has nothing. Only 8.93 per cent people over 45 years have got their second dose in Delhi. Only 48.03 per cent people over 60 years have received their first dose. Only 17 per cent people over 60 years have received second dose," he said. Instead of pushing the vaccination programme in time, the Delhi government was busy advertising and is now doing politics over the availability of oxygen, Patra alleged. Citing an interview of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in which he rejected suggestions that the Centre is to blame for oxygen crisis and said states are primarily responsible for making arrangement for the life-saving gas, the BJP spokesperson said Kejriwal made little efforts to augment its availability in the national capital. Despite funding from the PM Cares Fund for setting up oxygen plants, the Delhi government failed to start any because it could not provide any site, he alleged. Patra also hit out at the AAP over an alleged rape at Tikri border, where farmers' protest has been continuing, alleging that the name of one of its workers has cropped up, and he has been missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/instead-of-vaccinating-people-aap-busy-advertising-bjp-hits-out-at-kejriwal-govt-over-covid-19-crisis-984469.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Grant IGST relief to donors buying Covid-19 material from abroad: Delhi Deputy CM Sisodia to FM Sitharaman||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to grant IGST exemptions to donors based in the country procuring Covid relief material from abroad. "There is another category of donor organisations, governmental, non-governmental or private, who are based in India and are directly procuring these items from abroad and donating it to Union or state governments," he said. These organisations are not covered under IGST exemptions as they are not importing life-saving materials free of cost and paying for it, although they are finally donating it to the government for distribution among people without any charge, Sisodia said. He requested IGST exemptions be given to such organisations saying they were doing philanthropic work and also because the tax they may act as a deterrent since they are anyway paying a premium on urgent shipment or airlift of relief goods from all over the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/grant-igst-relief-to-donors-buying-covid-19-material-from-abroad-delhi-deputy-cm-sisodia-to-fm-sitharaman-984284.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-positive Azam Khan, son shifted from Sitapur jail to private hospital in Lucknow||Senior Samajwadi Party leader Mohammad Azam Khan and his son Abdullah Khan have been shifted from the Sitapur jail to a private hospital in Lucknow for coronavirus treatment, officials said on Sunday. "Azam Khan has tested positive for Covid-19, and has moderate symptoms," Medanta Hospital (Lucknow) Director Dr Rakesh Kapoor told PTI. On May 2, the jail administration tried to convince Azam Khan for treatment at Lucknow's King George's Medical University but the SP leader refused to move out of the jail. On Sunday, he was convinced and officials confirmed in the evening that he along with his son were headed to Lucknow's Medanta Hospital. "Azam Khan has fever, and has been kept on four litres of oxygen. His tests are being conducted, and accordingly his treatment will be done. His son is stable," Kapoor said. A team of doctors from the district hospital, including Sitapur CMO Madhu Garola, had examined Azam Khan on Sunday. Officials from the district administration explained to Azam Khan for a long time the need to take him to Lucknow for better treatment, Deputy Jailor Onkar Pandey said. Azam Khan and Abdullah were confirmed Covid-19 positive on April 30. Thirteen other inmates had also tested positive for Covid-19 after they complained of fever and cough on April 29, added the deputy jailor. Azam Khan, along with his son and wife Tazeen Fatma, was lodged in the jail in February last year in connection with various cases. The Allahabad High Court had in December granted bail to Tazeen Fatma in all 34 cases registered against her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-positive-azam-khan-son-shifted-from-sitapur-jail-to-private-hospital-in-lucknow-984287.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand to implement stricter Covid-19 curfew in from May 11-18||In a bid to check the coronavirus spread, the Uttarakhand government imposed a stricter curfew from May 11 to 18, reducing opening hours for shops dealing in essential services and restricting the number of people at social gatherings to 20. Cabinet Minister Subodh Uniyal said the decision has been taken to break the transmission chain of Covid-19. The stricter curfew will begin at 6 am on May 11 and continue up to 6 am on May 18, he said. Shops selling essential items like milk, vegetables, fruits and meat will be allowed to open from 7 am to 10 am daily. Till now, these shops opened from 7 am to 12 am daily. Grocery shops will be permitted to open on May 13 only. Mediapersons will have the permission to move around during the curfew if they have their IDs with them. People coming from outside the state will have to bring a negative RT-PCR report, not older than 72 hours. Departments providing essential services will open with attendance of only 50 per cent of their staff during the period. People have been advised to defer marriages if they can. Not more than 20 persons will be allowed to gather for marriages or funerals during the period. People aged 18-44, whose inoculation begins from May 10, can visit the vaccination centres after they produce documents showing their registration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-to-implement-stricter-covid-19-curfew-in-from-may-11-18-984291.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police conducts raids in neighbouring states to trace businessman who had over 500 oxygen concentrators||The Delhi Police on Sunday intensified the manhunt for businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the recovery of over 500 oxygen concentrators from his restaurants and conducted multiple raids in neighbouring states, officials said. It is suspected that Kalra has left Delhi along with his family, the police said. Teams have been formed and raids are being conducted in Delhi-NCR and neighbouring states, a senior police officer said. On Friday, 105 oxygen concentrators were recovered from two upscale restaurants in south Delhi's Khan Market area. The restaurants are owned by Kalra. On Saturday, the police transferred the case to the Crime Branch. On Thursday, 419 oxygen concentrators were recovered from another restaurant owned by Kalra and a farmhouse in south Delhi. Four men were arrested during the raids. The oxygen concentrators had been imported from China by a private company. Kalra has been absconding since the raids and his mobile phone is switched off, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-conducts-raids-in-neighbouring-states-to-trace-businessman-who-had-over-500-oxygen-concentrators-984303.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||AAP government involved in black marketing of oxygen, Covid-19 medicines: BJP Delhi chief Adesh Gupta||Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta in a press conference on Sunday accused the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government and its MLAs of black marketing life-saving Covid-19 medicines and oxygen.  “At a time when people of Delhi are gasping for oxygen, BJP, RSS and other organisations are helping people, Delhi Governments ministers and MLAs are involved in black-marketing and hoarding of medicines and oxygen. Delhi Govt and AAP are responsible for this crisis,” he said. Delhi has been hit hard by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with numerous hospitals running out of oxygen and medicines to fight the deadly virus. Gupta also hit out at Arvind Kejriwal's government for what he termed 'mismanagement' of the Covid-19 situation. “Earlier on March 6, Central government warned Delhi government about the arrangements of procurement of oxygen but they didn't do anything. But when they got pressure from hospitals, they (Delhi govt) on April 18 started looking for vendors for cryogenic oxygen tanker,” said Delhi’s BJP president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-government-involved-in-black-marketing-of-oxygen-covid-19-medicines-bjp-delhi-chief-adesh-gupta-984324.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Centre defends Covid-19 vaccination policy, different prices before Supreme Court||The Centre has defended before the Supreme Court its decision to fix different prices for Covid-19 vaccines for the states, saying it is based on the concept of creating an incentivised demand for the private players and to attract offshore manufacturers to ensure increased availability of vaccine. It contended that the policy was framed keeping in mind limited availability of vaccines, the vulnerability of age groups, and the fact that vaccinating the entire country was not possible in one go due to the suddenness of the pandemic, as the prime considerations. In an affidavit, the Union government said the pricing policy would instil a competitive market resulting in higher production of vaccines with affordable prices. The policy was “just, equitable, non-discriminatory and based upon an intelligible differentiating factor between the two age groups (45 plus and those below)," it said. The Union government has successfully fixed uniform price for the vaccines for states, removing any chance of any inter-se disparity among them, it said. "This price factor will not have any impact on the ultimate beneficiary since all state governments have already declared their policy decision of administering the vaccine to its residents, free of cost," it said. Both the manufacturers of the vaccine, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India, have declared their respective uniform prices for all state governments, it pointed out. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat is to take up the matter arising out of a Suo Motu case, on Monday. In response to the top court's queries on April 30 on prices of vaccines and their availability, the Centre pointed out two vaccines are currently part of the drive since January 2021. Another vaccine, Sputnik V developed by Gamaleya Institute, Russia and distributed in partnership with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, has received Emergency Use Authorization by the National Regulator in April 2021 and would be available now.  Many other candidates are in the late stages of clinical trials and, therefore, expected to receive necessary approval that would further increase the availability of vaccines, it said. The Centre maintained that its current vaccination strategy is to focus on priority areas and to allow enhanced production and further research and development to continue and expand with full potential without any real or perceived constrictions.  "Sometimes, steps that are taken for immediate needs, to tide over an imminent crisis, may turn out to be imprudent in a long run," it said. However, the steps need to be appreciated, keeping in mind the complete strategy, policy and holistic picture. In the context of a global pandemic, where the response and strategy of the nation are completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion, there is even little room for judicial interference. Any overzealous, though well-meaning judicial intervention may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences, in absence of any expert advice or administrative experience, leaving the doctors, scientists, experts and executive very little room to find innovative solutions on the go, it added. About mandatory online registration for the 18 to 44 years age group, it said the doses of vaccine are not unlimited with the constraints of production capacities. Permitting walk-in vaccination would result in overcrowding at the vaccination centres, defeating its very purpose of vaccination. Any vaccination centre would require certain minimum requirements like doctors, nurses and other paramedics, and waiting in the hall for minimum of 30 minutes. As more vaccines are available, the system of onsite registration and walk-in vaccination would be considered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-defends-covid-19-vaccination-policy-different-prices-before-supreme-court-984330.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||People also dying due to fear of Covid-19: UP education minister Suresh Khanna||Uttar Pradesh Medical Education Minister Suresh Khanna on Sunday said that people who test positive for Covid-19 are spreading fear of the disease and that is also causing many deaths. It is everyone's responsibility not to spread fear, he told reporters after visiting the medical college here. Khanna also visited the hospital's ICU ward. "After testing positive for Covid-19, people are spreading fear of the disease from inside their homes to outside. Deaths are also taking place due to this fear. In such a scenario, it is our responsibility not to spread fear of Covid," Khanna said. For days now, Uttar Pradesh has figured among the biggest contributors to India's Covid-19 tally, according to Union health ministry data. According to an official statement, the state recorded 23,333 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday that pushed its tally to 15,03,490 while 296 more fatalities took the death toll to 15,464. On his visit to the medical college, Khanna said Covid-19 patients admitted in the hospital are satisfied with the treatment being given to them. He claimed that there has been a decline in the number of patients due to the government's proactiveness. The number of patients has dropped to 78,000 from 3.10 lakh on April 30. Khanna also claimed that there is no shortage of oxygen or hospital beds in Shahjahanpur. "You can bring your patients, we will admit them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-also-dying-due-to-fear-of-covid-19-up-education-minister-suresh-khanna-984331.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Boeing to construct 200-bed hospital in Gorakhpur: UP government||US-based aircraft maker Boeing has proposed to construct a 200-bed ICU hospital at Vir Bahadur Singh Sports College in Gorakhpur, the Uttar Pradesh government said on Sunday. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inspected the site of the proposed hospital, it said. The chief minister also inspected the integrated Covid command centre through which work like sending Covid patients to hospitals, providing medical counselling to them in home isolation and distributing medical kits etc., is carried out, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/boeing-to-construct-200-bed-hospital-in-gorakhpur-up-government-984343.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Fire at a private lab in Greater Kailash||A fire broke out at a private pathology lab in Delhi's Greater Kailash on Monday morning. Four fire tenders who were at teh spot doused the fire, ANI reported. No casualties were reported.   Fire breaks out at a private pathology lab in Delhi's Greater Kailash, four fire tenders present at the spot More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-at-a-private-lab-in-greater-kailash-984373.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis: Delhi Police launches Covivan, dedicated to help senior citizens||In a new initiative dedicated to senior citizens, the south Delhi police launched Covivan on Sunday. Introduced with the intention of helping the elderly deal with Covid-related challenges, this facility includes a dedicated helpline and a special vehicle. “Due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, senior citizens are facing problems in getting household items and doing other essential work. Keeping in view their safety and security, we have started this helpline,” DCP (south) Atul Thakur told the publication. The DCP said as soon as a call is received, an on-duty copy will reach the requested address along with an area duty officer. Features of the Covivan initiative have been publicised by beat officers and resident welfare associations, he added. This service is currently only available in Greater Kailash. After feedback from the current service zones, the initiative will be launched in other parts of South Delhi too. Meanwhile, citizens took to Twitter to appreciate the efforts of Delhi police and "blessed them" for their good work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-delhi-police-launches-covivan-dedicated-to-help-senior-citizens-984390.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi court refuses stay on coercive action against Kalra over oxygen concentrators found in his hotel||A Delhi Court Monday refused to grant any stay on coercive action against businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his restaurants 'Khan Chacha' by the Delhi Police.  Kalra, against whom the Delhi Police's Crime Branch has launched a manhunt, moved the Saket Court seeking anticipatory bail in the case.  Special Judge Sumit Dass has directed the Investigating Officer (IO) to file the reply to the application by tomorrow.  “No stay on Delhi Police's coercive action,” the court said. The judge will take up the matter at noon tomorrow. During the course of proceedings, Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastva opposed the pre-arrest bail application.  The Public Prosecutor also asked the court, “It is a case of the Crime Branch. Is this a suitable court for it?”  The accused's counsel Advocate Vineet Malhotra told the court that his client is being “hounded” and sought pre-arrest bail.   On Thursday, 419 oxygen concentrators were recovered from another restaurant owned by Kalra and a farmhouse in south Delhi. Four men were arrested during the raids. The oxygen concentrators had been imported from China by a private company. Kalra has been absconding since the raids and his mobile phone has been switched off, according to police. On Saturday, the police transferred the case to the Crime Branch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-refuses-stay-on-coercive-action-against-kalra-over-oxygen-concentrators-found-in-his-hotel-984427.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Mahavir Narwal dies of Covid-19: Here's all you need to know about jailed Pinjra Tod activist's father||Mahavir Narwal, the father of jailed Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal, died of Covid-19 at a Rohtak hospital on Sunday. He was 71. Natasha, a student of Jawaharlal Nehru University, has been held in Tihar Jail as an undertrial for almost a year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) on charges of allegedly being part of a conspiracy to incite riots in northeast Delhi in February 2020. She is one of several activists involved in the protests against the Citizen (Amendment) Act currently under trial. Who was Mahavir Narwal? Mahavir had been jailed for taking part in protests during the Emergency period, according to a statement from Pinjra Tod. The women’s collective said Mahavir was engaged in and committed to progressive politics till the end. Mahavir had ties to the People’s Science Movement and Bharat Gyan Vigyan Andolan since its inception in Haryana, while also being a senior member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The CPI(M) also paid its respects to Mahavir through a tweet, criticising the central government for Natasha’s imprisonment. Mahavir was not allowed to speak to his daughter in jail before he passed away, sources close to the family told PTI on Sunday. Mahavir had said he had much to learn from his daughter at an online public meeting held by Pinjra Tod last year to mark six months of Natasha and Devangana Kalita’s imprisonment. He added that his family was not demoralised or intimidated, but remained part of the resistance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mahavir-narwal-dies-of-covid-19-heres-all-you-need-to-know-about-jailed-pinjra-tod-activists-father-984437.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Man walks with daughter's body on cot for 35 km in Madhya Pradesh, video goes viral||A man in Madhya Pradesh was forced to carry the body of his 16-year-old daughter on a cot for 35 km, so that police authorities could conduct a post-mortem. A video of the incident has now gone viral on social media. The teenager died by suicide on May 5. After this, the police reached their house in Gadai village and ordered the family to bring the body for an autopsy to a hospital 35 km away. Dhirapati Singh Gond had to walk for almost seven hours from Gadai village to the hospital in Singrauli district of Madhya Pradesh. The family couldn’t arrange a vehicle to transport the body due to financial constraints. So, Gond and a few villagers decided to walk the distance. Later, police official Arun Singh said it was not possible for them to arrange a vehicle as no budget was allotted to the department for transporting bodies to the post-mortem centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-walks-with-daughters-body-on-cot-for-35-km-in-madhya-pradesh-video-goes-viral-984447.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||J&K: Every 5th person tested on RT-PCR for Covid found positive||Every fifth person tested for Covid-19 on RT-PCR in Jammu and Kashmir is returning positive in the first nine days of this month, official figures reveal. However, when the tests are carried out both on RT-PCR equipment as well as Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits, the positivity rate drops to roughly 11 per cent. At the beginning of this year every 70th person was testing positive for the Covid-19. Due to a huge surge in cases, a lockdown was imposed in J&K on April 29 which has been extended till May 17, as the government tries to stem the spread of Covid-19 infections. The healthcare infrastructure in the UT has been overwhelmed due to the exponential increase in the Covid cases. In the past nine days, the number of admitted patients has jumped from 878 to 3,009. The active cases have also increased from 28,359 to 49,248. According to official data, in the first nine days of this month, 384480 Covid-19 tests were carried out in the UT and of these, 40,849 samples were found positive for SARS-CoV2.  The positive percentage of these samples, taken from across the 20 districts of the UT, is roughly 11 per cent. The tests, as per the data, are carried out both on RT-PCR equipment as well as Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) Kits. However, when data from RT-PCR conducting labs is analyzed, the positive percentage jumps to over 20 per cent. As per figures of Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, on May 9 out of 1,492 samples 342 were found positive. A day before, 255 out of 1,183 were positive while on 7 May, 302 out 1,692 tested positive. By these numbers, at least every 5th person whose sample is tested on RT PCR is found infected with Covid-19. A senior medico at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said a similar trend had been seen with the samples being tested at that lab. He, however, could not share the figures. “At times, we find that every third person tested is infected with Covid-19,” he said and added it was a stark contrast to the positive percentage seen at the beginning of the year or even in April. However, a senior health official said that much of the sampling now is targeted compared to the beginning of the year which could be one of the reasons for the huge surge in positivity rate. “Decreased random sampling was being carried out earlier,” he said. The virus has been more fatal now than any time before during the pandemic. As per official figures, 443 people have already lost lives in the five days May, twice the number of the entire month of April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-every-5th-person-tested-on-rt-pcr-for-covid-found-positive-984476.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Hindu-majority village in Uttar Pradesh elects Muslim 'pradhan'||It was a result no one had imagined, not even the victor. A Muslim was elected as 'pradhan' (panchayat chief) of Rajanpur village in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya district, about 150 kilometres from Lucknow. In this village, there is only one Muslim family; the rest are all Hindus. According to reports, Hafiz Azimuddin emerged victorious after defeating as many as seven rivals, all of whom hailed from the majority Hindu community. While the other contestants played caste and communal cards and tried to woo voters with big promises, Azimuddin kept his campaign restricted to door-to-door canvassing. Azimuddin said he thought he did not stand a chance when he submitted his nomination for the post. ''Mine is the only Muslim family in the village... all the others hail from the Hindu community... Under such circumstances, no one gave me even an outside chance of winning the election,'' he said. ''The result came as a shock for my rivals and a pleasant surprise for me,'' he added. Azimuddin said he never faced any problem from the Hindus and had friendly relations with the residents of the village. ''I have never felt threatened in this village,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-majority-village-in-uttar-pradesh-elects-muslim-pradhan-984482.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||AAP govt ordered 1.34 crore vaccines but Centre cleared only 3.5 lakh in May: Manish Sisodia||Amid fight for oxygen, the Delhi government has now opened another battle-front with the Centre on Covid-19 vaccines with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday saying that the Narendra Modi dispensation has allotted only 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin in May while it had placed orders for 1.34 crore doses with manufacturers. The first salvo was fired by Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain earlier in the day when he said there is "acute shortage" of vaccines in the capital and they have just one day's stock left for Covaxin and 3-4 day's stock for Covishield. The remarks by Sisodia and Jain came a day after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to direct vaccine manufacturers Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech to increase their monthly supplies to Delhi to 60 lakh doses per month during May-July so that the capital could achieve the target of vaccinating all in three months. On Sunday, Sisodia had targeted the Centre saying the vaccine allocation for Delhi reflected how the Centre does not value the lives of younger generations. AAP also fielded its MLA Atishi with a 'vaccine bulletin', like the way it made another lawmaker Raghav Chadha regularly issue 'oxygen bulletin' on video every day to highlight shortage of oxygen. In a digital address, Sisodia attacked the BJP saying it was practising "politics of lies" and falsely accusing it of ordering only 5.5 lakh doses only. He said the Kejriwal government ordered 1.34 crore doses for the people in the 18-44 age group after the Centre allowed states to directly place orders with vaccine manufacturers. Tweeting the copies of the letter, he said the Centre has now told them that Delhi can have only 3.5 lakh doses in May. According to the letter by the Union Health Ministry, Delhi government can buy 2,67,690 doses of Covishield and 92,840 doses of Covaxin directly from the manufacturers. Charging the BJP government with holding Kumbh Mela and conducting Assembly polls amid the second wave of Covid-19, he alleged that the Modi dispensation was more interested in selling vaccines abroad than providing it to state governments. Jain said, "Delhi is facing an acute shortage of vaccines. For Covaxin, we have stock only for one day left, and for Covishield, only 3-4 days’ stock is available. We really want the entire population of Delhi to be vaccinated and are conducting a mass vaccination drive," Jain said. Delhi has so far received 5.5 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines for the 18-44 category, and over 43 lakh doses for 45-plus, and healthcare and front-line workers as on Sunday. In his letter on Sunday, Kejriwal said that 38,96,551 vaccines have been inoculated to the people of Delhi, out of which 30,35,279 people have been given the first and 8.61 lakh people have received the second dose. He said 1.5 crore out of 2 crore people in the capital are above 18 years and they would need three crore doses. However, the capital has received only 50 lakh so far and it would need another 2.5 crore doses. Kejriwal pointed out that Delhi would need an additional 71 lakh doses to complete the vaccination of around 57 lakh people above 45 years. "To complete it (vaccination) in three months, we would need 23 lakh doses per month from the Government of India during the three months of May to July," he wrote. Separately, he also urged the Centre to direct Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech to increase their monthly supplies to Delhi to 60 lakh doses per month during May to July. On Sunday Sisodia said, "When it was time for our youth to get vaccinated, Delhi Government opened centres all across the capital but the Centre administered only 5.5 lakh vaccines for the youth and 6.5 crore vaccine for other nations. These numbers reflect how our Centre doesn’t value the lives of our younger generations." "How there is value in life for people in India. If other nations, countries like Canada, US gathered enough vaccines and prioritised vaccinating their own citizens first, then why did India fall behind? No other nation, except for France, exported vaccines to other countries before fully vaccinating its own people. France only exported 1 lakh doses internationally after it accumulated doses for itself," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-govt-ordered-134-crore-vaccines-but-centre-cleared-only-35-lakh-in-may-manish-sisodia-984490.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi has only one day's Covaxin stock left: Satyendar Jain||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said Delhi has only one day's Covaxin stock left and its Covishield doses will last for just three to four days. The minister's remarks came a day after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the Centre to direct manufacturers to increase vaccine supplies to the capital between May and July. "Covaxin doses can last up to one day only, while Covishield doses can last up to three to four days," Jain told reporters after reviewing preparations at Guru Teg Bahadur Covid Care Centre at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib in central Delhi. Delhi has so far received 5.5 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines for the 18-44 category, and over 43 lakh doses for 45-plus, and healthcare and frontline workers, according to government data released on Sunday. Around 39 lakh doses have been administered in the national capital so far.  Till Sunday evening, Delhi had 4.65 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines available for those above 45, and healthcare and frontline workers, while 2.74 lakh doses were available for the 18-44 age category. The health minister said the dip in the positivity rate and the number of new infections over the last fortnight is a "glimmer of hope". "The number of cases has reduced from around 28,000 to 13,000 now. The positivity rate has come down from a high of 36 per cent to around 20 per cent," Jain said. He, however, said there's no room for any leniency and urged everyone to keep their guard up. Jain said the 400-bed Guru Teg Bahadur Covid Care Centre has been attached with the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital.  The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee has provided the infrastructure for the facility and the Delhi government has given medical support, he said. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the DSGMC, said the Covid care centre will be managed by 50 doctors from LNJP Hospital. They will be supported by a team of 150 nurses and ward boys. All beds have oxygen concentrators. The facility has a backup of 150 D-type cylinders. It has all the essential drugs, including Remdesivir and Fabiflu, used in the treatment of Covid-19, Sirsa said. "Patients who need up to 20 litres per minute of oxygen can be treated here," he said, adding that the treatment and food will be completely free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-has-only-one-days-covaxin-stock-left-satyendar-jain-984507.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||PDP leader Naeem Akhtar released from preventive detention after five months||Three days ahead of Eid ul Fitr, authorities on Monday released People's Democratic Party leader Naeem Akhtar from preventive detention after five months, the party said.  Akhtar was released on Monday after remaining in illegal incarceration for five months,  a PDP spokesman said.  While welcoming the release of the senior party leader, PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura demanded the release of other political prisoners as well.  "The continued illegal incarceration of political leaders despite the raging pandemic belittles the claims of restoration of democracy in Jammu and Kashmir trumpeted by the government," Hanjura said.  He said five months ago Akhtar and another senior PDP leader Sartaj Madni were arbitrarily picked up on "frivolous grounds" and put in jail without any rhyme and reason.  "Despite their old age and numerous underlying medical issues they were kept in detention even during the raging pandemic depicting the vindictiveness of the administration. Even after his release from jail, Naeem Akhtar continues to be under house arrest," Hanjura said. Urging authorities to release Madni, Hanjura said given the prevailing health scare and lockdowns it makes no sense for the government to keep him under detention. "When the whole of the country, including J&K, is under lockdown, people are restricted to their homes and Supreme Court urging governments to decongest jails, what logic does it serve to keep a former legislator and a senior political leader under detention on unknown grounds. Given the Covid scare the families cannot even meet them. Administration should give up on its vindictiveness and release Sartaj immediately, " he said adding "Is it not ironic that even after NIA gave bail to party youth president Waheed ur Rehman Parra, its state counterpart continues to detain him under similar charges for which the NIA court has already given him the bail. " Hanjura also urged the government to release other political prisoners lodged in different jails in and outside of Jammu and Kashmir on humanitarian grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-leader-naeem-akhtar-released-from-preventive-detention-after-five-months-984511.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Twitter handle of J-K Lt Governor suspended, officials cite technical error||The official Twitter handle of Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha was suspended on Monday but Raj Bhawan officials maintained that it was a technical error which was being rectified at the earliest. The '@OfficeOfLGJandK' handle with over 50,000 followers had an account suspension notice displayed with a line below reading "Twitter suspends accounts which violate the Twitter Rules". The Raj Bhawan officials said that the issue had been taken up with the authorities concerned and the "technical error" would be resolved soon. PDP spokesman Mohit Bhan was among the first to flag the issue of suspension of account of the Lt Governor, saying "Meanwhile @TwitterIndia suspends the account of Office Of LG J&K citing rules violation. What did they do by the way. Did I miss something??"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/twitter-handle-of-j-k-lt-governor-suspended-officials-cite-technical-error-984516.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi will have to shut Covaxin jab centres for 18 and above if stocks not refilled: Atishi||AAP leader Atishi Monday said the Delhi government will have to close vaccination centres where Covaxin is being administered to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group after Tuesday evening if its stocks are not replenished. Delhi's Covaxin stock for this category would last till Tuesday evening, she said, adding Covishield doses for this age group can last up to four days. "On Monday morning, Delhi had 2.74 lakh vaccine doses for people in the 18-plus category," she said, releasing the city's ‘Vaccination Bulletin’. "After Tuesday evening, the Delhi government will have to start closing down the vaccination centres where Covaxin is being administered (to the 18-44 age group). We will also have to shut down Covishield inoculation centres after four days," she said. She said the Delhi government has already placed a purchase order for 1.34 crore vaccine doses with both manufacturers -- Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India. "We hope that the Central government make more vaccine available soon," she added. Delhi vaccinated over 1.28 lakh people against coronavirus on Saturday, while around 39 lakh doses have been administered in the national capital so far, she said. The first dose has been administered to 30.35 lakh people, while 8.61 lakh beneficiaries have got both the doses, Atishi said. No vaccination took place on Sunday. She said Delhi currently has 4.67 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines available for those above 45, and healthcare and frontline workers, while 2.74 lakh doses are available for the 18-44 age category. Delhi has so far received 5.5 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines for the 18-44 category, and over 43 lakh doses for 45-plus, and healthcare and frontline workers. Healthcare workers, frontline staff and those aged above 45 are being given jabs at 470 centres, whereas beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group are being inoculated at 394 centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-will-have-to-shut-covaxin-jab-centres-for-18-and-above-if-stocks-not-refilled-atishi-984530.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Rs 1 lakh penalty for organising weddings at public places in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government on Monday said that a fine of Rs 1 lakh will be imposed on those organising wedding functions in hotels and community halls etc. and for not informing the authorities if a wedding is being held at home. Similarly, a penalty of Rs 1 lakh will be imposed in case the number of people attending a wedding at home is more than 11, it said. The government issued a gazette notification to this effect. It will be effective from May 10 to 31. The state government has prohibited weddings at public places in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A penalty of Rs 1 lakh will be imposed for organising wedding functions in marriage gardens, hotels, community halls etc., and not informing the government authorities in case a wedding is being held at home, the notification stated. A penalty of the same amount will be imposed if the number of people attending a wedding at home is more than 11, or vehicles like car and bus etc., are used in the wedding procession, or other norms like social distancing and wearing face masks are violated, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-1-lakh-penalty-for-organising-weddings-at-public-places-in-rajasthan-984543.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||Bodies in Yamuna trigger scare, authorities deny Covid link||Local residents in Hamirpur district spotted five bodies floating in the Yamuna, creating a scare that these were of Covid patients, an apprehension dismissed by the authorities. The resident had spotted the bodies, including a half-burnt corpse, under a bridge on the Yamuna on May 6, according to an official. "After speaking to people and looking at the bodies, prima facie, it can be said these were not of Covid-19 patients as these were draped in a traditional manner and no body was wrapped as done in the case of Covid-19 victims," District Magistrate Gyaneshwar Tripathi said in a statement. He said all bodies were cremated with full respect. The DM said local residents told police that people immerse bodies of their family members who die during the current "Panchak Nakshatra" and refrain from cremation. The DM said some local fishermen told them that people generally tie a body to boulders and heavy stones before immersing it in the river. At times, bodies that are not completely burnt are also immersed in the river, the DM said. But this time, due to shallow water, the bodies came to the surface of the river, triggering panic among people, he said. The upper riparian district of Kanpur has been informed to take necessary action in this regard while the Hamirpur police has been deployed to keep a vigil, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bodies-in-yamuna-trigger-scare-authorities-deny-covid-link-984545.html
10-05-2021||North and Central||JNU extends Covid lockdown inside campus till May 17||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Monday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown inside the varsity campus till May 17, following an order from the Delhi government, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Since its first order to implement the lockdown inside the campus on April 19, the university has issued extensions following the Delhi government's orders on April 26 and May 3. "The curfew on movement of persons (as stipulated in the earlier orders) will be extended in the university premises till 5 am on 17.05.21 (Monday) or further orders, whichever will be earlier," JNU said in an order. It said that the Dr B R Ambedkar Central Library will remain "closed strictly" from 10 am on Monday to 9 am on May 17. The university also prohibited any marriage ceremonies at public places or the community centre. "The marriage may, however, be organized court or at home, in which not more than 20 people will be allowed to participate. The movement for the said purpose shall be allowed with production of soft or hard copy of marriage card. DJ, sound system, tentage, catering or similar kind of services will not be allowed for the marriage ceremony," it said. JNU also directed the security branch to put pickets at several locations inside the campus to "ensure effective checking of movement of persons and vehicles" and to prevent "unnecessary movement of people on roads during curfew". "Any person found violating the aforesaid instructions, shall be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws," it added. The varsity also issued numbers of the health centre, security control room and ambulance service in case of emergency. "For any help or in emergency, please contact: University Health Centre: 011-26741636, 011-26704766 and 011-26704700 (9 pm to 8 am). Ambulance: 9971728866 and 9971728877. Security Control Room: 011-26704029 (9 am to 5 pm), 011-26704752, 8130573744, 9312437374 (24x7)," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-extends-covid-lockdown-inside-campus-till-may-17-984582.html
10-05-2021||Opinion||Why environmental impacts and other costs of the Central Vista project may never be known||The redevelopment of the Central Vista from Rashtrapati Bhawan to India Gate (and actually extending to the Yamuna floodplains) has once again received public backlash and political criticism. The images of barricading and digging of Rajpath lawns prioritised as an “essential service” has created palpable anger amongst citizens. Questions that started as to why at all have now changed to why now. Citizens are desperately calling for the reprioritisation of the government’s spending to address a national health crisis. The demands to defer or reorganise government spending are understandable given the state of collapse of the health infrastructure. There is only scorn and dismissiveness from the government, when citizens seek reconsideration of the high-level decisions and deadlines, on moral and ethical grounds. But there continues to be a democratic deficit in the manner in which this project is being executed and illegalities continue to shroud it. They have been so since 2019 when the project was first announced and have continued to remain unaddressed even after the Supreme Court pronounced its split verdict on the issues regarding the construction of the new parliament in January 2021. That verdict awaits a review, but that too may be delayed due to Covid. The Central Vista project comprises the construction of a brand-new Parliament building and landscaping of open public spaces with bridges and utility infrastructure all along the stretch of Rajpath, i.e the central vista avenue. It also includes the construction of ten new office buildings for the central government known as the common central secretariat, SPG building, a new residence for the prime minister and the Vice President’s Estate. The project will only be complete with the construction of underground metro rail infrastructure and “people mover” for government officials. It also includes the construction of an “iconic structure” at the New India Garden on the banks of the Yamuna river. None of this is essential if the government’s limited arguments through twitter and friendly news channels are taken at face value. The information portal promised by the urban development minister almost a year ago remains just that, an empty promise. Experts have suggested ways to expand the seating capacity of the existing Parliament instead of making a new one. The avenue was beautiful and popular and attracted huge numbers of tourists and local picnickers. The sarkari buildings could have been repaired and the present PM house was only built a few years ago. Although these opinions were given to the government by many parliamentarians, architects and others who opposed this project as pointless extravagance and political symbolism, the government claimed that it was its prerogative to build this project. And so, despite failing the test of governance principles of transparency, participation and accountability, the project was pushed through. In the last two years, the design and execution of the Central Vista project have exploited the limits of India’s environmental laws to regulate such massive urban redevelopment project both in scale and political prestige. The project has gained significantly from a weak regulatory framework that allowed urban construction projects lesser environmental scrutiny and highly constrained public participation. The project proponents have also been allowed to slice the project into several parts, most of which will never be assessed for their environmental viability. Out of these, only the cluster of projects part of the common central secretariat and the PM residence has seen an environmental impact assessment, based on which their approval has been recently recommended. All the digging, barricading and building bridges over Rajpath as the Central Vista avenue is underway without environment clearance. As stand-alone projects the construction of the new parliament building and the underground metro have also escaped environmental impact assessments. The Central Vista is the country’s social, historical and ecological commons. Residents and visitors had made this open space their own through protests and simple, everyday pleasures and yet had no say in what is being made of it now. The governmental grab of what is ours is what makes the Central Vista project deeply flawed. Now that it is being made when we grapple with the most terrifying period of our lives, the Central Vista project will be the symbol of national trauma. (The authors are researchers at the Centre for Policy Research.)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-environmental-impacts-and-other-costs-of-the-central-vista-project-may-never-be-known-984380.html
10-05-2021||Panorama||Crew in crisis: Covid-19 vaccine shortage maroons Indian seafarers||Seafarers across the world have been the unsung heroes in the fight against Covid-19 over the last one year. While the medical fraternity, sanitation workers and police personnel were hailed as front-line warriors, seafarers have truly been "out of sight and out of mind". They are collateral victims of the Covid crisis and have been fighting a war of a different kind. As the pandemic rages across the country, perhaps the only thing stopping the Central government from imposing a complete lockdown is the impact that it could have on the economy. But our mandarins ashore seem to forget that it is the seafarer in his merchant ship who keeps the wheels of the national and global economy moving by providing the connectivity of a several thousand nautical miles. After all, over 90% of the country’s trade by volume and over 72% by value, including crude oil, is shipped across the seas, which is vital for our economy and energy security. When Covid-19 struck in early 2020, the closure of borders, flights and the lockdown had meant that thousands of seafarers who had finished their contracts were unable to sign off from their ships and return home. This resulted in extended separation from their families and extension of work beyond the contractual period, often resulting in fatigue and depression, with potential for accidents at sea. On the other hand, those waiting ashore to join their ships too faced problems with job uncertainties and loss of income. A year later, seafarers continue to be a troubled lot. The problem this time is of one of shortage of vaccines in the country. Most mariners come in the 18-plus age category. India has opened up vaccination to those above 18 years of age from May 1 as part of the third phase of the vaccination programme. This, however, has only been a symbolic move since there is an acute shortage of vaccines in the country. Therefore, while an increasing number of seafarers have registered on the Co-WIN portal for vaccinations, they have not been successful in getting slots for the jab. With no clear roadmap given by the government, uncertainty and anxiety prevail. To make matters worse, global ship owners have recently made it clear that they will only hire seafarers who have been fully vaccinated, in the interest of crew safety and with an eye on the bottom line. It is often difficult to isolate a Covid-infected person in the close confines of a ship and urgent medical assistance may not always be available out at sea. While Indian sailors, who constitute about 10% of the global seafaring community, wait ashore for the vaccine, the governments of countries such as Bangladesh, Philippines, Indonesia and China, with great foresight, have gone ahead and vaccinated their mariners. Consequently, global shipping companies which normally prefer Indian seamen have no option but to pick up seamen from South East Asian countries. Thus, Indian seafarers have been hit hard, with no jobs and no income, which means there will be no repatriation of valuable foreign exchange. Further, in recent weeks, ship owners have also stopped making crew changes in India. If the pandemic situation worsens and we enter the third wave, foreign-flagged ships may avoid Indian ports altogether and ships with record of travel to India may not be allowed to call at foreign ports, which could cripple our economy.  The fact that only 10% of our cargo is carried in Indian-flagged ships makes this problem acute. The problem of vaccinations is not peculiar to seafarers alone. Recently, the Air India Pilots Association indicated that they will abstain from work if all aircrew above the age of 18 years are not vaccinated. This is a legitimate demand considering that aircrew fly to different domestic and foreign cities on a regular basis and are susceptible to increased risk of Covid infection. On the other hand, the chief ministers of West Bengal, Delhi and some other states have indicated that they will consider giving vaccinations on priority to journalists, which, though a good move, is obviously borne out political expediency and  intended to appease that constituency. Clearly, seafarers are equally, if not more, vulnerable to the pandemic as much as journalists are. What is surprising is that the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) and other organs of the UN have asked member states to designate seafarers as "key workers" and accord priority for their vaccinations. But for some reason, our generalist bureaucrats ashore in the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways (New Delhi) and the Directorate General of Shipping (Mumbai) have not been able to convince the government to vaccinate seafarers on priority. Even the Nautical Adviser to the Government of India, who invariably is a former merchant navy officer, appears unable to do much in this regard. If the government gives the go-ahead, the seamen’s Charge Discharge Certificate number inserted in the Co-WIN portal would help identify them for early vaccination. Today, our seafarers feel undervalued and abandoned. Our leaders and civil servants, who only pay lip service to seafarers on the National Maritime Day (April 5) and some other similar occasions, will need to do much more to steer the ‘ship of the nation’ out of the storm that we are currently in. While India has always been a maritime nation, both historically and geographically, our generalist civil servants lack "maritime-mindedness" and have a predominantly continental outlook. Unfortunately, there is no vaccine yet against  "sea blindness".   (The writer is a former naval officer and currently a trustee of the Institute of Contemporary Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/crew-in-crisis-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-maroons-indian-seafarers-984314.html
10-05-2021||Panorama||Off the record: May 10, 2021||A disguise  Known for his unconventional ways, Pimpri-Chinchwad Police Commissioner Krishna Prakash visited three police stations in – Hinjewadi, Wakad, and Pimpri, taking cops by surprise. A fitness-freak and Iron Man winner, Prakash, known for his good command over the Urdu language and Shayari was disguised as ‘Jamalkhan Kamalkhan Pathan’, wearing a kurta and skull cap. He also wore a fake beard and a wig while assistant commissioner of police Prerna Katte acted as his wife. The “couple” went to the police station with complaints and saw the response of cops on duty. In one police station, they complained how a Covid-19 patient was overcharged to be ferried to a hospital in an ambulance.  Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai   Winds of change  When M K Stalin reached Fort ST George, the seat of power of Tamil Nadu government, he noticed hoardings carrying pictures of him and his father M Karunanidhi on one of the outer walls. Though such hoardings are not rare, Stalin got it removed the same evening. Also, the Secretariat notice board, for the first time in decades, featured photographs in which Opposition leaders were present. Photos of Stalin’s swearing-in including one with him and AIADMK leader O Panneerselvam sipping tea were displayed. Winds of change sweeping the Secretariat already? Only hope the new trend continues.  E T B Sivapriyan, Chennai  Groupism Recently, some media houses got a call from the residents of an apartment complex in Thiruvananthapuram, that some politicians had gathered in the complex and were flouting social distancing norms. News channel crews rushed to the flat and found senior Congress leaders in the flat, all of them loyal to a specific group. It seemed as though a group meeting was in progress, even though leaders maintained that they came to visit a veteran leader who was unwell. Incidentally, groupism in the Congress party, some allege, is one of the reasons for the poor performance of the party in the recent Kerala Assembly elections. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram  Who dares, wins Congress leaders were all praise for Mamata Banerjee and her defeat of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah-led BJP in the Assembly elections in West Bengal. Incidentally, while Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, complained about Modi government’s capture of institutions such as judiciary, media, legislature as the reason for successive failures, Banerjee pulled off a stunning victory beating all odds. Banerjee emerged victorious by daring the Modi-Shah duo, instead of spouting reasons for non-performance. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi  Wasted exercise As Covid-19 lockdown has brought life to hault in most parts of the country, including Kashmir, the administration in the Valley continues to issue routine press statements through the Department of Information. One such example is “Jumat-ul-Vida (last Friday of Ramazan), Shab-e-Qadr and Eid arrangements reviewed” by Additional Commissioner Kashmir. Over the decades, any festival would be an occasion for politicians to get some publicity by issuing statements instructing their subordinates to conduct rigorous market checks to curb the sale of sub-standard food items, black marketing and profiteering. But one wonders for whom these officials are reviewing arrangements this time when there’s a lockdown?  Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar A long journey   As the nation marks the first anniversary of the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, HarperCollins India will publish journalist turned filmmaker, Vinod Kapri’s compelling book, “1232 km: The Long Journey Home”. The 2020 nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 left millions of migrant labourers without job, food and home. Desperate and helpless, most took to the road, embarking on a long, often fatal journey home. 1232 km is about one such journey that seven migrants from Bihar—Ritesh, Ashish, Ram Babu, Sonu, Krishna, Sandeep and Mukesh—undertook on their bicycles that lasted for seven days and seven nights. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-may-10-2021-984315.html
10-05-2021||Panorama||Learning to handle stress||We, modern men, have to confront many trials and tribulations that this highly competitive and fast-paced life hurls at us. Consequently, we often become easy prey to many physiological and psychological ailments. One of the most debilitating psychological ailments is stress. Stress, if not handled carefully, becomes quite insidious and inimical to our holistic wellbeing. Like vermin, it slowly eats into our vitals and renders us fully hollow inside. Thus, T S Eliot pertinently said that we are the hollow men, we are the stuffed men. Undoubtedly, we have stuffed our lives with a lot of material wealth but in the futile pursuit of creature comforts, we get completely stressed out and eventually reach the end of our tether. Therefore, it is the dire need of the hour to understand stress and cultivate the art of taking the bull of it by its horns. With timeless wisdom, we can manage to convert stress into positive energy that can bring us a sense of greater inner fulfilment and peace of mind. The same phenomena of stress that pushes us into the bottomless pit of unbearable anxiety and despair also carry the potential to enhance the quality of our life. Stress can both mar us or make us. If we take the example of an athlete, we come to know that an athlete is capable of growing his speed and strength by enduring a tremendous amount of stress only. When in a gym, a bodybuilder takes to his rigorous exercise regime, the greater the resistance, the stronger he becomes. But if he does not balance the weight properly, the stress of weight can give him injury also. In a similar way, if managed meticulously, examination stress can give a big boost to the pupils and they can come out with flying colours. The most precious diamond was once just coal in its key components but with the wisdom of nature, it gets transformed into a valuable jewel under extreme pressure. And gold which is called the king of all metals has to bear the heat of burning flames to attain this pride of place. Therefore, it is our perspective that makes all the difference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/learning-to-handle-stress-984316.html
10-05-2021||Right in the Middle||More than just a bookseller: Remembering T S Shanbag||They used to be everywhere. On the shelves, on his table, on chairs. They spilt over from open cupboards. One had to step over them carefully as they made their way into the recesses of his tiny bookstore. He was very comfortable in that den. He would reach over, standing on his chair, to take one from the shelf above. He would crawl on his knees to ferret another from under a cupboard. His customers would stand near the door, just as I did on many afternoons during my office break. We would stand there and call out the name of an author and their latest book. Without a trace of annoyance that we had disturbed him during his lunchtime, he would crouch on the floor to retrieve it from a stack of “new arrivals” while his curd rice and pickle sat untouched on the table. T S Shanbhag, who died recently, was not just a bookseller. He was an institution, larger than life. He was among the last brave warriors who struggled to keep his bookshop going as large multinationals threatened smaller businesses. His small Premiere, with its broken steps and overflowing books, was truly premier in all aspects – just like its owner, who not only loved books but was able to recognize others who did. Here is one instance - RK Narayan’s The Writerly Life had just hit the stands in the early 2000s. Not surprisingly, Premier Bookshop had sold out all the copies by the time I arrived there. “Are you sure there is not even one left?” I pleaded. Shanbhag smiled sadly. He understood his readers’ emotions where books were concerned. “I can try next week,” he said. I shook my head. I wanted the book for my son, who was boarding a flight to the US the same night. I turned away, disappointed. The bookseller said nothing. That night, we were having dinner when the doorbell rang. A smiling Shanbhag held out RKN’s book. “This is for you,” he told my son and vanished. I visited his bookstore the next day and discovered how he had managed this feat. “Someone had taken three copies yesterday. I requested them to return one which I would replace next week.” I also discovered his “customer” lived in Basavanagudi in the south of this city. Shanbagh had travelled all the way to the northern end to deliver the book. But that was Shanbhag, a small bookseller with a big heart. They don’t make people like that anymore, do they?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/more-than-just-a-bookseller-remembering-t-s-shanbag-984313.html
10-05-2021||Second Edit||IPR waiver will help poor countries||The proposal to effect a temporary waiver of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) of Covid-19 vaccines is a major move, being widely discussed, to address the severe shortage of vaccines in most parts of the world. India and South Africa had made this proposal in October last year to the World Trade Organisation (WTO). The suggestion was for relaxation of certain provisions of the TRIPS agreement to facilitate large-scale production of vaccines without attracting penalties for IPR violations. The proposal has gained some momentum now with the support of the US and a number of other countries. But the European Union (EU) is divided on the matter and some other developed countries are opposing it. The EU, which is home to many pharmaceutical firms, has agreed to discuss the matter but its most prominent member, Germany, has expressed major reservations.  While there is progress in covering large sections of population in the rich world, vaccination has badly lagged in others, including India which is a major vaccine producer. Waiver of patents will help increase production of vaccines because manufacturers will be able to produce them without constraints. If an IPR  waiver is allowed, those who have manufacturing capability can produce generic Covid vaccines. The cost of production will also be low. This will help many poor and developing countries to get access to vaccines. But not surprisingly, big pharmaceutical companies have advanced many arguments against the proposal. They claim that an IPR waiver will not help because it will take a long time to ramp up production and that it will discourage innovation and enterprise on the part of companies which have invested heavily in the vaccine development process. They also argue that shortage of raw materials and components will constrain production, and that better distribution and supply management of vaccines will ensure that those who are deprived of vaccines now will get them.  These are obstructionist arguments intended to keep their grip on production and to continue to earn the huge profits they are earning now. Much of the vaccine development has come from publicly funded basic science research and it is wrong to claim that the companies have full rights to their products. Even if the IPR regulations are relaxed, these companies will have made big profits. The pandemic is a threat to humanity and the WTO rules allow relaxation "in exceptional circumstances’’. The present situation of vaccine inequity should not continue not only for ethical reasons but because "no one is safe till everyone is safe’’. Other possibilities like voluntary licensing arrangements or a compromise proposal on relaxation may also be pursued. But if ever there is a case for an IPR waiver it is for the Covid vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ipr-waiver-will-help-poor-countries-984309.html
10-05-2021||South||Telangana to rope in 50,000 doctors temporarily to aid Covid-19 fight||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Sunday directed authorities concerned to recruit over 50,000 doctors on a temporary basis to help fight Covid-19 in the state. According to an official release, nurses, lab technicians, and other paramedical staff will also be hired to handle the current surge in infections. Those who have completed MBBS would be appointed temporarily. They would be paid well and suitably recognised for extending their valuable services to the state, Rao was quoted as saying. "The CM urged the young doctors to come forward to serve people facing difficult times. The CM also appealed to the qualified nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians, and paramedics to come forward and offer their services," it said. Rao gave the direction to hire the doctors at a high-level review meeting held here on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. During the meeting, officials said there are 7,393 beds in government hospitals and 2,470 oxygen and 600 ventilator beds available in the state. The CM also spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and briefed him on the measures taken by his government to curb the spread of the virus. Rao suggested that priority be given to cab and auto drivers, bus conductors and those delivering LPG gas cylinders, under the ongoing vaccination drive. The Union Minister then assured the CM that he would look into his suggestions, the release added. Later, Modi called the CM over phone and thanked him for the suggestions. "Your (KCR's)suggestions are good and we will implement them. I thank you for the good suggestions," the release quoted Modi as saying. The CM had urged the Centre to supply more oxygen and Remdesivir injections to the state, to which Modi responded positively, it added. According to a separate release, Rao announced that 5 kgs rice would be distributed free for all the white ration card holders in the state. The CM also announced that 80,000 additional private school teachers in the state would receive Rs 2000 financial aid and 25 kgs of rice per month till schools reopen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-rope-in-50000-doctors-temporarily-to-aid-covid-19-fight-984299.html
10-05-2021||South||Former CM Palaniswami elected leader of AIADMK legislature party||Former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will be the Leader of Opposition in the 16th Tamil Nadu Assembly after he was elected as the leader of AIADMK Legislature Party despite strong objection from party coordinator O Panneerselvam. It is understood that Panneerselvam left the party headquarters in a hurry after Palaniswami was elected as the leader of the AIADMK legislators. He did not even wait for the customary group photograph clicked at the end of the legislative party meeting. However, a statement from the AIADMK said Palaniswami was “unanimously” elected leader of the AIADMK Legislature Party. Interestingly, the statement had signatures of both Panneerselvam and EPS in their capacities as coordinator and joint coordinator of the party respectively. Palaniswami, sources said, was supported by almost 60 of the 66 legislators who won the April 6 elections, though Panneerselvam opposed the candidature of the former chief minister. As Palaniswami continued to remain defiant, Panneerselvam proposed the name of former Speaker P Dhanapal, who hails from western Tamil Nadu, much like the former Chief Minister. “Nothing was acceptable to Palaniswami camp except the leader of Opposition post to them. As almost 60 MLAs supported Palaniswami, it was decided that he will be the Opposition leader. Panneerselvam was visibly upset at being snubbed and left the hall where the meeting was taking place,” a legislator told DH. Monday's meeting was second in three days as there was no consensus on the issue in the first sitting on Friday. The Friday meeting saw angry exchange of words between Palaniswami and Panneerselvam as both staked the claim for the post.   Palaniswami, whose position in the AIADMK is a notch below that of Panneerselvam's, wanted to be the leader of Opposition as he had pulled off the party's best performance in a losing election. Also, his camp pointed out in the legislative party meetings that the AIADMK has scored the maximum number of seats from the western region, and therefore, Palaniswami was the natural choice. However, the open display of animosity between the two top leaders of AIADMK has upset party leaders. “This is bad optics for the party, especially as it comes just a week after the election drubbing. The cadres who are already upset will not like this. The two leaders should sit across the table, and sort out their differences rather than fighting out in the open,” a member of the party's Steering Committee told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-cm-palaniswami-elected-leader-of-aiadmk-legislature-party-984426.html
10-05-2021||South||Dip in Covid-19 doubling rate began in February; Andhra Pradesh, Telangana ignored warning signs: Report||In the midst of a ravaging second wave of coronavirus in India, a report has revealed that southern states like Andhra Pradesh and Telangana ignored clear warning signs of the disease's doubling time dipping since February. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the doubling time began falling from February 18. It drastically dropped from 1,636 days to 95 days in April-end. K Sujatha Rao, former secretary to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, slammed the central and state governments for complacency. She said public health experts and scientists should have been consulted, who would have warned the governments of the severity of the second wave. “There is some amount of negligence both in the states and the Centre. We allowed festivals and events where crowds gather. There was no urgency shown towards the value of vaccination,” Rao told the publication. She said the government was paying a price for its oversight, adding that it should have stocked up on medical equipment and medicines like Remdesivir when there was time. She also said the healthcare system was overstretched, with exhausted doctors and nurses on Covid duty. However, Telangana health officials denied such claims, refusing to accept that there was a lax on the government’s part in handling the crisis. Talking to TOI, director of medical education, Dr K Ramesh Reddy, said the state has 10,000 ICU, ventilator and ordinary oxygen beds at present, with 600 non-invasive ventilator and ventilator beds in Gandhi Hospital alone, as opposed to 1,000 oxygen beds at the beginning of the first Covid wave. He also denied claims that the state was facing a shortage of Remdesivir injections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dip-in-covid-19-doubling-rate-began-in-february-andhra-pradesh-telangana-ignored-warning-signs-report-984431.html
10-05-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala releases 560 prisoners on parole following SC directive||As part of efforts to decongest jails in view of the second wave of Covid-19, as many as 568 prisoners, lodged in various prisons across the state, have been released on parole in Kerala. Besides them, 932 other convicted prisoners may also be released temporarily soon while around 350 remand prisoners would be freed on interim bail, according to official sources here. The decision was taken based on a recent Supreme Court directive ordering the immediate release of prisoners with an aim to avoid overcrowding in jails in the wake of the unprecedented spread of the pandemic. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, on May 8, said all those who were allowed to go out on bail in March last year by the high-powered committees of states and Union Territories (UTs) during the first wave of Covid-19 be granted the same relief now also without any reconsideration to avoid delay. On March 16, 2020, the top court had on its own taken cognisance of overcrowding of prisons across the country and said it is difficult for jail inmates to maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus. State jail DGP, Rishiraj Singh said the high-powered committee, appointed by the apex court, has ordered 90 days parole for prisoners who have been convicted. Interim bail has been granted to the remand prisoners, who are not habitual offenders and have no criminal background and those punished for offences for which prescribed punishment is up to 7 years or less, with or without fine and those convicted for a lesser number of years than the maximum, he said. High Court judge, Justice C T Ravi Kumar, home secretary T K Jose and DGP Rishiraj Singh comprise the High- Powered Committee (HPC) in Kerala, set up as per the directive of the top court. Those who had been given parole based on a state government order, issued on May 5, would also be eligible for the apex court-granted parole, he said. Besides them, parole may also be granted to those, who were not involved in narcotic or any other such anti-national activities and male inmates aged above 60 years and female prisoners aged above 50 years. "Thus, over 1,500 prisoners, including 568 people released on parole the other day, will get temporary relief. Besides them, around 350 remand prisoners may also be released on interim bail," the Jail DGP said here. Singh directed various jail authorities to implement the HPC's order with immediate effect. He also directed the prisoners, who are released, to comply with the Covid protocol completely while going outside and stay safe at their homes. Over 6,000 prisoners are lodged in a total of 54 jails, including three central jails in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-releases-560-prisoners-on-parole-following-sc-directive-984444.html
10-05-2021||South||No confirmed bed, no entry: Telangana cops stop Covid-19 patients in ambulances from Andhra Pradesh at borders||Several ambulances from Andhra Pradesh ferrying Covid-19 patients to hospitals in Hyderabad for better treatment were stopped by the Telangana police at the border points near Kurnool and Kodad on Monday. While “no written orders were issued” to turn back the patients from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana police officials said they have “instructions” to prevent the patients lacking a reserved bed or oxygen etc treatment assurance from any hospital in Hyderabad from reaching the capital city. Most of the hospitals in Hyderabad, especially the renowned names in the private sector, are said to be operating at or near their full capacities treating the Covid-19 patients. “Such is the situation that we do not want these patients to reach Hyderabad and wander on the city roads (for lack of a hospital bed). So, if a patient is not in a serious condition and can be treated at Kurnool or other places, those ambulances were asked to go back. However, patients with reserved beds were allowed to proceed to Hyderabad,” Ranjan Ratan Kumar, Superintendent of Police, Jogulamba-Gadwal district that shares border with AP's Kurnool told DH. Kurnool is the gateway to Rayalaseema, while Kodad in Telangana lies few kilometres from the border with coastal Andhra region. Telangana officials have earlier stated that many non-Telangana patients were undergoing treatment in the Hyderabad hospitals for better treatment and care. Due to their geographical proximity and better healthcare facilities, people from Bidar, Nanded etc border areas also choose Hyderabad for their medical needs. At the height of the Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra in March-April, few private hospitals in Hyderabad said that patients from the neighboring state formed 25-30 percent of their bed occupancy. Now, Andhra Pradesh is reporting over 20,000 new cases daily. Except for some faraway cities like Visakhapatnam, the truncated state lacks superior medical infrastructure in the private sector like it is concentrated in Hyderabad, which went to Telangana in the 2014 bifurcation. A few netizens have expressed anger on twitter over the alleged patient obstruction by Telangana, stating the AP Reorganization Act permits Hyderabad as the common capital for the two Telugu states till 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-confirmed-bed-no-entry-telangana-cops-stop-covid-19-patients-in-ambulances-from-andhra-pradesh-at-borders-984450.html
10-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis: Campco temporarily shuts down operations till May 15||The Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Co-operative Limited  (Campco) has decided to temporarily close down its operations from May 11 to 15, keeping in mind the rising number of Covid-19 cases and to support the state government’s initiative in breaking the chain President Kishore Kumar Kodgi said Campco values the health and safety of its staff and members above all else. Accordingly, Campco branches, chocolate factory and head office of the Campco will remain closed temporarily. The Campco will continue its endeavour in providing a stable market to the farmers' produce. Kumar appealed to the farmers not to panic or give room to rumours whatsoever as the survey report received from the consumer market indicates that the demand for arecanut in consuming areas continues unabated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-campco-temporarily-shuts-down-operations-till-may-15-984474.html
10-05-2021||South||Cases increase in Tamil Nadu, but health infrastructure saves the day for now||Covid-19 cases have been witnessing an exponential increase in Tamil Nadu in the past few weeks, but the health care system has not collapsed much like many other states. The situation in both government and private health care facilities in the state seems under control for now, though the demand for oxygen and waiting time to get a hospital bed are increasing each passing day. At last count on Monday evening, Tamil Nadu had 1,52,389 active cases of which 35,153 were from the capital city of Chennai. ICU and oxygen beds in Chennai, and other major cities like Salem, Coimbatore, and Madurai are fast filling up as the state continues to add at least 25,000 fresh cases a day. However, the health infrastructure built over the years and augmented after the first wave of Covid-19, is helping the state handle ever-burgeoning cases. But the situation may go out of control if the cases don't slow down after a week or so. The new government that assumed office four days back has promised to ensure that an additional 12,000 oxygen beds will be ready in the next one week, even as oxygen requirement has increased manifold in the past one month. Based on the request by Chief Minister M K Stalin, the Centre had on May 8 revised the oxygen allocation for Tamil Nadu to 419 MT, though the state government has estimated that the requirement will go up to 840 MT in the next two weeks. The government is also providing oxygen cylinders to private hospitals that are in need of them to treat patients requiring O2 support – it has also asked officials to ensure that there is no oxygen wastage in the state. The new administration has also constituted a War Room that is functioning as the single nodal point for Covid-19 containment efforts like requirement of oxygen, bed availability in both private and government medical facilities, and monitoring requests for admissions or support to critically-ill patients, including on social media. Special counters have been opened in Chennai, and four other cities for sale of Remdesivir to prevent the drug being sold in the black market. In Chennai, which has maximum cases in the state, government hospitals have been asked not to turn away anyone for lack of bed, with Covid-19 positive patients being forced to wait inside the ambulance van for hours together.   “We waited inside the ambulance van for a few hours, and outside the step-down ward at a medical college in Chennai for another couple of hours. After eight hours, my husband was admitted to the hospital. Though the waiting time was gruelling, we had no option. However, he is doing fine now,” Latha, a resident of Poonamallee in Chennai, told DH. The triage method of assessing patients immediately after they test positive for the novel Coronavirus and deciding their treatment protocol as per their health condition is cited as one of the reasons for “less pressure” on hospital beds. Leading epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil told DH that Tamil Nadu was “way ahead” of many other states in handling the number of patients due to the health care infrastructure both on the government and private side. “The spread has to come down, and it (virus) cannot survive for long. In some areas in Chennai, especially in slums, which were red areas last time are reaping the benefits now as the reinfection rate is by and large very less,” he said.  Special counters have been opened in Chennai, and four other cities for the sale of Remdesivir to prevent the drug from being sold in the black market. In Chennai, which has maximum cases in the state, government hospitals have been asked not to turn away anyone for lack of bed, though Covid-19 positive patients wait inside ambulance vans for hours together. “We waited inside the ambulance van for a few hours, and outside the step-down ward at a medical college in Chennai for another couple of hours. After eight hours, my husband was admitted to the hospital. Though the waiting time was gruelling, we had no option. However, he is doing fine now,” Latha, a resident of Poonamallee in Chennai, told DH. The triage method of assessing patients immediately after they test positive for the novel coronavirus and deciding their treatment protocol as per their health condition is cited as one of the reasons for “less pressure” on hospital beds. Leading epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil told DH that Tamil Nadu was “way ahead” of many other states in handling the number of patients due to the health care infrastructure both on the government and private side. “The spread has to come down, and it (virus) cannot survive for long. In some areas in Chennai, especially in slums, which were red areas last time are reaping the benefits now as the reinfection rate is by and large very less,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cases-increase-in-tamil-nadu-but-health-infrastructure-saves-the-day-for-now-984505.html
10-05-2021||South||Covid victim's kin break protocol, take body to mosque for last rites in Kerala||In a blatant violation of Covid protocols, the body of a Covid-19 victim was taken to a mosque to conduct the last rites at Thrissur district in Kerala. The district administration swiftly intervened and cases were being initiated against those responsible for the serious violation. The body of the 56-year old man was handed over to relatives from Thrissur Medical College hospital on Monday morning for conducting the funeral as per protocol. But they took the body to a mosque in Thrissur city and started performing the last rites. There were also unconfirmed reports that the packing of the body was opened. District collector S Shanavas reached the spot and stopped the last rites, directing health authorities to take the body away. He directed the officials to initiate cases against the mosque authorities, relatives of the deceased and the ambulance driver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-victims-kin-break-protocol-take-body-to-mosque-for-last-rites-in-kerala-984542.html
10-05-2021||South||Malayalam film director and screenwriter Dennis Joseph passes away||Popular Malayalam film director and screenwriter Dennis Joseph reportedly passed away due to heart attack at a hospital on Monday. Having worked with several big stars from the South film industry, Joseph was known for writing films like 'Madras Mail', 'Manu Uncle', 'Palayam', 'Shyama' among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-film-director-and-screenwriter-dennis-joseph-passes-away-984555.html
10-05-2021||South||Senior IPS officer P Kandaswamy to head Tamil Nadu DVAC||Seasoned IPS officer P Kandaswamy was on Monday appointed as the head of Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), Tamil Nadu. He had shot into fame after he headed the team that arrested Amit Shah when he was Gujarat Minister for his alleged involvement in the Sohrabuddin encounter case,  Kandaswamy, who was DIG with the CBI when he probed the case in which Shah was named first and later discharged, holds the rank of Director General of Police. His appointment to DVAC comes at a time when the DMK has promised to try all charges of corruption under the AIADMK government headed by Edappadi K Palaniswami. The DMK, during its campaign, had promised to constitute a special court to try all cases against AIADMK ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-ips-officer-p-kandaswamy-to-head-tamil-nadu-dvac-984562.html
10-05-2021||South||Active Covid cases in Kerala expected to touch 6 lakh||As Covid active cases in Kerala is likely to go up to six lakh by May 15, the state government is initiating steps to pool oxygen and opening new Covid hospitals. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that experts cited that the number of actives case which was around 4.2 lakh on Monday may go up to 6 lakh by May 15. The present daily oxygen production in Kerala is 219 MT and by May 15 the requirement may reach 450 MT. Hence the centre was urged to take steps to supply oxygen from steel plants. The centre sanctioned three oxygen plants in Kerala. A new Covid hospital is being set up near the Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited at Kollam in order to get oxygen supply from the company easily. More doctors and paramedical staff would be recruited on a temporary basis. Vijayan said that the situation in the state continued to be grim, especially in districts like Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur where the number of cases is high. Of the 72 panchayats in Kerala in which TPR is above 50 per cent, 19 are in Kochi.  Apart from health workers, many police personnel were also getting infected. At present 1,259 police personnel were Covid infected, he said. Meanwhile, 27,487 more fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Monday. The TPR also remained high at 27.56 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/active-covid-cases-in-kerala-expected-to-touch-6-lakh-984575.html
10-05-2021||South||Kerala CM writes to PM Modi on oxygen crisis||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi citing practical difficulties in sending oxygen from state units to other states in view of Kerala's increasing requirement. Vijayan pointed out that owing to the increase in the number of Covid patients in Kerala, the state's requirement may go up to 450 MT daily by May 15. The oxygen buffer stock is only 86 MT and the state's oxygen generation is 219 MT daily. Hence, it will be practically impossible to allow oxygen to be taken outside the state. Vijayan also asked the Prime Minister that Kerala may be allowed additional oxygen from steel plants as well as to allocate cryo tankers for bringing additional liquid medical oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-on-oxygen-crisis-984593.html
10-05-2021||State||Police seize vehicles for unnecessary movement during Covid lockdown||Police seized vehicles from people who failed to show valid documents for stepping out of home on Monday as part of effective implementation of lockdown norms imposed by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. Barricades had been set up at Jayadeva, Gundi, Ambedkar and Gandhi circles in the city to prevent unnecessary movement of vehicles.  They had been set up in border areas of the district and only ambulance vehicles were permitted to enter the district. Meanwhile, Davangere Tahasildar B N Girish came on the streets and slapped fine on those roaming in the city for no valid reason. As many as 15 vehicles had been seized at Jayadeva circle. Mayor S T Veeresh also accompanied the officer. Tahasildar B N Girish warned people to follow the guidelines of the government without fail. Most shopkeepers closed down shutters of their shops voluntarily after 10:00 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-seize-vehicles-for-unnecessary-movement-during-covid-lockdown-984435.html
10-05-2021||State||First 'Oxygen Express' train to arrive in Bengaluru on May 11||The first 'Oxygen Express' to Karnataka with six cryogenic containers -- a total of 120 tonnes -- left Jamshedpur on Monday. The train is expected to reach Inland Container Depot, Container Corporation of India, Whitefield, here, on Tuesday, an official press release said. Karnataka on Sunday reported 47,930 fresh Covid-19 infections, and 490 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/first-oxygen-express-train-to-arrive-in-bengaluru-on-may-11-984477.html
10-05-2021||State||Karnataka plans to open triaging centres in 10 districts: Arvind Limbavali||Ramping up the medical facilities even as more and more fresh Covid-19 cases are being reported on a daily basis, the state government is considering setting up physical triaging centres in 10 districts with high Covid-19 caseload. Holding a virtual meeting with deputy commissioners, district health officers and corporation commissioners on Monday, nodal minister for Karnataka Covid war room and call centres Arvind Limbavali said, "The work will be expedited more effectively after taking opinion from the respective district administration." The minister directed the district administrations to prepare a detailed report with details on the availability of place, required manpower for setting up these triaging centres. On suggestions from the districts about operating mobile testing centres, the minister said that he will discuss the issue with the chief minister and a decision on it will be taken at the government level soon. Officials from Dakshina Kannada, Hubballi-Dharawad, Kalaburagi, Davangere, Belagavi, Shivamogga, Udupi, Kodagu and Mandya districts took part in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-plans-to-open-triaging-centres-in-10-districts-arvind-limbavali-984514.html
10-05-2021||State||KAS officer succumbs to Covid-19||A senior Karnataka Administrative Service (KAS) officer died due to Covid-19 complications at Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Monday. Khwaja Bandenawaz (53) was serving as joint director in the Social Welfare department. He had tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks back during his visit to in-laws place in Kalaburagi. The officer was admitted to a private hospital in Raichur after he developed breathlessness a week back. Bandenawaz was shifted to RIMS on Monday after his condition deteriorated. Hours later, he lost his battle with Covid. He had served in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts. He is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter. The mortal remains of the officer were laid to rest at his native Devdurga, as per the Covid-19 guidelines, on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kas-officer-succumbs-to-covid-19-984566.html
10-05-2021||State||Kalinga University gets new chancellor and pro-chancellor||The Bhubaneswar-based Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) Deemed-to-be University has appointed Satya S Tripathi, former assistant secretary-general of the United Nations as its new chancellor. Similarly, former IAS officer of Karnataka Cadre Dr Upendra Tripathi has been appointed pro-chancellor of KISS. Prof Deepak Kumar Behera, an acclaimed anthropologist has been appointed vice-chancellor, according to an official release from the KISS. While Dr Satya Tripathi previously served as Secretary-General of the Global Alliance for a Sustainable Planet, Dr Upendra Tripathi, after prolonged stint in Karnataka at various positions, had opted for central service and served as secretary in the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.  The university has also appointed Prof Pitabasa Sahoo dean of the department of development studies, Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of youth development Tamil Nadu as Pro-Vice-Chancellor on deputation, and Dr Kanchu Charan Mahali a retired IPS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre as the director-general of KISS, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalinga-university-gets-new-chancellor-and-pro-chancellor-984581.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In call with PM Modi, Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa seeks more oxygen, Covid-19 vaccines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about the measures initiated towards containing the second wave of the pandemic. Yediyurappa urged the PM to ensure adequate supply of critical drugs and vaccines, apart from a plea to increase oxygen allocation to the state, according to sources. He is also learnt to have briefed Modi about the lockdown measures initiated in the state.  Apart from Yediyurappa, Modi also spoke to the chief ministers of Punjab, Bihar and Uttarakhand during the day. The PM’s latest round of talks took place on the day when the Centre released Rs 8,923.8 crore to 25 states for providing grants to rural local bodies. Karnataka received Rs 475.4 crore, which will be used for various prevention and mitigation measures and to augment the existing healthcare facilities in rural areas. Karnataka is among the worst-hit states in the second wave of the pandemic, as close to 50,000 cases are being reported daily for over a week now.  Lockdown from May 10 With the 'Janata Curfew' announced previously by the government failing to yield the expected results, Karnataka will enter into a lockdown from Monday till 6 am on May 24. While the government has exempted several essential services and industries from the lockdown, it has imposed strict curbs on the movement of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-call-with-pm-modi-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-seeks-more-oxygen-covid-19-vaccines-984281.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Prevent police atrocity during lockdown: Citizens appeal to the Karnataka govt||The Bengaluru Police's 'violent method' of enforcing Covid-19 restrictions in various parts of Bengaluru has met with sharp criticism from various quarters of the society. Activists, celebrities and common citizens have come out in the open expressing dissent against police atrocity on those defying the Covid-19 rules. A police inspector's violent act of damaging an autorickshaw with his lathi at KR Market circle has gone viral on social media with many criticising the Inspector's action. Rahul Machaiah, a Twitter user tweeted, "Is damaging vehicles, a method of law enforcement? The cops should be restrained by the DGP & IG or else they'll blatantly violate human rights for the next 2 weeks. They don't seem to understand that violators should be punished according to the law" Karnataka Vikasa Ranga has also urged the home minister to issue direction to the police to restrain from assaulting people. "Police have no patience even to listen to the people on why they came out? Let the police register cases and initiate legal action as per the rule. But assaulting the commoners has not only left many severely injured but also traumatic," said V H Channegowda, Chairperson of the Association. Sandalwood star and BJP leader Jaggesh also appealed to the police not to cane the people. "Let police penalise the violators. Let them seize the vehicles. But please do not wield your lathis on innocent people. Youngsters may withstand the force. But what about the senior citizens? The pandemic has snatched the livelihood of many and it is the all of us exhibit sympathy to others," the actor tweeted. Drawing the attention of Karnataka DG&IGP over the alleged police atrocity on covid rules violators, DH reached out to Praveen Sood, head of the State's police force. "I do not know about that," Sood reacted and disconnected the call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prevent-police-atrocity-during-lockdown-citizens-appeal-to-the-karnataka-govt-984370.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||K'taka: Strict Covid-19 lockdown kick in; former CM slams cops' action against violators||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has appealed to the people to abide by the strict lockdown- like restrictions in Karnataka from Monday for the next fortnight to contain the spread of coronavirus, which is spreading in the state at an alarming proportion. "As we begin the 14-day strict restriction to break the chain of infection, I request all citizens to follow the guidelines in letter and spirit. Your cooperation is crucial to contain the spread of the virus. Together we can defeat the pandemic," the Chief Minister tweeted. As we begin the 14-day strict restriction to break the chain of infection, I request all citizens to follow the guidelines in letter and spirit. Your cooperation is crucial to contain the spread of the virus. Together we can defeat the pandemic. Policemen wielding lathis were seen at places in an effort to implement the stringent restrictions. The roads were barricaded and motorists were warned and allegedly got the stick for venturing out without valid reasons. Those who went out to purchase medicines and essential goods were also allegedly roughed up. At Uttarahalli circle in Bengaluru, people who had gone to collect water from the government established water purifier unit were also allegedly beaten. "The policemen saw me with a can of water, yet they beat me up. They were saying why I used the two-wheeler but what should I do if there is no water dispensing unit near my house, which is two kilometres away," a youth with tears in his eyes told PTI. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy came down heavily on the government for the police excesses saying that the government thought stopping people's movement was the only way to prevent the spread of the virus. In a series of tweets, the JD(S) second-in-command expressed his anger over the way lockdown has been implemented. "Strict lockdown and not just lockdown, where people will be beaten up like cattle has been implemented from today. It is a tragedy that the government thought lockdown means stopping vehicular movement. It forgot the woes of citizens in distress," the JD(S) leader tweeted. ಲಾಕ್ ಡೌನ್ ಮಾಡಿ ಜನರ ಜೀವ ಉಳಿಸಿ ಎಂದು ನಾನು ಮೊದಲೇ ಹೇಳಿದ್ದೆ. ಹಾಗೆ ಹೇಳುವಾಗ ಲಾಕ್ ಡೌನ್ ನಿಂದ ಜನ ಜೀವನಕ್ಕೆ ಆಗುವ ತೊಂದರೆಗಳಿಗೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಕ್ರಮಗಳಿರಬೇಕು, ಜನರ ಅಗತ್ಯವನ್ನು ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಭರಿಸಬೇಕೆಂದು ಹೇಳಿದ್ದೆ. ಆದರೆ, ಲಾಕ್ ಡೌನ್ ಸಂದರ್ಭದಲ್ಲಿ ನೀಡಬೇಕಾದ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಕ್ರಮಗಳಿಂದ ವಿಮುಖವಾಗಿರುವ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಬೇಜವಾಬ್ದಾರಿತನ ತೋರಿದೆ.2/6 He said these were not the restrictions the opposition had suggested. The government on Friday announced the restrictions on the advice of the ministers, opposition leaders, members of the government-formed Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 and other medical experts in view of the rising Covid cases. Karnataka has been reporting about 50,000 cases daily while the active cases are close to six lakh. The fatalities in the state is close to 19,000. Bengaluru is reporting half of the infections, fatalities and active cases in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ktaka-strict-covid-19-lockdown-kick-in-former-cm-slams-cops-action-against-violators-984391.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai denies talk of him replacing BSY as next Karnataka CM||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday denied speculation that he is being considered as a replacement for B S Yediyurappa as the next chief minister.  “It’s a lie,” Bommai told reporters after his return from New Delhi that led to speculation of a change in leadership. “We shouldn’t even think about this when everyone is fighting Covid-19. Such things shouldn’t come up for discussion even.” He said there was no politics behind his visit to the national capital on Friday. He returned Sunday night. His visit, along with BJP vice-president and Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra, was seen as politically-loaded.  “There was no political intention. We went to discuss Covid-19 only,” said Bommai, who is seen as Yediyurappa’s trusted lieutenant.  He also denied talk that the BJP central leadership was unhappy with the Yediyurappa administration, especially over the Karnataka High Court’s intervention on oxygen supply.  “It’s far from the truth (that they were unhappy),” he said. “We met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and gave him complete details on the Covid-19 situation in the state. He expressed concern over the situation, especially the rise in Covid-19 numbers,” he said. Bommai said they discussed the oxygen situation. “The current allocation for the state is 965 MT. We demanded that the quota should go up. We also said that it’s difficult to get oxygen transported from other states and that we should use whatever is produced locally,” he said, adding that he also told Shah about the shortage of tankers delaying the supply of oxygen to the districts.  “(Shah) said Karnataka’s allocation will be increased to the maximum extent possible after a Supreme Court-related meeting,” Bommai said. “Also, four tankers have been sanctioned and ten more will be arranged. He said it’d take some time as nitrogen tanks are being converted. Meanwhile, we’ve been asked to use two tankers that have come from Bahrain and two more that are coming to the Mangaluru port from Kuwait,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-denies-talk-of-him-replacing-bsy-as-next-karnataka-cm-984436.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Nothing to apologise for': Tejasvi Surya lists reforms in bed blocking system||Six days after storming the BBMP south zone war room, Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya listed out the reforms introduced in the bed allocation system and said he had nothing to apologise for with regard to the suffering borne by the 16 Muslim staffers who were suspended after he read out their names. Surya said that over the last 100 hours, accountability has been brought into the bed allocation system which now records the name of the nodal officer or the doctor who 'blocks' a bed. The second reform, he said, was the SMS alert sent to patients. "Earlier, a patient's detail was used as a proxy to block the bed and later allocate it to someone else. It will stop now," he said. The MP said, once a bed is allocated, the number of hours given for a patient to arrive at hospital has been reduced to 4 hours during which no one can unblock the bed. "There were cases of beds being blocked in the name of patients in home isolation or those who were dead or discharged. Manual unblocking will not be allowed henceforth," he said. He said a queue system will be introduced so that patients on wait list will get the beds on priority regardless of their fiinancial and political status. He thanked chief minister B S Yediyurappa and Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali for supporting him and working with him to bring the reforms. 'Nothing to apologise for' Surya refused to answer pointed questions by media persons on the reason for singling out the 16 persons among more than 200 staffers, beyond reiterating that he read out names from a list given by "a senior official". "I was given a list by a senior official. I read out the names to know how they were appointed and why they were removed," he said, claiming that there was no intention to target a community. He quoted BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta to state that the 17 employees were "removed" as part of restructuring process even before he read the list, a claim dismissed by the staffers who were working in the war room even as Surya read out their name. Last Tuesday, soon after he read the 16 names, the staffers were put on suspension along with another staffer who stood in solidarity with them. Viral social media messages branded the 16 staffers as "terrorists" denying bed to 'Hindu patients'. It was clarified by authorities the 16 were working on helpline or uploading patient data but not connected to the bed blocking facility. A reporter sought to know if the focus was on bed allocation, why the names were taken at all. Surya said that as a people's representative, he has the right to question their appointment. "I have not attributed any criminal liability to the staffers. Ask BBMP why the staffers were put under suspension," he said. To a question over the alleged involvement of MLA Satish Reddy's aide in the scam, Surya said the CCB police were investigating the issue and they should answer the question.When asked why the Muslim staffers were taken to the police station twice, the MP said he doesn't want to his attention to be diverted from bed allocation scam and ended the press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nothing-to-apologise-for-tejasvi-surya-lists-reforms-in-bed-blocking-system-984496.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to upload bed, oxygen, drugs availability details on SAST portal||The government will soon upload details on the availability of oxygen, Remdesivir drug and government quota beds available at private hospitals on the portal of Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST). Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also the chairperson of the state Covid Task Force, on Monday, said that the move will ensure greater transparency.  On the shortage of beds in Bengaluru, the DyCM said, “In Bengaluru, every day, about 950 beds are vacated. But there is a demand for 7,000 to 8,000 beds. Even after triaging of patients, there are over 2,000 patients requiring beds. Hence, we need to have a proper triaging facility at the ward level and only the critical patients must be referred to the hospitals.” The government is working towards adding another 4,000 beds in Bengaluru and a total of 20,000 beds at the state level. RT-PCR results in a day Stressing that RT-PCR results shall be given to the patients within 24 hours of collection of samples, the DyCM said, “the generation of BU number will also be instantaneous. This will also be replicated in other parts of the state. Even today, on average it takes at least three to four days to get RT-PCR results. This inordinate delay in the publishing of results is taking a toll on the patients.” The government, according to the DyCM, has taken a decision to slap a fine of Rs 150 per test for labs that fail to deliver RT-PCR results within a day. Ashwath Narayan said,” Instruments like a thermometer, pulse oximeter are in great demand. We have received complaints that these instruments are being sold at exorbitant prices at medical shops. If anyone is found selling them over and above the MRP, they will be punished severely. People can call up 112 helplines and lodge a complaint.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-upload-bed-oxygen-drugs-availability-details-on-sast-portal-984554.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Proceedings under Domestic Violence Act neither purely criminal nor civil: Karnataka High Court||The High Court has said that proceedings under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (DV Act) are neither purely criminal nor civil proceedings. Passing an order to release maintenance of Rs 4.32 lakh, Justice K S Mudagal observed that the very object of the DV Act is to protect women against violence of any kind occurring within the family. The petitioner, the husband, had raised the contentions of delay, the maintainability of the complaint filed by his wife before a trial court in Bengaluru Rural district. The petitioner had challenged the application (interlocutory application) filed by the wife seeking release of Rs 4.32 lakh arrears of maintenance deposited by him. The bench pointed out that an application under Section 12 of the DV Act, under which relief is sought by an aggrieved woman, by itself is not an ‘offence’ and hence limitation under Section 468 of CrPC is not applicable. “The very object of the DV Act as could be seen from the preamble is to protect the women against violence of any kind occurring within the family. If at all the Act intended to make each and every act of domestic violence offences, then Parliament would not have legislated separate law i.e. IPC dealing with offences against women like 498A, 306, 304B or offences against body in Chapter XVI of IPC. The purpose of the DV Act is to protect and save the family,” the court said. The court did not find any merit in the contention that the petition was time-barred, and hence directed the trial court to release the amount stating the wife is entitled to withdraw the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/proceedings-under-domestic-violence-act-neither-purely-criminal-nor-civil-karnataka-high-court-984558.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Prepare for third Covid-19 wave, says Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday asked his Cabinet colleagues and officials to prepare for the third wave of Covid-19. During a meeting with ministers and officials on the Covid-19 situation, Yediyurappa said a task force should be constituted to plan for the third wave, according to a statement from his office. It was on May 1 that the government first announced its plan to prepare for the third wave whose advent has not been ruled out even as the ongoing second wave is raging. During the meeting, Yediyurappa said patients in emergency should be made available with beds and remdesivir. He also directed officials to monitor the beds in private hospitals. At private medical colleges, steps should be taken urgently to set up oxygen generator plants in a phased manner. He asked legislators and ministers to focus on their constituencies and districts with steps to curb the spread of the coronavirus. 'SMS for vaccine' Speaking to reporters, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said only those citizens who have received a text message confirming their slot for vaccination will be allowed by the police to travel to the inoculation centre during the lockdown.  "Vaccination for those aged 18-45 has started in about 200 centres. People have to register online and only those with an SMS will be allowed," he said. "Crowding outside vaccination centres by people who do not have SMS confirmation will not be allowed." On police brutality during the lockdown, Bommai said he had asked the cops to refrain from using the lathi (cane). "Instead, I've directed them to use other stringent measures under the law." He also said the police were asked to be strict on the first day of the lockdown to deter people from stepping out. "The intention is not to cause harm or harass," he said, requesting people to stay home and cooperate with the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prepare-for-third-covid-19-wave-says-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-984571.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 39,305 fresh Covid cases, 596 deaths||Karnataka on Monday logged 39,305 cases, taking the caseload to 19,73,683, while 596 more deaths took the toll to 19,372, the health department said. The state conducted 1.24 lakh tests on Monday, a decline from about 2 lakh tests done daily when the second wave of the coronavirus hit the state. In its media bulletin, the department said there were 5,71,006 active cases, while 32,188 people were discharged taking the cumulative discharges to 13,83,285. The decline in cases was reflected in Bengaluru's Covid tally too, which is the epicentre of the pandemic in Karnataka. Bengaluru Urban district reported 16,747 infections, a decline by about 4,000 cases compared to Sunday. However, the death toll of 374 on a single day remained alarming. The city has so far reported 9,67,640 infections and 8,431 deaths. There were 9,67,640 active cases. Ballari has been the second major Covid hotspot after Bengaluru in terms of fatalities. Fresh cases were at 973, a decline by over 1,200 compared to Sunday. There were 26 deaths on Monday. According to the health bulletin, 2,168 infections were reported in Tumakuru, 1,800 in Hassan, 1,537 in Mysuru, 1,175 in Dakshina Kannada, 1,133 in Mandya and 1,006 in Dharwad. Bagalkote, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Kolar, Raichur, Shivamogga, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir were among the districts with over 500 cases. The department said 22 deaths each took place in Hassan, 15 each in Bagalkote and Tumakuru, 12 each in Mandya and Haveri, 11 each in Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada and nine in Kodagu. Deaths were reported in 19 other districts as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-39305-fresh-covid-cases-596-deaths-984576.html
10-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Need total lockdown for two weeks: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday said he favoured a "total lockdown" to curb the Covid-19 cases in the state. Speaking to reporters after participating in an event to distribute ration kits in the Pulakeshinagar constituency, Siddaramaiah said the current lockdown ordered by the government was not complete. "We need a total lockdown for two weeks," he said. "About 50,000 new cases are being reported daily." The Congress Legislature Party leader said he had asked his legislators to help citizens with hospitalisation and ration. "We will cooperate with the government, but hospitalization, ambulance and oxygen are essentially the government's responsibility," he said. He demanded a special package for those affected by the lockdown. "Where should the poor go? Labourers, auto rickshaw drivers...what'll happen to them," he asked. Stressing on the importance of vaccination, Siddaramaiah said the government should ensure each and every citizen got inoculated. Need stricter lockdown: BJP chief BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel met Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday. Kateel told reporters that he suggested a stricter lockdown as there are now fears of an increase of Covid-19 cases in rural areas. Lauding the CM, Kateel said that the state government had prepared all districts for the second wave of the pandemic. "There is no failure (on the part of the government) in handling the pandemic," he said, adding that the second wave hit without any warning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/need-total-lockdown-for-two-weeks-siddaramaiah-984599.html
10-05-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Karnataka lockdown: Normal life comes to halt early in Belagavi||With lockdown implemented to prevent the spread of Covid-19 coming into effect from Monday, normal life came to halt earlier than the relaxation time given for meeting essential needs. People moving on the roads were subjected to an inquiry by the police right from early in the day. Those proceeding towards hospitals with medicines and having relevant prescription slips were allowed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Dr Vikram Amathe himself verified documents and credentials of those moving on roads. Shops began to close from 9 am itself with the movement of vehicles banned. Vendors too left the market areas early. By 9.30 am barring medical shops, others were seen closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/karnataka-lockdown-normal-life-comes-to-halt-early-in-belagavi-984382.html
10-05-2021||West||Gadkari urges BJP workers to separate politics from social service as Covid-19 ravages India||Union minister and BJP MP Nitin Gadkari on Sunday appealed to BJP workers to not play politics while doing social service and asked them to reach out to people with all possible help in the time of the pandemic. Addressing the party workers virtually at the conclusion of the BJP Nagpur executive meeting, the senior BJP leader said no one knows the post-Covid future, and one should "think for the best and prepare for the worst". He also asked the party workers to diligently follow the pandemic protocols, saying the BJP has lost many workers this time. "Don't do politics in social service as only the good work done by you will credit the workers as well as the BJP. Social work should be done in the interest of the people. Politics does not only mean to be in power, but it is social work and nationalism. "We should stand with society and the poor without thinking about caste, religion or party and help all, which will surely bear fruits for the BJP in the future through this good work," he said. Gadkari said no one should step out of his or her house without any valid reason and always wear a face mask, maintain social distance and follow all protocols of the pandemic. "You should first start following these protocols before asking the people to do so through the word of mouth," he said. Gadkari further said many public representatives and corporators have expressed their desire to open hospitals and Covid centres. "However, this is a very risky work because someone might get infected again... mistakes may happen while administering injection or oxygen and a huge problem will arise if someone loses life in this process," he said and advised that the number of beds be increased in the existing hospitals only. "It will be better if such Covid centres are opened by the existing hospitals only as they have the required number of doctors, nurses and staff for the purpose," he added. During his address, Gadkari praised three local BJP workers for helping people by providing them with oxygen cylinders and concentrators. Gadkari also asked the party workers to focus on arranging blood and plasma without holding any blood donation camps. He said blood and plasma can be arranged from donors from their respective wards in limited numbers in blood banks. Gadkari also asked the party workers to arrange well-equipped ambulance services and vehicles for carrying dead bodies in every district in the Vidarbha region in east Maharashtra. The Nagpur MP appealed to the party workers to arrange for food and medicines for their colleagues who are in need and focus on helping senior citizens with water and other things at vaccination camps. Appealing to the party workers to not take the pandemic lightly, Gadkari asked them to work through video conferencing and use mobile phones for communication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gadkari-urges-bjp-workers-to-separate-politics-from-social-service-as-covid-19-ravages-india-984294.html
10-05-2021||West||This Mumbai school teacher transformed her home kitchen into a lab||For more than a year now, online classes are the order of the day because of the sweeping Covid-19 pandemic. However, only those who ideate and innovate stand out from the rest. One among them is Gurjit Kaur Saggu, a teacher from Billabong High International School (BHIS) in Malad suburbs of Mumbai. Gurjit, who teaches from Class 5-9, has transformed her home kitchen and mini garden into a home laboratory of sorts to teach students - and the kids are enjoying it.  “Online classes are a challenge and we need to keep the students involved and I found that some small experiments during live teaching sessions are very engaging,” Gurjit told DH. “Science is better explained when there is a practical experience,” she said. Gurjit used a unique method to teach physics virtually in the pandemic. She used cooking oil and sugar syrup to make students understand the refraction of light.  Similarly, she used lemon crusher to explain the principle of fulcrum and lever in the mechanics section of physics.  Another experiment, such as the conduction and convection of heat was taught using the pressure cooker and food colour to explain to students. “The best way to teach science is to relate it to daily life experiences,” she said. With the help of her mini garden of flowering and non-flowering plants and herbs, she tells students about vegetative propagation, germination of seeds. It’s not only the kitchen; her entire house becomes a laboratory for her students. Dr Madhu Singh, Principal, BHIS Malad said, “Gurjit has always incorporated innovative ideas into her teaching style. I hope that Gurjit will go ahead and set an example. I take a moment to congratulate her on being shortlisted for this reputed award”. Expressing happiness over personal achievement, Gurjit said, “Being shortlisted for the dedicated teacher’s award is a proud moment for me and my school. This achievement does not just belong to me, but it belongs to my country as well as my school and my peers who kept on motivating me to develop my skill. At the same time, I also expressed my heartfelt gratitude to the school management, which organises a variety of training programs for teachers, which include Cambridge Online Training and In-house Training for Teaching Methodologies, to make school pedagogy stand out”. Cambridge Dedicated Teachers Award is organised by the Cambridge University Press. It is a platform that recognises teachers for the hard work they put in every day. This year’s awards are particularly pertinent due to the pandemic. It has highlighted the extraordinary efforts of teachers to continue their students’ learning, even when schools were closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/this-mumbai-school-teacher-transformed-her-home-kitchen-into-a-lab-984335.html
10-05-2021||West||Mumbai civic body denies suppressing Covid-19 death toll||The Mumbai civic body has denied allegations of suppressing the Covid-19 death and infection figures and said it was recording the number of fatalities as per protocols laid down by the WHO and ICMR. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday accused the Shiv Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) of under-reporting Covid-19 fatalities and "manipulating" the viral infection rate in the city. In a statement issued on Sunday, the BMC said it was completely transparent in reporting the number of Covid-19 fatalities and cases, and in conducting the tests. The civic body rejected the criticism that it was creating a false picture that the pandemic situation in Mumbai was being brought under control. "The allegation is completely baseless and the BMC administration rejects it. The Covid-19 testing and recording of deaths due to the infection were being done as per the criteria laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," it said. The BMC said the civic administration was committed towards "mission zero", which aims to bring the Covid-19 situation under control step-by-step. In a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Fadnavis had said the BMC was attributing the deaths of some Covid-19 patients to 'other reasons' and thus, suppressing the real toll of the viral infection. The leader of opposition in Maharashtra Assembly had also alleged that the BMC was manipulating the infection rate by relying more on Rapid Antigen Tests. Notably, the Supreme Court recently praised the BMC for managing the second wave of Covid-19 efficiently. With the addition of 2,403 cases on Sunday, Mumbai's Covid-19 tally rose to 6,76,475, while 68 deaths pushed the toll to 13,817, an official said. It was the second consecutive day that the country's financial capital saw a daily addition of less than 3,000 cases. A total of 3,375 people were discharged during the day, raising the overall recovery count in Mumbai to 6,13,418, as per official figures||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-civic-body-denies-suppressing-covid-19-death-toll-984354.html
10-05-2021||West||In MMR, Vasai-Virar records large number of Covid-19 cases||The Vasai-Virar township is emerging as one of the worst Covid-19-hit areas within the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). Located along the Western Railway route and the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway – the area comprising Naigaon, Vasai, Nalasopara and Virar, has a population of over 20 lakh. Part of Maharashtra's coastal Konkan belt, the MMR is spread across the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and large parts of neighbouring Thane, Raigad and Palghar district – which is home to nine big corporations. The area falls under the Palghar-ST Lok Sabha constituency and comprises two Vidhan Sabha seats of Vasai and Nalasopara. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Vasai-Virar has crossed the 60,000 mark and deaths over 1,000. On Sunday, according to the figures obtained from the Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC), eight deaths and 670 cases were reported. In the VVCMC area, the positivity rate is higher than that of the other corporations of the MMR which includes the financial capital of Mumbai and two large municipal areas of Thane and Navi Mumbai. On average, over the past month, the VVCMC has been reporting 600 plus cases on a daily basis adding to the total in the MMR, where the situation has significantly improved if one compares it with the rest of Maharashtra. Nalasopara MLA and Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) leader Kshitij Thakur said: “The cases are constantly increasing all over the country, which is a cause of concern. However, all the sectors, services and our party are continuously at it. We sincerely hope that the situation will come under control soon with collective effort.” Thakur’s father Hitendra Thakur is Vasai MLA and founder of BVA and known for his grassroots connect. Vasai-Virar also came in news for two big incidents -  on 12 April, at least 7 deaths were reported from Vinayaka Hospital and three from Riddhi Vinayak Hospital, both located in the Nalasopara because of lack of oxygen supplies, while on 23 April, the fire in ICU of the Vijay Vallabh Hospital and Medical Research Centre at Virar claimed 14 lives. The crowd at vaccination centres and inadequate supplies too is a major issue. It also needs to be mentioned here that the VVCMC has major industrial areas - and many of the units fall in the ambit of 'essential services' category. The contact tracing is low and several people have been found violating quarantine norms. "We managed to come out of the first wave, however, the second wave hit us badly. People are largely responsible also as they Covid-appropriate behaviour in the new normal is not up to the mark. Also, vaccination centres can become super spreaders here because of the crowd," said a general physician, who is also a social activist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-mmr-vasai-virar-records-large-number-of-covid-19-cases-984365.html
10-05-2021||West||Covid-19: Over 1.8 crore people vaccinated in Maharashtra so far||A total of 1,80,88,042 people have so far received Covid-19 vaccine doses in Maharashtra, the state government said on Monday. On Sunday, 1,10,448 beneficiaries received the jabs in the state, it said. According to an official statement, 4,36,302 individuals aged between 18 and 44 years received the vaccine doses in the state till Sunday since the inoculation drive for this age group began on May 1. So far, 11,27,341 health care workers have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, while 6,68,901 of them have got their second dose. Similarly, 15,04,578 frontline workers in the state have till now received their first vaccine dose and of them, 6,19,622 got their second dose. As per the statement, a total of 1,21,00,410 citizens in the state have till now received their first vaccine dose and 20,67,190 have got their second dose. Maharashtra on Sunday reported 48,401 new cases of coronavirus and 572 fatalities, taking the infection tally to 51,01,737 and the death toll to 75,849, according to the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-over-18-crore-people-vaccinated-in-maharashtra-so-far-984381.html
10-05-2021||West||Goa recommends Ivermectin for all above 18 years to fight covid||In a major decision, the Goa government on Monday amended its Covid treatment protocol, recommending that all persons above 18 years should take five tablets of Ivermectin, to prevent the viral load. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane and top health officials were present. "Patients will be treated with Ivermectin 12mg for five days. Expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain and Japan, found a large, statistically significant reduction in mortality, time to recovery and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with Ivermectin," Rane told reporters here, after the meeting. "We are giving this as prophylaxis treatment, as a preventive. Ivermectin tablets will be given to all patients above 18 years at government health centres," the health minister added. Rane said the new protocol, which recommends the Ivermectin drug irrespective of whether a person has tested positive or not, could be the first such initiative in the country. "However, this does not prevent Covid-19 infection but helps to reduce the severity of the disease and at the same time one should not have a false sense of security and complacency but strictly take all the precautionary measures and follow laid SOPs," he said. Goa currently tops the Covid positivity rate chart in the country and is in the midst of an unprecedented surge with 31,875 active cases. 1,679 people have died so far in Goa due to Covid-related complications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-recommends-ivermectin-for-all-above-18-years-to-fight-covid-984478.html
10-05-2021||West||Mumbai seeks to import millions of vaccines to avert Covid-19 wave||By Dhwani Pandya Authorities in India’s financial hub Mumbai are seeking to import millions of vaccine doses to help avert a third potential coronavirus wave. The municipal corporation is in talks with the state government to allow it to invite bids from global manufacturers, Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said in an interview Monday. “The state government tender might be very huge, like 40 million, and no foreign supplier can match that kind of number, but if I just float 5 million vaccines, bids may come up from two-three companies,” he said. “I am working on that and it’s a matter of days that we will finalize something.” Mumbai is open to any approved vaccine -- be it Russia’s Sputnik, ones from Moderna Inc. and Johnson & Johnson, or the formula from Pfizer. The city will also pay the firms extra to maintain a cold chain or other necessary logistics, Chahal said. India’s wealthiest city was among the nation’s first epicenters of the coronavirus, but has since seemed to control the spread and is now focused on vaccinating its residents. It has allowed companies and housing societies to hold their own vaccination camps under the supervision of an approved hospital, but a shortage of doses has become a major hurdle. “Any of 130 private hospitals can send two nurses and one doctor along with an ambulance to any office or housing society premises, they can vaccinate the entire building in two hours and come back, which is kind of de-facto door to door testing,” Chahal said. But the city hasn’t received a single dose of Bharat Biotech Ltd.’s Covaxin in the last 15 days and less than 50,000 doses of Serum Institute of India Ltd.’s Covishield, which is why appointments at vaccine centers are booked out within seconds of being opened. “Current method for vaccine-slot booking for people aged 18-44 is in resonance with the extreme shortage of vaccines,” Chahal said. “You give me 15 million vaccines and we will make it walk-in for all.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-seeks-to-import-millions-of-vaccines-to-avert-covid-19-wave-984509.html
10-05-2021||West||Fresh Covid-19 cases drop in Mumbai and Maharashtra ||In what comes as an encouraging trend, cases in India’s financial capital of Mumbai and Maharashtra dropped significantly on Monday. In Mumbai and Maharashtra, the cases came below the 2,000-mark and 40,000-mark, respectively. The active cases in the state also came below the 6-lakh mark. During the 24 hours, Mumbai reported 1,782 cases and 74 deaths while Maharashtra registered 37,236 new cases and 549 deaths. The state posted similar figures during the last week of March, 2020. The larger Mumbai metropolitan region reported 4,883 cases and 132 deaths. During the day, 61,607 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 44,69,425. The recovery rate in the state is 86.97 per cent. A total of 37 lakh people are under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fresh-covid-19-cases-drop-in-mumbai-and-maharashtra-984522.html
10-05-2021||West||Pune man kills wife and son, then ends own life||In a shocking incident, lockdown-triggered unemployment drove a man to die by suicide after killing his wife and 14-month-old son in Pune. The incident took place on Sunday in Pune’s Kadamwak Vasti area under Loni Kalbhor police station limits. The deceased were identified as Hanumantha Daryappa Shinde (38), his wife Pragya (28) and Shivtej, their 14-month-old son. Hanumantha’s father Daryappa Shinde lodged a complaint with Loni Kalbhor Police Station, according to Pune police officials. The family hailed from Solapur and had come looking for work to Kadamwak a few months ago, and were staying in a rented chawl. However, because of the Covid-19 lockdown arrangements, he could not secure work. Hanumantha strangulated his wife, slashed his son’s throat, before ending his own life by hanging himself from the ceiling fan. “No suicide note was found at the spot. But, as per statements of the family members, Shinde was under stress as he could not secure work and was in financial stress,” police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-man-kills-wife-and-son-then-ends-own-life-984541.html
10-05-2021||West||Free treatment for Mucormycosis patients under Maharashtra scheme||Patients of Mucormycosis, a serious but rare fungal infection now affecting those suffering from coronavirus, will be treated for free under the Maharashtra government's flagship medical insurance scheme, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday. Mucormycosis patients will be covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana since the medicines required to combat the fungal infection are expensive, an official statement quoted Tope as saying. According to the statement, he said patients will be treated free of cost at 1,000 hospitals covered under the health scheme. The minister said symptoms of the disease are being seen in those Covid-19 patients who are diabetic and whose diabetes is not under control. The statement said Tope made the comments while interacting with media persons in Jalna in central Maharashtra. The medicines of the disease are expensive. Hence, patients hit by the disease will be treated for free at 1,000 hospitals covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, Tope said. The minister said there are complaints about the injections used for treating Mucormycosis patients being sold at higher than actual price and added their rates will be capped. Tope said Covid-19 patients should not panic after contracting Mucormycosis and focus on controlling diabetes. Symptoms of Mucormycosis include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision. The minister said the government will undertake a campaign to spread awareness among people about the fungal infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/free-treatment-for-mucormycosis-patients-under-maharashtra-scheme-984572.html
10-05-2021||West||Maharashtra manages to bring down Covid-19 cases, gives Mumbai model||Fifteen months into the Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state in terms of numbers, however, the combat strategies during the height of the second wave seem to be working thanks to the Mumbai model that is earning a distinction. As of now, Maharashtra is reporting average daily cases between 55,000 to 60,000 and an average of 600 to 700 deaths per day – as against the peak of 67,160 cases on April 24 and 985 deaths on April 28. Last week when Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, he lauded the way the state is attempting to flatten the curve. The PM’s words of praise come at a time when the state BJP does not leave any opportunity to target the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government. During a year’s time, the state has upgraded infrastructure significantly and put several things on the autopilot mode in Covid hotspots like Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and urban centres like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Amravati and Aurangabad – which accounts for the lion’s share of the cases in the state. In March 2020, when the pandemic broke out, the state had two Covid-19 tests labs – Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai and National Institute of Virology in Pune, however, now the state has 609 testing labs. Between June, 2020-April, 2021, the numbers of Covid centres have increased from 2,665 to 5,595 while the bed strength rose from 3,36,384 to 4,31,902. The numbers of oxygen beds have increased from 42,813 to 86,908, while ICU beds have increased from 11,882 to 28,937. Besides, the ventilators have increased from 3,788 to 11,713. The oxygen producing capacity in the state is 1,270 MT, while the current use is around 1,615 MT. The state’s quota decided by the Centre is 1,784 MT. “When people ask what we have done over the past year when the first wave hit us… we can say that we have upgraded the infrastructure, a process that is still continuing…we have already started planning for the third wave, which may affect the kids and forming a group of paediatricians... it would be task force,” Thackeray said.  Maharashtra leaders have managed to flag several issues like shortage of vaccines and drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab and oxygen – forcing the Centre to take a series of decisions. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, however, is unhappy over the Covid-19 handling – and alleged that the recent decline in the case is because of fudging figures.   “PR agencies and celebrities were being used to plant a false narrative and the numbers in Mumbai has come down as there are lesser tests,” he said, It is also exactly a year since senior IAS officer Iqbal Singh Chahal took over as Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner. “The BMC decided to decentralize the operations and we now have war rooms in all the 24 wards with 10 dashboards each,” said Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar.   There are areas of concern as well. “The cases are almost similar for 10 days, but what is concerning is the number of deaths per day…it is not a good sign,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, President-elect of IMA-Maharashtra. “Besides, what had happened after the first wave, we lowered our guard and removed the masks…let that not happen this time,” he said, adding that Covid-appropriate behaviour in the new normal is the must.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-manages-to-bring-down-covid-19-cases-gives-mumbai-model-984586.html
10-05-2021||West||Gujarat Charity Commissioner freezes bank account of NGO seeking funds to set up oxygen plant||The state charity commissioner on Monday froze the bank account of an NGO for whom independent MLA Jignesh Mevani has been appealing to people to donate to buy oxygen and other medical facilities, including setting up oxygen plants in his Assembly constituency in Banaskantha district, one of the poorest districts where the coronavirus has exposed poor medical infrastructure.  For the past couple of weeks, Mevani has been campaigning in the district and on social media for fundraising to help people in the district. “We have issued a show-cause notice to seven trustees of the NGO ‘We The People Charitable Trust’ for who MLA Jignesh Mevani has been appealing people for donation and froze the bank account with SBI. We took the action after receiving complaints that Mevani was not a trustee yet he is appealing for donation. We checked the record of the trust and found several lapses based on which we issued notice to the trustees seeking various details but they didn’t respond which forced us to freeze the bank account,” charity commissioner Y M Shukla told DH. He said none of the trustees responded to notices.  “The trustees need to respond whether they have passed any resolution allowing Mevani to seek donation,” Shukla said, adding that the trust has also “violated” provision of Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use), Act, 1950 that prevents uses of names for professional and commercial purposes.  When asked about the show cause notice, one of the trustees Kamlesh Katariya told DH: “None of us has received any notice. We came to know about this today and that too through media. Everything we have done is legal. We will respond accordingly.” Meanwhile, the Vadgam MLA Mevani said: “This is nothing but to halt the work we have been doing in the district. The government is, perhaps, scared of the fact that this fund collection has become a mass movement in villages and talukas of Vadgam. Instead of letting us work for the people who are suffering, the government is trying to halt us. We will respond.”  Due to Mevani’s appeal, the trust is said to have received over Rs 30 lakh. Among the prominent donors is actor Prakash Raj who has donated Rs 4 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-charity-commissioner-freezes-bank-account-of-ngo-seeking-funds-to-set-up-oxygen-plant-984609.html
