11-05-2021||Comment||The Many Uses of Constitutions||This wide-ranging and insightful book challenges our understanding of the nature and uses of political constitutions in fundamental ways.  We are used to thinking of modern constitutions as something that arise out of popular struggles for freedom – individual, social and national – and self-governance.  Examples from the dawn of the Modern age that come immediately to mind are the American Constitution that was framed after the war of independence against British imperial rule – no taxation without representation.  And the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen and the Constitution that was subsequently adopted in the aftermath of the overthrow of the monarchy in 1789 in a violent mass uprising. But Prof Linda Colley argues rather that constitutions in the modern world have been instruments of rulers, be they emperors, kings, dictators or democrats, to mobilise popular consent for unpopular measures necessitated by financial and human costs of war, violent conflicts and other crises.  Scouring the globe from miniscule island societies to vast continental empires and focusing on the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, she presents a fresh synoptic narrative to argue her thesis of wars and violence as the midwives, begetters even of modern constitutions. And military and militaristic leaders – be they monarchs like Empress Catherine of Russia, King Gustav III of Sweden or freedom fighters and revolutionaries like George Washington, Napoleon Bonaparte, Pasquale Paoli of Corsica, Simon Bolivar of South America and Khayr al-Din of Tunisa or politicians like Itō Hirobumi of Japan – as being the prime movers of constitutional changes across diverse societies and times.  Many-faceted narrative Even as constitutions, influenced by Enlightenment values of reason and liberty, put curbs on and empowered those in authority and provided for individual rights, she shows how they also strengthened monarchies and empires and enforced exclusions of and enabled atrocities on minorities, women and indigenous and non-white peoples.  At the same time, they were also used by disadvantaged and oppressed groups and peoples as well as by individuals to fight for their rights and freedoms and for democratic and republican governance.  Also, written constitutions helped societies and nations to define who they are and what they want to become.  Besides, she explores the role of print and the press in democratising, legitimising and influencing constitutions within and across societies and nations in depth.  In other words, the origins, causes, purposes, uses, effects of written and printed Constitutions have been manifold.  It may be because I am familiar most with the Indian experience that I find its treatment least satisfactory. (And also deflating as India does not get a chapter or even a section like Corsica and Haiti, Russia, France, the United States, Spain and Spanish America, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Pitcairn and other mid-Pacific islands, Tunisia and Japan).  Scattered references to it across the book are subsumed under other perspectives and arguments.  And there is no connecting thread of narrative or argument linking them.  Nor is it linked in a sustained manner to the main argument of the book, in the way, for example, the Japanese experience in the concluding chapter of the book so triumphantly is. The earliest reference is to the early nineteenth century modernising liberal nationalist Rammohan Roy as part of an international group of constitution-drafters. Then there is a relatively detailed discussion of Rammohan Roy who is twinned with Buckingham as “transgressors of borders” in the chapter entitled, The Force of Print, as part of the attempt to illustrate the transnational connections and influences in constitution drafting that print and travel made possible.  Spanish American constitutions were more appealing than the American, Colley writes, because the duo “wanted to secure improved liberties and legal rights for India’s Indigenous populations” in “an altered British empire.”  Later in the same chapter, there is a paragraph on the 1930s compendium Select Constitutions of the World edited by Benegal Shiva Rao, who is described as “a future key player in the making of his country’s independence constitution.”  In a subsequent chapter, a reforming Calcutta journalist writing in 1861 is quoted on the implications of the American civil war and “Black republics of Liberia and Haiti” for Indian self-government and freedom from British imperial rule.  As part of the influence of Abraham Lincoln and his war on “later emancipatory projects,” there is a reference to B. R. Ambedkar, who is described as “a Dalit” and “the jurist chiefly responsible for designing India’s independence constitution.”  The Dastur-ul Amal, an “embryonic constitution,” produced by the rebels in the 1857 uprising against British rule and the Swaraj Bill of 1895 by Bal Gangadhar Tilak are discussed in the section entitled “Japan and an Altered World.”  In the same section, Jawaharlal Nehru is quoted to show the influence of Russo-Japanese war on the aspirations of freedom fighters in Asian countries.  In the Epilogue, as part of the discussion on the seismic changes in the twentieth century brought about by the two World Wars, the Government of India Act of 1935, framed and adopted by the British imperial government, is described as having provided the basis for “the post-colonial world’s longest-surviving constitution, and a document which once again provided for a republic.”  The Indian Experience This is surprising because the germ from which a connected argument could have been developed can be found in an article cited by Colley, C. A. Bayly's “Rammohan Roy and the Advent of Constitutional Liberalism in India, 1800-1830”, which was later incorporated in a chapter of his book, Recovering Liberties: Indian Thought in the Age of Liberalism and Empire (Cambridge University Press, 2012). In that book, tracing the political-constitutional lineage over a century and a half, Bayly writes: “In the widest sense, India’s liberal republicanism as much as her tradition of voluntary associations have been resolute forces underpinning and empowering her government and democracy, however rocky the political road has often been and however often scarred by terrible violence” (Page 9).  In another footnote, Colley says she has benefitted from a “close reading of C. A. Bayly’s classic, The Birth of the Modern World, 1780-1914.”  In a review of Colley’s book, Richard Drayton, Professor of Imperial and Global History, writes, “C. A. Bayly’s Birth of the Modern World (2004), perhaps the book with which Colley’s portrait of global politics is in most full implicit conversation, was both a symbol and key propagator of this turn, with its vision of multi-centric but convergent global processes of change.” My surmise is that if what Bayly in the concluding chapter of his book calls India’s Sonderweg or “Special Path” did not grab Colley’s attention, it may be because that experience – starting from the politics of gentlemanly political and intellectual debate and petitioning the British imperial government for reforms through the nineteenth century, transformed in the twentieth into a non-violent mass agitation by the Mahatma, and culminating post-Independence, after intense, detailed and prolonged debates in the Constituent Assembly by the victorious leaders of the Indian National Congress and their allies, in the Constitution and the subsequent lasting republican democracy –  is difficult to fit into her narrative, without qualifying and modifying her main argument. Be that as it may, Colley has woven an enormous diversity of people, places, societies, wars, revolutions, interactions and events into a complex web and has written a multifaceted and suggestive work.  Writing as a historian, she explores the “protean”, double-edged nature of constitutions with her vision firmly fixed at all times on what actually happened, what was actually the case – the nitty-gritty of empirical fact and evidence, eschewing theoretical and philosophical perspectives.  This is predominantly history from above, resolutely “realist” with few concessions to liberal pieties. Coming at a time when constitutions have unrivalled legitimacy universally and are at the same time being questioned from many points of view, there is little doubt that her book will nevertheless compel social scientists, theorists and philosophers, among others, to rethink many of their most basic ideas about them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-many-uses-of-constitutions-984629.html
11-05-2021||First Edit||The silence of the Prime Minister||When the country is ravaged by the pandemic and even as there is a cacophonous debate on how and why we came to this killing pass, there is a conspicuous silence running through the nation. Debates are made of words, sometimes with numbers to prop them up, and they are limited to television studios and the printed paper now. There are no conversations because people don’t get to meet and talk. The roar of the rallies has died down and most streets are falling silent as vehicles are locked down and footfalls are shy and slow. The silence in the homes of many, young and old, who have left without a word has added sobriety and solemnity to the national silence, which is growing louder by the day. One voice that should have been at the heart of the debates and the conversations, and should have streaked through all the silences, is missing. That is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s.  The Prime Minister has not spoken to the nation in these dire times when worries, anxieties and fear rule the minds of people. The last time that he was seen talking to the people was in April when he was making promises and throwing challenges from electoral pulpits, mainly in West Bengal. He also made an address in which he advised the people to follow the protocols, which neither he nor anyone else observed anywhere. When the politics receded, and the second wave of the pandemic started coursing through the nation, a number of issues about its management have come to the fore. They concern the shortage of vaccines, oxygen cylinders and hospital beds, the queues at the crematoria, the administration of lockdowns and other measures, the livelihood matters that have arisen in their wake and the impact on the economy in the coming weeks and months. What does the government think about them? What is it doing now, and what are the plans for tomorrow and the next day? The Prime Minister has held meetings with chief ministers. He may have been talking to his ministers and secretaries. But in the most difficult and uncertain times of their lives, the people do not find the Prime Minister talking to them. Narendra Modi is nothing if not a master of words. He is not famous for conversations but has always been known to talk and communicate in ways that other politicians have envied him for. In a democracy, the leader should speak to the people when they need him, not when he needs them. If the retreat into silence is strategic, that is wrong. His speech is silver, but silence is not gold. No Prime Minister should go without words in a national crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/the-silence-of-the-prime-minister-984627.html
11-05-2021||In Perspective||Covid-appropriate behaviour is the key to end the pandemic||The recent images of crowds in public places without social distancing or masks sent alarm bells through the medical establishment, not only here but also across the world. There could be multiple reasons for this complete abdication of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour (CAB), the most likely being complacency due to declining Covid-19 cases in the preceding four months in the country, and the launch of the vaccination programme. While doctors and epidemiologists continued to urge caution and preventive measures against a possible second wave and mutant strains of the virus, other priorities appear to have triumphed over social concern. The pandemic has brought home the significance of public health measures and individual responsibility as essential aspects of healthcare in communities. The preventive aspect in control of infectious diseases is central to overcoming epidemics, far outweighing screening and curative measures. The World Health Organisation in its ‘Advice for the Public’ entreats individuals to “protect yourself and others from Covid-19”, describing measures to stay safe and prevent spread of the disease. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has published ‘An illustrative guide on Covid Appropriate Behaviour’ that is widely disseminated. While health authorities at the state and district levels initiate some preventive measures, the battle against the virus will be fought and won in communities, when individuals voluntarily adopt and promote CAB. It is a personal and civic duty we owe to others whom we live with, in the society that sustains us.  Doctors struggling with increasing patient loads have consistently advised preventive measures but the response has been lukewarm. It could be due to the mixed or conflicting messaging on social media, painful experiences during the first wave, or loss of trust. Enforcement of public behaviour through penalties and coercion can have only a limited effect. For any significant impact, there needs to be an alignment of personal and community intention to overcome this health challenge. Social distancing, correct wearing of masks, and hand-sanitising are simple ways we can take charge and contribute to the common good. We are called to think beyond our individual or personal discomforts and care for others who may be suffering due to our indifference. Article 13 of the UNESCO Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights highlights the principles of Solidarity and Cooperation in this context. Solidarity emphasizes the social nature and interdependence of human beings, even amidst existing inequalities. Derived from Church teaching and earlier used in the 19th century labour movement, it developed into a principle of social policy in Europe. It calls for empathy and recognition of others’ needs and the willingness to give oneself for the good of one’s neighbour, beyond any individual or particular interest. During the pandemic, we can be sensitive to the needs of the vulnerable and those who serve us even as we shelter in place; health workers, the elderly, essential service providers, delivery boys, migrants, and daily wage earners who bear the brunt of infection and deprivation on the frontlines. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is one way we can express our solidarity with others and reduce the disease burden. While we cherish freedom of expression, this is hardly the time for tirades against masks and social disruption, when something as simple as CAB can save lives and protect the most vulnerable among us. Similarly, despite gaps in information on safety and efficacy of vaccines, we are extremely fortunate to have vaccines available at our doorstep. Individuals have a moral responsibility to get vaccinated not only for personal protection, but also because it contributes to the development of herd (community) immunity. As Covid-19 vaccination is voluntary, individual decision and behaviour has the potential to positively impact the common good. In Africa, there is a beautiful expression of this philosophy of shared destiny in the concept of Ubuntu. It acknowledges interconnected needs and relationships within a community encapsulated in ‘I am because we are’ as a different way to think about personal identity. Providing a counterpoint to rampant individualism, it invokes a simultaneous self-humility and community-centric ethos.  With the deprivations and disruptions that have followed in its wake, this pandemic is surely the time for urgent introspection and recalibration. Our very survival will depend on the actions of others, and our own. It is certainly within our capacity to express solidarity with the wider community through Covid-19 appropriate behaviour that supports public health interventions during this challenging time (The writer is a doctor and author of ‘Biomedical Ethics’)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-appropriate-behaviour-is-the-key-to-end-the-pandemic-984628.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Four-day lockdown in Chamarajanagar from May 13||In an effort to check the surge of Covid-19 cases and deaths, Chamarajanagar district administration has decided to tighten the norms and announced a four-day total lockdown, effective from this week. Addressing media persons here, on Monday, District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the district will go into total lockdown for four days, from Thursday (May 13) to Sunday (May 16). However, shops selling essentials will be open from 6 am to 10 am on the remaining two days - Tuesday and Wednesday. Except hospitals and pharmacies, everything else will be closed on the four days, like total bandh, he said. We have appealed to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to increase oxygenated beds in the district hospital and to provide additional facilities to the hospital, in case of emergencies during the total lockdown.  He also appealed to supply oxygen, on time, from Mysuru to Chamarajanagar, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-four-day-lockdown-in-chamarajanagar-from-may-13-984613.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vaccination for 18-44 begins in 5 hospitals in Dakshina Kannada||The Covid-19 vaccination drive for those in the age group of 18 to 44 commenced in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday. In the first phase, vaccines will be administered at District Wenlock Hospital and four taluk hospitals in Bantwal, Belthnagday, Puttur and Sullia in the district for the registered beneficiaries. Only those who have registered online using CoWin app, and received the appointment and secret code were administered with the vaccine at the centres. According to officials, for the next seven days, 250 doses will be administered at Wenlock Hospital, 170 doses each in the taluk hospitals daily for those in the age group of 18 to 44. The Covishield second doses for those above 45 years old category will be administered at all the primary centres and urban health centres. All the primary centres will be supplied with 100 doses, urban health centres and community health centres with 200 doses of vaccines daily to administer those waiting for the second jab. The Wenlock Hospital did not have a long queue unlike the previous days as it was only those who had registered for the vaccines were given the jab, said volunteers. Elvita who had arrived at the Wenlock Hospital said “I had registered for the vaccine on Monday and received the SMS on confirmation of the appointment. I am happy that I could get the jab.” While Raghavendra who had registered for the vaccine on the day when the CoWin app was opened for the registration and waited to receive the jab all these. After getting the confirmation message, I arrived at the centre in the morning to receive the first dose,” he added. “All of us should not let the guard down after getting the jab. We should continue to wear masks, maintain social distance along with maintaining personal hygiene to check the spread of the virus,” said another beneficiary. A worker at the Wenlock vaccination centre said, “A few who had arrived in the morning to receive the second dose were directed to visit the nearest PHCs or urban health centres.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vaccination-for-18-44-begins-in-5-hospitals-in-dakshina-kannada-984792.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dist admin failed in managing Covid, alleges MLA Revanna||Alleging that the district administration has totally failed in controlling the Covid second wave, MLA H D Revanna warned the people will revolt if suitable measures are not taken. Speaking at a press conference here, on Tuesday, Revanna said, “Hassan district is reporting a huge number of cases every day. Though we have been appealing to dispatch medicines and also release funds since the last 15 days, the government has not responded.” The deputy commissioner is responsible for the death of 200 Covid patients at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS). If the funds were released on time, to get medicines, they could have been saved, he said. Task Force Committee has been constituted in the taluks, but no funds are released. The DC is playing with the lives of the people. Around Rs 17 crore has been spent in Mysuru. The DC should submit a proposal for Rs 20 crore, for Covid management, he stressed. He alleged that the district administration is connived with private hospitals. Though they have been charging more, the authorities have not taken any action. Instead of supplying oxygen to government hospitals, it is being diverted to private hospitals, he alleged. He alleged that the Covid figures, provided by the authorities, is not correct. Every day, around 50 to 60 deaths are being reported. But it is not accounted. There are no PPE kits and safety gears for medical staff. The superintendent of police should curb the black market of Remdesivir, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dist-admin-failed-in-managing-covid-alleges-mla-revanna-984859.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister appeals for donations for zoos||Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar appealed to the people, to adopt animals and to give donations to the zoo of Karnataka, including Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) in Mysuru, as they have no revenue since the Covid curfew and Covid lockdown were imposed, from April 23. It has to be recalled that the Mysuru Zoo and other zoos under the Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) suffered loss of revenue since March last year, due to the Covid pandemic, mainly during lockdown. Somashekar, also Cooperation Minister, had donated huge sums himself and had mobilised donations from his Assembly constituency and also from other places for the Mysuru Zoo. Following his appeal, many people from across the world, especially NRIs, donated funds. On Tuesday, he visited the Mysuru Zoo and interacted with the officials of ZAK and also Mysuru Zoo. “In view of the Covid crisis, the zoos are closed for 28 days for visitors, during Curfew and lockdown. It is a precautionary measure, in the interest on both, visitors and animals in the menagerie. However, to sustain the zoos, we appeal to the people for support. We will contact those who adopted the animals and also those who donated money last year and appeal to them to renew their support," he said. ZAK member secretary B P Ravi explained about the zoos to the minister and said that no animal of the zoos have been infected. “In five of the zoos, under ZAK, there are big cats like lion, tiger and leopards. There are chances of Covid infection to them, like it happened in a zoo in Hyderabad. That infection would have caused by an asymptomatic caretaker. We have been following all guidelines issued by the Centre. We are keeping a close watch on the animals. If they have infection, they would get cough and then reduce food intake. But, so far, no such symptoms are observed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-appeals-for-donations-for-zoos-984860.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Government hospital staff protest against official||The employees of the Covid vaccination centre and the government hospital staged a flash protest, against Town Municipal Council Commissioner Chalapathy alleging that he used a singular term to scold the employees, in Arsikere, Hassan district on Tuesday. Complaining that they were hurt over his abuse, the staff stayed away from work for a while, creating confusion on the premises. However, MLA K M Shivalinge Gowda arrived on the spot, sought an apology on behalf of the official and pacified them to resume work. Shivalinge Gowda said that though the taluk hospital has all equipment, like scanners and ventilators, there are no expert doctors and technicians to use them. “The people have to go to the district hospital for any complications. The ministers, sitting in Bengaluru and Delhi, cannot manage things at the taluk-level. The local MLA should be given the responsibility to tackle the situation. We are ready to face it,” he said. When contacted, Chalapathy said, “Covid cases are on a rise in the town and there is a need to control it. As the people were standing in groups, to get vaccination, I told the employees to provide vaccination on priority to those who had registered and also to ensure social distancing. I have not scolded anybody.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-hospital-staff-protest-against-official-984861.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Permission sought for immersion of ashes in River Cauvery||With the Mandya district administration banning the immersion of ashes in River Cauvery, Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, Vishwa Hindu Parishat district president V Banuprakash Sharma sought permission of the authorities to allow the people to conduct the rituals in River Cauvery. Addressing media persons here, on Tuesday, he said, "As Mandya district administration has banned the immersion of ashes in the river, the family members of those, who died of Covid-19, are under stress, unable to complete the rituals." Many people in Bengaluru, Mysuru and other places are facing a lot of mental stress, not only due to the loss of a family member to Covid, but also with the ashes in their houses till it can be immersed in the river. They would be relieved, if the district administration allows them to conduct the rituals and immerse the ashes, he explained. It is a custom, followed by the Hindus. The ashes will not pollute the river, compared to the effluents from factories nearby. Hence, the authorities should give permission, he said. Ashes are immersed at Sopana Katte, Paschima Vahini, Gosai Ghat and Sangama in Ganjam. But, the police have been deployed at these places, preventing the people from conducting the rituals in the wake of the Covid pandemic. He submitted a memorandum to the DC's office in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/permission-sought-for-immersion-of-ashes-in-river-cauvery-984863.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysureans moot temporary Covid Care Centres in defunct buildings||The state government and the district administration are taking steps to manage the Covid-19 crisis, depending on the circumstances and resources available. However, a section of the people feel that besides the government’s efforts, the society should do its mite to complement the steps taken by the district administration. Shrutha Keerthi, a social activist, said, “I am speaking on behalf of the volunteers in Mysuru, working to help Covid patients. We wish we could convert the shut spaces (defunct buildings) in Mysuru city like Basappa Memorial Hospital in Jayalakshmipuram; Vikram Hospital in Yadavagiri; or even Hotel Southern Star on Hunsur Road; into temporary Covid Care Centres. Everyday, we are dealing with so many people, who are in need of a bed or an oxygenated bed. So, there is a need for more facility.” “We could also work with local industries, to get oxygen and plan getting other requirements like equipment and medicines. This might just be a vague idea, but if non-government and cultural orgainsations and volunteers join hands and, avail professional guidance, many patients would be benefited,” she said. H C Mohana Shankar, a resident of Ahimsa Marga, Siddartha Nagar, said that at present, a cumulative number of Covid positive cases has gone up to about 2,000, some times up to 3,500 in Mysuru district, daily. Daily mortality of Covid patients has also increased over 20." "In Karnataka, Mysuru district is in the second place, with a cumulative corona positive cases, only after Bengaluru. As on Tuesday, active Covid cases in Mysuru is 15,148. However, there is no availability of beds in both government and private hospitals," he said. “A few months back, during the first wave of the Covid pandemic, Mysuru district In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, MP, MLAs and the district administration had taken up several novel steps. The new building of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) at Mandakalli, near the airport, was converted into a Covid Care Centre, by providing 530 beds for corona positive patients who had mild symptoms,” he recalled. “On the same lines, to contain further spread of the coronavirus, the Mysuru Exhibition Grounds, can be temporarily modified into a Covid Care Centre. The exhibition ground of Karnataka Exhibition Authority (KEA), on Doddakere Maidan, already has some infrastructure like buildings, vacant space, water supply, 24/7 electricity with backup generators, vehicle parking lot, etc. This facility can accommodate about 1,000 beds. Besides, the minister and Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, KEA Chairman Hemanth Kumar should also propose the project, for the benefit of people,” Shankar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysureans-moot-temporary-covid-care-centres-in-defunct-buildings-984864.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru crosses 1 lakh Covid cases, recoveries also increase||Mysuru district crossed the 1-lakh mark of Covid-19 positive cases, on Monday (May 10), taking the second position in the highest number of cases, after Bengaluru. As on May 10, the number of cumulative positive cases increased to 1,00,284 cases with 1,537 testing positive on the day. With this, the number of active cases went up to 14,425, while the death toll stood at 1,334 with seven people succumbing to the infection on May 10. This includes six men and one woman. While one patient is from Srirangapatna, Mandya district, the other six are from various taluks of Mysuru district. However, the number of recoveries were more than the number of fresh cases for the fourth consecutive day on Monday, bringing relief among the people of Mysuru. The number of recoveries on May 10 was 2,706, which is the highest in the district, so far, while the new cases were 1,537. Similarly, it was 2,667 recoveries and 1,854 new cases on May 9, 2,484 and 2,294 on May 8 and 2,350 and 2,246 on May 7, according to the media bulletin issued by the district administration. It may be mentioned that Mysuru district has got more than 45,000 cases added to its tally from April 1. The department of Health and Family Welfare has observed 4,85,890 persons as on May 10. While the total positive cases is 1,00,284, the total number of discharges are 84,525. In all, 1,334 people of the district have succumbed to the infection so far. The district administration and the Health Department are appealing to the public to wear masks, to follow social distancing and wash hands often to keep the virus away, to protect themselves and their family members. It has also warned of a penalty on those who do not follow Covid norms, as per guidelines. Around 4,893 have been fined in the last 10 days for violation of mask wearing and social distancing and the cumulative number of persons fined so far is 91,060. The cumulative penalty amount is Rs 1,47,54,650 and Rs 6,62,900 in the last 10 days, according to the reports issued by the war room. For medical emergency, call Covid War Room helpline 0821-2424111.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-crosses-1-lakh-covid-cases-recoveries-also-increase-984865.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Govt should drop its probe on Ch'nagar deaths'||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president R Dhruvanarayana opined that the state government should scrap the committees that is constituted to probe the alleged deaths due to unavailability of oxygen at the district Covid hospital in Chamarajanagar, on May 2, as the High Court has initiated the probe. Speaking to reporters here, on Tuesday, Dhruvanarayana said, "If the government was efficient, the court would not have intervened. As there was no trust on the executive, the judiciary has intervened." "The judiciary intervened even in the supply of oxygen. The 25 BJP MPs from Karnataka have no voice in the Centre. Let them join hands and get required oxygen to the state. But, they do not want to raise their voice to either get GST share or Covid vaccines," he said. "Even after such a big tragedy, that claimed 24 lives, drawing the attention of the whole country, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa did not visit Chamarajanagar, or announce any compensation to the families of the victims," he said. "Minister K S Eshwarappa has issued a statement that they do not have note printing machine. But, he should introspect at whose house money counting machine was found. Minister Umesh Katti too asks the poor to 'die'. BJP leaders do not have concern for the poor," Dhruvanarayana said. "Chamarajanagar District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar has turned active now. If he had displayed this pre-emptive approach earlier, several lives could have been saved. At least now, home isolation system should be dropped and the Covid positive patients should be treated at Covid Care Centres," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-should-drop-its-probe-on-chnagar-deaths-984867.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Oxygenated beds to be increased as Covid cases rise’||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that steps are being taken to increase the number of oxygenated beds, as there is a surge in Covid-19 positive cases. He was speaking during a Covid review meeting at Ambedkar Bhavan in HK Kote, Mysuru district on Tuesday. Earlier, the minister inaugurated the new oxygenated beds at the Taluk Government Hospital. “Private hospitals have been told to share 50% of their beds for Covid patients. Talks were held in this regard with Suttur seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami and he agreed to spare 300 oxygenated beds in the hospitals of JSS Mahavidyapeetha. The second wave of Covid is dangerous and is spreading wide, causing more number of deaths. Thus, several precautionary measures are being taken,” he said. He said that there were several complaints against the Panchayat Development Officers (PDO) of HD Kote taluk and asked them to discharge their duties with commitment. MLA Anil Chikkamadhu said that there is no expert physician in the taluk government hospital. “The issue was raised during the KDP progress review meeting also. No doctors are appointed to the primary healthcare centres in the villages of HD Kote taluk. There are three ambulances, but all of them need repairs. At present, only one is somehow serving the patients. Thus, the government should appoint doctors and specialists to the taluk and repair the ambulances,” he said. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, “People should understand the gravity of the Covid crisis. Compared to the first wave, the second wave is spreading wider and faster. So, people should voluntarily follow the Covid guidelines." Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth said, "The borders of HD Kote taluk with the neighbouring state of Kerala have been closed and stringent action would be taken against those who violate the guidelines. Vehicles of those who unnecessarily roam around will be seized." Chairman of Karnataka Safai Karmachari Commission M Shivanna, Chairman of Jungle Lodges and Resorts Appanna, ZP CEO A M Yogeesh, Tahsildar Naragund, and Taluk Health Officer Dr Ravi Kumar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygenated-beds-to-be-increased-as-covid-cases-rise-984869.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen manufacturing container donated by Israel govt arrives at Yadgir||An oxygen manufacturing container weighing around four tonnes, donated by Israel government, arrived from Bengaluru to Yadgir on Tuesday. Receiving the container, Deputy Commissioner Dr R Ragapriya said the Israel government has donated three containers to the country. Of them, Karnataka got two. State's Department of Industries has given one each container to Yadgir and Kolar districts. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has brought the container to the city, she explained. The work on building oxygen manufacturing unit at District Covid hospital is proceeding on a war footing. The unit has a capacity to produce 500 litres of oxygen per minute and oxygen can be supplied to 70 to 80 patients spontaneously, she told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-manufacturing-container-donated-by-israel-govt-arrives-at-yadgir-984891.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar deaths: KSLSA panel submits report to HC||The state-level monitoring committee constituted by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) submitted the report to the High Court on the Chamarajanagar tragedy on Tuesday.  The committee headed by retired High Court judge Justice A N Venugopala Gowda, comprises another retired judge Justice K N Keshavanarayana and retired DGP S T Ramesh as members. The report was submitted in a sealed cover. During the hearing on Tuesday, Advocate General informed the court that no action was contemplated on the enquiry entrusted to senior IAS officer Shivayogi Kalasad on the same issue. A Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka is likely to take up the report and related issues on Wednesday. The bench had expressed displeasure about the manner in which the state government constituted the commission of inquiry, a day after the court suggested setting up commission of inquiry. Subsequently, the bench had directed the KSLSA committee to submit a report on the incident in which 24 Covid-19 patients died reportedly due to shortage of oxygen supply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-deaths-kslsa-panel-submits-report-to-hc-984898.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||New oxygen unit at KGF likely to be functional from Wednesday||An oxygen unit is expected to be operational at the government hospital in Kolar Gold Fields in a day or two. The unit has the capacity to produce 500 litres of liquified oxygen per minute. The components for this oxygen unit have been imported from Israel and are now being assembled. With the surge in Covid second wave, the Union Health Ministry had permitted to set up oxygen units at Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) - the constituency represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, HD Kote in Mysuru district and Kolar Gold Fields.  Compared to Kolar district, Tumakuru had been reporting more Covid deaths and hence the state government had decided to shift the oxygen unit to Tumakuru. However, Lok Sabha member S Muniswamy prevailed upon the Union Health Minister Dr Harshavardhan and the state government in retaining the oxygen unit for KGF. The ICU at the KGF government hospital has 30 oxygenated beds with ventilator facility and 70 beds with only oxygen supply. The Bharat Gold Mines Limited (BGML) hospital, which is defunct for the past two decades, is now being converted into Covid hospital. It has been planned to supply oxygen to the unit to this new hospital also. The unit can also cater to oxygen needs of other hospitals in Kolar district. At present, the hospitals in Kolar district are getting oxygen supply from Ballari and Bengaluru. The proposed unit in KGF will reduce this dependence also. The new unit is expected to be operationalised on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-oxygen-unit-at-kgf-likely-to-be-functional-from-wednesday-984911.html
11-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Speculation rife after BJP national general secretary B L Santosh holds meeting with Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh held a meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday. Santhosh also met Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and other top party leaders during the day at the BJP headquarters.  These meetings fuelled speculation in political circles. Yediyurappa said he discussed Karnataka’s Covid-19 situation with Santhosh. “We spent about an hour discussing the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and other places. We told him the good work being done here. He assured all help from Delhi,” Yediyurappa told reporters. Santhosh’s visit came after Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai was “summoned” to Delhi by the BJP central leadership. Bommai was reportedly quizzed by the top leadership over a submission by the state government in the Supreme Court on Karnataka’s oxygensituation. Bommai’s visit to New Delhi along with BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra led to specualation of a change in leadership. But Bommai denied any such development. On Monday, state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel met the CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/speculation-rife-after-bjp-national-general-secretary-b-l-santosh-holds-meeting-with-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-984907.html
11-05-2021||National||Narendra Modi govt faces its biggest ever challenge - Coronavirus||The Narendra Modi government in its second term is facing a mammoth challenge -- Covid-19 -- a health crisis that has the potential to turn into a political crisis for the BJP as the vertical spread of cases and massive number of casualties fuel anger against the government. This is the third major issue, which has put the government into a tight spot ever since it came to power for the first time in 2014, and it is the biggest of all. 2015 saw massive protests against Modi government's first reform legislation - the new land acquisition Bill, which it had to finally withdraw and the Agriculture Reform laws of last year, still being protested and had cost the party an ally -- Shiromani Akali Dal -- and possibly, also a chance to win the Punjab elections. "Covid-19 is a much bigger challenge than the previous ones. BJP is in power and so it just cannot blame anybody else. The mismanagement of the Covid-19 has taken the sheen away from Modi's good governance image to a great extent. Managing this politically is a big challenge for BJP. Apart from all other reasons, Covid-19 cannot be discounted as a factor in West Bengal polls that BJP lost," says political analyst Rasheed Kidwai. The bad press, coupled with repeated adverse remarks on the government's functioning related to Covid-19 by the courts, and angry reactions of people in cities and villages alike, have triggered a discomfort within the party, which has 300 MPs out of 536 MPs in the Lok Sabha. "The more the merrier" logic simply does not work here as with the exponential rise in the number of coronavirus cases, all public representatives are inundated with calls and requests for a bed, life saving drugs or oxygen, and most of the times the requests are not fulfilled as the demand is too high. "Yes there is definitely a challenge and it is an unanticipated one. There is definitely a poblem. Panic of people is a bigger problem. It's a tough time. My phone keeps ringing. I receive more than 200 to 300 calls a day," said former Union Minister Rajiv Pratap Rudy, who is a Lok Sabha MP from Saran in Bihar. Rudy was in news recently after former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar Party leader Pappu Yadav swooped on a place where over two dozen ambulances purchased from Rudy's MPLAD fund were parked.  Yadav slammed the BJP leader for keeping the ambulances parked when there was a dearth for the same among needy people. After a war or words between the two, Yadav now faces a police case. While Rudy dismisses the political fallout of the pandemic for BJP, the problem for BJP in Bihar is that it is the main party in alliance headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar from JDU and hence, cannot pass the buck from the Centre to  the state government. "Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has succeeded in creating the infrastructure for roads and electricity. I believe he will now give priority to health and education," is the hope of Rudy, who feels "we will have to do a lot in Bihar." Another BJP MP in Jharkhand, whom DH spoke to, also conceded the challenge that the pandemic has posed before Parliamentarians but hoped there is still time for Lok Sabha elections and feels things are improving. "We are doing all that we could." He also chose to pass the blame to the JMM-led state government for the sorry state of affairs. Meanwhile, acknowledging the "dreadful challenge" of Covid-19 before the nation, RSS on  April 24 asked its Swayamsevaks to get involved in removing all sorts of deficiencies and act promptly to resolve people's problems. Its general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale appealed for creating awareness about wearing masks, maintaining hygiene and physical distance, taking ayurvedic Kadha, inhale steam and create a massive public awareness about vaccination. Possibly for the first time, RSS got involved in health awareness drives on such a large scale in the last few decades. He noted that due to the sudden worsening situation of the pandemic, people are facing the shortage of beds, oxygen and necessary medicines. The pressure is on the public representatives of the BJP all the more as they are the ruling party in the Centre as well as in most states and people have high expectations from them. Besides, the kind of active role the BJP was found playing during the first wave of the pandemic last year, was not seen this time. On the other side, the resentment resonating in BJP backyard in the party-ruled UP, which has 80 Lok Sabha seats and which goes to state polls next year, came to fore recently in multiple incidents.   Union Minister Santosh Gangwar, a senior leader with deep RSS background wrote to UP CM Yogi Adityanath complaining that officials do not take calls, cited shortage of oxygen cylinders and blackmarketing of medical equipment. BJP MLA Lokendra Pratap Singh's letter to the CM highlighted that dire oxygen shortage has claimed many lives in the region that he represents in the House, while another MLARamgopal Lodhi uploaded a video on social media complaining that his coronavirus positive wife was not admitted to an Agra hospital for over three hours and wondered what a common man would face if an MLA's wife is unable to get proper care. BJP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Dr Subramanian Swamy last Friday suggested that in view of the situation arising from coronavirus pandemic, top six of the eight floors in the party office building in Delhi be converted into a hospital. "We now face a war-like situation on three fronts - Economy, China, coronavirus pandemic," he tweeted on Sunday. Earlier, a senior RSS functionary and its former publicity in-charge of Delhi, Rajiv Tuli's tweet questioning BJP Delhi unit's role in helping people in the capital, created a furore after which RSS stepped in to douse the fire, calling Tuli's remarks as his personal views. BJP, having failed to make it big in West Bengal and receding further in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in 2021 polls, concerns continue to mount up as big state elections, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat, are going to ve held in 2022, which will be kind of a semi-final for 2024 general elections. Since pandemics and politics just do not go well together, BJP has its fingers crossed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-govt-faces-its-biggest-ever-challenge-coronavirus-984615.html
11-05-2021||National||India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccine coverage crosses 17.26 crore, says Union health Ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 17.26 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. It said 5,18,479 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received their first doses on Monday, which took the cumulatively number for the category to 25,52,843 across 30 states and Union Territories since the start of the phase-3 of the vaccination drive. The 25,52,843 individuals include 5,10,347 from Maharashtra, 4,11,002 from Rajasthan, 3,66,309 from Delhi, 3,23,601 from Gujarat and 2,93,716 from Haryana, 1,77,885 from Bihar, 1,66,814 from Uttar Pradesh and 1,06,538 from Assam. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 17,26,33,761 as per the 8 pm provisional report, the ministry said. This includes 95,63,406 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 65,05,072 HCWs who have taken the second dose; 1,40,49,681 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, and 78,51,075 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 5,54,97,658 and 71,73,939 beneficiaries over 45 to 60 years have been administered the first and second doses respectively, while 5,38,00,706 and 1,56,39,381 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and second dose. As on Day-115 of the vaccination drive (10th May, 2021), a total of 24,30,017 vaccine doses were given which included 10,47,092 beneficiaries first doses 13,82,925 second doses according to the provisional report till 8 pm, the ministry said, adding the final report would be completed for the day by late night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-crosses-1726-crore-says-union-health-ministry-984652.html
11-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Need to put our house in order, says Sonia Gandhi at CWC meeting||With Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra facing poll setbacks, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday offered to take responsibility for the defeat in the assembly elections, which was rejected by the party. 74-year-old Gandhi, who had stayed away from the election campaign on health grounds, made the offer at the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) called to deliberate on the poll reverses and asked party leaders to face the reality and draw lessons from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-need-to-put-our-house-in-order-says-sonia-gandhi-at-cwc-meeting-984658.html
11-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 11||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections in India fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days. This takes the country's total caseload to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the health ministry has revised the national policy for admission of patients to Covid-19 facilities.  Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  22,992,517  as of May 11, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  2,49,992 as of May 11, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged: 1,90,27,304 Total Vaccination: 17,27,10,066 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-11-984661.html
11-05-2021||National||India reports further dip in daily cases with 3,29,942 Covid-19 cases; 3,876 deaths reported in last 24 hours||The single day rise in new coronavirus infections in India fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.     After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have reduced to 37,15,221 comprising 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,90,27,304, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 30,56,00,187 samples have been tested up to May 10 with 18,50,110 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-further-dip-in-daily-cases-with-329942-covid-19-cases-3876-deaths-reported-in-last-24-hours-984688.html
11-05-2021||National||Covid-19 treatment: Here's all you need to know about Ivermectin, the new 'miracle drug'||As India continues to grapple with the second wave of Covid-19, the government and medical experts are looking for new and effective preventive measures to curb the spread of the virus. What is Ivermectin? Ivermectin is a parasitic drug that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat intestinal strongyloidiasis and onchocerciasis. Some topical Ivermectin drug is approved to treat head lice and rosacea. However, FDA has not approved to use of Ivermectin to treat Covid-19 patients. Why has Ivermectin not been used for Covid-19 treatment? Ivermectin is not an anti-viral drug and hence it can’t be used for treating any viral infection, including the Covid-19 virus. The drug is approved by the FDA only for animal use. Ivermectin preparation for animals is very different from those approved for human use. One has to be careful and only buy the prescribed dose of the drug. Why is it being recommended now? This research was peer-reviewed by medical experts that included three US government senior scientists and published in the American Journal of Therapeutics. Led by the Front Line COVID-19 Critical Care Alliance (FLCCC), a group of medical and scientific experts reviewed published peer-reviewed studies, manuscripts, expert meta-analyses and epidemiological analyses of regions with ivermectin distribution efforts — all showing that ivermectin is an effective prophylaxis and treatment for Covid-19. Many countries like South Africa, Zimbabwe, Slovakia, Czech Republic and Mexico have approved the drug.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-treatment-heres-all-you-need-to-know-about-ivermectin-the-new-miracle-drug-984698.html
11-05-2021||National||ED registers money laundering case against Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, official sources said on Tuesday. They said the case registered under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been filed after studying a recent CBI FIR that was filed against Deshmukh. The central probe agency may now summon Deshmukh for questioning apart from others, they said. The ED case comes about after the CBI first carried out a preliminary enquiry, followed by filing a regular case, on the orders of the Bombay High Court that asked it to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-registers-money-laundering-case-against-anil-deshmukh-984703.html
11-05-2021||National||PM Modi hails scientists, innovators for contribution in combating Covid-19 ||On the National Technology Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that in any challenging situation, the country's scientists and innovators have always risen to the occasion and over the last year have worked industriously to fight Covid-19. The National Technology Day marks the anniversary of the underground nuclear tests conducted in Rajasthan's Pokhran in 1998. The day celebrates the achievements and contributions of Indians to science and technology. "On National Technology Day, we salute the hard work and tenacity of our scientists and those passionate about technology," Prime Minister Modi tweeted.  "We remember with pride the 1998 Pokhran Tests, which demonstrated India's scientific and technological prowess," he said. In any challenging situation, our scientists and innovators have always risen to the occasion and worked to mitigate the challenge, the prime minister said.  "Over the last year, they have worked industriously to fight COVID-19. I appreciate their spirit and remarkable zeal," he said. In any challenging situation, our scientists and innovators have always risen to the occasion and worked to mitigate the challenge. Over the last year, they have worked industriously to fight COVID-19. I appreciate their spirit and remarkable zeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-scientists-innovators-for-contribution-in-combating-covid-19-984717.html
11-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis | Huge dip in vaccination in rural India while cases rise: Report||An analysis of districtwise data, obtained by the publication, reveals that districts showing surging positive cases and at least more than 50 percent dip in vaccination are from rural parts of the country. This indicates that the national vaccination programme is missing out on this crucial sector. As many as 306 districts were reporting a 20 percent increase in positive cases between May 3 and May 7. To control the situation, the Centre planned to follow the UK model, where vaccination will be done at a faster rate while imposing strict containment zones. However, since the new norms kicked in on May 1 — dual pricing and inoculation for everyone above 18 years — these 306 districts saw as much as 67 percent dip in vaccination. Between April 24 and April 30, 77.23 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccines were given in these 306 districts. This dropped to 60.51 lakh between May 1 and May 7. The report also points out that increased vaccination was reported between May 1 and May 7 in 101 surge districts and 19.11 lakh doses were given in total. But increased vaccination was taking place in very limited states as 40 percent of those doses were given to Delhi and Haryana. Between May 1 and May 7, most districts of Odisha, Karnataka and Maharashtra saw more than 50 percent drop in vaccination. South district (Sikkim), East Singhbhum district (Jharkhand), Udupi district (Karnataka), Satara (Maharashtra), Sambalpur district (Odisha), and Bargarh (Odisha) were the top six districts to report more than 70 percent drop in Covid-19 vaccination since May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-huge-dip-in-vaccination-in-rural-india-while-cases-rise-report-984732.html
11-05-2021||National||PIL against Central Vista construction another attempt to stall project: Centre to Delhi HC||The Union government has contended before the Delhi High Court that the plea filed before it for halting the work on both sides of Rajpath here under the Central Vista Redevelopment Project was a "sheer abuse of the process of law and one more attempt to stall it under the refuge of the present Covid-19 situation". Executive Engineer Central Vista Project Division-III, CPWD, Rajiv Sharma said the tender for the work, meant for providing public amenities, and pedestrian underpass etc, was awarded to M/s Shapoorji Pallonji and Company, in January 2021. This has to be completed within 10 months by November 2021.  The scope of work for the project in question is not what is colloquially referred to as “the Central Vista Project”, which included Parliament, refurbishment of North Block, South Block, construction of new offices for central government i.e. Common Central Secretariat, Central conference facilities, etc. Contrary to claims, the project was not inaugurated by the Prime Minister, he said.  A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Jasmeet Singh on Tuesday ordered to bring on record the affidavit filed on behalf of the Centre and posted the PIL by Anya Malhotra and Sohail Hashmi for consideration on Wednesday. The petitioners led by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra sought a direction to halt the construction due to the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and the threat posed by the construction work as a potential super spreader.  The government's response, however, claimed the workers, engaged in the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue, were residing at the site, following social distancing norms as well as other Covid-19 protocols.  A Covid-19-compliant facility was installed at the worksite itself to accommodate the 250 workers who had expressed their willingness to stay put and continue the work. The facility provided for strict implementation of Covid protocol and behaviour such as sanitisation, thermal screening, physical and social distancing and masking.  Moreover, the contractor has provided for a health insurance of all the concerned workers against Covid-19 and a separate facility for conducting the RT-PCR test, isolation and medical aid has also been provided at site, the response stated. The official also claimed that it was false to suggest that any workers were brought from Sarai Kale Khan camp to the working site on a daily basis. The official asked the court to dismiss the petition with exemplary cost saying attempts were going on since the inception of the project under one pretext or another and in one name or another to stall it. The petition deserves to be dismissed as motivated by some undisclosed interest under the garb of “public interest” as it chose to challenge one construction project while several agencies like CPWD, NBCC, DMRC, PWD, IICC and DDA are also engaged in and carrying out construction activities in various places across Delhi, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-against-central-vista-construction-another-attempt-to-stall-project-centre-to-delhi-hc-984733.html
11-05-2021||National||States to receive 7L additional Covid-19 vaccine doses within next 3 days: Centre||More than 90 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs which will receive over 7 lakh additional doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The Centre has so far provided more than 18 crore vaccine doses (18,00,03,160) to states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 17,09,71,429 doses. "More than 90 lakh Covid Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces," the ministry said. States and UTs will receive 7,29,610 additional vaccine doses in addition within the next three days. The ministry said the Government of India has been supporting the nationwide vaccination drive by providing Covid vaccines free of cost to states and UTs. Implementation of the Liberalized and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination has started from May 1, 2021.  In the strategy it is made clear that every month only 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. The Centre would continue to procure its share of 50 per cent of the monthly CDL cleared vaccines and would continue to make it available to state governments free of cost as was being done earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-to-receive-7l-additional-covid-19-vaccine-doses-within-next-3-days-centre-984745.html
11-05-2021||National||Active Covid-19 cases down by over 30,000 in 24 hours first time in 61 days: Health Ministry||The total active Covid-19 cases in the country dipped to 37,15,221 on Tuesday with a net decline of 30,016 cases being recorded in a span of 24 hours for the first time after 61 days, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The total recoveries in a span of 24 hours too outnumbered the daily new Covid-19 cases after 61 days. The total active cases now comprise 16.16 per cent of the country's total coronavirus infections. Thirteen states -- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh cumulatively account for 82.68 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said. The ministry said 24.44 per cent of the total active cases in the country have been reported from 10 districts including Bengaluru Urban, Pune, Delhi, Ernakulam, Nagpur, Ahmedabad, Thrissur, Jaipur, Kozhikode and Mumbai. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi -- reported 69.88 per cent of the 3,29,942 new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the ministry said. Karnataka has reported the highest daily new cases at 39,305. It is followed by Maharashtra with 37,236 cases and Tamil Nadu which reported 28,978 new cases. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,90,27,304 with 3,56,082 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 72.28 per cent of the new recoveries, the ministry said. The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent, it said. A total 3,876 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours and 10 states account for 73.09 per cent of the new fatalities, it said. Karnataka saw the maximum casualties (596) followed by Maharashtra (549), it said. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has increased to 17.27 crore. A total of 17,27,10,066 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,15,519 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. These include 95,64,242 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 65,05,744 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,40,54,058 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 78,53,514 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 25,59,339 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years who have been administered the first dose. Besides, 5,55,10,630 and 71,95,632 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have been administered the first and second dose respectively while, 5,38,06,205 and 1,56,60,702 people aged above 60 have taken the first and second dose. According to the ministry, 5,24,731 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 25,59,339 across 30 states and UTs since the start of the phase-3 of vaccination drive. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.7 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, it said. More than 25 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said. As on day 115 (May 10) of the vaccination drive, a total of 25,03,756 doses were administered, the ministry said. Across 18,542 sessions, 10,75,948 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 14,27,808 people received their second dose of vaccine, it said. Besides, 8,900 oxygen concentrators, 5,043 oxygen cylinders, 18 oxygen generation plants, 5,698 ventilators/BiPAP machines and more than 3.4 lakh Remdesivir vials received as part of global aid to India have been delivered/dispatched to states and UTs to strengthen and supplement their Covid-19 response, so far. The Union government is ensuring streamlined and fast delivery of the global aid to states and UTs through faster customs clearances, and use of air and road, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-covid-19-cases-down-by-over-30000-in-24-hours-first-time-in-61-days-health-ministry-984750.html
11-05-2021||National||Centre asks states to prioritise vaccinating those due for second jab of Covid-19 vaccine||The Centre appealed to states on Tuesday to prioritise vaccinating those due for second dose of Covid-19 vaccine and reserve at least 70 per cent of the shots supplied from the central pool for the purpose. States have also been urged to minimise wastage of vaccine doses, the health ministry said in a statement. All wastage more than the national average hereafter is to be adjusted from the subsequent allocations to that state or union territory. The urgent need to address a large number of beneficiaries waiting for second dose of vaccine was stressed in a meeting held by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Dr R S Sharma, the Chairman of Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to Combat Covid-19, with state officials to review the status of Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday. States were urged to "ensure all beneficiaries who have taken the first dose are prioritised for the second doses", the ministry said in the statement. In this regard, states can reserve at least 70 per cent of the vaccines supplied to them from the Government of India channel for second dose vaccination and the remaining 30 per cent for first dose.  "This however is indicative. States have the liberty to enhance this to as much as 100 per cent. State-wise numbers on CoWIN have been shared with states for their planning purposes.  "The states were asked to undertake awareness campaign for reinforcing the importance of complete vaccination with two doses of the vaccine," the statement said. Presenting details of states who have ensured high coverage of priority groups (like population aged 45+, frontline workers and healthcare workers) and the others, the Union Health secretary urged states to ensure that priority groups are vaccinated. States have been informed in a transparent manner in advance about the Covid vaccines being provided to them from Govt of India channel. The visibility for the forthcoming fortnight is conveyed to them in advance to enable better and more effective planning by them, the statement stated. The next allocation for the period 15-31th May will be conveyed to them on May 14. It was pointed out that states can utilize the information regarding dose allocation for the next 15 days to plan their vaccination sessions. States were also urged to minimise vaccine wastage, the statement said. While the overall levels have considerably reduced, Union Health Secretary pointed that there were many states which still needed to substantially reduce the wastage. It was suggested to states and UTs to retrain and reorient vaccinators to ensure judicious usage of the vaccines.  "All wastage more than the national average hereafter is to be adjusted from the subsequent allocations to that state and UT," the statement said.  In this context, it was also pointed out that certain states are able to report a negative wastage because the well-trained health workers can extract maximum doses per vial than what is otherwise generally earmarked. States were also briefed about procurement from the 'Other than Government of India' (OGoI) channel which has been opened in the Liberalised Phase-III Strategy of Vaccination.  In view of the payments pending from states to the private vaccine manufacturers, the states were advised to constitute a dedicated team at state level of 2 or 3 senior officers to coordinate with vaccine manufacturers on a daily basis and secure State Govt. supplies promptly, the statement said. This team is to also coordinate with private hospitals to facilitate their procurement thereby maintaining the momentum of the overall vaccination exercise in the State. The CoWIN platform is also being modified to better reflect the changing needs of the vaccination exercise, the statement said. The states can download a second dose due report to better plan the completion of vaccination of the target groups., the statement said. The District Immunization Officer and Covid Vaccination Centre Manager can increase the session capacity according to demand and can also visualise the target group in their upcoming sessions. Beneficiaries without relevant photo ID cards like senior citizens at old-age homes, etc., can also be registered, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-prioritise-vaccinating-those-due-for-second-jab-of-covid-19-vaccine-984771.html
11-05-2021||National||India might see 'serious livelihood crisis' due to Covid-19, lockdowns, says economist Jean Dreze||India might be heading towards a "serious livelihood crisis" as the situation seems to be worse this time for the working class amid the Covid crisis and local restrictions by states already add up to something close to a nationwide lockdown, according to noted economist Jean Dreze. In an interview to PTI, he also said the government's target to make India a USD 5 trillion economy by 2024-25 was never a "feasible target" and was just to pander to the "super-power ambitions" of the Indian elite. About the impact of the second wave of Covid on the Indian economy, the eminent economist said the situation today is not very different from what it was around this time last year as far as working people are concerned. "The economic consequences of local lockdowns may not be as destructive as those of a national lockdown. But in some respects, things are worse this time for the working class," he opined. Further, the eminent economist said the fear of infection is more widespread and that will make it hard to revive economic activity. "Despite mass vaccination, there is a serious possibility that intermittent crises will continue for a long time, perhaps years. "Compared with last year, many people have depleted savings and larger debts. Those who borrowed their way through last year's crisis may not be able to do it again this time," he observed. Dreze also pointed out that last year there was a relief package and today relief measures are not even being discussed. "On top of all this, local lockdowns may give way to a national lockdown relatively soon. In fact, they already add up to something close to a country-wide lockdown. "In short, we are heading towards a serious livelihood crisis," he said. On how the government could have missed seeing the second Covid-19 wave coming, Dreze said the Indian government has been in denial all along. "Remember, the government refused to admit about any 'community transmission' of Covid for a long time, even as recorded cases were counted in millions. "When an early analysis of official data exposed the collapse of health services, the government retracted the data," he said. He pointed out that misleading statistics have been routinely invoked to reassure the public that all is well. "Denying a crisis is the surest way to make it worse. We are now paying the price of this complacency". India has been reporting more than three lakh new Covid cases daily in recent weeks and the death toll due to the infection is also rising. Noting that India is also paying the price of a long history of neglect of the health sector, especially public health, Dreze said nothing is more important than health for the quality of life, yet public expenditure on health in India has hovered around a measly 1 per cent of GDP for decades. When asked about the sort of relief measures that could be put in place to deal with possible livelihood crisis, he said as a starter, the central government could replay the 2020 relief package. "But it is important to go beyond that, and to consolidate the social security system on a durable basis," the eminent economist said, adding that ad-hoc, short-term relief measures tend to breed confusion, corruption and waste. Dreze, who was also part of the National Advisory Council (NAC) that had advised the previous UPA government, said much can be done within the framework of existing social security schemes and laws such as the public distribution system, the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), the National Social Assistance Programme, and the Integrated Child Development Services. He also noted it would be easy to provide supplementary food rations to all ration-card holders for much longer than the proposed two months, and also to expand the coverage of the public distribution system. "Going beyond existing schemes, I think that a well-designed, inclusive cash-transfer programme would be useful," Dreze opined. According to him, if intermittent crises are going to continue for years, which is very possible, it would really help to have a well-functioning system of cash relief that can be activated whenever the need arises. "Turning India into a USD 5 trillion economy by 2024-25 was never a feasible target, and it is a useless target in any case. The function of this target is to pander to the super-power ambitions of the Indian elite," the Belgian-born Indian economist said. In 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi envisioned to make India a USD 5 trillion economy and global power house by 2024-25. According to Dreze, even if we accept GDP as a valid development indicator, the standard approach is to look at GDP at its per capita terms. "But then India looks like one of the poorer countries in the world, which it is. Looking at aggregate GDP, which is naturally quite large because of India's large population, creates an illusion of prosperity and power," he argued. Dreze pointed out that actually it is not entirely an illusion because if the government's interest is in power on the world stage rather than in the living conditions of the people, then, yes, aggregate GDP would matter. "For instance, it would enable you maintain a large army. But this has nothing to do with development," he observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-might-see-serious-livelihood-crisis-due-to-covid-19-lockdowns-says-economist-jean-dreze-984777.html
11-05-2021||National||Early trend of decline in daily new Covid-19 cases, deaths: Centre||An early trend of decline in daily new Covid-19 cases and deaths has been noted in the country, the government said on Tuesday, indicating that the devastating second wave of the pandemic is on the wane. According to the government, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh were among 18 states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases. Addressing a press conference, a senior official, however, said Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Punjab were among 16 states and union territories showing continued increasing trend in daily new Covid-19 cases. Thirteen states have more than 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases each and 26 states have a positivity rate of over 15 per cent, the government said. India has been reeling under a calamitous second wave of the coronavirus infection. However, the daily numbers of deaths and infections have started to go down. New cases of coronavirus in India fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days, taking the infection tally to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have reduced to 37,15,221, accounting for 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/early-trend-of-decline-in-daily-new-covid-19-cases-deaths-centre-984785.html
11-05-2021||National||Minor oxygen leakage at south Goa district hospital||A minor oxygen leakage occurred at the South Goa district hospital (SGDH) in Margao on Tuesday afternoon when the gas was being filled in the main storage tank on the campus from a tanker, but there is no casualty, a police official said. The SGDH is one of the biggest state-run facilities in treating Covid-19 patients. "The medical oxygen leaked when the gas was being transferred to the main tank of the hospital from a tanker. There were no casualties as the leakage was plugged within a few minutes," he said. District officials who rushed to the spot said a report on the causes behind the incident will be submitted to the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minor-oxygen-leakage-at-south-goa-district-hospital-984786.html
11-05-2021||National||Railway employees' union demands higher compensation, early vaccination amid Covid-19||With as many as 1,952 employees of the Indian Railways succumbing to Covid-19 so far, railway unions are demanding Rs 50 lakh as compensation to families of those died, and early vaccination for all railway employees. "Around 1,000 Covid-19 cases are being reported daily in the Railways in second wave. As many as 1,952 rail employees have died due to Covid-19 since March 2020," Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said. The Railways has an employee strength of around 13 lakh. According to a Railways employees union, so far 113 station masters have died in the pandemic, most of them in the second wave. Around 50 men from Railway Protection Force have also died so far. All India Railwaymen's Federation, a rail union, had written to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal demanding compensation at par with frontline workers for railwaymen who lost their lives while working during the coronavirus crisis. In the letter, Shiva Gopal Mishra, General Secretary of the All India Railwaymen's Federation said, they said the men deserved Rs 50 lakh as compensation, same as that announced for frontline workers, and not Rs 25 lakh which is paid to them. "More than one lakh have been infected by the virus, 65,000 have recovered and rejoined their duties, while 1,500 have lost their lives due to coronavirus," Mishra said. The unions also demanded early vaccination of all Railway employees at the earliest. Earlier, vaccination was started for frontline workers, Railway medical staff as well as RPF personnel. But remaining sections of staff including ticket checkers, station masters, drivers and guards were not included in that drive. Now, the Railways is expediting vaccinate remaining staff on priority basis in all zones, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-employees-union-demands-higher-compensation-early-vaccination-amid-covid-19-984793.html
11-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: ED files criminal case against Anil Deshmukh||In your evening news brief, Telangana decides to impose a 10-day lockdown in the state starting May 12; Enforcement Directorate files a criminal case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and Karnataka has requested the Centre to allocate as much oxygen as possible for the state.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 11, 2021: The Telangana government on Tuesday decided to impose a 10-day lockdown in the state starting May 12, to prevent further spread of the coronavirus. According to an official release, the state cabinet decided to clamp a lockdown from 10 am on May 12 (Wednesday) for 10 days. "However, there would be relaxation for all the activities from 6 AM to 10 Am daily," it said. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, official sources said on Tuesday. They said the case registered under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been filed after studying a recent CBI FIR that was filed against Deshmukh. Revealing that Karnataka has requested the Centre to allocate as much oxygen as possible for the state, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday urged the Centre to allow states to utilise locally-produced oxygen to overcome the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking to media persons in Bengaluru, Dr K Sudhakar said, "The Centre has sent 120 tonnes of LMO in six containers. The Centre has cooperated with the state in every possible way. If we are allowed to utilise the oxygen produced within our own state, there will not be any transportation issues. If a train is deployed, it takes four days to reach here. We have explained this issue to the Union Railway Minister and I hope that this will be resolved soon." (Source: DHNS/ PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-ed-files-criminal-case-against-anil-deshmukh-984802.html
11-05-2021||National||After Bihar, dozens of bodies found floating in Ganga in UP||A day after dead bodies were seen floating in Ganga river at Buxar in Bihar, dozens of bodies were found floating in the river in Ballia and Ghazipur districts in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. According to the sources, the bodies were seen near Bharauli in Ballia and Narwa and Bulaki Das ghats in Gahmar area in the Ghazipur district. Local administration fished out many of the bodies, which were close to the riverbank, and had them buried, sources said. Ghazipur district magistrate MP Singh said that the administration was trying to find out where the bodies had come from. A probe was also ordered into the matter. Incidentally, Gahmar is adjacent to Bihar's Buxar. Officials suspect that the dead bodies found floating near Buxar had also reached there from the UP side of the river. According to the sources, people have been dumping the dead in the river as there is an acute shortage of wood for the pyre. ''There is a shortage of firewood... whatever is available is very costly,'' said a resident from Kanpur. Reports said that dozens of dead bodies were buried on the banks of the cremation ghats in Ganga in Unnao district, which was adjacent to Kanpur owing to the shortage of firewood. Some bodies were buried in pits, which are barely three to four feet deep. During the monsoon season, when the river overflows its banks, these bodies may be swept by the strong currents downstream.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-bihar-dozens-of-bodies-found-floating-in-ganga-in-up-984808.html
11-05-2021||National||Chhota Rajan returns to Tihar after recovering from Covid||Gangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted at AIIMS here for treatment after he had tested positive for Covid-19, was taken back to Tihar jail on Tuesday following his recovery from illness, officials said. He was found Covid-19 positive in the Tihar Jail on April 22 and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 24. According to a senior police officer, Rajan was brought back to Tihar on Tuesday as he had recovered. On Friday, the jail administration had dismissed reports claiming that Rajan had died. ''News of death of Tihar jail inmate Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje Chhota Rajan s/o Sadashiv Nikalje is wrong,'' Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel had said. Rajan, 61, is lodged at the high-security prison since his arrest after deportation from Bali in Indonesia in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhota-rajan-returns-to-tihar-after-recovering-from-covid-984816.html
11-05-2021||National||Muslim woman performs last rites of Covid-infected Hindu man in Kolhapur||Putting humanity above religion, a Muslim woman in Maharashtra's Kolhapur city performed the last rites of a Covid-19 infected Hindu man whose close relatives could not come for funeral as they had tested positive for coronavirus. The humanitarian act by Ayesha Raut, who works as a senior manager at Aster Adhar Hospital in Kolhapur, has come in the midst of gloomy atmosphere caused by the Covid-19 pandemic when family members and relatives are shying away from ensuring decent last rites for their near and dear ones. On May 9, she performed the last rites of one Sudhakar Vedak (81), who died after battling Covid-19 for a week in the Aster Adhar Hospital, as per Hindu tradition. Speaking to PTI, Raut said, As part of annual distribution drive during the holy month of Ramzan, my family had decided to donate PPE kits to people working in cemeteries and crematoriums in Kolhapur city. "When I was at the Panchganga crematorium to distribute PPE kits, I received a call from Dr Harshala Vedak, whose father Sudhakar Vedak had died on Sunday (May 9). Dr Harshala Vedak asked Raut if she could facilitate the last rites of her father at the Panchganga crematorium as all her family members, including herself, were infected with coronavirus. She and Raut know each other professionally. Dr Harshala Vedak works as a resident medical officer at state-run Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital in the city, around 375 km from Mumbai. I was a bit upset as there was no one from Sudhakar Vedaks side to even attend the funeral. So I called Dr Vedak and sought her permission to perform her father's last rites. "With her nod, I wore PPE kit and performed the last rites as per Hindu rituals, Raut said. Dr Harshala Vedak hailed Raut's noble and kind gesture. "When a relative dies, there is grief in the family and due to Covid-19 restrictions, people feel the pain more because they can not even attend the funeral or perform last rites," Dr Harshala Vedak said. Sudhakar Vedak's condition deteriorated on Friday and he died on Sunday, but noone from his family could visit the hospital because all of them, including Dr Harshala Vedak, had tested positive for coronavirus and were in home quarantine. "My father has three daughters and I am the eldest one. Three years back, when my mother lost her battle to cancer, I had performed her last rites in Mumbai. "Our parents were always proud of their daughters and we never faced any discrimination while growing up. Hence, it was not very difficult for me to accept that a woman is going to perform the last rites on my father, Dr Harshala Vedak said. She said Raut's religion was not an issue. "There was no issue at all with Ayesha, being a Muslim, performing the last rites. In fact, we all are full of gratitude for what she did. "I know Ayesha professionally for the last few years. I saw her initiative as a good example being set before the society, Dr Harshala Vedak said. Asked about her state of mind when she decided to perform the last rites, Raut said, I felt very sad that no relative was present and Sudhakar Vedaks body was kept there along with other bodies. "There was a long queue of dead bodies at the crematorium and most of them were put on funeral pyre by crematorium workers. It was a very depressing scene." Raut said she did not think about religion when she lit the funeral pyre. "I could at least offer some solace to the family by performing the rites. I did not think for a second that I am a Muslim and I am performing the last rites of a Hindu, Raut said. Asked how people perceived her act, she said, This is Kolhapur which has a long history of movements related to social reforms. I have not faced any disapproval of my act... everyone appreciated my gesture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-woman-performs-last-rites-of-covid-infected-hindu-man-in-kolhapur-984818.html
11-05-2021||National||US looking at joint production of Johnson and Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine in India||The US is looking at joint production of Johnson and Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine in India and ways to help manufacturers like the Serum Institute of India (SII) to boost production, Daniel B Smith, the Charge D'Affaires of the US embassy, said on Tuesday. Smith also said that the efficacy of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine manufactured at a production facility in Baltimore is not yet clear and the Food and Drug Administration has not yet certified that the doses are available for anyone's use or for export. Last month, the White House said that the US plans to share 60 million doses of AstraZeneca's vaccine globally as soon as they become available, and India expected a significant chunk of the total stockpile. At a media briefing, Smith said the US was concerned over the current course of the pandemic in India, not simply because of the humanitarian catastrophe but also due to the fact that it has global implications, noting that the Biden administration was standing with New Delhi to help deal with the crisis. "I know that there are a number of doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine (with the US). They were manufactured in the US. They were manufactured at a plant outside of Baltimore but there were problems with this plant. So far the Food and Drug Administration of the US has not certified that these vaccines are available for anyone's use; for export or not," he said. "So I cannot say when that will happen or what will be done exactly as we go forward on this," Smith said when asked whether the US was going to make available the AstraZeneca vaccine doses to India on an urgent basis. He said the US was eager to supply the vaccine doses to the world but not before it is sure that they are safe and effective. Smith, who recently served as acting Secretary of State and acting Deputy Secretary of State, was appointed as Charge d'Affaires primarily to oversee and coordinate the US' assistance to India in dealing with the pandemic. To a question on joint production of coronavirus vaccines, Smith said the setting up of joint productions takes time and that the US was looking at how it can invest in boosting production. "Our development finance cooperation is looking at how we can invest so that we can help produce the Johnson and Johnson's vaccine here in India. And I know that there are some private sector production talks that are underway from pharmaceutical companies to pharmaceutical companies," he said. "We are determined to do all we can as a government to encourage licensing and encourage more production and if there is a need for capital, we will look at what we can provide and whether we can provide assistance," he said. Smith said India's role in the production of Covid-19 vaccines at the global stage is critical. "I think we are watching carefully the production levels at the SII and elsewhere. We've been in close touch with the SII to try to determine what raw materials we could provide, and assistance that we can provide to help boost production," he said. The US has been in touch with multiple vaccine manufacturers in the country. "We want to do all we can to boost that production because I have heard from some of my colleagues in neighbouring countries, from the government of Bhutan, about their concern that India, of course, is having to divert a lot of its existing production to its own domestic needs, which is absolutely understandable," he said. "But in the same token, it means a lot of these countries are at risk that they will not get a second round of this vaccination. So we are looking to partner with other countries, we are looking at what we can do both to boost the production here in India but also to make up for whatever shortfall exists as a result of India's own dire need for these vaccines," he added. As India reeled from a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections, the US rapidly deployed six planeloads of life-saving supplies in support of the country's fight against the pandemic. The US government's assistance to India is estimated at $100 million. Smith said there was a need to work closely to address issues relating to the supply chain. "A lot of the companies that manufacture key components and raw materials are located in the US, but many are not. So we are going to have to work together as a global community to address some of these supply chain issues and challenges that we face as we go forward," he said. "We are concerned obviously with the current course of the pandemic in India, not simply because of the humanitarian catastrophe but the fact that it has global implications," the US Charge D'Affaires said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-looking-at-joint-production-of-johnson-and-johnsons-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-984831.html
11-05-2021||National||India conducting 18-20 lakh Covid-19 tests a day: ICMR||India is conducting 18-20 lakh tests for detection of Covid-19 per day, the ICMR chief said on Tuesday underlining that despite infection among laboratory staff, the test performance is still being maintained. At a press conference, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said that the national Covid-19 positivity rate is around 21 per cent and about 42 per cent (310/734) of the districts are reporting a positivity rate more than the national average. Stressing that early testing, isolation and home-based care is the key to control transmission, Bhargava said, "The RT-PCR testing capacity is about 16 lakh per day in our laboratories and RAT capacity is also around 17 lakh per day." "Laboratories are working 24X7 to meet the increased testing demand. Despite infection among laboratory staff, test performance is still being maintained," he said. Giving an example, Bhargava said that in the month of April and May, they were doing, on an average, 16-20 lakh RTPCR and RAT tests combined per day. On April 30, India conducted 19,45,299 tests for detection of Covid-19 that is the highest number of tests by any country ever, he said, stressing even the US has never reached this number. On May 5, 19,23,131 tests were conducted. "So, we are hovering around 18-20 lakh per day except for on Sundays when we find a dip of one or two lakh," he said. There are at present 2,520 COVID-19 government and private molecular testing labs, over 7,000 RT-PCR machines and over 3,800 TrueNat and CBNAAT machines.  A total 30,04,10,043 samples have been tested up to May 7 in India. In the second wave, Bhargava said three initiatives were taken -- rationalising RT-PCR tests, increasing RAT testing for early detection, isolation and home care and third Covid-19 tests approved by reputed global agencies have been accorded marketing permission by DCGI. In terms of rationalisation of RT-PCR tests, he said RT-PCR must not be repeated in individuals tested positive once either by RAT or RT-PCR. No testing is required for recovered individuals at the time of hospital discharge and there is no need for RT-PCR tests in healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel . Non-essential travel and interstate travel of symptomatic individuals should be essentially avoided. All asymptomatic individuals undertaking essential travel must follow Covid appropriate behaviour, he said, adding that mobile testing laboratories are also being deployed. With the second wave of coronavirus raging, Bhargava stressed on aggressively increasing the usage of Rapid Antigen Tests in rural and hard to reach areas to ensure faster isolation. He recommended setting up multiple 24X7 RAT booths in cities, towns and villages. He said RATs are to be allowed at all government and private healthcare facilities and no accreditation is required. RAT booths are to be set up with the community in schools, colleges, community centers, RWA offices etc. Public-private partnership models must be encouraged to establish innovative and convenient testing centers. He said RATs must be conducted in accordance with RAT algorithm defined by ICMR and all RT-PCR and RAT test results should be uploaded on ICMR portal, he added. Social distancing norms are to be ensured at all RAT and RT-PCR testing centers. "Covid-19 tests approved by reputed global agencies have been accorded marketing permission by the DCGI and home-based testing solutions are also being explored," he added. In response to a question on whether children are getting more affected, Bhargava said the comparison of data during the first and second wave of Covid-19 has shown that there is not much age difference and people above age of 40 are more vulnerable for adverse outcomes. "We have found that younger people are getting slightly more involved because suddenly they have gone out and there are variants also prevalent in the nation which may be affecting them as well," he said. Bhargava further said that if one has fever with or without cough, headache, sore throat, breathlessness, bodyache, recent loss of taste or smell, fatigue, diarrhea, then they should be tested immediately, and while awaiting test results, they should be isolated. Some people make the mistake of monitoring pulse rate, he said, adding that those in home isolation should not confuse pulse rate as oxygen saturation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-conducting-18-20-lakh-covid-19-tests-a-day-icmr-984833.html
11-05-2021||National||PM Modi decides against travelling to UK for G7 summit in view of Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided against travelling to the United Kingdom to attend the G7 summit next week, in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which is wreaking havoc across India. India is not a member of the G7, which comprises Japan, Italy, France, Germany, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. However, the European Union is a ‘non-enumerated' member of the bloc. The Prime Minister was expected to attend the G7 summit as a “Special Invitee” on a request from his counterpart in the UK, Boris Johnson, who would host the conclave at Cornwall in South West England from June 11 to 13. New Delhi, however, conveyed to the British Government on Tuesday that the Prime Minister would not be able to attend the summit physically, in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in India. “While appreciating the invitation to the Prime Minister by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to attend the G7 Summit as a Special Invitee, given the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it has been decided that the Prime Minister will not attend the G7 Summit in person,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. Modi may take part in the summit virtually though. The Prime Minister’s tour to the UK for the G7 summit would have also created an opportunity for him and US President Joe Biden to meet each other in person for the first time. Though Modi and Biden spoke to each other over the phone and even took part in the virtual summit of the Quad on March 12, they did not have the opportunity to hold an in-person meeting even as more than three months have passed after the change of guard in White House on January 20 this year. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga is expected to attend the G7 summit. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison is also likely to travel to the UK to take part in the summit. The Quad leaders thus would have had an opportunity to hold the first in-person meeting on the sideline of the G7 summit, had the Prime Minister not decided against travelling to the UK to attend the conclave physically. Johnson was earlier expected to visit New Delhi on January 25 and 26 to attend the Republic Day ceremony as the Chief Guest on an invitation from Modi. But he had to cancel the visit in the wake of the alarming rise in the Covid-19 infection in the UK. The two sides then scheduled a visit by the UK Prime Minister to New Delhi in April, but he had to drop his plan again, in the wake of the resurgence in the Covid-19 cases in India. Modi and Johnson finally had held a virtual summit on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-decides-against-travelling-to-uk-for-g7-summit-in-view-of-covid-19-pandemic-984839.html
11-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India sees fall in cases for second consecutive day||Tuesday was a day of mixed emotions, a myriad of highs and lows as India continued its battle with the second wave of coronavirus. While the country recorded a dip in new Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day, it also witnessed several bodies being fished out of the Ganga, this time in Uttar Pradesh, two days in a row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-sees-fall-in-cases-for-second-consecutive-day-984843.html
11-05-2021||National||Direct supply of Covaxin to 18 states since May 1: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it will continue the steady supply of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, adding the jab has been directly supplied to 18 states since May 1. The states include Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, the Hyderabad-based firm added. "COVAXIN has been directly supplied to 18 states since May 1st. Unflinching in our efforts, we will continue the steady supply of our #vaccine," Bharat Biotech said in a tweet. The company is supplying its vaccine to Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Bharat Biotech has commenced direct supply of Covaxin with effect from May 1 to several states based on the allocations received by the central government, the company's Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella had earlier said. On April 29, Bharat Biotech had announced a cut in the price of Covaxin for states to Rs 400 per dose from the earlier Rs 600. This followed widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it sold Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. India has expanded its Covid-19 vaccination drive by allowing its large 18-plus population to get inoculated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/direct-supply-of-covaxin-to-18-states-since-may-1-bharat-biotech-984844.html
11-05-2021||National||Covid-19: AstraZeneca pledges $2,50,000 as humanitarian aid to India||Drug major AstraZeneca on Tuesday said it has pledged $2,50,000 (over Rs 1.8 crore) in humanitarian aid to India to support relief activities amid the second wave of Covid-19 sweeping across the country. The aid to India is part of the $1 million which the British-Swedish multinational has earmarked for relief initiatives across communities which have been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic. "Today, AstraZeneca pledges $1 million in humanitarian aid to support relief activities in India as well as other communities around the world hardest hit by the pandemic. "This includes directing 250,000 $direct relief to support their efforts in India, which includes the distribution of oxygen concentrators, medicines, other supplies and personal protective equipment (PPE) to provide treatment and care for those with Covid-19," AstraZeneca said in a statement on Twitter. The Covid-19 pandemic continues to cause devastation around the world, with India currently facing an incredible humanitarian crisis from a surge of cases and related deaths, it noted. "To date, approximately 10 per cent of India's population of 1.3 billion has received one dose of our vaccine -- known in India as Covishield -- accounting for 90 per cent of all vaccination," AstraZeneca said. The company's partner in the country, Serum Institute of India (SII), already produces more Covid-19 vaccine doses than any other organisation globally, it noted. Access to Covid-19 vaccination is a critical component in tackling the pandemic, in India and beyond, the drug major said. It is why AstraZeneca has devoted its time, resources, and energy to develop a vaccine that is available at no profit during the pandemic and supplied equitably to as many people as possible, it added. "We thank AstraZeneca for their unwavering support. We are working together to scale up and committed to provide more vaccines to India by July. This will help us to protect countless lives against this devastating virus," SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said. AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot noted that the company remains steadfast in its continued commitment to changing the course of the pandemic for the people of India. "We hope that through increasing vaccinations, humanitarian relief efforts, and critical donations of medicines and needed equipment, India will steadily recover from this crisis. We stand united with the people of India, as we work tirelessly to bring this pandemic to an end as quickly as possible," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-astrazeneca-pledges-250000-as-humanitarian-aid-to-india-984853.html
11-05-2021||National||Improvise households as quarantine locations for asymptomatic Covid cases in villages: Centre to states||As Covid-19 pandemic hits rural India with high positivity rate and rising casualty from villages, the Centre has asked states to activate panchayats to provide the necessary institutional village-level support catering to their respective locations. "Wherever possible, they may improvise households as home quarantine locations, where maximum of the asymptomatic Covid positive cases can be managed. Additionally, they may also set up specific quarantine/isolation centers for the needy and returning migrant labourers," the letter written by Panchayati Raj Ministry to the states read. In consultation with the Health Department, the Panchayats may be designated to facilitate vaccination drives to ensure maximum coverage of eligible population”, the Ministry has suggested further. Centre also asked the states to involve frontline volunteers from the local community in creating awareness about the disease and equip them with necessary protective systems like finger oxy-meters, N-95 masks, infrared thermal scanning instruments and sanitisers. The ministry asked the states to take preventive measures to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in rural India and to sensitise and facilitate the panchayats and other rural local bodies towards meeting the challenge and provide leadership. With many medical myths spreading surrounding the pandemic, the government asked the states especially to take care to dispel false notions and beliefs and utilise the services of the elected panchayat representatives, teachers, ASHA workers, who have access to locals. The Ministry has also advised state governments to leverage available IT infrastructure like panchayat offices, schools, common service centers to provide the residents real-time information on availability of testing/vaccination centers, doctors, hospital beds and related issues. To deal with an emergency situation, the Ministry has asked states government to establish proper inter-linkages with the medical facilities at the nearby district and sub-districts so that emergency requirements like ambulances, advanced testing and treatment facilities, multi-speciality care etc. are provided to those in need without much loss of time. States have also been asked to set up a suitable inter-departmental Monitoring mechanism comprising of officers of Panchayati Raj, Rural Development, Health, Revenue, Women & Child Development, Education Departments at Block, District and State level to regularly monitor the functioning of the Gram Panchayats and their Committees in respect of tackling the Covid pandemic and related public health issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/improvise-households-as-quarantine-locations-for-asymptomatic-covid-cases-in-villages-centre-to-states-984855.html
11-05-2021||National||Chavan to head Congress panel to study election debacle; Azad to head Covid-19 task force||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday appointed Maharashtra Minister Ashok Chavan as the head of a five-member committee to study the recent Assembly election results and senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad as the head of the party’s 13-member task force on Covid-19 relief. The decision to set up both the committees was taken at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee on Monday, which discussed the pandemic and the election results and decided to postpone the election for the post of the party president. The Chavan committee, which has been asked to submit the report within two weeks, will have Salman Khurshid, Manish Tewari, Vincent H Pala and Jothi Mani, who is considered close to the former party president Rahul Gandhi.  Azad, who led the G-23 that wrote a letter to the party chief seeking clarity on the leadership question, will head the Covid-19 Task Force, which is assigned to coordinate the activities of the Congress and has Priyanka Gandhi as one of the members. Besides Azad, another G-23 leader who found a place in the task force is Mukul Wasnik. Tewari, who is part of the committee looking into election results, was also part of the G-23 leaders. The members of the task force also include senior leaders Ambika Soni, Pawan Bansal, KC Venugopal, Jairam Ramesh, Randeep Surjewala, Manish Chatrath, Dr Ajoy Kumar, Pawan Khera, Gurdeep Singh Sappal and Youth Congress president B V Srinivas. Srinivas, who is coordinating relief work across the country under the aegis of Youth Congress, has won praise for his work and several leaders had mentioned his work in Monday's meeting. The Congress and Rahul Gandhi have been finding fault with the Centre's response and the appointment of Azad, who is now perceived as one who is against Rahul's return as party chief, is considered significant. Azad, who has vociferously demanded inner-party election, was on Monday supportive of the idea of postponing organisational polls due to Covid-19 when Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot suggested it in the CWC meeting. The choice of Jothi Mani in the committee to study the election debacle is also curiously watched as she is one of the leaders handpicked by Rahul. Questions have been raised about Rahul Gandhi after his vigorous campaigns in Kerala and Assam ahead of the Assembly elections 2021 did not yield any fruitful results for the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chavan-to-head-congress-panel-to-study-election-debacle-azad-to-head-covid-19-task-force-984856.html
11-05-2021||National||Second Covid wave seems to have flattened but won’t end before July: Virologist Shahid Jameel||India’s second Covid-19 wave seems to have flattened but the climb down will be a more prolonged, long-drawn-out process than the first and will possibly run till July, says eminent virologist Shahid Jameel. Though the new variants of the virus may partly be responsible for the explosion in the number of cases, there is no indication the mutant versions are more lethal, added the director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, amid mounting worries about what is fuelling the second wave in India. Addressing an online event organised by the Indian Express on Tuesday evening, Jameel noted that it is a little too early to say if the Covid-19 wave has peaked. “The curve may have flattened but the other side of the peak is not going to be an easy climb down. It's possibly going to be a more prolonged long-drawn-out process running possibly till July, That means, even if the curve starts to decline, we will continue to have to deal with a large number of infections every day,” Jameel said.   According to the scientist, Covid-19 cases in the second wave also won’t come down in as steady a fashion as they did after the first wave.   “In the first wave, we did see a steady decline. But remember… this time we are starting from a higher number. Instead of 96,000-97,000 cases, we are starting from over 400,000. So it will take that much longer. And during the process at every time point, you'll have a lot of cases,” Jameel explained. In his view, the actual mortality data for India is completely wrong. “… not because of some evil design of someone or a group of people or the state or whatever. But the way we record data I think is faulty.”   Discussing why India faced a second wave, he said the constant narrative was that somehow Indians are special and have some special kind of immunity.   “You know, we had BCG shots when we are children. We get a lot of malaria. So you get all sorts of arguments,” he said. The BCG vaccine is primarily used against tuberculosis. The noted virologist also said people gave the opportunity to the virus not to just spread but also to transmit quickly by not adhering to Covid-19 protocols. “..by the time we came to December and the cases kept going down, we did start believing in this narrative (of immunity). There were a lot of big weddings that we had in January and February. So super spreading events happened,” he added.    He cited other "super spreading events", including elections rallies and religious congregations, for the high number of cases in the second wave.   Vaccine coverage is a matter of concern in his view. Enough people, he said, did not get vaccinated when they had the opportunity in January and February.    “… around the third week of February when numbers started going up, we had very, very little vaccine coverage, possibly about 2 per cent of people,” Jameel said, adding that some people believed in the messaging that vaccines were not safe. “Vaccines are safe and the side effects are very rare. There are more chances of someone dying from lightning than due to rare side effects of vaccines.”   Referring to the vaccine shortage in some states, he noted that all big countries that had vaccinated a considerable proportion of their population had booked their doses around June 2020.   “India didn't do that. We did have a big vaccine enterprise but remember our biggest vaccine companies are private limited companies. You know, it's another story that going back a few years we closed down all our public vaccine enterprises. So we depend entirely on the private sector.   “Private sector does not work on charity. The private sector needs to be given orders for them to be confident or, you know, building facilities to make vaccines. And that is where we took our eye off the ball,” he said.   However, the virologist said funds have now been allotted to Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India, Pune, and both are expanding facilities. But it will take around July by the time vaccine supplies normalise.   Calculations done during the first wave suggested that herd immunity may set in when about 65 per cent of the population gets infected or vaccinated. It no longer holds true, Jameel said.   Herd immunity is a form of indirect protection that can occur when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to an infection, whether through vaccination or previous infections. However, for Covid-19, it is not known when such immunity will set in.   “Now you have a virus that is moving at least twice as fast as thought, if not more. So what you need is you know, at least possibly 75 per cent of the population to be infected or vaccinated before we can achieve what you call herd immunity. So it's a shifting goal post right now. “   “And that is why it is so important for us to go and get vaccinated as soon as vaccines are available,” he added.   The virologist also said India may possibly see many Covid-19 waves depending on the conditions at that time and the progress of the vaccination drive. “Now you have a virus that is moving at least twice as fast as thought, if not more. So what you need is you know, at least possibly 75 per cent of the population to be infected or vaccinated before we can achieve what you call herd immunity. So it's a shifting goal post right now. “   “And that is why it is so important for us to go and get vaccinated as soon as vaccines are available,” he added.   The virologist also said India may possibly see many waves of Covid-19 pandemic depending upon the conditions at that time and the progress of the vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-covid-wave-seems-to-have-flattened-but-won-t-end-before-july-virologist-shahid-jameel-984862.html
11-05-2021||National||Fact-check: BJP leaders share puff piece replete with misinformation to defend PM Modi's efforts to tackle Covid-19 crisis||An article exalting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic made a sudden appearance on the Twitter timelines of BJP leaders. “PM Modi has been working hard; don’t get trapped in the opposition barbs,” read its headline in all capitals.  The entire piece argues how the Prime Minister is working his best, in silence, for the betterment of the country, how Chief Ministers have been acting like ‘crybabies’, how the previous Congress government did little to build strong healthcare infrastructure and how PM Modi’s critics have been trying to paint a negative image of the Prime Minister. The story was published on a never-heard-of-before outlet The Daily Guardian that closely resembles the name The Guardian but isn’t associated with the UK daily. Article authored by a member of BJP’s national media team While the word Guardian in the outlet’s name might fool some readers into believing that an international publication praised the Indian Prime Minister in an over 2,700-word piece, the article was penned by Sudesh Verma who is the convenor of the Media Relations Department of the BJP. He also represents the party as a spokesperson in TV debates. Five days later, PM Modi decided to not attend election rallies in West Bengal. This was after the state witnessed its highest surge in cases since the pandemic began. Verma conveniently hailed PM Modi for cancelling his visit in the last legs of the campaigning but did not deem it appropriate to inform that the rallies were still being held on the ground with the PM’s virtual presence. The Daily Guardian was launched by ITV Network in February this year. ITV Network is the parent company of NewsX. NewsX had aired Haryana BJP President’s congratulatory note to journalists of The Daily Guardian on the launch of the newspaper.  Utpal Kumar is the Executive Editor of The Daily Guardian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-bjp-leaders-share-puff-piece-replete-with-misinformation-to-defend-pm-modis-efforts-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis-984872.html
11-05-2021||National||Centre, states doing everything possible to tackle Covid crisis: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said the Centre and the state governments are doing everything possible to tackle the Covid-19 crisis, while asserting that only those who perform commit mistakes. "The speed displayed by the Uttar Pradesh government in tackling the Covid cases should be praised. Mistakes can be committed by anyone. Only a person who performs will commit mistakes. But this is not the time for criticism, if anyone spots any loophole and offers suggestions, the state government will welcome it," he told reporters. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has accepted this pandemic as a challenge and the government is doing everything possible to tackle this challenge," he said, adding that many countries are helping India at this hour of crisis because of the good diplomatic relations forged by the prime minister.          The Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow visited a 255-bed Covid hospital built by the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) at the Haj House here and conveyed condolences to the families of the Covid-19 victims. "You may or may not have seen today's news. The World Health Organization (WHO) has praised the work of the Uttar Pradesh government. It is not a small thing," Singh claimed. In a tweet on Monday, the WHO said, "In #India's most populous state Uttar Pradesh, the state gov. has initiated house-to-house active case finding of #Covid19 in rural areas to contain transmission by testing people with symptoms for rapid isolation, disease management & contact tracing."       A state government press note said, "The World Health Organization lauded the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government to contain the virus in rural areas with special reference to the mass testing drive being conducted in the revenue villages as the state government is exerting efforts to ensure the safety of villagers." The global health body valued the measures taken by Adityanath and his government in preventing the spread of Covid-19 in the remote areas of the state, it said. The WHO has been working with the state government in these activities, the organisation’s tweets indicate. The defence minister said, "All the state governments and the Centre are doing everything possible to tackle this challenge. I want to reiterate that only a person who performs will commit mistakes and he should not be criticised, but should be given suggestions." He said the 255-bed Covid hospital will have 25 ventilators and approximately 100 HFNCs (High Flow Nasal Cannula). Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Tuesday trashed the state government's claims on managing the coronavirus pandemic. His 's statement came hours after the defence minister's visit to the city, where he praised Adityanath’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath thanked the prime minister and the defence minister, and said a 500-bed Covid hospital built by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was made functional at Lucknow's Avadh Shilpgram and a 750-bed Covid hospital became functional in Varanasi on Monday. "People must follow the guidelines of the Centre and the state government. This will help break the chain of transmission of the virus," he said. On May 5, the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Covid Hospital set up by the DRDO in Lucknow was made functional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-states-doing-everything-possible-to-tackle-covid-crisis-rajnath-984896.html
11-05-2021||National||Goa Airport closes for night operations, undergoes modernisation||The flight operations during nights at the Goa airport will be shut till September 2021 as the runway is being closed for modernisation, a senior official said. The Goa airport is part of the INS Hansa Base at Vasco town in Goa. Indian Navy spokesman said the modernisation work has began from May 8 onwards which will continue till September 8, 2021. The runway will remain closed for all the traffic from 2200 hours to 0630 hours, he said. He said the modernisation work is being executed by Tata Power SED and will be carried out during night hours to have minimal impact on civil aircraft operations. Goa Airport Director Gagan Malik said the closure will not have much impact on the civilian flight operations. He said that due to the pandemic situation, almost 90 per cent of the flights have cancelled their schedule to Goa. The closure might have a 10-12 per cent impact on us but we will be able to mitigate it, Malik added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-airport-closes-for-night-operations-undergoes-modernisation-984903.html
11-05-2021||National||Egypt sends 30 tonnes of medical supplies to India in light of Covid-19||As India battles a severe wave of the coronavirus pandemic, Egypt has sent 30 tonnes of medical supplies, including 300 oxygen cylinders, 50 oxygen concentrators and 8,000 vials of Remdesivir. The supplies were brought to Delhi in three aircrafts. "Reflecting Egypt's solidarity with India as it battles against Covid-19, Egypt under the directives of President Abdelfattah Elsisi, came forward in assisting India by providing 30 tonnes of medical relief supplies," the Egyptian Embassy said. It said the consignments were received at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi by Egyptian Ambassador Heba Elmarassi and representatives of the Ministry of External Affairs. The embassy said the supplies are an affirmation of the "strength of the historical ties, strategic partnership and the distinguished relations" between the two countries. "There is no doubt that India that has been an inspiration for civilization, diversity and humanity over thousands of years, will surpass these current circumstances with strength and solidity as we know India," Elmarassi said. Meanwhile, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said 78,595 vials of Remdesivir, sent by Gilead Sciences, arrived in Mumbai on Tuesday. Remdesivir is used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. "Appreciate gift of another 78595 vials of Remdesivir from @GileadSciences that arrived in Mumbai today," he tweeted. Last month, Gilead Sciences, the US manufacturer of Remdesivir, announced that it will donate 4,50,000 vials of antiviral medicine to India. Bagchi also said that the UAR has sent India five lakh Favipiravir tablets. "Further deepening our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. Thank our close partner and friend UAE for gifting over 5 lakh Favipiravir tablets," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/egypt-sends-30-tonnes-of-medical-supplies-to-india-in-light-of-covid-19-984916.html
11-05-2021||National||Centre allocates 45,000 vials of Covid-19 drug tocilizumab to states||The Centre on Tuesday said additional 45,000 vials of tocilizumab, used for treatment of Covid-19, have been allocated to states and union territories to meet the increased demand. Tocilizumab is not manufactured in India and is sourced from Swiss pharmaceutical firm Hoffman La Roche, Union Chemicals and Fertilizers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said. Earlier, 9,900 vials of tocilizumab were allocated to states and union territories on April 30. Till about March, 2021, the demand for Tocilizumab by various hospitals across the country was adequately being met until the sudden spike of Covid cases started from April, 2021 onwards where on the demand for the drug went up drastically, Gowda said. In a goodwill gesture, Roche has donated 50,000 vials (80 mg strength) for Covid patients in India through Indian Red Cross Society on 10th May, 2021 and which has been allocated by Government of India to States and Central Government Hospitals. "Following this, a commercial quantity of 45,000 vials (80 mg strength), imported into India on 11th May, 2021, has been further allocated to States/UTs by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Department of Pharmaceuticals on 11th May, 2021. A quantity of 40000 vials out of 45,000 vials has been kept at the disposal of State Governments/UTs which in turn will cater to the needs of patients both in Government Hospitals and Private hospitals in their States," the statement from the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizer said. The States have also been advised to take all measures to prevent hoarding and black marketing and ensure that the drug is used very judiciously and strictly as per the National clinical management protocol for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allocates-45000-vials-of-covid-19-drug-tocilizumab-to-states-984926.html
11-05-2021||National Politics||Covid-19: Rahul Gandhi urges people to provide helping hand to needy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday urged people to provide a helping hand to the needy in these distressing times of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said this while asking them to join the ‘SpeakUpToSaveLives’ campaign to strengthen the fight against coronavirus. He also shared an over one-minute video showing shortage of oxygen, ventilators, ICU beds and vaccines and people scrambling to get them. "Our country needs a helping hand in these distressing times. Let's all do our bit to save lives. Join the campaign #SpeakUpToSaveLives and strengthen our fight against Corona," he said in a tweet. Our country needs a helping hand in these distressing times. Let’s all do our bit to save lives. The Congress has set up a control room at the All India Congress Committee headquarters and Pradesh Congress Committee offices to help people. The party has been arranging oxygen, beds and essential medicines for those in need while it has also called for free vaccination for all in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-rahul-gandhi-urges-people-to-provide-helping-hand-to-needy-984711.html
11-05-2021||National Politics||BJP chief JP Nadda writes to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, slams Rahul Gandhi's 'duplicity and pettiness'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has asked PM Narendra Modi to take off the "rose-tinted glasses through which nothing is seen except the Central Vista", mounting a fresh attack on Modi government even as BJP chief J P Nadda wrote to Sonia Gandhi slamming Rahul's "duplicity and pletiness" and tersely asking Congress to eschew from creating panic. In the letter, Nadda slammed "the consistent negativity spread by the more senior members" of Congress and the "confusion" created by Congress Chief Ministers. This interestingly drew a sharp riposte from Mohua Moitra, Lok  Sabha MP from Trinamool Congress, which won the recent West Bengal Assembly polls for the third time establishing Mamata Banerjee firmly in the front benches of PM Modi's Opposition. "JP Nadda writes to Sonia Gandhi, urging to not weaken the country's fight against Covid Why doesn’t he just write to the PM urging to strengthen fight against Covid?," Moitra tweeted under the hashtag #GiveItUpGuys. A data war between the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress seems on the anvil. Nadda also critiqued Congress's stand on Covid-19 and accused the party of "misleading people, creating false panic and contradicting their own stands on political considerations". A day after the Congress Working Committee found fault with the vaccination strategy unveiled by the government and slammed the "opaque” pricing policy, shortage of medicines, oxygen and hospital beds, Nadda, in a four-page-long letter, said, "The data from February and March would reveal which states failed to track the rising cases. Why are mortality rates in states such as Punjab (Congress-ruled) so high? These are questions you must ask your own Chief Ministers." He also brought in the Supreme Court's observations to put Congress on the defensive. "No less than the Supreme Court, the highest court of our land, said the health infrastructure we have inherited over the last 70 years is inadequate. Needless to say, which party has dominated India's landscape in these seven decades," Nadda said while insisting that "our focus is solely on the pandemic and not on politics". He also mentioned that the letter was not only in his capacity as the president of one party but also as the Union health minister. "The need for a new Parliament was raised as early as the UPA times," Nadda said, recalling that former Speaker Meira Kumar herself underscored the need for a new Parliament building. He also sought to contrast the stand of Congress on Central Vista with the Chhattisgarh government (of Congress) going ahead to build a new Assembly complex. Going hammer and tongs against the Gandhis, particularly Rahul, who has unleashed a campaign of sorts against Modi government's handling of the pandemic, Nadda said in this fight against the coronavirus pandemic, the conduct of topmost Congress leaders, including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. will be remembered for "duplicity and pettiness". The BJP chief said he was saddened by the conduct of Congress during this challenging time, "the consistent negativity spread by the more senior members of the party" and the "confusion" created by Congress members, including its chief ministers. Nadda was particularly incensed at the CWC's charge about the Modi government "abdicating responsibility" on vaccination by also asking states to procure the jab in the third phase vaccination starting May 1. "In April itself, topmost Congress leaders were calling for decentralisation of vaccination," he said. He also said while India has almost no recent history of vaccine hesitancy, the Congress tried to create it during a once-in-a-century pandemic. "States which have BJP or NDA governments have announced their resolve to help the poor and underprivileged by providing vaccines for free. I am sure the Congress governments in various states also feel strongly for the poor. Can they also come out with a similar decision to provide vaccines for free?" Nadda asked. He also drew attention of the Congress to the visuals of "ventilators sent through the PM-CARES fund lying unused in certain states" and asked Gandhi to address these issues on priority. News reports, however, show such ventilators were found lying unused not only in Opposition-ruled states, but also in the BJP and NDA-ruled ones. Indicating clearly that Congress would keep up the heat on the government on the issue, the party later fielded its senior leader Ajay Maken, who alleged "the government in its arrogance was only focussed on scoring its political goals even as Congress kept on warning about the pandemic". Maken also insisted that it is not Congress which is politicising the Covid crisis and it has not written any letter to a political party. "We have raised questions on the government. This is not BJP versus Congress. This is Government versus Opposition," he said seeking to give a larger canvas to Congress to protest on the issue. Congress spokesperson Jaiver Shergil said, "Blame game politics will not absolve BJP's sins of ignoring the crisis." In the backdrop of the BJP having faced flak over holding mammoth election rallies in West Bengal amid the pandemic, Nadda accused Congress of "holding massive election rallies in Kerala causing a spike in Covid cases while grandstanding about election rallies elsewhere" and "supporting protests (farmer protest and some others) but speaking about following Covid guidelines". "Even when the second wave was on the rise, your party leaders were happier being seen in superspreader political events in North India, where there was no regard for social distancing. This is not the era when such information can be erased from public memory, " Nadda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-writes-to-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-slams-rahul-gandhis-duplicity-and-pettiness-984714.html
11-05-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi on Covid-19 situation, asks him to remove rose-tinted glasses||Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Covid situation in the country, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he should remove his rose-tinted glasses through which he can see nothing but the Central Vista project. The Congress has been demanding that the project, including a new Parliament building and a new residence for the prime minister, be dropped and the money be used on improving medical facilities and infrastructure in the country. "Countless dead bodies flowing in the rivers. Miles of lines in hospitals. Robbed people of their right to life. PM, take off those rose-tinted glasses through which nothing is seen except the Central Vista," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.  नदियों में बहते अनगिनत शवअस्पतालों में लाइनें मीलों तकजीवन सुरक्षा का छीना हक़! PM, वो गुलाबी चश्में उतारो जिससे सेंट्रल विस्टा के सिवा कुछ दिखता ही नहीं। The former Congress president also asked people to join the 'SpeakUpToSaveLives' campaign to strengthen the fight against Covid-19, and urged them to provide a helping hand to the needy in “these distressing times”.       Gandhi shared a video of a little over a minute on the shortage of oxygen, ventilators, ICU beds and vaccines and people scrambling to get them. The Congress has set up a control room at the All India Congress Committee headquarters and Pradesh Congress Committee offices to help people.       The party has been arranging oxygen, beds and essential medicines for those in need and has also called for free vaccination for all in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-attacks-pm-modi-on-covid-19-situation-asks-him-to-remove-rose-tinted-glasses-984727.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi should prepare for third wave of Covid-19: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that Delhi should prepare for the third wave of Covid-19 and exuded confidence that given the scale at which the city is creating infrastructure, it will be able to handle even 30,000 cases a day. He said he hoped that the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in Delhi has passed. However, no concessions can be allowed just yet. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a visit to a 500-bed ICU Covid care centre near the GTB Hospital here on the eve of its opening, Kejriwal said he hoped the scarcity of intensive care facilities in the city will be reduced in the coming days. The Delhi government is developing healthcare infrastructure in the city keeping in mind the possibility of the third wave of Covid-19. "We should certainly prepare for the third wave, for which we will have to further expand our infrastructure. Given the scale at which we are creating infrastructure, we will be able to manage even if 30,000 (daily) cases come up in the next wave," Kejriwal said. "I hope the peak (of the second wave of Covid-19) has passed. I hope the cases go down in the coming days but being in the government and as the chief minister of Delhi, I would not want to give any concessions," he said. To check the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi, the AAP government on Monday extended the lockdown in the city till May 17 morning, announcing stricter measures like suspension of Metro train services and prohibition of wedding ceremonies at public places. Kejriwal, who was accompanied by Health Minister Satyendar Jain, said the 500 ICU-bed Covid care centre attached to the GTB hospital will be ready for use by May 11. Another 500 ICU-bed facility near the LNJP Hospital at the main Ramlila ground will also be ready soon. "We hope that these 1,000 beds in Delhi will reduce the scarcity of ICU beds," he said. The government wants to be ready to handle the situation if the cases start rising again, he added. Later, Kejriwal tweeted, "500 ICU beds have been constructed in two weeks at Ramlila Maidan opp(osite) GTB hospital. Patients will be admitted from tomorrow. My heartfelt gratitude to all the engineers who made it happen in record time." Citing the ferocity of the second wave of the pandemic, Kejriwal said the number of oxygen beds, too, is being scaled up in the city. "By this evening, we expect to receive 1,000 oxygen cylinders and in the next three-four days, we expect additional oxygen cylinders to arrive. We are setting up new oxygen beds across the city and hope that Delhi will no longer have a shortage of beds," he said. He also said that oxygen tanks have been installed to reduce the scarcity of the life-saving gas in the city. Kejriwal appealed to the Centre to provide Delhi with an adequate number of Covid-19 vaccine doses at the earliest and said the city's current stock would only last for four-five days. He said the Delhi government has also placed orders with vaccine manufacturers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-should-prepare-for-third-wave-of-covid-19-cm-arvind-kejriwal-984650.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Work under way to set up 300 oxygen plants in UP, says Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath said on Monday that work was under way to set up 300 oxygen plants in the state. “Oxygen Express is being run, tankers being sent on large aircraft of Air Force. Yesterday, we supplied 1000 MT of oxygen in the state. But it shouldn't remain restricted to supply, Oxygen Plants should be established too. Work is underway to set up 300 Oxygen Plants in state,” the CM said. Adityanath was also thankful to the Centre for supplying oxygen to the state. “Second wave posed a new challenge before us - the demand for oxygen went up suddenly. We have to supply oxygen to Ayodhya too, from where it is being supplied to nearby districts. We are thankful to Government of India and PM Modi who is running special trains for this,” he said in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/work-under-way-to-set-up-300-oxygen-plants-in-up-says-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-984655.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between militants, security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said.  Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Vailoo in Komernag area of the district early Tuesday following information about presence of militants there, a police official said.  The official said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire at the security forces. There are no reports of any casualties so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-militants-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-anantnag-984683.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 resurgence causes steep decline in pilgrimage traffic to Vaishno Devi shrine||Covid-19 resurgence has caused a steep decline in pilgrimage traffic to the hilltop temple of Mata Vaishno Devi in the Katra area of Jammu with a few hundred pilgrims visiting the shrine daily from the peak of 30000. An official of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board that manages the affairs of the temple said it is just a few hundred pilgrims who manage to reach Katra (the base camp of the shrine) amid the prevailing Covid-19 crisis. The shrine, located 60 km north of Jammu, overlooking the Chenab river, receives more than nine million visitors annually. The hoteliers, transporters, labourers and other businessmen associated with the pilgrimage, who were already reeling under the impact of last year’s Covid-19 lockdown are now bracing for the dry summer season ahead due to declining numbers of pilgrims. The hoteliers are struggling to sustain themselves in the absence of the presence of pilgrims in Katra. The local markets selling dry fruits, handicrafts, and other products are also taking a major hit due to declining numbers. Varinder Kesar, Katra Head of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry said that from over 30000, the pilgrimage has now reduced to a three-digit number due to which the business in the hill town has badly shattered leaving many people jobless. “Over one lakh persons ranging from horse and mule owners to the employees at big hotels are left unemployed as their incomes were directly linked with the number of visiting pilgrims at the cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi Ji,” he said. Last year, the yatra was suspended after the outbreak of the pandemic on March 16. However, after a five-month hiatus, the yatra resumed on August 16, but in a regulated manner. Initially, the shrine board had fixed a cap of 2,000 pilgrims per day. Later, as the situation improved, the ceiling was increased from time to time. President Katra Hotels and Restaurants Association, Rakesh Wazir said, while the first wave of Covid-19 had inflicted heavy losses to them, the second wave is proving more disastrous. “Profits of the hotel industry dipped to a minus level as running expenses like power and water bills, salaries to employees etc have to be met even when business is staying at zero,” he said. “As 98% of the hotels at Katra are closed, the remaining two per cent are working with minimum staff with some only having the security staff while about 35,000 persons working in hotels, guest houses, restaurants and inns at Katra have been left unemployed,” Wazir added. Similar is the fate of shopkeepers selling dry fruit, whose stocks worth crores of rupees rotted due to the closure of shops last year. “Though last year the traders tolerated heavy losses, this time losses are pushing us to depression,” said a dry fruit shop owner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-resurgence-causes-steep-decline-in-pilgrimage-traffic-to-vaishno-devi-shrine-984695.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||FIR lodged against 20 persons for raising provocative slogans at Sehrai's funeral||Jammu and Kashmir police have registered an FIR against 20 persons, who were found allegedly involved in raising pro-freedom and provocative slogans during the funeral of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat (TeH) chairman Muhammad Ashraf Sehrai on May 6. A police official said while taking the body of Sehrai to Tekkipora-Sogam graveyard in Kupwara for burial at around 4 am on May 6, some people were found raising “pro-freedom and provocative slogans''. The video of the same had gone viral on social media sites. “A case has been registered against 20 people found raising slogans, in police station Tekkipora-Sogam,” the official said, adding that further investigations are on. Sehrai’s stature among separatist leaders had risen when his son Junaid in 2018 joined militancy immediately after he was elected as chairman of the TeH - a political party Syed Ali Geelani had founded with Sehrai after parting ways from their parent organisation Jamaat-e-Islami Jammu and Kashmir in 2003. Junaid, who had completed MBA from Kashmir University before joining militancy, was killed in an encounter with security forces in Srinagar on May 19 last year. Just two months after the killing of his son, 77-year-old Sehrai was booked under the PSA and lodged in Udhampur jail in Jammu.  He died at Government Medical College Jammu on May 5 where he was shifted a day earlier after complaining of chest pain and breathing issues.  His body was handed over to his family members for the last rites the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-lodged-against-20-persons-for-raising-provocative-slogans-at-sehrais-funeral-984705.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-positive wife not admitted to hospital for over 3 hours, claims UP BJP MLA||An Uttar Pradesh BJP MLA has claimed that his coronavirus positive wife was not admitted to an Agra hospital for over three hours, with officials citing non-availability of a bed. Upset over this, Firozabad’s Jasrana MLA Ramgopal Lodhi made a video over the issue and posted it on social media. His wife was given a bed at the hospital following the district magistrate’s intervention, the MLA claimed. Lodhi, however, alleged that his wife was not given medicine and water on time. The MLA’s video had surfaced on social media on May 8 when his wife was referred Agra’s SN Medical College. "What would happen to a comman man when an MLA’s wife cannot be given proper care," Lodhi said in the video, alleging that his wife had to lie on the floor and was not admitted to the hospital for over three hours. Lodhi had too tested positive for coronavirus and had returned home after recovering from the infection on May 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-positive-wife-not-admitted-to-hospital-for-over-3-hours-claims-up-bjp-mla-984718.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Three Lashkar militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag||Three militants affiliated with Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Tuesday. “#AnantnagEncounterUpdate: 02 more #terrorists killed (total 03). Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice,” J&K police said in a tweet. The gunfight broke out in Vailoo-Kokernag of Anantnag, 75 km from Srinagar, during wee hours today after the security forces cordoned off the area following inputs about the presence of militants there, reports said. A police official said as the security forces approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter in which three ultras were killed. Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the slain militants were affiliated with the LeT outfit. Sources said the trio was recently recruited into militancy and were all locals. Earlier on May 6, three newly recruited militants of the Al-Badr outfit were killed and one surrendered before the security forces after a similar encounter in the neighbouring Shopian district. The lifespan of militants in Kashmir has shrunk considerably over the last three years with 65% of the ultras surviving less than a year after joining militancy. Pertinently, 46 militants have been killed in J&K so far this year and most of them belong to south Kashmir. Last year, 203 militants, including 166 locals were killed by security forces across the Valley. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-lashkar-militants-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-anantnag-984731.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||J&K to pay pension to senior citizens who lost earning member due to Covid-19||Jammu and Kashmir government on Tuesday announced that senior citizens, who lost only earning members of their family due to Covid-19, will be provided special pension for life. “The J&K Government has taken several measures to help those who unfortunately lost their loved ones to #COVID19. Senior citizens who have lost only earning member of the family will be provided a special pension for life,” J&K Lieutenant Governor’s office said in a tweet. However, the details of the scheme were not made public immediately. The L-G also announced that installments of social welfare schemes will be released soon. “Installments of social welfare schemes like old-age pension, 'Laadli Beti' etc and PMAY, MGNREGA and other welfare schemes will be released immediately,” it said. In another tweet the L-G’s office announced that in these challenging times, old-age homes and orphanages will be extended all the support from the government, including rations etc. While stating that its biggest priority was to defeat the pandemic, the L-G urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behavior and get vaccinated. “We will soon prevail together over this pandemic,” another tweet read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-to-pay-pension-to-senior-citizens-who-lost-earning-member-due-to-covid-19-984748.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis: Rohtak village grapples with rising cases, ‘mystery fever’ as 18 die in 10 days||In the past 10 days, 18 people have died in Titoli village in Rohtak district -- six of them were healthcare workers and were confirmed to have died of Covid-19. However, villagers claim that almost 40 people died in a span of two weeks due to a "mystery fever". Suresh Kumar, representing his sister-in-law and village sarpanch Pramila, told The Indian Express, “Last week, I prepared a list of 32 persons who died recently. After that, the village has been witnessing an average of two deaths a day due to high temperature.’’ According to health officials, the claim made by villagers is “exaggerated”. But they do admit that the Covid-19 cases in the village are increasing at an alarming rate. On Monday, 15 out of 75 people tested were Covid-19 positive in Titoli village. Also, in the past 10 days, 746 people tested from Titoli and neighbouring villages and 159 were found positive for Covid-19. “This time, coronavirus is spreading more in villages as compared to the previous year. There is more social interaction among villagers as they meet over hookah and play cards together. We are collecting samples from all villages of the district to find out the impact of the fever. Now whenever we come across anyone with a fever, we conduct a Covid test,” Dr Anil Birla, Rohtak’s Chief Medical Officer, told the publication. “Besides Covid, some people died due to other illnesses such as jaundice and cardiac attack,” he said about the deaths in Rohtak. Looking at the increase in Covid-19 cases in Titoli and neighbouring villages, district authorities have taken the initiative to set up a 20-bed care centre in the village, which is almost 60 km from Delhi. It’ll be the first Covid centre in rural Haryana. Titoli has a population of 13,000 people and there is a high chance of the virus spreading quickly around the village. Hence, awareness drives being held by the sarpanch. People are being asked to practice social distancing and follow the Covid-19 protocols. In this month, the Covid-19 positivity rate in Rohtak district has jumped from 5.2 percent to 14 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-rohtak-village-grapples-with-rising-cases-mystery-fever-as-18-die-in-10-days-984754.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Share Covid-19 vaccine formula with other companies to ramp up production: Kejriwal to Centre||Amid several states complaining of shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday suggested that the Centre share the formula of Covid-19 vaccines developed by two manufacturers with other pharma companies to ramp up its production. Emphasising that there is a shortage across the country, he said some states could not even start the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44. He highlighted the need for developing a national policy to vaccinate people soon. During a digital address a day after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia targeted the Centre for not allocating vaccines demanded by the union territory's government, Kejriwal said the country is facing a "big challenge" in vaccinating all people. He said Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing Covishield, and Bharat Biotech, which is producing Covaxin, are able to distribute 6-7 crore doses a month and this would mean that it would take at least two years to vaccinate all people. "How many waves would have passed by then? How much destruction it would have caused? There is a need to ramp up production on a warfooting. There needs to be a national mission. My suggestion is to give permission to other companies to produce these vaccines," Kejriwal said. He said two companies alone could not meet the demand for vaccines faster and the Centre should give the formula for these vaccines to other companies so that more vaccines are produced. "The Centre has power to do so. The Centre should ensure that all the vaccine manufacturing plants in the country start producing Covid doses. The two manufacturers can be provided royalty for use of their formula by other companies," he said. "Today I want to give a suggestion. The vaccine production work should not just be carried by two companies only. Many companies should be engaged in vaccine production. The Centre should take the formula for producing the vaccine from these two companies and give it to all those companies which can safely make the vaccines," Kejriwal, who also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue, said. It can make the vaccine-producing formula publically available to the companies that want to make the vaccines and it should be ensured that whichever plants are successful in making the vaccine in India, vaccines should be produced in all of them and every Indian should be vaccinated, he said. "The two manufacturers can be provided royalty for use of their formula by other companies," he said. In an attempt to buttress his point, Kejriwal said India did not have enough Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country last year. "If only two companies were allowed to manufacture PPE kits, what would have been the situation?" he asked. On Monday, Sisodia said the Modi dispensation has allotted only 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin in May when it has placed orders for 1.34 crore doses with manufacturers while a day before Kejriwal wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to direct SII and Bharat Biotech to increase their monthly supplies to Delhi to 60 lakh doses per month during May-July so that the capital could achieve the target of vaccinating all in three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/share-covid-19-vaccine-formula-with-other-companies-to-ramp-up-production-kejriwal-to-centre-984760.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||AAP govt bought no ventilators last year, using those provided under PM-CARES: Delhi BJP||BJP leader Meenakshi Lekhi Tuesday alleged that the Delhi government did not buy any new ventilators last year and is using those delivered through the PM-CARES Fund. Addressing a press conference here, Lekhi alleged that the Delhi government did not increase the number of ICU beds either. "If you talk about ICU beds in Delhi, they haven't increased them at all. The (AAP) government is using the ventilators given through the PM-CARES Fund. It did not buy a single new ventilator last year," the BJP leader claimed. She also added that the Centre and the Defence Research and Development Organisation have been providing oxygen, hospitals, and special beds, while "even the medical staff are being provided by ITBP and other defence organisations". The New Delhi MP also slammed the Kejriwal government for advertising about "universal vaccination". "The MCD was running 150 vaccination centres. The AAP government closed 60 centres and are showing advertisements that Arvind Kejriwal will run universal vaccination in Delhi. They have not floated a global tender nor have they availed vaccines from anywhere," Lekhi said. While no immediate reaction was available from the Aam Aadmi Party, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Monday that a 500 ICU-bed Covid care centre attached to the GTB hospital will be ready for use by May 11. Another 500 ICU-bed facility near the LNJP Hospital at the main Ramlila ground will also be ready soon, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-govt-bought-no-ventilators-last-year-using-those-provided-under-pm-cares-delhi-bjp-984795.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi will float global tender for Covid-19 vaccine, says Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government will float a global tender for procuring coronavirus vaccines, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday, as the city government grapples with a shortage of doses. Addressing a press conference here, he alleged that the BJP-ruled Centre was "forcing" state governments to invite global tenders for vaccine procurement. The Central government wants the states to compete and fight with each other in the international market for vaccines, Sisodai alleged. Sisodia also demanded the Centre to launch a nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive on the line of pulse polio campaign. Earlier in the day, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over vaccine shortage, saying the Centre should share the vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other capable pharmaceutical companies to scale up production in the country. AAP leader Atishi had also said Monday the Delhi government will have to close vaccination centres where Covaxin is being administered to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group after Tuesday evening if its stocks are not replenished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-will-float-global-tender-for-covid-19-vaccine-says-manish-sisodia-984804.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis: Uttar Pradesh sees decline in cases, but rural spread cause of concern||After witnessing a continuous rise, Uttar Pradesh has recorded a decline in the number of Covid cases, especially in the bigger towns. However, the suspected spread of the infection in rural areas has set alarm bells ringing in the government. After reaching a high of over 35,000 cases per day, the state reported 20,463 cases in the past 24 hours. As many as 306 people died from Covid in the same period, taking the total number of deaths to 16,043. However, reports of deaths of people with Covid-like symptoms in the rural areas have become a cause of major concern in the state, as there are few testing and treatment facilities in the villages, smaller towns and districts. There are reports that scores of people with complaints of cough and cold, fever and breathlessness have died at several villages in the eastern, central and western districts in the state. Reports of deaths have come in from Ghazipur, Deoria, Ballia, Sultanpur, Sonebhadra, Hapur and many other districts in the state in the past few days. Over 70 people reportedly died in four villages of Andila, Baida, Kheda and Sauram villages in Deoria, Sultanpur and Ghazipur districts alone in the past few days. Since hardly a few of them had been tested, the officials found it very easy to deny that they had died from Covid 19. ''Many people are dying for want of testing and treatment...It takes several days (at times one week) to get results of the RT-PCR tests... many patients either die in the meantime or become critical by the time they reach the hospitals,'' said a local journalist in Deoria. A health official in Deoria admitted that they often ran short of testing kits. He also said during the door-to-door survey, they only measure the SPO2 level and temperature. Sources in the health department say the number of cases will rise substantially if more people from the rural areas are tested. Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo and former UP chief minister, Akhilesh Yadav, said the BJP government had failed miserably to control the surge of Covid in the villages. ''People's lives in the villages are in danger for want of medicines and oxygen... lies can not hide the deaths,'' Akhilesh said. The UP government was lambasted by the Allahabad High Court over its alleged 'mismanagement' of the situation. The court termed the deaths as 'genocide' and rapped the Election Commission (EC) for not postponing the panchayat polls. Even BJP lawmakers attacked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for not being able to effectively tackle the pandemic and failing to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen and Remdesivir. As many as four BJP legislators have died from Covid-19 in the past few days. ''We have been able to manage the situation well... the number of cases is coming down.... our efforts have yielded positive results,'' claimed state health minister Jai Pratap Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-uttar-pradesh-sees-decline-in-cases-but-rural-spread-cause-of-concern-984811.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi has run out of Covaxin stock for 18-44 age group, will have to shut 125 centres, says Atishi||Delhi has run out of Covaxin stock for people in the 18-44 age group and will have to shut 125 centres where the coronavirus vaccine was being administered, AAP MLA Atishi said on Tuesday. In an online briefing, she also said Delhi will get 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre by Tuesday evening. "We have run out of Covaxin stock for 18-44 age group and will have to shut 125 centres where it is being administered after Tuesday evening," Atishi said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader urged the Centre to replenish Covaxin and Covishield stocks and said otherwise "we will have no option but to stop vaccination drive". She said that more than 1.39 lakh people were given vaccine jabs in the national capital on May 10, the highest daily figure since the inoculation started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-has-run-out-of-covaxin-stock-for-18-44-age-group-will-have-to-shut-125-centres-says-atishi-984815.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Not fair on part of Delhi government to give incorrect facts about Covid hospital: HC||The Delhi High Court Tuesday expressed its displeasure over the Delhi government making an incorrect statement on May 10 that 250 beds in the new dedicated Covid facility in Dwarka -- Indira Gandhi Hospital -- were already operational. "It was not fair on the part of the Delhi government to give incorrect facts," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said and added that "the newspapers of Saturday said 250 beds in the hospital were operationalised, but not a single bed has been occupied till date". The remarks were made after the Delhi government apologised for making an incorrect statement on May 10 about the Covid facility in the hospital. The bench was informed by the Delhi government that for want of oxygen cylinders and concentrators the beds have not yet been operationalised. Taking note of the submissions, the bench directed the Delhi government officers to be cautious in future with regard to incorrect statements being made before the court. It said such statements would erode the court's confidence in the officers. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said that 150 beds would be operationalised during the day and another 100 would be ready by Wednesday. The court directed the Delhi government to give category wise -- with oxygen, without oxygen, ICU and non-ICU -- details of the beds at the hospital for Covid-19 patients and listed the matter for hearing on May 18. During the hearing, a Delhi government official told the court that oxygen cylinders delivered to the hospital could not be used as it did not have a certification from the Petroleum And Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) and hence, the delay in operationalising the beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-fair-on-part-of-delhi-government-to-give-incorrect-facts-about-covid-hospital-hc-984822.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt announces free ambulance service for Covid-19 patients||The Rajasthan government has decided to provide free ambulance service to Covid-19 patients for their admission in hospitals and for ferrying them to dedicated facilities in case of referrals, according to an official statement. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot directed officials to ensure the availability of sufficient number of ambulances at all district level war rooms as well as Covid consultation and care centers set up at block level in the state, the statement said. "Ambulance service will be provided for the admission of Covid patients and for referring them to Covid dedicated hospitals. This ambulance facility will be completely free for patients," according to an official release. It said the services of 108 and 104 ambulances available in districts will be used for the purpose, and respective district collectors can also acquire private ambulances, if needed. On the CM's directions, the Health Department has launched a dedicated helpline for timely disposal of patients’ grievances, providing necessary advice on medicines and other complaints related to Covid-19, the statement said. A 24x7 state-level war room is being operated for this purpose with helpline number 181, it added. Directions have been given to establish similar war rooms and helpline numbers in major Covid dedicated hospitals in all the districts. The helpline will provide real time information related to the availability of beds, oxygen facility and ventilator in dedicated hospitals, consultation center, treatment centers, private hospitals and ambulance facility on referral and discharge to the patient, according to the statement. The CM has also directed that no patient requiring hospitalisation be denied admission under any circumstances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-announces-free-ambulance-service-for-covid-19-patients-984838.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Brutal Covid wave brings tragic scenes to UP hospital||In the emergency room of a public hospital in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, a man was trying to revive his mother who had just died from Covid-19-like symptoms. On another bed, a young man who had tested positive was sitting up and making an effort to breathe while two members of his exhausted family were sprawled on the tiny bed. The one doctor on duty in the ER in this hospital in Bijnor, a town in India's most populous Uttar Pradesh, 180 km east of Delhi, can barely attend to the stream of patients that are coming in, in rickety ambulances or in the back of cars. India's brutal second wave has reached the small towns and the countryside, ripping through a fragile health system not equipped to deal with such a large public health crisis. Doctors are hard to come by, intensive care units are expensive and scarce, and patients are packing into emergency rooms. People flit in and out, trying to help with everything from procuring oxygen cylinders to artificial resuscitation. "We are trying our best, the numbers are large," said Ramakant Pandey, the top district official at Bijnor. Unlike the first wave, this one is more severe, he said. "We are also not getting much time between the time a person gets infected to the time he becomes serious."   The seven-day average of daily infections nationwide hit a record 390,995 on Tuesday, with 3,876 deaths, according to the health ministry. On Tuesday, four people died in the Bijnor hospital ER within the space of an hour including Jagdish Singh, 57, who had arrived just a few minutes before. His son Gajendra said he took him to hospital believing it would help raise his oxygen levels. At the hospital, he said he ran around trying to get the oxygen going and then he lost his father. Doctor Naresh Johri who was running the ER along with two assistants said he was not in a position to speak to the press in line with service rules. Medical oxygen has become a major concern with top hospitals in Delhi and other major cities issuing SOS calls that they were running out of supplies of the life saving gas because of the crush of patients. The government is now trying to arrange supplies from abroad and from local industry. While the situation in Delhi has improved, smaller towns like Bijnor are struggling.  Many choose not to go to hospitals believing they won't get much care. In Jhaalu village, 11km from Bijnor, family members of Shakeel Ahmed were reading the Koran as he lay gasping for breath. "We are trying to avoid hospitals, we don't trust the system," his brother Bhure Ahmed said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/brutal-covid-wave-brings-tragic-scenes-to-up-hospital-984841.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir reports highest ever deaths due to Covid-19 in a single day||At 65 deaths, Jammu and Kashmir reported it’s highest ever fatalities on a single day due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 2,847. Official data shows 65 Covid patients died in the last 24 hours in the Union Territory (UT) while 4,352 Covid cases were also reported during the same period. The previous highest death toll was recorded on May 8 when 60 people died due to the disease. While the recovery rate stands at just over 76%, the active cases crossed the 50,000 mark for the first time since the pandemic began last March. Out of total 2,24,898 cases, 50,701 are active positives while 1,71,350 patients have recovered so far. Out of 4,696 patients admitted in hospitals in J&K, 2,706 are on oxygen support and 394 are on ventilators, the official figures reveal. Since May 1, the UT has witnessed 564 deaths and 48,815 positive cases. The surge in Covid cases in recent weeks have led to what is now being called a deadlier second wave of the pandemic. The test positivity rate, which is considered a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection in a region, has also shot up sharply over the past few weeks. 11 out of every 100 people tested have been found positive in J&K in May, depicting the widespread SARS-CoV2 infection here. The big jumps in the positive cases and the mortality continue to come amid lockdown across J&K since April 29. Varun HK Experts say cases have escalated in a big way in the last few weeks and the situation is very serious. They attributed the rise in infections in the UT to poor adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as masking and social distancing, and to potential impacts of the mutant variants of the coronavirus. “Mutant variants are definitely one of the main factors behind the current surge across India and J&K can’t be isolated from it,” a senior doctor at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar told DH. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is nearly 18,000 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is over 16,648. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. The coronavirus outbreak was reported in Jammu and Kashmir on 7 March 2020, when two persons tested positive for the deadly infection. The peak of the first wave was September 12 when 1698 positive cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-highest-ever-deaths-due-to-covid-19-in-a-single-day-984845.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||'Job of government not like terrorist', says Delhi Court in oxygen concentrator hoarding case||“Job of the government is not like a terrorist" and "just to hide your failure, you are after people,” said an anguished Delhi Court on Tuesday while expressing strong displeasure that the government is yet to regulate the prices of the medical equipment during the Covid-19 pandemic. The court, which was hearing the alleged oxygen concentrator hoarding and black marketing case, also asked "is doing business in this country an offence". The hard hitting oral observations were made by Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg while hearing the bail applications of Matrix Cellular Services employees, including the CEO and vice president, who were arrested by the Delhi Police for allegedly hoarding and selling the equipment at exorbitant prices.  During the course of proceedings, the judge asked “is doing business in this country an offence” and pulled up the state for the arrest of private persons who were selling imported oxygen concentrators to consumers when it had itself not regulated the price. “You [government] came out with an order on May 7 that it [oxygen concentrators] cannot be sold above MRP but the present FIR was on May 5,” he said, adding that it cannot penalise people and then make a law.  The judge further remarked, “Job of the government is not like a terrorist. You have to go by law. If there is no law and you feel there is a vacuum, then you need to fill it.” The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate added, “If there is no price regulation and a vacuum, you are not filing it. Just to hide your failure, you are after people.” Counsels for the five accused told the court that it is a “conjectural” case and that they will abide by the triple test for bail -- not tamper with the evidence, influence any witnesses or be a flight risk.   Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava opposed the bail petitions of the accused and told the court that they hatched a conspiracy to wrongly make money and sold it on exorbitant prices.  Four of the accused who moved the bail petition are employees of Matrix Cellular Services, which is one of the companies involved in importing the equipment, including their CEO Gaurav Khanna and vice-president Gaurav Suri.    The third and fourth accused are Vikrant and Satish Sethi. The fifth accused is the employee of the 'town hall' restaurant owned by prime accused Navneet Kalra.  According to Delhi Police, Matrix Cellular received a consignment of 650 oxygen concentrators, of which 524 have been recovered. The concentrators are being sold for as much as Rs 70,000.  The order on the bail application is reserved for Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/job-of-government-not-like-terrorist-says-delhi-court-in-oxygen-concentrator-hoarding-case-984879.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Cloudburst hits Devprayag in Uttarakhand||A cloudburst hit Devprayag in Tehri district of Uttarakhand on Tuesday, razing two municipal buildings to the ground and damaging several shops. It also damaged pedestrian bridges, water pipelines and electricity supply lines, an official said. The cloudburst occurred over the Shanta river, causing inundation of areas along its banks with a huge amount of slush-containing boulders, SHO of the Devprayag police station Mahipal Singh Rawat said. Two municipality buildings, including the multi-purpose Nagar Palika Bhawan, caved in after being hit by the rubble brought down by the cloudburst, he added. A number of shops in the Dashrath Danda Parvat area of Devprayag were also damaged in the cloudburst, the SHO said. However, there was no loss of life as people were alert and had moved to safe locations like the bus stand and police station premises, he said.  Municipal Commissioner KK Kotiyal said the extent of damage is yet to be assessed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cloudburst-hits-devprayag-in-uttarakhand-984881.html
11-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi airport to shut operations at T2 terminal from May 17 midnight in light of Covid-19 situation||The Delhi international airport will shut down its T2 terminal from May 17 midnight as the number of flights have reduced significantly due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, sources said on Tuesday. From May 17 midnight, all flights will be handled at the T3 terminal only, they stated. Currently, the Delhi airport is handling around 325 flights per day, they mentioned. Before the pandemic, it used to handle around 1,500 flights per day. The Delhi airport's decision has come at a time when India and its aviation sector has been badly hit by the second wave of the pandemic.  During the last few weeks, the number of domestic air passengers per day have come from more than 2.2 lakh to around 75,000 right now, according to the Civil Aviation Ministry's data. Similarly, international air traffic has also been affected by the second wave of the pandemic. New cases of coronavirus in India fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days taking the total tally of Covid-19 infections to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-to-shut-operations-at-t2-terminal-from-may-17-midnight-in-light-of-covid-19-situation-984890.html
11-05-2021||Opinion||US-China rivalry has only deepened and will continue||Dismissing G7 foreign ministers’ (May 5th meeting) criticism of its human rights violations and other abuses in Xinjiang, Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan as “groundless accusations” and gross interference in China’s internal affairs, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said recently that the group should not take a “high and mighty attitude” and boost the global economic recovery instead of disrupting it. Other reports in the Chinese official media noted that the joint communiqué (JC) of the group contained “old fashioned slanderous rhetoric” and no concrete steps (of confronting China) and that the US had failed to enlist the support of its European allies who were keen to safeguard their economic interests with Beijing and more countries supported China than the US. Earlier, the G7 foreign ministers had called on Beijing to provide “unfettered access” to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to investigate the human rights violations and abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet, targeting of Uighurs and other minority groups, the existence of a large network of “political re-education” camps and reports of forced labour and sterilisations. For the first time, Taiwan was included in the JC as the G7 underscored the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, strong opposition to any unilateral actions (a reference to China’s threats to Taiwan) which could undermine regional stability and asked the World Health Organization (WHO) to provide meaningful participation to Taiwan in all its bodies. The London meeting also endorsed the US position on other issues such as free and open Indo-Pacific based on rule of law, territorial integrity, and peaceful resolution of disputes with countries in the region (being threatened by China) and other issues of interest to the US. Given that several European allies had got estranged with the US leadership following a sharp rebuke by the then US President Donald Trump, his imposition of tariffs on certain EU countries’ exports (which are still in place) and their proclivity for “strategic independence”, it represented an advance from their earlier position. India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar participated in the meeting virtually as a guest along with his counterparts from South Korea and Australia. He sought increased G7 support for the COVAX vaccine initiative, ensure fair access to vaccine stocks, uninterrupted supply chains, diversified production and generous resourcing. He promised that India would play its part. China has remained unfazed by the outcome of the London meeting. Given that the weight of the G7 countries in the world economy has declined from about 70 per cent three decades earlier to around one third now, it believes that G7’s role in leading the global economy has irretrievably weakened. Four years of Trump’s presidency has undermined the confidence of the allies in the US. There are sharp differences among the US, its European allies such as Germany and France, some East European countries, Japan and South Korea on opposing China and weakening their economic linkages with her given that their economies are still recovering from the Covid-19 hit recession. Europe has neither the need nor the will to confront China, beyond rhetoric on selective issues, one Chinese official observed. US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken’s remarks that the US was not trying to contain China but only upholding the rules-based world order was interpreted as a sign of its waning clout. China believes that the US is seeking cooperation with Beijing in the short term as it needs its help on issues such as climate change, WTO reforms, North Korea, Iran and others, but in the long term, it would remain China’s staunch adversary. On a recent occasion, Chinese President Xi Jinping boasted that the handling of the Covid19 pandemic showed which art of governance (autocratic vs democratic) fared better (given China’s early recovery from the pandemic). Time and momentum were on China’s side; regardless of the challenges, Beijing was invincible. Xi said that as long as China was able to maintain a strong economy backed by its global competitiveness in manufacturing, China would remain invincible no matter how the storm changes the world. Xi’s ultra-confidence underpinned the crowing which senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi exhibited at the Alaska meeting (March 18th) when he told US Secretary of State Blinken that the US could no longer speak to China from a position of strength. Some US officials, however, believe that Xi’s assessment is based on superficial analysis, wishful thinking and conservative values and the situation of the US has changed in the last four months (after President Joe Biden’s taking over). The pandemic in the US is on the wane, vaccinations are increasing, economy has started humming and the US was getting increased support of its allies and ultimately a democratic, vibrant and technologically strong America would prevail over communist China, as history showed. Whatever the truth, it is clear that the US-China rivalry has only deepened and would continue in new dimensions with global implications. (Ambassador Yogesh Gupta is a former diplomat who writes on China-related issues.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/us-china-rivalry-has-only-deepened-and-will-continue-984724.html
11-05-2021||Panorama||How India should expand its Covid-19 vaccination drive||On May 1, within two months of delivering the first dose of vaccine to the elderly, India launched the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination programme, by opening it to everyone more than 18 years of age. Under normal circumstances, this would be viewed as a sign of a strong response from the government. However, the second wave is raging across the country, several states stocked out of vaccines, and only about 2% of the entire population and less than 10% of the elderly (>60 years) were fully vaccinated as of April 30. The liberalised phase 3 strategy, announced on April 19, rests on three main pillars: (i) creating a separate (non-GoI) channel for states and private hospitals to procure 50% of the total supply, (ii) allowing price differentiation by manufacturers across the two channels, and (iii) expanding eligibility for vaccination to everyone below 18 years in the non-GOI channel. The premise of this approach is it will: (i) unleash the latent demand in the younger population, and (ii) expand supply through provision of financial incentives to manufacturers. Despite the enhanced incentives in the non-GOI channel, supply may not expand in the short term due to constraints in raw material and production capacity. Our analysis indicates that the high vaccination rate seen in the first week of April among the priority segment cannot be maintained with the projected vaccine supply rate until at least the end of July, let alone cater to the demand from the younger population. Vaccination slots are limited by supply, and opening vaccination for the younger segment will impose negative externalities on the elderly by crowding out available slots. Access barriers for online registration and appointment booking are far lower for the younger population than the elderly, as seen from the several million registrations recorded on COWIN portal within first few hours on April 28.  Elderly patients who attempt a walk-in registration may be discouraged by long queues and associated higher risk of transmission and may decide to return unvaccinated. The crowding out will be even higher for those who cannot afford the higher prices in the private sector.  The immediate policy goal should be to maximise public health benefit (e.g., reduced morbidity, hospitalisations, mortality) from the limited vaccine supply and not merely to maximise the total vaccinations. Toward this goal, each additional dose must be delivered so as to maximise its marginal benefit. Global evidence thus far suggests that irrespective of the virus variant, each unvaccinated elderly person faces a higher chance of experiencing serious illness if infected compared to each unvaccinated young adult. Furthermore, each hospitalisation of a seriously ill elderly person causes a greater strain on the health system due to existing co-morbidities and age-related complications. Finally, the seriously ill elderly patient also imposes a huge economic burden as immediate family members spend time and providing care resulting in lost productivity. With help from civil society organizations, governments must ramp up efforts to mobilise demand among the elderly. In addition to frontline workers (e.g., ASHAs/ANMs) who do this for routine immunisation, they should invest in aggressive and focused social media campaigns targeted at the immediate and extended family members. These campaigns must go beyond the goal of changing attitudes (for example, vaccine hesitancy) and trigger actual action by helping overcome access and information barriers.  Although it is not possible to roll back expanded eligibility, states should devise guidelines that track coverage among the elderly, set daily/weekly targets for the age-mix of patients to be vaccinated and use these to achieve a preferential allocation of appointments to the elderly. If demand from the elderly continues to be low, slots can be opened for other segments dynamically, for example, at the end of the day, to ensure that vaccine supply is not wasted. On a tactical level, mixing of younger and elderly segments should be minimised as the former is likely to comprise more asymptomatic individuals unaware of their status, who may inadvertently transmit the disease at crowded vaccination centres. Data from COWIN portal for all registrations and vaccinations provide the government visibility to feasibly implement such guidelines and monitor compliance to them.  (The writers are from a healthcare management institution)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-india-should-expand-its-covid-19-vaccination-drive-984632.html
11-05-2021||Panorama||God's will will find a way||How many times have we not been awestruck by certain events that take place in our lives? The episodes could be positive or negative. They may have not been planned or executed, but a certain compulsive invisible force seems to guide the course of actions. At such times, man tends to think of such happenings as acts of God or destiny. The Mahabharata reiterates the power of God’s will.  Once the Pandavas completed the stipulated period of exile followed by a year in incognito, they did not have too many expectations about their future. Yudhishtira the aspirant crown prince was quite against war-mongering. Therefore he decided to stay away from his jealous cousin Duryodhana. He requested Lord Krishna to intervene on behalf of the Pandavas to forge peace. Krishna went as their emissary and sought five villages for the five Pandavas. No amount of advice, coaxing and argument was enough To convince Duryodhana who was reluctant to part with land measuring the size of the tip of the needle. Krishna had no choice except to declare war. On the day that was earmarked for the Great War, the Pandavas and Kauravas assembled in the war field with their armies. Just before the commencement of the brutal event Arjuna, the greatest warrior of all times was overwhelmed by the thought of fighting his kin. He disarmed himself and was ready to pledge for peace. Lord Krishna, Arjuna’s charioteer, friend, philosopher and guide had to explain the significance of carrying out one’s Swadharma. It took quite a bit of convincing to make Arjuna war-ready. Though the Pandavas hesitated to battle their cousins from time to time, they could not circumvent the catastrophe. The Lord had decided to cleanse the earth from corruption and bureaucracy. He had sketched out the imminent war which would not only involve the warring cousins but also include fraudulent allies who were making life miserable for the common man. His resolve for war could not be dissuaded at any point because God’s Will will always find a way!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/gods-will-will-find-a-way-984634.html
11-05-2021||Second Edit||Govt must step aside from probe||Over the years, politicians in India have mastered the art of sweeping any controversial issue under the carpet by ordering an inquiry. The Chamarajanagar episode where 24 patients died in a government hospital due to oxygen outage is a glaring example. At present, there are at least four separate investigations being conducted by different agencies. These include a fact-finding committee of the Karnataka High Court, probe  by IAS officer Shivayogi Kalasad, a judicial inquiry ordered by the state government and a suo motu case by the Lok Ayukta. The multitude of inquiries with the exception of the one ordered by the High Court, would serve no purpose but lead to duplication and ultimately end up with the guilty going unpunished. It is illogical to expect an IAS officer to do justice because the needle of suspicion points not just towards his colleagues and superiors from the civil service including the chief secretary, but also to the negligence of politicians like the health minister. The deputy commissioners of Chamarajanagar and Mysuru have been sparring openly blaming each other for the tragedy. Under such circumstances, what purpose an inquiry by a bureaucrat will serve is anybody’s guess.  In a bid to outsmart the High Court which had raised some tough questions, the Yediyurappa government ordered a judicial inquiry headed by Justice B A Patil. This only backfired with the chief justice observing that such a move when the court was still seized of the matter lacked propriety. The court then ordered seizure of all relevant documents and appointed an inquiry panel of its own comprising two retired judges. The demise of 24 people due to sheer negligence of the authorities is no small matter. In a similar case in Uttar Pradesh, the Allahabad High Court had observed that the “death of Covid patients due to non-supply of oxygen to hospital is a criminal act and not less than genocide by those responsible for ensuring the continuous procurement and supply”. Instead of complicating the issue through numerous inquiries, the state government should immediately withdraw from the inquiry. It should allow the High Court to take the lead as well as issue final directions on the course of the investigation. The court, on its part, should monitor any such inquiry and ensure that the culprits,  howsoever high they may be, are brought to book, while the next of the kin of the deceased are compensated adequately. The heart-wrenching incident, as its videos brought out by Deccan Herald clearly shows, is a mirror to the incompetence and negligence of the authorities, as complained by the relatives of the unsuspecting victims. These relatives made it clear that shortage of oxygen was the main reason for the deaths of the two-dozen people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/govt-must-step-aside-from-probe-984626.html
11-05-2021||South||11 Covid-19 patients at Tirupati hospital die due to oxygen shortage||At least 11 Covid-19 patients have died at the Sri Venkateshwara Ramnarain Ruia Government General Hospital in Tirupati on Monday night due to an interruption in their oxygen supply. According to Chittoor district collector M Hari Narayanan, the incident in the ICU ward occurred at about 8 PM. “The oxygen pressure dropped for five minutes only but unfortunately it has resulted in the death of 11 patients. Doctors and other staff acted swiftly avoiding further loss of lives,” the collector who inspected the hospital said. Oxygen cylinders kept on standby were put to use. The oxygen tanker coming from Chennai to replenish the tank at the hospital has reached here a bit late. Situation is now under control, we have enough O2 reserves now, the official said, adding that 30 doctors were rushed to attend to the ICU patients. Relatives and attendants of the patients had alleged that the hospital staff was unresponsive to the patients' plight. CM Jaganmohan Reddy has expressed shock over the incident and ordered a comprehensive probe. Eight Covid-19 patients had died at the Hindupur government hospital in neighbouring Anantapuram district on May 3 allegedly due to the interruption in the oxygen supply. CM Reddy has directed the officials to ensure such oxygen supply issues do not recur in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-covid-19-patients-at-tirupati-hospital-die-due-to-oxygen-shortage-984612.html
11-05-2021||South||Veteran Kerala politician K R Gouri Amma passes away at 101||K R Gouri Amma, one of the founder leaders of the Communist movement in Kerala, passed away in Thiruvananthapuram this morning. She was 101. She was admitted to a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram a couple of weeks ago after she developed a fever and breathing difficulties. Her condition worsened following an infection. She breathed her last by around 7 am on Tuesday morning. After keeping off from mainstream politics over the past several years, she had been staying at her house at Alappuzha. Recently, she expressed a wish to stay with her niece in Thiruvananthapuram and shifted. She was the only member of the first elected Communist ministry in Kerala who was still alive. She was a six-time minister in Kerala and MLA for nearly five decades. She was even once tipped to be Kerala Chief Minister. Born to K A Raman and Parvati Amma on July 14, 1919, in Alappuzha district, she hailed from a rich family background as her father was a landlord. Her husband T V Thomas was also a member of the first Communist ministry. He died in 1977. The couple had no children. Gouri Amma graduated with a degree in law and became a practising lawyer in the early 1940s. She was also considered to be the first woman lawyer from the Hindu Ezhava community, that too at a time when a college education was a distant dream for women from the community. By the mid-1940s she entered politics after being attracted by many rebellion movements of central Kerala, like the Punnapra Vayalar movement. She was also jailed on many occasions for political struggles. As revenue minister in the first Communist government led by E M S Namboodiripad, Gouri Amma introduced the Land Reforms Bill that imposed a ceiling on land that can be held by landlords and giving claim for tillers on the surplus land, a move that faced huge protest from landlords. A split in the Communist party in 1964 even led to a split in Gouri Amma's family. While her husband T V Thomas chose to be with the Communist Party of India, Gouri Amma joined the CPI(M). This also led to a break-up in their family life. The couple had no children. Gouri Amma was expelled from the CPI(M) in 1994 following serious differences with the leadership. She later formed Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS) and stayed with the Congress-led United Democratic Front. She was a legislature and minister in Kerala till her age of 87. She quit the UDF in 2014. Though many CPI(M) leaders invited her back to the party, she had not conceded. She had made sharp political statements in the recent past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veteran-kerala-politician-k-r-gouri-amma-passes-away-at-101-984680.html
11-05-2021||South||Are private hospitals in Kerala fleecing Covid-19 patients?||From charging the price of one PPE kit from all patients in a ward to refusing to release the body of Covid victim for non-payment of hefty bills, private hospitals in Kerala are facing serious allegations of fleecing Covid-19 patients. With the Kerala High Court taking serious note of the issue, the state government issued a fresh order fixing the maximum daily rates for Covid-19 treatment at general wards in non-NABH accredited and NABH accredited hospitals at Rs 2,645 and Rs 2,910 respectively. Rates for ICU-Ventilators are fixed at Rs 13,800 and Rs 15,180 respectively and medicines and PPE Kits should be charged within the maximum retail prices. The High Court bench comprising justices Devan Ramachandran and Kauser Edappagath cited specific instances of some hospitals charging the price of one PPE kit used by a nurse from all patients in the wards. Some hospitals were charging up to Rs 40 for medicines like Dolo and Rs 1,300 for gruel, the court condemned. A hospital at Kattakkada in Thiruvananthapuram was allegedly refusing to release the body of a 45-year old man who died of Covid as his relatives could not afford the hospital bill of Rs. 4.4 lakh. Thiruvananthapuram district collector Navjot Khosa intervened in the incident and warned of stringent action against hospitals that refuse to release bodies of patients for the inability of relatives to pay bills. There were reports that in Kollam district a 50-year-old person who recovered from Covid was reportedly unable to get discharged from the hospital as they could not meet the hospital bill of Rs 5.10 lakh. In Thrissur district, a private hospital reportedly gave a bill of around Rs. 68,000 to the relatives of a Covid patient who died after five days of treatment and the charges of PPE kits alone came to Rs 37,300, it was alleged. Government hospitals in the state, on the other hand, are offering Covid treatment free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/are-private-hospitals-in-kerala-fleecing-covid-19-patients-984684.html
11-05-2021||South||Allow Karnataka to utilise locally-produced oxygen, state Health Minister urges Centre||Revealing that Karnataka has requested the Centre to allocate as much oxygen as possible for the state, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday urged the Centre to allow states to utilise locally-produced oxygen to overcome the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The minister further revealed that an additional 125 to 150 tonnes of medical oxygen will be allocated to Karnataka soon. Commenting on the oxygen situation across Karnataka, the minister said, "We have been supplying oxygen keeping in mind the number of active cases and demand. Officials at the district level are constantly updating us about the situation. We are giving 30 ventilators to Dakshina Kannada district, which already has about 150 ventilators. Similarly, 50 ventilators will be sent to Hassan." Stating that cooperation from the public is necessary to reduce the Covid caseload, Dr Sudhakar said, "It would at least take 14 days to reduce the caseload and people must cooperate during this hour of crisis by enforcing self-restraint and staying indoors."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/allow-karnataka-to-utilise-locally-produced-oxygen-state-health-minister-urges-centre-984725.html
11-05-2021||South||Telangana to go under 10-day Covid-19 lockdown from May 12||Telangana is joining other states across the country and imposing a lockdown for 10 days from May 12 in order to stem the spiraling Covid-19 cases. The K Chandrasekhar Rao cabinet on Tuesday reviewed the pandemic situation in the state and decided to impose a 20-hour lockdown daily from Wednesday. Shops would be open and daily activities would be allowed only between 6 am and 10 am. Government offices would work with 33 per cent staff. Only 40 members are allowed for marriages with prior permission, while only 20 are allowed for funerals. Cinema halls, swimming pools, clubs, gyms, amusement parks, and sports stadiums etc will remain closed. The state cabinet will meet again on May 20 to review the situation and decide if the lockdown should be extended. The decision followed the observations of the Telangana High Court that the TRS government was not implementing the Covid-19 control measures like night curfews seriously. The court has reportedly questioned the government on mass religious gatherings. It was earlier believed that the government would implement a lockdown after Eid this Friday. The cabinet has instructed DGP Mahender Reddy to strictly implement the lockdown, following Covid-19 guidelines. The court has also pointed out the drastic reduction in Covid-19 tests, which in turn results in a lower number of official positive cases. The state which used to test over one lakh samples for a few days lowered the number in the last several days. Only 75,289 samples were examined on Tuesday, and 4,801 positive cases were reported. The total number of active cases in Telangana as of Tuesday is given as 60,136. The court has also reportedly expressed ire over the “inhumane” Telangana police action of stopping the ambulances coming from Andhra Pradesh and turning away the Covid-19 patients needing medical care in Hyderabad. The KCR cabinet has decided to invite global tenders for the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. It has also instructed Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to make Covid-19 related medicines, oxygen and injections like Remdesivir available for hospitals in the private sector and government sector. The CM spoke with the manufacturers of Remdesivir and asked them to supply the required quantities of the drug. A task force headed by IT and Industries Minister KT Rama Rao would ensure regular procurement and supply of the medicines and injections. Sectors and services exempted from lockdown Works related to the agriculture produce, allied sectors, works undertaken with the agriculture machines, running of the rice mills, transport of the paddy and rice, supplying paddy to the FCI, fertilizer and seeds shops, seed manufacturing companies, and other agri based sectors. Pharmaceutical companies, firms manufacturing medical equipment, medical distributors, medical shops, all types of medical and health services, government and private hospitals. Staff of these sectors would be given special passes. Supply of drinking water, sanitation works in rural and urban areas. Power generation, distribution and their allied services Transportation on national highways. Petrol and diesel pumps would be open on the national highways. Warehousing and cold storage activities are exempted. Print and electronic media. EGS works are exempted Banks and ATMs would operate Check posts to be set up on the borders of Telangana. Public transports like the RTC and Metro are available from 6 AM to 10 AM. Public Distribution System (ration shops) opened from 6 AM to 10 AM. LPG cylinders supply would continue as usual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-go-under-10-day-covid-19-lockdown-from-may-12-984746.html
11-05-2021||South||Edamalakkudy: The lone Covid-free panchayat in Kerala||While India continues to struggle with the ravaging second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, a remote village in the hilly district of Idukki in Kerala has achieved the rare distinction of being the only panchayat in the state to keep Covid-19 at bay. Edamalakkudy, the first tribal panchayat of Kerala, has zero Covid cases so far. Self-imposed lockdown, vigil of local tribal communities against the entry of outsiders, the lifestyle of the people, especially consumption of locally-grown produce, as well as the fresh climate of the forest area, are considered to be the reasons. Situated about 35 kilometres from Munnar, the panchayat has 106 square kilometres of forest land with not even motorable roads and proper connectivity. It has a population of around 3,000 persons in around 750 families in 28 settlements. Apart from the democratically-elected panchayat administration, the panchayat also has a local tribal assembly called the ‘Oorukkoottam’. Director of panchayats P K Jayashree told DH that as per information available, Edamalakkudy is the only panchayat in Kerala from where not even a single Covid case has ben reported so far. Ever since the pandemic began last year, the ‘Oorukoottam’ and local panchayat initiated a self-imposed lockdown. While entry of outsiders to the panchayat was strictly restricted, members of the panchayat who go out for unavoidable needs make it a point to remain in quarantine for nearly two weeks after their return. Edamalakkudy panchayat secretary Varghese said the panchayat had supplied masks and sanitizers to people, who were all diligently using it. The Girijan cooperative society of the locality, which is carrying out the supply of essential commodities, is also ensuring that those involved in the supply are free from Covid-19. Varghese said people of the locality were generally healthy as they primarily consumed locally-grown produce, mainly a vegetarian diet. Moreover, since it is a pollution-free forest area, people are also breathing in clean and fresh air. These could be also attributing factors to the panchayat's success story. At present, health authorities are planning a vaccination drive in the panchayat. But the Oorukoottam and panchayat authorities have cautioned that the health officials turning up for vaccination drive should not end up becoming Covid-carriers. Meanwhile, the panchayat has also kept a medical plan ready, especially since they lack adequate medical facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/edamalakkudy-the-lone-covid-free-panchayat-in-kerala-984782.html
11-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis: 2 Navy ships with medical oxygen containers reach New Mangalore port||The New Mangalore Port on Tuesday handled two naval ships, INS Tarab and INS Kochi, that carried liquid medical oxygen containers, oxygen cylinders and concentrators donated by the Government of Kuwait. In a tweet, Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways (I/C) & Chemicals & Fertilizers, Government of India said the clearance of oxygen cargo was being ensured with utmost priority. The Indian Navy had launched ‘Samudra Setu-II’ last month to meet the country’s oxygen requirement amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-2-navy-ships-with-medical-oxygen-containers-reach-new-mangalore-port-984794.html
11-05-2021||South||Newly-elected Tamil Nadu MLAs sworn in; Speaker, Deputy Speaker set to be elected unopposed||The newly-elected 16th Tamil Nadu Assembly convened for the first time on Tuesday with pro-tem Speaker Ku Pitchandi swearing in the legislators, including Chief Minister M K Stalin and Leader of Opposition Edappadi K Palaniswami. As many as 224 legislators of the total 234 took oath on Tuesday at the Kalaivanar Arangam, which has been converted into Assembly hall to ensure physical distancing and other Covid-19 safety measures. Stalin was the first to take oath in his capacity as Chief Minister. All DMK members “solemnly affirmed” while taking oath, while AIADMK members swore in the name of God. Palaniswami, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam, and Rajya Sabha MPs R Vaithilingam, and K P Munuswamy also took oath as MLAs. The two will have to reign their Rajya Sabha berths. Four BJP members were also sworn-in as MLAs. Meanwhile, DMK MLAs R Appavu, and Ku Pitchandi filed their nomination papers for Speaker, and deputy Speaker respectively. They will be elected unopposed on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/newly-elected-tamil-nadu-mlas-sworn-in-speaker-deputy-speaker-set-to-be-elected-unopposed-984812.html
11-05-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh to float global tender to procure Covid-19 vaccines||The Andhra Pradesh government will float a global tender in a day or two for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines from foreign manufacturers to complete the vaccination process as quickly as possible. The state has identified 2.04 crore people in the 18- 45 age group for whom the Covid-19 vaccine has to be administered. While a portion of the 4.08 crore doses required for these people is expected to come from local vaccine producers, the state is getting ready to buy a sufficient number of doses for at least one crore people, officials said. "We are exploring the option of buying the vaccine from any foreign manufacturer since there is a short supply of Covishield and Covaxin. We have already placed an order for purchase of Sputnik V vaccine but Dr Reddys Laboratories, the local manufacturer, said it will give clarity on supplies only after May 15 after assessing the production capacity," Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal said. "The vaccines being produced in foreign countries...if there is scope for supply in India...we decided to explore that. We will notify the global tender and wait for response. We will make a very serious attempt and see if there is a possibility," he said. Anil Kumar Singhal said the government was seeking to create confidence among people that it was ready to purchase vaccines wherever it was available. The foreign vaccine manufacturer has to secure the required regulatory and statutory approvals (from the Government of India). "Without that we cant administer the vaccine," the Principal Secretary noted. AP Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das wrote to the Union Health Secretary asking the Centre to elaborate a schedule for vaccination. "Our priority is to first complete vaccination of 45- plus people. Those above 45, along with healthcare workers and frontline workers...there are about 1.48 crore people in the state for whom roughly three crore doses will be required. This is a category purely managed by the Government of India," Singhal pointed out. The AP government requested the Centre to communicate how and when, in which fortnight, it would be supplying these doses. "Unless and until the GoI communicates its action plan, and schedule of delivery of these three crore doses, there is no way we can plan a full-fledged action plan as to when we will vaccinate. The Centre may be having its own constraints that we are not aware of. If we get clarity from them, we may plan (the vaccination programme) accordingly," Singhal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-float-global-tender-to-procure-covid-19-vaccines-984848.html
11-05-2021||South||BJP grows stronger in Puducherry as 3 party men nominated as MLAs||Three BJP leaders have been appointed as nominated MLAs to the Puducherry Assembly, taking the party's strength in the Assembly to 10 including the support of an Independent. This puts the party's strength in the 33-member Assembly, including three nominated MLAs, on par with the All India NR Congress, which has 10 elected legislators. A notification from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs said K Venkatesan, V P Ramalingam, and R B Ashok Babu have been appointed as nominated members of the Assembly. While Venkatesan is a former DMK MLA, Ramalingam is the brother of ex-Assembly Speaker V P Sivakozhundu who announced that the V Narayanasamy government had lost majority on the floor of the House on February 22, 2021. Babu is a local BJP leader and an advocate. The MLAs, though nominated, are counted as members of the BJP, and it is only due to the support of the three nominated MLAs that the Opposition parties destabilised the Narayanasamy government. The appointment of nominated MLAs comes at a time new Chief Minister N Rangasamy is being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Chennai. All eyes are now on the BJP, which was expecting the Chief Minister's post for party nominee, but conceded to Rangasamy's demands last week, and allowed him to be sworn-in as the CM. With an independent MLA from Yanam pledging support, the BJP and AINRC have 10 MLAs each. BJP, which did not have a toehold in the Union Territory till a few months back, won 6 seats in the April 6 Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-grows-stronger-in-puducherry-as-3-party-men-nominated-as-mlas-984849.html
11-05-2021||South||Don't gift me my books, Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary tells officials||A writer and a motivational speaker, Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu on Tuesday directed government officials not to buy books he has written and give them to him at events. He also warned them that money will be deducted from them and deposited into a government account if it is found that they spent public funds to buy the books. Irai Anbu, known for his integrity, and honesty, also wrote to the School Education Department asking officials not to buy his books till he holds the post of Chief Secretary under any pressure. Pointing to the practice of gifting books to government functionaries instead of flower bouquets, Irai Anbu told officials not to buy books written by him using their own money or government funds. “Do not buy books written by me and give them to me. If it is found that the officer had spent from government funds to buy the book, the money will be collected from him, and deposited to the government account. I also appeal to officers not to spend from their pocket,” he said. Irai Anbu was hand-picked by new Chief Minister M K Stalin as the Chief Secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-gift-me-my-books-tamil-nadu-chief-secretary-tells-officials-984850.html
11-05-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala heading towards oxygen crisis||Even as Kerala was considered as an oxygen surplus state until a couple of weeks ago, the scenario has now changed with many hospitals forced to make SOS calls.  Kasargod district is facing acute oxygen scarcity owing to restricted supply from nearby Mangaluru. Some hospitals were even reportedly asking patients to look for other hospitals due to the dearth. The district is now depending mainly on oxygen from Kannur district. While the daily oxygen production of Kerala is 219 MT, the buffer stock of around 1,000 MT has already been used up. The state has sought additional oxygen allocation from the Centre as the state’s requirement is expected to reach 450 MT by May 15. Many leading hospitals, including the Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram, were forced to postpone non-emergency surgeries due to oxygen scarcity. An oxygen war room set up in Thiruvananthapuram is coordinating the oxygen supply in the state now. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 scenario in Kerala continued to be grim with test positivity rate remaining at 26.77 per cent as 37,290 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. The number of Covid deaths being reported daily was also slightly higher. With 79 deaths being reported on Tuesday, the total Covid deaths in the state reached 5,958. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja denied allegations that the state was under-reporting deaths. The number of Covid recoveries in the state is increasing, which may be due to a change in discharge policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-heading-towards-oxygen-crisis-984857.html
11-05-2021||South||Kerala woman killed in Israel-Palestine conflict||A Malayali woman was killed in Israel following shelling by the Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas Soumya Santosh, aged 31, hailed from the Idukki district in Kerala. Her family members told the local media that one of her friends informed them about the unfortunate incident. Soumya was working as a caretaker at a flat at Ashkelon in Israel, near the Gaza Strip. The shelling reportedly took place while she was on a phone conversation with her family in Kerala comprising of her husband and son. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said that he had spoken with the family, conveyed his condolences and assured "all possible assistance". "We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides," he tweeted. Spoke with the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance. We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides. District officials said that an official communication regarding the incident was still awaited. Soumya was working in Israel for the last seven years and her last visit home was in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-killed-in-israel-palestine-conflict-984927.html
11-05-2021||State||Oxygen bed expansion needs planning, say private medical colleges||Private medical colleges, which have been asked by the state government to equip their beds with oxygen supply to handle the current Covid-19 crisis, have warned against unplanned expansion. For, with the increase in the number of oxygenated beds and without adequate oxygen supply, teaching hospitals worry that they will be unable to sustain the pressure for all the new beds. Not just that, the manpower will also have to be stepped up as hospitals will have to either train existing staff to handle the oxygenated beds or hire afresh. After a recent meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, at least 20 private medical colleges sent a proposal to the government for upgrading beds as of Monday. The government is likely to give them 6-8 weeks time to upgrade the infrastructure.  “The government will extend support for setting up a medical oxygen generator, one liquid medical oxygen tank and the pipeline,” an official in the medical education department said. As of now, the government has proposed to bear 70 per cent of the cost that colleges will incur.  Officials say that even with the oxygen generator, dependency on liquid oxygen cannot be done away with since ICU may require high-pressure oxygen. Increasing oxygen beds could also lead to possible low oxygen pressure, endangering patient safety.  “With our recent expansion of oxygen beds, we are dangerously consuming an average of 9,500 cubic metres of oxygen a day (pre-Covid being 1,500 cubic metres). For the past month, we have risked with just 1-1.5 day stock. With further expansion, oxygen stocks should be not less than three days’ equivalent, for uninterrupted supply,” a senior professional in a private medical college in Bengaluru said, requesting anonymity. Former minister M B Patil, whose trust runs the BM Patil Medical College in Vijayapura, concurred. “In our hospital, we have a 11 KLD liquid oxygen storage plant. We have 300 oxygen beds. We are now raising it to 500. We have set up another 11 KLD liquid oxygen storage plant. Unless the government provides oxygen for the additional beds, we can’t make it functional,” he said.  Further, technicians are crucial to monitor oxygen beds. “In several hospitals, staff crunch is an issue. Without technicians, maintaining oxygen beds will be a challenge,” Patil added.  There are 40 private medical colleges in Karnataka. The government is hoping to cumulatively add about 4,000 oxygen beds by making use of infrastructure in these institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/oxygen-bed-expansion-needs-planning-say-private-medical-colleges-984616.html
11-05-2021||State||Pvt hospitals body to issue advisory on uniform pricing for Covid vaccine||Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) on Monday said it would soon issue an advisory to its members to have uniform charges for administering Covid vaccines. A dose of Covishield costs Rs 600 for private hospitals, as per price fixed by the manufacturer Serum Institute of India, while a dose of Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, costs Rs 1,200 for private facilities. There is no uniformity in vaccine pricing for the private hospitals. While BGS Gleneagles Hospital charges Rs 1,250 for Covaxin, all branches of Manipal hospitals charge 1,350 for Covaxin. Apollo hospitals, on the other hand, charge Rs 850 for administering Covishield. The private hospitals charge anywhere between Rs 50 and Rs 300, as service charges, for administering vaccines. BGS Gleneagles in a statement said, “Covaxin vax is currently being administered at Rs 1,250 at BGS Gleneagles Global Hospital for walk-in patients. At Rs 1,250, it remains amongst the lowest and in line with all the other private healthcare providers in India. The hospital is charging Rs 1,500 only when it administers the vaccine externally in corporate offices or apartment buildings which involves additional costs for travel of trained medical staff and vaccine logistics.” Way back in January, when vaccines were still being procured by the government and given to private hospitals, the state government had urged private hospitals not to charge more than Rs 100 as service charge, said PHANA. No such advisory has been issued now when private hospitals are directly procuring from manufacturers. Dr Prasanna HM, president, PHANA, said, “Except these three hospital groups, no other private hospital has managed to procure vaccines from the manufacturers. I will talk to the administrators of hospitals and we’ll give an advisory after arriving at a uniform service charge. An earlier guideline from the state government had asked not to charge more than Rs 100. The central government has been silent on the vaccine service charges. They have left it to the hospitals.” Hospitals have to pay a huge amount upfront to procure vaccines from manufacturers, Prasanna said. “Covaxin is being sold by the manufacturer only in batches of 5,000 each. So, hospitals have to pay around Rs 60 lakh to buy and store it. So, even hospitals have operational costs. We cannot tell them to charge only Rs 100. These are the issues. We try to ensure uniformity.” Manipal Hospitals said Rs 150 is the operational cost of the hospital. Apollo Hospitals did not respond to queries from DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pvt-hospitals-body-to-issue-advisory-on-uniform-pricing-for-covid-vaccine-984706.html
11-05-2021||State||Karnataka announces free meals thrice a day for migrant workers, poor at Indira canteens||The Karnataka government on Tuesday announced free meals thrice a day for the poor, labourers and migrant workers at the 'Indira Canteens' across the state till May 24 during the lockdown-like restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19. "To ease hardships that come with the strict restrictions, three free meals will be made available to the poor, migrants and workers in need, at Indira Canteens in Bengaluru and across the state till May 24," Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa tweeted on Tuesday. To ease hardships that come with the strict restrictions, three free meals will be made available to the poor, migrants and workers in need, at Indira Canteens in Bengaluru and across the state till May 24. In a letter to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, the Urban Development Department under secretary N K Lakshmisagar said the poor, labourers and migrant labourers will be given free breakfast, lunch and dinner till May 24. Accordingly, necessary measures need to be taken and a detailed list of the possible footfall has to be prepared, it said. The government said Rs 25 crore out of Rs 300 crore released to the BBMP from the Natural Disaster Response Fund should be utilised for the purpose. The government imposed stringent restrictions on the advice of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), ministers and opposition leaders. The advice came following surging Covid cases in the state. The migrant workers had left for their home state last year in hordes complaining of hardship and no relief measures for them during the lockdown. This time, the state government made arrangements for them to stay put in Karnataka. Most of the migrant workers are the important workforce for various ongoing infrastructure projects and construction industries. With this announcement, the Indira Canteens, the ambitious project of the Congress government led by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, would come to life one year after they were shut due to Covid. The Congress had time and again alleged that the state government wanted to close down these canteens aimed at offering meals to the economically weaker section at a highly subsidised rate. These canteens were built in Bengaluru and elsewhere after spending crores of rupees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-announces-free-meals-thrice-a-day-for-migrant-workers-poor-at-indira-canteens-984876.html
11-05-2021||State||Covid-19: 26 Karnataka districts show evidence of runaway infections||Twenty six districts of Karnataka have shown evidence of runaway Covid-19 infections as they reported a positivity rate way above the national average, the Union Health Ministry said here on Tuesday. Uttara Kannada tops the list with 45.7% test positivity rate followed by Ballari (44.3%), Hassan (42.1%) and Mysuru (41.3%). For comparison, the national positivity rate is 21%. Karnataka has 28 such districts where the positivity rate is way above the national average. Bengaluru Urban, which reports the maximum number of cases in Karnataka has a positivity rate of 34.7%. They are among the 310 districts all over the country (out of 734 districts) where the Covid-19 infections are spreading fast as all of them have a positivity rate higher than the national average, contributing towards the current upsurge. As many as 533 districts out of 734 have a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 10% including 45 such districts in Madhya Pradesh and 36 in Maharashtra. To find out more hidden infections, the Indian Council of Medical Research has suggested rationalising use of RT-PCR tests and setting up multiple rapid antigen test booths at all government and private healthcare facilities in cities, towns and villages without any need for accreditation. ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said India currently has a capacity of conducting 16 lakhs RT-PCR and 17 lakh RAT tests daily. He, however, didn’t clarify why the number of daily tests never crossed the 20 lakh mark despite having a capacity of 33 lakhs. But as the number of cases rose in the states, several experts are worried about the drop in testing, which may lead to missing out the infections hidden in small cities and countryside. “At the end of the first wave, we were doing 63 tests for every case and the national test positivity rate was 1.6%. Now, we're doing a mere 4.5 tests for every case and the TPR at 22.3%! Even at the peak of the first wave, we were doing 11.4 tests per case compared to the current 4.5,” tweeted health economist Rijo John, a former WHO consultant who is tracking the epidemic. The ICMR has also recommended doing away with RT-PCR tests for healthy individuals traveling interstate, which goes contrary to the guidelines issued by several states mandating such tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-26-karnataka-districts-show-evidence-of-runaway-infections-984884.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Government will continue to help RTCs through loans, aid, says Karnataka Transport Minister Laxman Savadi||As the second wave of Covid-19 halts revenue generation at the four road transport corporations (RTC), the state government faces the big challenge of ensuring payments to 1.11 lakh workers who recently went on strike demanding a hike in wages. On the other hand, the pandemic has made public transport the last choice of the commuter due to the fear of infection and ridership has fallen by more than 50 per cent. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi tells DH’s Chiranjeevi Kulkarni about the government’s plans for the RTCs. The four state road transport corporations suffered a loss of Rs 4,200 crore last year. The strike and the ongoing curfew will worsen the situation in the coming days. How does the government plan to help them? Public transport is public service. We will continue to focus on reducing operational expenditure. After the curbs are lifted, the operations will be run based on demand. We have already started ‘Namma Cargo’ parcel service in the corporations to build an alternative revenue source. Suitable measures will be taken to get a bank loan (for the corporations) if the revenue is unable to meet the operational expenditure as there are possibilities of the ridership going further down. A major expenditure of the corporation goes towards salaries, for which they require Rs 325 crore per month. Considering their financial crisis, we will soon decide on the possibility of providing special aid. During the previous lockdown, the state government had provided for the salaries of the 1.11 lakh employees of the four SRTCs. Will it continue to do so in the second wave? Are there plans for salary cuts? During the first wave, the government extended a special assistance of Rs 2,100 crore to ensure road transport corporation workers would not suffer salary cuts or delays in payments. During the second wave, the transport services have come to a halt and that has hit the revenue of the corporations. However, there is no proposal to reduce salaries. A decision on further assistance from the government will be taken after reviewing the financial condition of the corporations. The prevailing idea that KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC have to be self-sufficient seems to have failed. It has become clear that the government needs to support them in a much bigger way to keep cities running and avoid growth of personal vehicles which not only cause traffic jams but make cities unsustainable… Public transport is not only an environment-friendly, safe and affordable service but also plays a major role in checking traffic snarls. In rural areas, we are running operations despite losses because the focus is on service rather than profit. However, diesel prices, operational costs and employee salary expenditure have been going up every year. At the same time, the fares have not been reviewed for several years to meet that expenditure, pushing the corporations into economic hardship. The government has helped them during the lockdown and is allocating funds every year for purchase of buses. We will continue such programmes to further encourage public transport. What is the government’s plan to take employees into confidence and avoid another strike? We have already fulfilled eight of the nine demands made by the employees. Our response shows that we are committed to ensuring the welfare of the employees. Fulfilling the ninth demand (for salary on par with 6th Pay Commission recommendations) at this juncture seems unrealistic. A decision will be taken after considering the government’s financial condition. It is important to note that even before the end of the strike, many workers returned to work, heeding our appeals. I am confident that they will not resort to strike again, in the middle of a crisis. Covid-19 has made public transport a risky option across the world. Within Karnataka, we have seen a huge drop in the ridership of RTCs. How will the government assure the public about the safety of buses in the coming days? Steps will be taken to sanitise buses, make masks mandatory and ensure social distancing. The corporations will follow the directions issued by the government. Measures will be taken to ensure that all employees of the corporation are vaccinated, and efforts will be made to spread awareness to expel unnecessary fear. There was speculation that the government will partially privatise transport in order to avoid the heavy burden on the exchequer. Is that one of the options being considered by the department? The government neither has a proposal for privatisation nor has such an intention. The private bus operators have sought a liberal permit regime. They have sought a new system whereby they are allowed to run 50% of the buses. What’s the department’s view? As per the notification dated March 7, 2019, all routes in the state have been nationalised save the ones where private operators already have permits. We have extended help to private players through tax exemption and relaxation during the first and second wave of Covid-19. Even recently, the deadline for tax payment was extended from April 15 to May 31. We have been responding to them positively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-will-continue-to-help-rtcs-through-loans-aid-says-karnataka-transport-minister-laxman-savadi-984631.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka welcomes first Oxygen Express with 120 tonnes of oxygen||Working overtime to resolve the oxygen crisis across Karnataka, the state government on Tuesday witnessed the arrival of the first Oxygen Express. The special train carrying 120 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Tatanagar in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand arrived at Inland Container Depot (ICD) in Whitefield Bengaluru at 9:35 am. The train which left Jamshedpur at 3:00 am on Monday reached the city this morning after it was provided signal-free 'Green Corridor' by the Railways.  The train with six Cryogenic Containers with each having a capacity of carrying 20 tonnes will be distributed to various hospitals both in Bengaluru and other parts of the state. Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted, "The oxygen will help in treating the Covid-19 patients of Karnataka."   Ashok Kumar Verma, Divisional Railway Manager, Bengaluru told, "This train will now go to Kalinganagar in Odisha and reach there by tomorrow night. Again, the day after tomorrow, more oxygen may be sent. The State is privy with the details."  Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa in his tweet thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal for their continued support to the state and other central ministers from Karnataka for their efforts to strengthen our fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-welcomes-first-oxygen-express-with-120-tonnes-of-oxygen-984722.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa visits Covid war rooms, thanks staff||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday visited the state’s Covid-19 war rooms and directed authorities to evict more than 800 patients who are occupying hospital beds for 20-30 days. During his visit to the Covid-19 war rooms in the Arogya Soudha on Magadi Road and in Malleswaram, Yediyurappa thanked staffers working there round-the-clock. This outreach came exactly a week after Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya’s “raid” on the BBMP South war room to expose a bed blocking scam, the aftermath of which reportedly demoralised staffers. “The way our war rooms are working is a model for the entire country,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “I don’t think there’s a better war room system anywhere. People here work 24/7. I congratulated them,” he said. At the war rooms, Yediyurappa was given data on the current occupancy of hospital beds in Bengaluru. The city currently has 12,299 beds, he was told. “The data is so perfect: As on today, there are 6,500 patients who are in a hospital for 1-10 days, 1,900 for 11-20 days, 503 for over 20 days and 337 for over 30 days,” he said. “In total, there are 9,242 patients.” The CM said he had asked authorities to get patients who have been staying in a hospital for over 20 days and 30 days sent home. “Why are they still there? They can vacate beds for other needy patients,” Yediyurappa said. “Despite doctors’ advice, these people are still there. They should be told to manage their condition at home so that patients who are serious can be accommodated. Now that we have these statistics, we can regulate the situation better,” he added. Addressing the war room employees, Yediyurappa lauded them for their hard work. “You are working beyond your strength to curb Covid-19,” he said. “PM Modi took stock of the situation. Our state has more cases than Maharashtra and what’s more worrying is the number of deaths. We’re trying our best to control this and you are helping us.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-visits-covid-war-rooms-thanks-staff-984723.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over-staying Covid-19 patients in hospitals should go home, says B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday asked Covid-19 patients over-staying in hospitals 'unnecessarily' to go home to make way for serious ones to get treatment. "What is the need for the 332 patients to remain in the hospital for 30 days? They should vacate the beds. There are 503 patients in the hospital for 20 days. This way people who are staying in the hospital unnecessarily should go home," he said. He was speaking to reporters after visiting a Covid-19 war room in the city, which has generated data about the Covid patients, the status of beds in the hospitals, oxygen availability and other essential drugs for the pandemic. He said the Covid War Room has generated information about those patients who can avail treatment at home but were staying put in the hospital depriving serious patients from getting treatment. Responding to a query, Yediyurappa said those 503 people are in the hospital despite advice of doctors for their discharge. According to him, such patients should be told that the treatment was over and they should go home paving the way for admission of serious ones. Hailing the Covid War Room management, Yediyurappa said it is a model in the country as the data are perfect giving every detail on a real time basis about the number of people admitted, for how long they are there and the availability of beds in the hospitals for Covid patients. "We are operating this war room in a systematic manner, which probably cannot be seen anywhere in the country," the he said. To a query on BJP national general secretary B L Santhosh meeting him, Yediyurappa said he discussed for an hour with him Covid-19, the situation prevailing in Delhi and Karnataka and the ways to improve things. The Chief Minister further said Santhosh assured him of every assistance from Delhi (Central government). "As you know that today we received 120 tonnes of oxygen from Jamshedpur. This way they (Centre) are giving us whatever is required. I am absolutely content as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving priority to Karnataka," Yediyurappa said. The Chief Minister's visit to Covis War Room came after BJP MP Tejasvi Surya alleged that there was a bed booking scam in private hospitals where a few War Room staff colluded with the hospitals and civic officials to block the government quota of beds. Those beds were 'sold' to the needy for a hefty bribe somewhere between Rs 50,000 to over Rs one lakh, he had alleged. A few people have been arrested so far in connection with the case. With an alarming rise in Covid cases in the state, the demand for hospital beds has gone up significantly leading to the shortage of beds, oxygen and drugs such as Remdesivir at many places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-staying-covid-19-patients-in-hospitals-should-go-home-says-b-s-yediyurappa-984753.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||OxyBus to aid Covid patients launched in Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa Tuesday launched an innovative OxyBus service to aid Covid-19 patients during emergencies. Each makeshift OxyBus supports up to eight patients, he said. "20 such units will be set up near Govt Hospitals and Triage Centres in Bengaluru, and more units will be set up across the state", Yediyurappa said. Earlier, the Chief Minister visited the 'Arogya Soudha' in Magadi Road and BBMP (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike) war room in Malleshwaram here to review the functioning of the bed allocation system and citizen helpline. "We are ensuring transparency & efficiency in the system for timely availability of beds to Covid-19 patients", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/oxybus-to-aid-covid-patients-launched-in-karnataka-984767.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to float global tender for two crore Covid-19 vaccine doses||The B S Yediyurappa administration on Tuesday finalised its plan to procure two crore Covid-19 vaccines through a global tender, with the chief minister maintaining there was no need for citizens to worry even amid the shortage of doses. This came on a day the High Court directed the state government to place on record within two days a roadmap on the vaccination drive, observing that the availability of vaccines was “very disturbing”. Karnataka now joins the list of states such as Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Odisha and Telangana to go for a global tender to procure vaccines. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who heads the Covid-19 Task Force, said two crore Covid-19 vaccine doses will be purchased in addition to an order already placed for one crore Covaxin and two crore Covishield doses. “Till now we depended on vaccines supplied by the Centre. Vaccines were not procured from the open market by floating a tender. Now, it has been instructed to float the tender and to complete the process within a week,” Narayan said. Narayan said the government did not have an estimation on how much it would cost. According to market research firm Statista, the Covid-19 vaccines by Pfizer and Moderna cost $17 per dose in the US. At this rate, the vaccine will cost the government $340 million, or nearly Rs 2,500 crore. Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa told reporters that citizens need not “panic or queue up all night” at vaccination centres. “Doses have started coming. Citizens will get the doses as and when they come,” he said. The shortage of vaccines has hit Karnataka’s inoculation drive: As on Monday, 17,519 people aged 18-44 years received the first jab. There are an estimated 3.26 crore people in this age bracket. The Congress kept up its attack on the government on vaccination. While Bangalore Rural MP DK Suresh wrote to PM Modi on the urgent requirement of vaccines, his brother and Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar mocked Yediyurappa for talking about the third Covid-19 wave even as his government “bungled” in the ongoing second wave. “The government asked people to book vaccination slots online. I tried for my children, but couldn’t,” Shivakumar said, advising the government to follow the Common Entrance Test (CET) model where all Covid-19 information, including vaccines, are available on a single platform akin to colleges and seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-float-global-tender-for-two-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-984832.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka warns Cipla and Jubilant of legal action for not supplying Remdesivir||The Karnataka government has issued notices to two pharmaceutical companies - Cipla Ltd and Jubilant Ltd - for failing to supply the requisite quantity of Remdesivir vials as directed by the Centre. The notices ask the companies to fulfill the supply within 24 hours of their receipt, failing which the state government has warned of legal action under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code. According to the notices issued by N Manjunath Prasad, Member Secretary, State Executive Committee of the Disaster Management Authority, the Centre on May 1 had directed Cipla to supply 30,000 vials and Jubilant 32,000 vials to Karnataka. They were to be supplied to the state by May 9. However, Cipla supplied only 10,840 vials and Jubilant supplied only 17,601 vials as on May 8. The companies have failed to "supply the requisite quantity as directed by the Government of India, which has severely impacted treatment of patients requiring Remdesivir vials in the state," the notice reads. "..The non-supply of committed number of Remdesivir vials to the state has constrained its capacity to provide timely and effective treatment to the infected persons, thus endangering the lives of the patients," it said. The companies "must immediately fulfill the supply obligation of Remdesivir vials, as allotted by the government to the state as on today (May 11), within 24 hours of the receipt of this notice. Further, it is directed to provide day to day supply quantity commitments of Remdesivir vials," the notice added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-warns-cipla-and-jubilant-of-legal-action-for-not-supplying-remdesivir-984847.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 tally crosses 20 lakh-mark with 39,510 fresh infections||Karnataka's Covid tally on Tuesday crossed the 20 lakh-mark with 39,510 new infections, while 480 more deaths took the toll to 19,852, the health department said. While the total caseload touched 20,13,193, the state has 5,87,452 active cases. So far, 14,05,869 people have been discharged including 22,584 on Tuesday. Bengaluru Urban district reported 15,879 infections and 259 fatalities, which is highest in the state. The city has so far reported 9,83,519 infections and 8,690 deaths. There were 3,62,696 active cases. Ballari loggegd 1,558 infections and 28 fatalities. The small district has been reporting the second highest Covid related deaths after Bengaluru for almost a fortnight. According to the health bulletin, 2,496 infections were reported in Tumakuru, 2,170 in Mysuru, 1,359 in Mandya, 1,108 in Shivamogga, 1,084 in Uttara Kannada and 1,083 in Udupi. Bagalkote, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Kalaburagi, Dharwad, Kodagu, Kolar and Raichur were among the districts with over 500 cases. The department said 18 deaths were reported in Uttara Kannada, 16 each in Tumakuru and Hassan, 14 in Bengaluru Rural, 12 each in Chamarajanagar and Mysuru and 10 in Shivamogga. Deaths were reported in 21 other districts as well. There were 1,16,238 tests done on Tuesday, a decline by about 8,000 compared to Monday. So far 2.72 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-tally-crosses-20-lakh-mark-with-39510-fresh-infections-984852.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BBMP allows walk-in admissions in Covid care facilities of Bengaluru constituencies||Aiming for proper diagnosis and streamlined admission of Covid patients to various hospitals, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday notified Covid Care Centres (CCCs), Triaging centres and Tertiary Care Medical facilities in all 28 assembly constituencies of Bengaluru to enable walk-in admissions. These centres while working round the clock, examine Covid patients and determine the line of treatment required. Patients can now walk into the facility without any registration, according to the BBMP. The duty doctors at these centres will be in constant touch with the physicians for expert opinion in case of special cases. All centres will have sufficient ambulances for ferrying patients to hospitals in case of any emergency. Each of these triaging centres has been attached to an exclusive referral hospital, medical college or private hospital for advanced treatment. Here is a list of Covid care facilities in Bengaluru:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bbmp-allows-walk-in-admissions-in-covid-care-facilities-of-bengaluru-constituencies-984874.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Create manpower for usage of ventilators, RV Deshpande tells Karnataka government||Even though several district and taluk hospitals are equipped with ventilators installed with PM Cares Fund and from donations by philanthropists, they are not being made use of owing to lack of skilled resources. The state government must immediately address the issue, senior Congress leader RV Deshpande has said. In a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, the former minister has pointed out that existing resources were going waste as there was no skilled workforce. He has urged the government to immediately increase manpower and put these equipment into use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/create-manpower-for-usage-of-ventilators-rv-deshpande-tells-karnataka-government-984893.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Give us more oxygen cylinders, concentrators: Karnataka to Centre||With rising number of cases in the second wave of Covid-19, the state government has appealed to the Centre to provide 7,700 cylinders and 1,000 oxygen concentrators, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Tuesday.  So far, 320 cylinders and 400 oxygen concentrators have been provided by the Centre. With the rising number of cases, the government has sought for more oxygen, the minister said. He held a meeting with senior officials on Tuesday on the production and supply of oxygen in the state. With about 120 MT of liquid oxygen arriving to Karnataka in six containers on Tuesday, another four containers are expected in the coming days, he said.  Even as there have been concerns about inequitable distribution of oxygen to various districts, Shettar asked the officials to ensure that all districts got sufficient oxygen. He urged the officials concerned to secure round-the-clock information on supply and distribution. About 1,015 metric tons of oxygen has been assigned to the state so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/give-us-more-oxygen-cylinders-concentrators-karnataka-to-centre-984894.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Availability of Covid-19 vaccines in state very disturbing: Karnataka High Court||The High Court on Tuesday directed the government to place on record within two days a roadmap for the vaccination drive. The court passed this order after observing that the availability of vaccines in the state is “very disturbing”. A special bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar noted that around 26 lakh beneficiaries in the state who have taken the first dose, either Covishield or Covaxin, have not received the second dose. The bench said that these 26 lakh beneficiaries are due to receive the second dose as per the norms fixed by the central government. While this is the figure of beneficiaries who have to be administered the second dose immediately, the availability of vaccines in the state is 9.37 lakh. “Hence, it is obvious that if the present scenario continues, the first dose of vaccination cannot be given to the category of health line workers and those 45 years of age as even the demand of those for first dose cannot be fulfilled in the near future,” the bench said, adding that if the present situation persists the entire vaccine drive will be ineffective. The bench granted more time to the union government to comply with the directions passed in the previous hearings on the indents for vaccines placed by the state government. The court also directed the state government to place on record a roadmap on the vaccination drive. It has been told to place emphasis on how it proposes to provide vaccines to those who have taken the first dose and to whom the second dose is overdue, how it intends to provide the first dose to the category of beneficiaries between the age group of 18 and 44 years. The court has directed the state government to submit on the next date how it is going to cover the marginalised sections of the society in the vaccination drive. The bench has directed the state union governments to take serious note of the desperate situation regarding the availability of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/availability-of-covid-19-vaccines-in-state-very-disturbing-karnataka-high-court-984897.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid pandemic, a silver lining: No child in Karnataka orphaned after losing parent to Covid-19, survey shows||While the Covid-19 second wave has claimed hundreds of lives in the state, fortunately no child has been orphaned with the demise of both parents due to the infection. This is according to a preliminary survey carried out after the state government appointed a nodal officer for immediate and long-term assistance of such children last week. Nodal officer K P Mohan Raj, who serves as Inspector-General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps, told DH that so far Karnataka did not have a case where a child lost both his/her parents due to the pandemic. Mechanism ready “Though there are no cases yet, we are ready with a mechanism to report any such incidents in the future,” he said.  Since the government appointment on May 3, meetings were held with State Child Rights Commission, district-level officials, child welfare committees and volunteer groups on the issue.  Anjali Ramanna, chairperson of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Bengaluru Urban district, said that though they were alerted of two cases of possible orphans, they had not fit the criteria following verification. The Child Welfare Committee was trying to tie up with BBMP to identify children whose both parents test positive for Covid. “We have recommended the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to monitor the status of minor children if both parents are hospitalised,” she said. Isolation centres Isolation centres for children if both parents test positive, along with a Covid Care Centre for children are proposed in different parts of the state. “We are proposing such centres for children, anticipating the third wave, which is expected to affect the smaller age group. We have proposed a 150-bed centre for children in Bengaluru,” she said. Currently, the facility awaited a certification from Health Department of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, and preliminary inspection of the site was complete, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-pandemic-a-silver-lining-no-child-in-karnataka-orphaned-after-losing-parent-to-covid-19-survey-shows-984899.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government buys 10 lakh tablets of drug most docs say is useless||The Karnataka unit of the National Health Mission last week prescribed Ivermectin, Zinc and Vitamin C for patients awaiting the results of RT-PCR tests and showing symptoms of Covid. Going a step ahead, the state government has procured ten lakh Ivermectin tablets for distribution to home-isolated patients.  The medical fraternity is divided over the efficacy of the anti-parasitic drug for Covid, which has no definitive treatment. Ivermectin is used for deworming parasites in humans.  The Food and Drug Administration of the US says the drug has no properties to prevent or treat Covid-19. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has also warned against its use.  But doctors who are part of Karnataka's therapeutic committee, which drafts the state Covid-19 treatment protocol, say there isn't sufficient evidence for the efficacy of Ivermectin, but since it is not dangerous either, it can be used by home-isolated patients.  'A useless drug' Dr Pradeep Rangappa, Senior Consultant, Critical Care, Columbia Asia Referral Hospital, Yeshwantpur, and a member of the State Critical Care Support Unit, said that in his opinion, it's a useless drug given the lack of robust evidence and well-conducted clinical trials. "I'm not sure why it’s being recommended. Guidelines cannot be issued based on a poorly conducted study with very few patients. I wouldn’t recommend it for prophylaxis (prevention) or treatment.”  However, Dr S Sachhidanand, Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, who heads the therapeutic committee, said that a study involving 372 participants conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, had shown the drug was effective in reducing Covid infection in healthcare workers. He also quoted an in vitro study done in Australia that had proven the drug to be effective.  Rangappa differs: "The study was first published in the journal Antiviral Research on April 3 last year. In vitro means the study was done in cell lines. While researchers found significant reduction in coronavirus in the cells in 48 hours, in vitro science need not translate in vivo, in clinical science.”  Studies that are in vivo are those in which the effects of various biological entities are tested on whole, living organisms or cells, usually animals, including humans, and plants, as opposed to a tissue extract or dead organism.  Senior pulmonologist Dr K S Satish, who is also a member of the state Covid expert committee and is the president of the Karnataka Pulmonologists’ Association, said: "No senior pulmonologist would recommend this drug as there is not enough data to support its use. It is not part of the standard care for Covid-19 in the US, the UK or Australia.” 'AIIMS study poorly done' Pulmonologist Dr Ravindra Mehta, who is a member of the BBMP expert committee on Covid-19, said authorities were recommending Ivermectin just because of the AIIMS study, which had been "very poorly done".  "Our colleagues from the US ask why India is relying on this drug and we have no answer. We can’t just keep giving drugs because patients are desperate. We have had this virus for more than a year now. There is no excuse to use experimental drugs that have no effect anymore," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-buys-10-lakh-tablets-of-drug-most-docs-say-is-useless-984901.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chamarajanagar deaths: Inquiry by IAS officer in limbo||The probe into the deaths of 24 Covid patients at Chamarajanagar district hospital due to lack of adequate oxygen, by senior IAS officer Shivayogi Kalasad, has fallen into a limbo. Kalasad, who was ordered on May 3 to submit a report to the government within three days, is yet to do so. The next day, the High Court opined that the Chamarajanagar incident was a fit case to be probed by a retired judge. On May 5, the state government appointed a one-man commission of inquiry under retired High Court judge B A Patil. The High Court, which termed the government’s move  “overreaching the order of the court,” ordered the seizure of all documents on May 6 and directed Chief Secretary to take custody of the same. It also asked Justices A N Venugopala Gowda K N Keshavanarayana to look into the records who submitted the report to the High Court on Tuesday. The court, however, allowed the government-appointed official to refer the documents for his probe. Speaking to DH, Kalasad said that he was yet to submit the report to the government. “I have sought clarification from the government (on continuing with the probe) as the High Court, too, has ordered an inquiry,” he said. The response from the government is expected in a day or two, he added. Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunatha Prasad, who is also the Member-Secretary, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, said that report of Kalasad’s inquiry ordered on May 3 was not submitted as both the state government and High Court ordered inquiries into the incident. “Since both are investigating, the report (by Kalasad) cannot be submitted,” he said. Prasad said preliminary findings were in a sealed cover and will be submitted to the High Court if needed. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajneesh Goel said the validity of the Justice B A Patil Commission of Inquiry will depend on the outcome of the order of the High Court which will hear the case on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chamarajanagar-deaths-inquiry-by-ias-officer-in-limbo-984902.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 positivity rate in 26 Karnataka districts higher than national average||Twenty-six districts of Karnataka have reported a positivity rate of Covid-19 way above the national average, the Union Health Ministry said here on Tuesday. Uttara Kannada tops the list with a 45.7 per cent test positivity rate followed by Ballari (44.3 per cent), Hassan (42.1 per cent) and Mysuru (41.3 per cent). For comparison, the national positivity rate is 21 per cent. Karnataka has 28 such districts where the positivity rate is way above the national average. Bengaluru Urban, which reports the maximum number of cases in Karnataka has a positivity rate of 34.7 per cent. They are among the 310 districts all over the country (out of 734 districts) where the Covid-19 infections are spreading faster as all of them have a positivity rate higher than the national average, contributing towards the current upsurge. Incidentally, Karnataka on Monday overtook Maharashtra in terms of the maximum number of Covid-19 cases and deaths reported in the last 24 hours (data released by the Health Ministry at 8 AM). It reported 39,305 new cases as against 37,236 for Maharashtra and 596 deaths as against 549 in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours. As many as 533 districts out of 734 have a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 10 per cent including 45 such districts in Madhya Pradesh and 36 in Maharashtra. To find out more hidden infections, the Indian Council of Medical Research has suggested rationalising the use of RTPCR tests and setting up multiple rapid antigen test booths at all government and private healthcare facilities in cities, towns and villages without any need for accreditation. ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said India currently has a capacity of conducting 16 lakhs RTPCR and 17 lakh RAT daily. He, however, didn’t clarify why the number of daily tests never crossed the 20-lakh mark despite having a capacity of 33 lakhs. But as the number of cases rose in the states, several experts are worried about the drop in testing, which may lead to missing out on the infections hidden in small cities and countryside. “At the end of the first wave, we were doing 63 tests for every case and the national test positivity rate was 1.6 per cent. Now, we’re doing a mere 4.5 tests for every case and the TPR at 22.3 per cent! Even at the peak of the first wave, we were doing 11.4 tests per case compared to the current 4.5,” tweeted health economist Rijo John, a former WHO consultant who is tracking the epidemic. The ICMR has also recommended doing away with RTPCR tests for healthy individuals travelling interstate, which goes contrary to the guidelines issued by several states mandating such tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-26-karnataka-districts-higher-than-national-average-984909.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC asks government to furnish one-week data on oxygen requirement||The High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to place on record its daily requirement of oxygen from May 5 to May 11, 2021 and the quantum of oxygen procured and the projected requirement for at least one week. A special division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed this direction after the state government submitted that from May 11, 2021 the quota of oxygen in the state has been increased to 1,015 MT per day. The bench had directed the centre to increase the quota for the state to 1,200 MT. The court also observed that the union government has not placed any compliance report. The Additional Solicitor General of India submitted that a meeting through video conferencing will be convened on Wednesday on the issue so that figures of requirement of oxygen and actual quota can be reconciled. The court adjourned further hearing to Thursday after the counsel for the union government said the outcome of the meeting will be placed before the court. In the previous hearings, the centre had informed the court that it had increased the state’s quota from 865 MT to 965 MT. However, the state government had assessed the requirement of 1,792 MT of oxygen by May 5 in view of a sudden surge in the number of cases. In view of this estimated requirement, the high court had directed the centre to immediately increase the quota to 1,200 MT per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-asks-government-to-furnish-one-week-data-on-oxygen-requirement-984910.html
11-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ventilators to be alternative to HFNO in Karnataka, says K Sudhakar||Ventilators will be used instead of High Flow Nasal Oxygen (HFNO) in order to reduce the increasing demand for oxygen, Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after chairing a video conference with district health officers, district surgeons, deans and directors of Medical Colleges and Super Speciality Hospitals in all districts, Sudhakar said patients with moderate symptoms need about 20-60 litres of oxygen per minute. "So, we have to find ways to reduce dependence on oxygen and hence we are trying to utilise NIV ventilators as an alternative which is more effective.This will reduce the oxygen demand by 80 per cent and all patients in HFNO will be shifted to ventilator beds," the Minister explained. As a result of continuous efforts to ramp up health infrastructure, for the past six to eight months, 50 oxygenated beds have been set up in every Taluk hospital, Sudhakar said, adding, there are six ventilators in each Taluk hospital. However, due to lack of specialist manpower, oxygen is being used despite the availability of ventilators. "To address this issue we are recruiting anaesthetists, doctors on contract basis," Sudhakar told reporters. In addition to this, all the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals have been asked to install CCTV cameras within a week to help remote monitoring and also ensure efficient use of beds, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ventilators-to-be-alternative-to-hfno-in-karnataka-says-k-sudhakar-984923.html
11-05-2021||West||Gujarat: 625 Covid-19 hospitals, of 1517 inspected, don't have a fire NOC||The hospital in Bharuch — where 18 persons including 16 Covid-19 patients and two nurses were killed in a fire incident — is one of the 625 designated Covid-19 hospitals, among 1,517 inspected so far, which doesn't have a valid fire NOC, an inspection by the Gujarat fire department has found. These hospitals have been issued notices to take action for obtaining the necessary NOC. The state government has claimed in its finding that a day before the accident in Bharuch, a team of fire officials had visited the hospital, run by a trust, but was reportedly not informed about the Covid-19 facility housed in a new building near the existing hospital. "Team of local fire services comprising of different sets of fire staff visited the hospital housed in the old building on 30/04/2021 morning for inspection and training, but the said team was never told about the commencement of the additional facility for treating covid-19 patients by the trust in the new building located in nearby area. Unfortunately, the fire incident in question occurred on the same fateful night/early morning," an affidavit filed in Gujarat high court on Monday stated. It alleges that the trust that runs the hospital, named Patel Welfare Hospital, "appears to have started using the ground floor of the new building near the old building as a Covid facility without any intimation to Bharuch nagarpalika, which manages Fire service, and that, therefore, the local fire service was not at all aware of such development." As on April 30, the hospitals had 44 patients under treatment. The affidavit filed in the High Court in response to a petition filed by advocate Amit Panchal states that the fire broke out between 12:30 am and 12:45 am in the ICU. It said that the primary cause of the fire "appears to be a spark in the ventilator near bed nos-5 and 6 in ICU. The PPE kit of the nurse standing besides it caught fire, which quickly engulfed whole of the ICU, because of the presence of inflammable materials like sanitizers, plastic gloves, plantic dust bins, PPE kits....whereby all the 12 covid patients admitted in ICU and four other patients admitted in HDU-2 (high dependency unit) as well as two on duty staff nurses lost their lives..." Government waiting for "opportune time" to take action Earlier in August 2020, eight Covid-19 patients had been killed after the fire broke out in the ICU ward at Shrey Hospital in Ahmedabad. Three months later, five more patients were killed in Rajkot's Uday Shivanand hospital. Following criticism, chief minister Vijay Rupani appointed former Gujarat high court judge D A Mehta commission to probe into the incidents who submitted his findings on March 30. The affidavit stated that "opportune time has not arisen for taking any action based upon the recommendations of commission of inquiry." The reasons, the affidavit reveals, " the reports are yet to be tabled in the state assembly. "There was no scope on the part of opponent no-1 state government to table the reports for more than one reason.... the study of both the reports has been underway, action taken report is yet to be prepared by state government, no sooner the study of both the said reports is over, and the session of legislative assembly got over on1 April," the affidavit claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-625-covid-19-hospitals-of-1517-inspected-dont-have-a-fire-noc-984649.html
11-05-2021||West||No scientific evidence: Doctors warn against use of cow dung as Covid-19 cure||Doctors are warning against the practice of using cow dung in the belief it will ward off Covid-19, saying there is no scientific evidence for its effectiveness and that it risks spreading other diseases. The coronavirus pandemic has wrought devastation on India, with 22.66 million cases and 246,116 deaths reported so far. Experts say actual numbers could be five to 10 times higher, and citizens across the country are struggling to find hospital beds, oxygen, or medicines, leaving many to die for lack of treatment. In Gujarat, some believers have been going to cow shelters once a week to cover their bodies in cow dung and urine in the hope it will boost their immunity against, or help them recover from, the coronavirus. "We see ... even doctors come here. Their belief is that this therapy improves their immunity and they can go and tend to patients with no fear," said Gautam Manilal Borisa, an associate manager at a pharmaceuticals company, who said the practice helped him recover from Covid-19 last year. He has since been a regular at the Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Pratishthanam, a school run by monks that lies just across the road from the headquarters of Zydus Cadila, which is developing its own Covid-19 vaccine. As participants wait for the dung and urine mixture on their bodies to dry, they hug or honour the cows at the shelter, and practice yoga to boost energy levels. The packs are then washed off with milk or buttermilk. Doctors and scientists across the world have repeatedly warned against practicing alternative treatments for Covid-19, saying they can lead to a false sense of security and complicate health problems. "There is no concrete scientific evidence that cow dung or urine work to boost immunity against Covid-19, it is based entirely on belief," said Dr. JA Jayalal, president of the Indian Medical Association. "There are also health risks involved in smearing or consuming these products - other diseases can spread from the animal to humans." There are also concerns the practice could contribute to the spread of the virus as it involved people gathering in groups. Madhucharan Das, in charge of another cow shelter in Ahmedabad, said they were limiting the number of participants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-scientific-evidence-doctors-warn-against-use-of-cow-dung-as-covid-19-cure-984678.html
11-05-2021||West||Maharashtra government offers free treatment to Mucormycosis patients||Amid a rise in the Mucormycosis cases among Covid-19 survivors, causing serious illness and deaths in some instances, the Maharashtra government has offered free treatment to patients with the fungal infection. The treatment of Mucormycosis patients will be covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana as the medicines needed to fight the fungal infection are expensive. “The patients will be treated free of cost at 1,000 hospitals covered under the health scheme,” Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters in Jalna on Monday evening. The minister said symptoms of the disease are being seen in those Covid-19 patients who are diabetic and whose diabetes is not under control. The minister said there are complaints about the injections used for treating mucormycosis patients being sold at higher than the actual price and added their rates will be capped. Tope said Covid-19 patients should not panic after contracting mucormycosis and focus on controlling diabetes. “An awareness campaign about the disease and treatment would also be launched,” he said. Tope pointed out that said dark spots are found near the nose and lips adding that if the disease is not treated early, it can have adverse effects on the respiratory system, brain, and eyes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-offers-free-treatment-to-mucormycosis-patients-984681.html
11-05-2021||West||Maharashtra residents favour home delivery of goods amid second Covid-19 wave||Facing two back-to-back early lockdowns, people in Maharashtra believe that home delivery of goods should be the primary model that should be used during lockdown/curfew in the city in the wake of waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Maharashtra government has allowed all essential buying of food items for only 4 hours daily during the lockdown-like restrictions to contain and mitigate the spread. Given the current daily Covid-19 caseload of 60,000 in the state, the survey by  LocalCircles, one of India’s leading community social media platforms – asked citizens about the best approach for containment and restarting economic activity. In response, 41% said that Maharashtra needs to continue with the existing lockdown till May 31, and 43% called for permitting all stores/business to open for home deliveries only and continue lockdown till May 31. Breaking down the poll, 14% asked for ending lockdown on May 15 and permitting full reopening of all stores and business, while 2% couldn’t say. The findings of the survey indicate that the highest percentage of Maharashtra residents are in favour of continuing restrictions while permitting stores to open for home deliveries. According to the survey, many of the state residents have adopted the home delivery model. “Be it calling or sending a WhatsApp to the neighbourhood grocery store, or organized retail or placing an order via an online website, residents have gotten used to placing their order and taking contactless or minimum contact deliveries,” the report states. Among the questions asked residents of Maharashtra about the kinds of “must-have” products they will need to procure for children and grandchildren in the next 3 months. In response, 60% said “school books, stationery and equipment for online classes”, 43% said “children apparel, footwear, raincoats, etc.”, and 35% said “other children’s needs such as toys to keep children engaged at home, hobby, supplies, etc.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-residents-favour-home-delivery-of-goods-amid-second-covid-19-wave-984685.html
11-05-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray has become family doctor of Maharashtra: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday described Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as the "family doctor" of the 12 crore people of the state, saying his "caring attitude" and efforts have prevented the state from crossing the "danger level" of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the editorial in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Sena also said even Prime Minister Narendra Modi had acknowledged Maharashtra's efforts in mitigating the second wave of the pandemic. In his recent interaction with physicians, the chief minister had urged them to help in the early diagnosis of Covid-19 infection in their patients and facilitate timely treatment for them. Terming Thackeray, who heads the Sena, a "Covidologist", the editorial said he was probably the only chief minister who has studied the Covid-19 crisis in detail. The number of daily coronavirus positive cases in Maharashtra, which has been reeling under the resurgent pandemic, dropped below 40,000 to 37,236 on Monday for the first time after March 31. As of May 10, Maharashtra's caseload stood at 51,38,973 including 76,398 fatalities. "Chief Minister Thackeray studied the pandemic in detail and is working hard to bring down the cases. He has (in a way) become a family doctor of the 12 crore people of Maharashtra," the Sena said. "He did not let Maharashtra cross the danger level. Not only that but Thackeray is also instilling courage and strength in the people to fight the Covid-19 by becoming their family doctor. It is the duty of everyone to support him," the Sena said. The party said heart-wrenching photographs of corpses of people who have died of Covid-19 piling up in other parts of the country are being published daily by the international media. "But there are no such photographs from Maharashtra. Who should be credited for the same if not CM Thackeray?" the Sena asked. The Sena further said the state government was preparing itself to fight the third wave of Covid-19 which is predicted to affect children more than other age groups. The Sena said the CM's priority was to protect children during the third wave and he has asked doctors to pay attention to identify certain symptoms in children. "...This is a sign of a family head. The chief minister is personally paying attention towards (availability of) medical oxygen and vaccination," the Sena said. In a veiled dig at the BJP and other opposition parties that have been accusing Thackeray of not stepping out of his residence for fear of catching the viral infection, the Sena said, "Thackery has stopped moving out unnecessarily". "Thackeray also locked down frivolous politics and concentrated only on tackling Covid-19. Therefore, even Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi could not resist himself from praising Maharashtra," the Sena said. The Chief Minister's Office (CMO) recently issued a statement saying Modi, during his interaction with Thackeray over the phone, acknowledged that Maharashtra has been tackling the second wave of the pandemic well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-has-become-family-doctor-of-maharashtra-shiv-sena-984707.html
11-05-2021||West||DH Exclusive | Maharashtra received flak, but Mumbai model renowned now, says Kishori Pednekar||For over 20 years, Mumbai’s Mayor Kishori Pednekar has been a politician but the Florence Nightingale in her often dominates and even calls the shots, as she leads India's financial capital from the front in the fight against Covid-19. Before joining Shiv Sena — inspired by late Balasaheb Thackeray — she was working as a nurse at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust Hospital. She was elected as Corporator in 2002. Currently, she is among the privileged group of aides of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the Shiv Sena President. At a time when India is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic, her qualification as a nurse greatly benefited the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), one of the biggest and richest civic bodies of India. “We are facing tough times…the post of Mumbai Mayor is very important, very prestigious…in fact, I have been blessed with a golden opportunity to work...I want to do some wonderful golden work for this great city,” said Pednekar on the eve of International Nurses Day, May 12, the birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale. The 58-year-old Kishori Tai, as she is popularly known, said that since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, Maharashtra has faced a lot of criticism, however, today they have managed to prove their mettle and the Mumbai model of combating the pandemic is being appreciated across India. “I work for 17 to 18 hours a day, and mostly from the field. As a Mumbai Mayor with the background of a healthcare giver and frontline worker, my responsibilities increase manifold,” she said, adding that she makes it a point to hold daily meetings – either at her official residence or BMC headquarters and visit every nook and corner of the city. “In fact, on the International Nurses Day, I am inaugurating a hospital in Mumbai’s suburbs, which is named after Savitribai Phule, who had played a pioneering role in women’s education,” she said, adding that daily she visits hospitals, vaccination centres, jumbo field hospitals, engage with relief workers. “Monsoon is approaching and I am inspecting the nullah-safai work,” she said. "Last year, I donned the uniform of a nurse to boost the morale of the healthcare givers. Similarly, she was on the streets to ensure that people mask-up and also visited suburban stations and trains....recently when Remdesivir was being black marketed, I myself went out for raids and also checked the hospital ward details to see if people those does not need hospitalisation are also admitted...the leader must lead from the front and set examples," she said. "Uddhav saheb regularly speaks over the phone or calls us to know about Mumbai...he is leading us and showing us how to be patient and work," she said, adding that whether it is increasing bed strength or tiding over the oxygen crisis, Mumbai has shown the way. "Mumbai led the fight against Coronavirus...whether it is the first wave of the ongoing second wave...we have also started preparations for the third wave, which may affect kids," she said, adding that Mumbai's Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal is already working in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dh-exclusive-maharashtra-received-flak-but-mumbai-model-renowned-now-says-kishori-pednekar-984743.html
11-05-2021||West||Gujarat doctors warn against cow dung 'therapy' to boost immunity amid Covid-19||Doctors in Gujarat have warned against a so-called 'cow-dung therapy', saying smearing of cow dung on the body does not give protection against coronavirus but may cause other infections, including mucormycosis. A small group of people has been visiting a cow shelter run by Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Prathisthanam (SGVP) here to take the therapy, believing that it increases immunity against Covid-19. The shelter houses over 200 cows. For the last one month, around 15 persons visit it every Sunday to apply cow dung and cow urine on the body. It is then washed off with cow milk, said an SGVP official. Those taking the therapy include some frontline workers and people working at medical stores, he said. Doctors, however, do not vouch for its efficacy. "I don't know if this therapy would really help people. I have never come across any research which suggested that application of cow dung on the body would increase immunity against coronavirus," said Dr Dileep Mavlankar, Director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar. Dr Mona Desai, a senior doctor from the city, termed the therapy as "humbug and inauthentic". "Cow dung is nothing but body waste. Applying cow dung and urine can never boost immunity or protect you from coronavirus. People should consult doctors and stay away from such therapies," said Dr Desai, chairperson of the women's wing of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). "Instead of proving helpful, cow dung would give you other infections, including mucormycosis," she said. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus infection, has been observed among some Covid-19 survivors and can be fatal. "Since cow dung also carries several fungi, they may enter into the body and infect you. I urge people to be little aware and not put their lives in danger," said Desai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-doctors-warn-against-cow-dung-therapy-to-boost-immunity-amid-covid-19-984778.html
11-05-2021||West||Oxygen shortage kills 26 in Goa hospital in four hours; CM, Health Minister bicker||Oxygen shortage led to 26 deaths in four hours at the Goa Medical College, the state's top government hospital, in the early hours of Tuesday. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane has now sought a probe into the deaths by the Bombay High Court bench in Panaji. "I request the High Court to check if there is mismanagement or shortage and bring out a white paper using experts... High Court should take over Covid management of GMC," Rane told reporters. According to the Health Minister, between 2 am and 6 am on Tuesday, 26 persons lost their lives and added that while there was no mismanagement, the hospital had not received an adequate supply of oxygen. "We need 1,200 (jumbo) cylinders, but yesterday we got only 400," Rane said. A jumbo cylinder contains 46.67 litres of oxygen per unit.   This is in contradiction with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's statements on Tuesday when he visited the Covid ward at the college to meet anxious patients and their families. Sawant had told reporters that there was no oxygen shortage at the facility, and that deaths were caused as cylinders in stock could not be ferried to the patients in time, suggesting mismanagement of resources at the hospital. "We have 100 per cent oxygen, but I am thinking now that we are unable to get the oxygen to patients on time. We have abundant oxygen, but if cylinders are not given in time, there is no point in having oxygen (stock). The time taken to get the cylinders in place is important," Sawant said. Patients and their kin complained to Sawant about the sudden unavailability of oxygen at the hospital, especially late at night. Sawant said that he would address the issue within "one day". He is expected to meet top health officials and those in-charge of the Goa Medical College for a meeting later tonight to resolve the issue. "I will not tolerate a single death due to lack of oxygen," Sawant said, while also warning the Scoop Industrial Private Limited, the sole supplier of oxygen to the Goa Medical College, against any laxities. The last few weeks have seen Sawant and Rane politically sparring with each other over the issue of Covid management. The conflict between the two has forced the opposition to urge the ruling politicians to bury their differences in the fight against Covid. Two weeks ago, the Chief Minister had taken charge of oxygen management at the medical college, divesting responsibility from the Health Minister, after similar complaints had emerged from the hospital.  "How many more #CovidDeaths @BJP4Goa Govt. need to realise where the mismanagement is taking place?" Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said after the deaths. Goa is facing an unprecedented Covid surge over the last two months. The state currently has 32,262 active Covid cases, 1,729 persons have died in the state since the pandemic outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/oxygen-shortage-kills-26-in-goa-hospital-in-four-hours-cm-health-minister-bicker-984807.html
11-05-2021||West||Nobody to enter Goa without negative Covid-19 report, says HC||The Bombay High Court's Goa bench on Tuesday ordered that no person will be allowed to enter the coastal state without a negative Covid-19 test report, except in cases of medical emergency. The court slammed the administration for not implementing its earlier interim order fully and instead carving out an exception for local residents. Following the court's May 6 directive, administration of North Goa and South Goa districts issued orders last week making it mandatory for visitors to carry negative Covid-19 test reports while arriving. But a bench of Justices Nitin Sambre and Mahesh Sonak, hearing a PIL on coronavirus situation, pointed out that the order applied to every person arriving in Goa, whether a visitor or local resident. Despite the unambiguous order, the two District Magistrates carved out exceptions in favor of local residents, those entering Goa for work and those carrying vaccination certificates, the judges noted. "The District Magistrates...could not have by themselves modified our order," the HC said. Advocate General Devidas Pangam assured the court that by evening the orders would be amended. The HC said an exception can be made only for persons entering Goa for medical emergency on production of proof or those who are coming in an ambulance. Otherwise, from Tuesday midnight the administration shall ensure that no person who does not possess a Covid negativity certificate based on a test done not more than 72 hours before enters the state, the court said. It will hear the parties about the supply of medical oxygen on Wednesday and affidavits on "the actual position at the hospitals" will be necessary to understand the issue, it added. The Dean of Goa Medical College and Director of Health Services will file affidavits, the advocate general said. The affidavits should indicate "whether lack of oxygen supply continues to be the cause for any casualties", said the judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nobody-to-enter-goa-without-negative-covid-19-report-says-hc-984819.html
11-05-2021||West||Sachin Vaze dismissed from Mumbai Police||Controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, who is the prime accused in the twin cases of planting of explosives-laden Scorpio and murder of its owner Mansukh Hiren, has been dismissed from the Mumbai Police force. Vaze was an Assistant Police Inspector of the Mumbai Police attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch-CID. However, in the wake of the cases, he was transferred to the Special Branch and then attached to the Citizen Facilitation Centre. After he was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), he was placed under suspension. On Tuesday, Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale issued the dismissal orders against him. “The order was issued today under the provisions of Section 311(2)(b) of the Constitution of India by the Commissioner of Police, Greater Mumbai,” a Mumbai Police statement said. Currently, Vaze (49) is under judicial custody. It may be recalled that last month, an internal inquiry found that he bypassed all levels of police hierarchy and reported directly to former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. While in CIU, he handled sensational cases like TRP rigging scam, the Anvay Naik suicide case and the death of her mother Kumud Naik, in which he arrested TV anchor-editor Arnab Goswami, a sports car scam involving Dilip Chhabria, and the Bollywood-TV-entertainment industry’s casting couch racket. Besides, he also recently recorded the statement of Hrithik Roshan vis-à-vis the dispute that the actor had with Kangana Ranaut in 2016. And, of course, the case involving the planting of Scorpio with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani. He was also seen at the Thane hospital where the post-mortem of Hiren was conducted. It may be recalled that Singh had alleged that the then-Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had fixed a 'collection target' of Rs 100 crore per month for Vaze.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vaze-dismissed-from-mumbai-police-984827.html
11-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae to hit Maharashtra-Goa coast in a couple of days||A low-pressure area is likely to form over the southwest Arabian Sea in the next couple of days and subsequently form into a cyclonic storm. The cyclone would be called Tauktae. The India Meteorological Department has confirmed the impending cyclone along the Maharashtra-Goa coast. “A low pressure area is very likely to form over the southeast Arabian Sea around May 14 morning. It may intensify into a cyclonic storm over east central Arabian Sea around May 16,” the IMD said in a tweet. Fishermen have been advised against venturing into the Arabian Sea. Last year, India had seen two cyclones by May -- Amphan in the Bay of Bengal, and Nisarga in the Arabian Sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-to-hit-maharashtra-goa-coast-in-a-couple-of-days-984875.html
