12-05-2021||Comment||India's Covid-19 management shows governance lost||In early 2020, the Coronavirus took all countries by surprise, causing the first Covid storm (Covid-1). Even countries with sound public health infrastructures struggled to manage the crisis arising from system overload. It was well-understood world over that the three rules of masking-distancing-hygiene were vital primary measures. Lockdowns were announced and understood as only a means to check Covid from spreading and to “buy time” to gear up and expand public health infrastructure to handle the ongoing and future load. Early on, scientists and health professionals had declared that the Coronavirus was not going away anytime soon and predicted, at least, a second Covid wave (Covid-2). Scientific research for a vaccine began, along with governments playing political games. Our national economy was seriously damaged during Covid-1, due to the combination of disease incidence, grossly inadequate health system response, and the four-hours-notice total lockdown. At the personal level, stunned socio-economically under-privileged workers migrated en masse, walking home hundreds of kilometres without food or money, many dying on the way — an avoidable humanitarian crisis. Engrossed in petty political games, governments were taken entirely by surprise, just as they had been by the Coronavirus. The official reaction to the exodus was, just as for Covid-1, wholly inadequate. Sadly, few if any lessons were learned from Covid-1. Rather, India’s victory over Covid was trumpeted among the international community at Davos. On the back of a wounded economy, now Covid-2 is raging, and the government’s Principal Scientific Adviser has warned about the certainty of a Covid-3. Hopefully, this warning will be heeded, unlike the warning for Covid-2, which was neglected. People are variously fearful, angry, dejected, disappointed, bewildered. The casualty rate in every country is alarming. Only, some countries are worse than others. Comparing our statistics with countries worse affected is no consolation to those who have lost loved ones. As far as our country is concerned, it has laid bare the precarious state of our public health system. Of course, this neglect of public health and the public health system is not recent. Its pathetic status is the result of successive governments’ neglect over decades, of their duty towards the people and their basic needs. Article 47 of our Constitution reads: “The State shall regard the raising of the level of nutrition and ... the improvement of public health as among its primary duties.” The context is provided by Article 37, which reads: “... the principles laid down [in the Directive Principles of State Policy] are ... fundamental in the governance of the country.” A written test for politicians and wannabe leaders on knowledge of our Constitution could be shockingly revealing. Another of the several reasons for public healthcare being so poor is that it is viewed as curative. Preventive healthcare, especially including nutrition, safe drinking water and sanitation, has been neglected. Most persons in power over the years probably did not bother to make the connection between public health and nutrition, and in any case, neither was a priority for successive central and state governments, with the possible exception of Kerala. Needless to say, public health depends upon the functioning of the public health system. The pandemic is about the public health system. It specifically concerns infrastructure in its multiple aspects – medical testing and investigation facilities, hospital beds, intensive care and normal care facilities, ambulances, expendables (medicines, PPE, vaccines, etc.), and last but not the least, training and deployment of adequate medical, nursing, and other staff. All this, including for rural areas, where the majority of our population lives. No less important is the management of the system at the political, administrative and hands-on medical levels -- noting the hierarchy of power -- which determines outcomes. When management at any one level falls short, another level compensates until normalcy is restored. But when the system is overwhelmed, as in this pandemic, and top management fails in anticipating situations based on expert advice, to plan finance, purchase and procurement, the subordinate levels struggle to compensate. When they don’t succeed, chaos results. The blame game began early on, but served little purpose, because all political parties and all political leaders were complicit in the neglect of public health at one time or another, to varying degrees. Top leaders at the Centre and the states are empowered and responsible to direct and manage crises. The lower echelons look up to them for leadership, even while they fight the daily battles, as our frontline health workers continue to do at a huge cost to themselves. Leaders must take responsibility for setbacks and failures just as, and especially if, they justifiably or otherwise claim credit for successes. At least now, hopefully, the political class will understand the national implications of neglecting their sworn duties, and political leaders of all parties at all levels will understand the gravity of the situation. If they have taken credit in the past for anything, they must also accept moral responsibility, although that calls for a rare type of courage. Notwithstanding, blaming and accepting blame will not help us move forward. Moving forward and meeting challenges effectively depends upon understanding what went wrong and taking appropriate urgent measures, not focussing on who went wrong, because that is well-known. Today, we are ravaged by Coronavirus and are haemorrhaging economically. Our people need governance and inspired leadership in our hour of crisis. In our march into the future, every Indian citizen will rally behind a leader who practices what he preaches; who sets the correct personal example; whose utterances bear the mark of truth; who understands that he is accountable to the people, connects with ordinary people with humility and listens more than he speaks; who will condemn what is wrong and commend what is right; who does not seek fame or personal glory, and who understands and accepts that governance is team-effort. Such a leader would hopefully also study and understand the Constitution of India, which should guide all aspects of governance today and in the future. (The writer focuses on development and strategic issues)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/indias-covid-19-management-shows-governance-lost-984952.html
12-05-2021||First Edit||End this mindless police brutality||A humanitarian crisis like the one we are facing now calls for empathy, but the mindless brutality unleashed on hapless citizens by Karnataka police while enforcing the lockdown can put even the stone hearted to shame. At the genesis of the problem was a thoughtless decision of the state government barring people from using their vehicles for purchase of essential commodities even during the small window between 6 am and 10 am when shops were allowed to open. While senior citizens were put to great hardship in urban areas, in Malnad and other parts of the state, where the nearest shop could be 15 km away, people were asked to walk the distance. In Koppal, a pregnant woman was forced to trudge six km to reach a hospital as no private vehicle came forward to ferry her for fear of police reprisals. While such instances of insensitivity were many, one of the most heart-wrenching scenes was that of a lady sub-inspector in Kolar thrashing a transgender person who was purchasing medicines after a recent surgery. The Bengaluru police were perhaps the most savage in their behaviour as they went about mercilessly wielding their lathi on anybody they could set their eyes on, damaging at least one autorickshaw and impounding vehicles of even those who had stepped out for vaccination. Unfortunately, both DGP Praveen Sood and Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, looked the other way as the atrocities continued for two days and were forced to act only when public outrage on social media reached the tipping point with some even tagging the UN Human Rights Commission. Considering that such ruthlessness was witnessed during last year’s lockdown too, when the then Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao quickly intervened and succeeded in giving the force a humane face, Sood and Pant should have been better equipped this time. Instead, some officers openly spoke of subjecting people to “lathi ruchi” (taste of lathi) and “mightiest hand of law”. While it cannot be denied that the public has been lax in following Covid-appropriate behaviour, the police can only book violators under the provisions of law and have absolutely no power to resort to inhuman acts like beating up people. The DGP and Commissioner will be seen as implicitly encouraging hooliganism by the men in uniform, unless the guilty officers are identified and punished without delay. A psychological assessment of all police personnel should be conducted periodically and those found unfit should be weeded out. Cruelty by law enforcing agencies has no place in a democracy and the Karnataka police by their highhandedness have tarnished not only their own image but that of the state too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/end-this-mindless-police-brutality-984947.html
12-05-2021||In Perspective||How we can save children from malnutrition||Over the decades, the physical and mental growth of children has not been in sync with India’s development ambitions. The ‘State of the World’s Children 2019’ report of UNICEF said malnutrition was the primary reason behind 69% of child deaths below the age of five in India; every second child belonging to that age group is affected by some form of malnutrition, which inhibits the child’s physical and intellectual growth. As 90% of brain development happens by the age of 5-6 years, children with malnutrition always lag behind in study and sports.  Experts say malnutrition causes brain damage, night blindness, rickets, anaemia, poor immunity, diarrheal disease and acute respiratory infection, etc. Today, India is home to 15 million blind people, the most in any country; over three million children suffer from corneal disorder. Poverty, gender imbalance, poor sanitary and environmental conditions, restricted access to quality food, health, education and social care services, etc., lead to malnutrition. Only 9% of children in the country get proper nutritious food, said Smriti Irani, the Union Minister for Women and Child Welfare. Centuries back, when the British cultivated commercial crops like indigo, coffee and tea, etc., it eroded much of our crop diversity. India was clueless to handle hunger and malnutrition in the 1950s and 60s until the US scientist Norman Borlaug planted the dwarf wheat variety Sonaro-64 across the country. Many agricultural scientists believe that though Borlaug had brought about the ‘Green Revolution’, the pesticide-hungry hybrid wheat wiped out many native crops. India did not wake up to protect its crop diversity after the ‘Green Revolution’. In the 1990s, Vidarbha farmers converted 75% of their farmland to cotton crops. “The soil of Vidarbha is not suitable for growing cotton. Still, farmers here have been concentrating on cultivating BT cotton. This is the reason behind crop failure and farmers’ suicide,” said Surendra Kumar Singh, director of ICAR National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Nagpur. In Vidarbha, 70% of the suicide victims were cotton farmers who lost much of their other crop back-up. Extensive cultivation of paddy and wheat in Punjab has caused serious damage to crop diversity, farmers’ indebtedness and suicides. Similarly, over-cultivation of tea, coffee, vanilla and rubber in Kerala has destroyed its agricultural sustainability and made the state depend on its neighbours for food supply.  Indians grew more than 1,000 types of crops in its 20 agro-ecological regions. Unfortunately, the focus of our research and planning has always been on a few crops linked to the global supply chain; this has aggravated the malnutrition crisis in the country. Over-damming of rivers, disappearance of water bodies, water pollution and unsustainable high-tech fishing activities, etc., has drastically reduced the aquatic animal population, leading to nutrition deficit among coastal people. Extraction of gravel from 36 fresh water streams in Jammu and Kashmir had wiped out more than 70% of the large-size freshwater trout fish; the trout loss contributed to nutrition shortage among locals.   Many land species have also faced extinction. The nomadic Gujjar and Bakarwal communities in Kashmir have lost at least a dozen rare indigenous species of sheep, goats and horses. Nearly 17 tough indigenous poultry breeds like Aseel, ‘naked neck’ and Kedarnath, etc., have been replaced by imported breeds to boost commercial farming; this has made poultry food inaccessible to poor people who reared those local breeds. “Domestic animals have unique genetic traits. Unfortunately, their economic value has not been understood,” says P N Bhat, officer from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. High input cost, unseasonal rain, depletion of ground and surface water, urban-centric education, lack of interest among village youth towards physical work, phenomenal increase in land cost, low profit margins on farm produce, distribution of subsidised food and freebies for votes all discourage farming activities. A recent study by the RBI showed that a potato farmer gets only 28% of what the consumer pays for it. Across all crops, the farmgate price is 40-60% less than the consumer price; this situation discourages food production. For centuries, Indians have known the preparation of a wide range of nutrition-rich foods. Dalma of Odisha, Khar and Masor Tenga of Assam, Kaju Kothimbir Vadi of Maharashtra, Kambanggool, Ragi Soru of Tamil Nadu and Rajma of North India, Sambar dal, Buttermilk, Arhar dal, Sol kadhi, Daliya, Lobhia and Chilla, etc., have high nutritional value. But these homemade foods are fast disappearing due to lifestyle change, lack of awareness and crop diversity loss. To achieve the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals — zero hunger, good health and well-being for all Indians by 2030 — the Centre has launched POSHAN Abhiyan to make India malnutrition-free by 2022 through cross-sectoral convergence and contextualised planning in three phases. India, instead of making nutrition programmes complex, should take simple steps to preserve water bodies, groundwater, crop diversity, indigenous drought-resistant animals and home-made foods, and eradicate food adulteration from its roots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/how-we-can-save-children-from-malnutrition-984953.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Video alleges disruption of oxygen supply in Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences||A video clipping of Covid-19 patients suffering from disruption in oxygen supply, at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) has been widely circulated on social media. According to the video clip, there was a disruption in oxygen supply due to power fluctuation at around 5.30 pm on Tuesday. The family members of the patients were seen helping the patients in the ward. There were rumours that five people had died due to the disruption in oxygen supply. However, MIMS Director Dr M R Harish denied the incident and said there was no such disruption in oxygen supply and there were no deaths of five persons as rumoured. A person had died at 5.28 pm due to Covid complications and not due to an oxygen problem, he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/video-alleges-disruption-of-oxygen-supply-in-mandya-institute-of-medical-sciences-984928.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka lockdown: Ration card holders wait in queue in Mangaluru||A large number of ration card holders stood in front of the Public Distribution System (PDS) outlet in various parts of Mangaluru to collect the month’s quota of food grains. The PDS outlets will remain open only from 6 am to 10 am because of the lockdown. As a result, card holders had arrived as early as 5 am to get the foodgrains. There was a long queue of beneficiaries in front of the PDS outlet at Mannagudda when MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath visited the spot. On realising that many were waiting in a queue for more than two hours, Corporators Leelavathi and Sandhya made arrangements to supply drinking water and biscuits. MLA Vedavyasa Kamath said that the police personnel have been directed to ensure not to cause any inconvenience to the ration card holders while returning home after collecting foodgrains. The ration card holders can furnish their ration card if they are stopped by the police after 10 am. They need not panic as they will be supplied with the foodgrains till the month-end. Each PDS outlets have 1,000 to 1,500 cardholders. Arrangements have been made to supply foodgrains to 150 to 200 people daily. The Corporator in each ward with a group of volunteers will issue slips for around 200 ration card holders daily to collect the foodgrains. While standing in a queue, people should adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour, he added. Hemalatha, who was standing in a queue in one of the PDS outlets said, “Instead of waiting for generating OTP to distribute foodgrains for the card holders, it is better to do away with the OTP system for the time being to help the people. Waiting for OTP delays the entire process. As a result, many do not even get foodgrains and have to return empty-handed and come back again the following day.” Mohan, another card holder said “with restricted hours due to lockdown, all those who arrive late fail to get the foodgrains.” The Central government had recently said that ration card holders, covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), will get 5 kg of rice or wheat free of cost for two months starting May. This will be in addition to their regular quota of subsidised foodgrains supplied to them. The additional quantity of foodgrain will be distributed under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY), a scheme launched in March last year to ensure food security for the poor during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and was later discontinued in December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-lockdown-ration-card-holders-wait-in-queue-in-mangaluru-985055.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen shortage at HIMS alleged, minister denies it||A video clip showing Covid patients suffering due to oxygen shortage at the Covid hospital in Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS), on Tuesday night, has been circulated on the social media by a family member of the patient. The video shows patients pleading with the hospital staff to provide oxygen and save their lives. The attenders of the patients vent their ire against the doctors and the medical staff asking them to supply oxygen immediately. However, District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah said there there is no oxygen shortage at HIMS. There is a 13 KL capacity oxygen tank at the hospital and can supply oxygen for 450-beds. “I have taken details from the deputy commissioner and district surgeon and told to submit a report on the allegations. However, it will be ensured that such incidents does not recur,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-shortage-at-hims-alleged-minister-denies-it-985213.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen tanker reaches Mysuru||A huge container (tank), carrying 20,000 litres (20 metric tonnes) oxygen, reached Mysuru on Wednesday morning, bringing a huge relief among the Covid patients. The oxygen consignment was sent by the Union government to Bengaluru on Tuesday and one container was brought to Mysuru, on Wednesday morning, according to sources. The oxygen container had to be returned to Mangaluru immediately after unloading the oxygen. However, as there was no capacity to store 20,000 litres of oxygen in Mysuru district, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri passed an order to transport the oxygen tanker to Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) to be stored at the 20 KL capacity oxygen plant at Trinetra Gases. Meanwhile, MP Pratap Simha has tweeted thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for sending 20,000 litres oxygen to Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-tanker-reaches-mysuru-985214.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Altercation between SI & tahsildar over imposing fine||A police sub-inspector was taken to task by assistant commissioner and tahsildar for imposing fine on a Revenue Department staff for helmetless driving here, on Tuesday evening. The video clip has been circulated on the social media. Sub-inspector Ravishankar was inspecting the vehicles booking those violating the norms by not wearing masks and helmet, at the rural checkpost. He resorted to book the Revenue department staff, on Covid duty, for not wearing helmet. Assistant Commissioner Shivanandamurthy and Tahsildar Kunhi Ahmed, who were passing by questioned Ravishankar for interrupting the person on Covid duty. When Ravishankar justified that the person was fined for not wearing helmet, tahsildar explained that the revenue staff are working day and night to fulfill the oxygen needs and advised not to disturb them unnecessarily. Assistant Commissioner Shivanandamurthy too warned not to disturb the Revenue department staff and if such incident recur, he would complain to the SP. The video clipping that has been widely circulated on social media has given rise to debates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/altercation-between-si-tahsildar-over-imposing-fine-985215.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid dampens Akshaya Tritiya, Ramzan celebrations||The Covid-19 pandemic has dampened the spirits of the people, for the second consecutive year, making them celebrate the religious festivals with the family members, in the safety of their homes.  While Akshaya Tritiya falls on May 14, Ramzan festival is celebrated tentatively on May 13 or 14, this year.  Akshaya Tritiya is considered to be an auspicious day to bring home precious metals like gold and silver for prosperity. Ramzan is celebrated by the Muslim community, after the month-long fasting by offering mass prayers at mosques and also sharing love and brotherhood. The eagerness to bring home precious metals and inviting friends and relatives for a lavish feast has to wait till the pandemic is brought under control.  However, the Covid pandemic outbreak and subsequent lockdown has affected the Akshaya Tritiya season sale, as the jewellery shops across the country are closed and there has been restrictions on movement of vehicles and non-essential goods. However, the popular jewellery showrooms are trying to lure the customers through various offers on digital platforms. "This is the second year in a row that the jewellery industry is going to miss Akshaya Tritiya sales due to the lockdown. Our experience of last year shows that not much sales happen online this year also. Hence, there are no expectations. Last year, we had encouraged the customers to book online so that the jewellery can be delivered after lockdown. But it did not work," said Vinod, owner of Rajesh Jewellers in Mandi Mohalla. The pandemic has created havoc this year, with the number of people succumbing to the virus increasing every day. This has led to a negative consumer sentiment as they are dealing with the loss of near and dear ones, he said. The pandemic has also stolen the spirit of Ramzan for the second year in a row. Meena Bazaar in Mandi Mohalla, which is abuzz with activity during the Ramzan, selling items like footwear, food, jewellery, clothes, furnishing to the skull cap and 'burqa', has gone totally silent this year also. Hundreds of people, irrespective of religions, visit Meena Bazaar during Ramzan. They are involved not only in a shopping spree, but also to taste the mouth-watering samosas, faloodas and fruit juices. Besides, the pandemic and the lockdown has left hundreds of roadside vendors in the lurch, who used to do good business during the month of Ramzan. "Though some shops were open for a few days at Meena Bazaar initially, they were closed later, after the government announced first phase of lockdown. As the Muslim community people get into frantic buying during the last week, the lockdown has affected many small vendors," said a shop owner, a member of Meena Bazaar Welfare Association. There are 200 permanent shops in the bazaar. Besides, hundreds do business on footpaths and push carts during the season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-dampens-akshaya-tritiya-ramzan-celebrations-985217.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC launches Covid telecare facility||In an effort to doctor's suggestions and guidance for the Covid positive patients under home isolation, the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), has launched a telecare facility, on Wednesday. The MCC, in association with Mysuru Citizens Forum, JSS Medical College and Rotary Mysore has launched the service, which will be functioning from the premises of Rotary Mysore, on JLB Road in Mysuru. MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag and Mayor Rukmini Madegowda launched the service. Addressing media persons, Shilpa Nag said, "The Covid telecare facility has been launched to enable the home isolation patients to interact with the doctors, get guidance and suggestions. Around 45 doctors have volunteered to serve. Expert doctors from JSS Medical College too will extend help, she said. The telecare centre will function on the lines of call centre. Two helpline numbers have been provided - 0821-2320112 or 0821-2420113, which will function from 8 am to 11 pm. Those who have tested positive and asymptomatic, or with mild symptoms can call the telecare centre, where the doctors will make all possible efforts to get rid of their anxiety and provide suggestions. The person attending the call takes down the patient's mobile number, address and other primary information. Later, the doctor would call the patient, Nag explained. There are many instances when the positive patients are under panic, book beds at the hospitals even if there are no symptoms, burdening the hospitals. If the patient gets an opportunity to interact with the doctors at the beginning, it prevents unnecessary panic and instils confidence. Besides, it is also possible for the doctors to convince them to remain in home isolation and complete the treatment. After getting complete details about the people under home isolation, the MCC sends them medical kits. There are 60 volunteers who will ensure that the kits are home delivered. Besides, calls are made to the patients every day to check their health status. If they need hospital care, they will contact the Covid War Room and shift them to the hospitals in an ambulance. Gopalagowda Hospital senior doctor Dr Raghunath, deputy mayor Anwar Baig, MCC Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraju were present. The Covid Mitra facility has also received a very good response. Around 75 patients have been triaged in the Covid Mitra centres in Mysuru, till Wednesday. While, 24 of them have been admitted to the hospital, 51 were advised home isolation.  Besides, 21 more Covid Mitras will start functioning from Thursday, at Panchakarma Ayurveda Hospital, Beedi Workers' Hospital and at the primary health centres at rural areas, said Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who inspected several Covid Mitra facility in Mysuru on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-launches-covid-telecare-facility-985218.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||NCC Cadets join Covid War Room in Mysuru||“I received a call from the son of a patient, Ganga, 51. She was under home isolation. She was discharged, earlier during the day from a hospital, as she did not get the bed required. I noted down the details of the patient, including oxygen saturation level. I passed on the slip for further process. After half an hour, I received a call. I was happy to take down the details, it was again the son of the same patient, Ganga. He informed that he got a call about bed allotment and received a message for ventilator bed,” said Senior Under Officer Nisarga Jnanneshwar. “I got a call from the daughter of a patient, Surabhi, 42. She was seeking help for oxygen bed allotment, since her mother had breathing problem and her condition was getting worse. I noted down the details and passed on the slip for further process. After an hour, the bed was allotted and they called me back to thank,” said Senior Under Officer M A Roshini Marian Nisarga and Roshini are a part of 60 Cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC), who joined the Covid War Room in Mysuru on Monday, May 10, to assist the staff there and the people in need. They have extended their support to the district administration, following a request by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, by attending to calls on the helpline, and providing necessary assistance. Col Manish Prasad, Commanding Officer, said, "NCC Cadets of Mysuru Group have volunteered during this stressful time under ‘Exercise Yogdaan’, held under the directions of the Director General of NCC." “Around 60 Senior Division Cadets are employed in various shifts, in the war room, set up by the district administration at the new building of the DC’s office in Siddartha Nagar on Bannur Road. All Cadets and the officers have registered on the Digital Infrastructure Knowledge Sharing (DIKSHA) platform of the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). They are manning the telephone lines in the war room, attending to distress calls by people in need,” he said. Col Prasad said, “Social service is in the curriculum of the NCC. The Cadets provide assistance during natural and other calamities, and also during the spread of infectious and contagious diseases. The Covid pandemic is a ‘never seen before’ or ‘never heard before’ situation. The service motive of the Cadets and the support of their parents, in this crisis, is commendable.” “The district administration has taken all steps to provide a safe and protective environment for the Cadets. They are provided sanitizers, gloves, face masks and shields. Each cadet works on a shift of around three hours. They also get a break, to relax,” he said. Roshini is a student of second year Diploma in Electronics and Communication in D Bhanumaiah Polytechnic College. “We attend over 100 calls during a shift and do our mite to help those in distress. Nine of us from our battalion are serving the war room,” she said. She thanked her parents Marian Anand and Anthony Mary Vilma for supporting her to serve the society, during the crisis. Nisarga, a student of second year BCA at JSS College for Women, is the daughter of B S Jnaneshwar and Rekha. “Besides, the safety gear provided by our battalion, the war room also gives us necessary safety items. We are also provided transportation from a common point near our house. We get satisfaction helping the needy,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ncc-cadets-join-covid-war-room-in-mysuru-985219.html
12-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gadag: Four of family die in road mishap on way to funeral||Tragedy struck a family from Aaratti in Navalgund taluk of Dharwad district when four of its members were killed in a gruesome accident near Harti in Gadag district on Wednesday. According to police, Veeresh (26), Shekappa (45) Bapugouda (25) and Savithri (50) died on the spot. Injured Shankrappa Bukkatigar of Lingdal is being treated for injuries at Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences. “The victims were going to Lakshmeshwar to attend a relative’s funeral in an SUV. The accident occurred when the driver of the speeding car lost control and rammed the vehicle into a roadside tree. Over-speeding caused the accident,” said Gadag Rural sub-inspector Ajit Hosamani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gadag-four-of-family-die-in-road-mishap-on-way-to-funeral-985260.html
12-05-2021||National||India opened up prematurely: Fauci on dire Covid-19 situation||America's top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci on Tuesday said that India is in such "dire straits" because it made the "incorrect assumption" that they were finished with the Covid-19 and opened up prematurely. India has been severely affected by the unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus and hospitals in several states are reeling under the shortage of health workers, vaccines, oxygen, drugs and beds. "The reason that India is in such dire straits now is that they had an original surge and made the incorrect assumption that they were finished with it, and what happened, they opened up prematurely and wind up having a surge right now that we're all very well aware of is extremely devastating,” Dr Fauci told Senate Health, Education, Labour and Pensions Committee during a hearing on the Covid-19 Response. Director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), Dr Fauci is the chief medical advisor to US President Joe Biden. Chairing the hearing, Senator Patty Murray said that the surge of Covid-19 that is devastating India is a painful reminder really that the US can't end the pandemic here until it ends it everywhere. "I'm glad the Biden administration is leading that global fight by rejoining the World Health Organization and funding global vaccine efforts and committing to donate 60 million AstraZeneca vaccines to other countries by July 4,” she said. "India's outbreak really underscores the need for a robust public health infrastructure in the US to respond appropriately to this pandemic and future outbreaks, as well,” Senator Murray said as she asked Fauci what can the US learn from India's outbreak. "One of the important things is don't ever underestimate the situation," Fauci said as he referred to India’s incorrect assumption and premature opening up. "The second thing is preparedness with regard to public health, preparedness, which we, as a lesson learned for future pandemics, have to realise that we need to continue to build up our local public health infrastructure, which over the last decades we have let actually in many respects go into disarray, likely because of our successes in controlling so many diseases,” Fauci said. The other lesson that's learned is that this is a global pandemic that requires a global response, and one has to pay attention to the "responsibility that we have, not only for our own country, but to join with other countries to make sure that we have the access to interventions, particularly vaccines throughout the world,” he said. "Because if it continues to have dynamics of virus anywhere in the world, we have a threat here in the United States, particularly with variants, and you know there's one variant in India that is also a new variant…So those are just a few of the lessons that I believe we can take from what's going on in India,” Dr Fauci said. Senator Murray said that the deadly outbreak in India is a heartbreaking reminder of what can happen when this virus spreads unchecked, when it mutates into more contagious, more deadly strains and when it overwhelms healthcare systems. "It's a reminder this pandemic won't fully be over for our country until it is over for the world, which is why I'm glad the Biden administration is sending medical support to India, sharing some of our excess doses globally and even considering other steps to remove barriers to vaccines for countries that need them, including a targeted waiver of Covid-19 patent protections,” she said. "These moves won't just save lives in India; they will ultimately save lives in Washington State, North Carolina and across the country because people get that when there is a fire down the street, it's in their best interest to put it out before it gets to their family's home. Not to mention that helping your neighbor is always the right thing to do,” Murray said. After recording over four lakh fresh cases for four consecutive days, India witnessed a single-day rise of 3,66,161 Covid-19 cases on Monday and 3,29,942 infections on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-opened-up-prematurely-fauci-on-dire-covid-19-situation-984973.html
12-05-2021||National||Jitendra Singh slams Congress for mocking Centre over handling of Covid-19 crisis||Minister of State for Prime Minister's Office Jitendra Singh slammed the Congress and its interim President Sonia Gandhi for her comments at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on the Centre's handling of Covid-19. "Whenever Government led by PM Modi tried to make a sincere effort to meet this challenge, there was invariably a tendency to mock by Congress. It's not about only mocking Modi government or BJP but mocking Corona warriors," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Earlier, Sonia Gandhi had said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would have to atone for his mistakes in handling the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. “In order that it may become a reality, the Prime Minister must atone for his mistakes and commit to serving the people instead of carrying on with a personal agenda, oblivious to the suffering all around,” the CWC resolution said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jitendra-singh-slams-congress-for-mocking-centre-over-handling-of-covid-19-crisis-984980.html
12-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 12||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections in India was at 3.48 lakh cases on Wednesday. This takes the country's total caseload to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the health ministry has revised the national policy for admission of patients to Covid-19 facilities.  Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  23,336,137 as of May 12, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  253,899 as of May 12, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged: 1,90,27,304 Total Vaccination: 17,27,10,066 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-12-984986.html
12-05-2021||National||US working closely with India on Covid-19 crisis: White House official||The US is working closely with India on its continued and emerging needs during the unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a top State Department official has said. While the assistance from the US government has been worth $100 million, the private sector has donated an additional $400 million, totalling half a billion dollars to India, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference on Tuesday. “We are continuing to work closely with Indian officials and health experts to identify continued needs and emerging needs in this ongoing crisis,” he said. “I was talking about our catalytic effect in another context earlier… Secretary (of State) Tony Blinken, Special Coordinator Gayle Smith participated in calls the other week with the US India Business Council and the Chamber of Commerce in an effort to elicit additional supplies from the private sector, which we'd be terrifically gratified to see,” Price said. Earlier in the day, top American senator Mark Warner spoke with India’s ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu and assured his full commitment for the assistance to India. “India right now is at the epicenter of Covid-19. This morning I spoke with the Indian ambassador and pledged to do our part to help the Indian people respond to the surge. I will continue working with the Biden administration on this,” Warner said after the call. Warner is Chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee. “Thanked him for his strong support for India during this challenging time,” Sandhu tweeted. Congressman Andy Levin said that more needs to be done for India. “We cannot lose sight of the catastrophe wracking India right now. While the US is starting to work to make vaccines more accessible, we must do more. The Indian people need equipment and other tools now to end this crisis,” he said. Meanwhile, the 4th consignment of more than 78,000 doses of Remdesivir from Gilead Sciences reached India. “More than 2,61,000 have reached so far, in addition to US Government support of around 1,25,000 doses. More to follow!” the Indian envoy tweeted. Congresswoman Deborah Ross said that helping India respond to this latest wave is humane and is in the US' national interest as this pandemic will not end anywhere until it ends everywhere. “Please consider supporting groups that are providing what is needed locally on the ground,” she said. Noting that India is seeing daily new Covid-19 cases at 400,000, and the deaths are catastrophic, Indian-American congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi said that he is pushing the Biden administration to slow this dangerous rise in cases through sharing resources. “A Covid-19 fire anywhere in the world is a threat to us,” he said. According to Price, there have now been six airlifts to India deployed by the USAID in the course of six days. Among the supplies included in those airlifts are 20,000 courses of Remdesivir, nearly 1,500 oxygen cylinders, 550 mobile oxygen concentrators, 1 million rapid diagnostic tests, nearly 2.5 million N95 masks, large scale deployable oxygen concentration system and pulse oximeters, he said. “In addition, USAID immediately allocated funding to purchase locally an additional 1,000 mobile oxygen concentrators,” Price added. Meanwhile, Pentagon Spokesperson Peter Hughes said in response to a question that currently the Defence Logistics Agency is preparing 159 oxygen concentrators at Travis Air Force Base scheduled to ship via commercial air for a Monday delivery to India. "We remain in close communication with our partners in the Indian Government “As (Defence) Secretary (Loyd) Austin has said previously, we’re committed to use every resource at our disposal, within our authority, to support India’s frontline healthcare workers,” he said. India has been severely affected by the unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus and hospitals in several states are reeling under the shortage of health workers, vaccines, oxygen, drugs and beds. After recording over four lakh fresh cases for four consecutive days, India witnessed a single-day rise of 3,66,161 Covid-19 cases on Monday and 3,29,942 infections on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-working-closely-with-india-on-covid-19-crisis-white-house-official-984988.html
12-05-2021||National||Indian Covid-19 variant B.1.617 found in 44 countries, all six WHO regions||The World Health Organization said Wednesday that a variant of Covid-19 behind the acceleration of India's explosive outbreak has been found in dozens of countries all over the world. The UN health agency said the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19, first found in India in October, had been detected in more than 4,500 samples uploaded to an open-access database "from 44 countries in all six WHO regions". "And WHO has received reports of detections from five additional countries," it said in its weekly epidemiological update on the pandemic. Outside of India, it said that Britain had reported the largest number of Covid cases caused by the variant. Earlier this week, the WHO declared B.1.617 -- which counts three so-called sub-lineages with slightly different mutations and characteristics -- as a "variant of concern". It was therefore added to the list containing three other variants of Covid-19 -- those first detected in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. The variants are seen as more dangerous than the original version of the virus because they are either being more transmissible, deadly or able to get past some vaccine protections. The WHO explained Wednesday that B.1.617 was added to the list because it appears to be transmitting more easily than the original virus, pointing to the "rapid increases in prevalence in multiple countries". WHO also pointed to "preliminary evidence" that the variant was more resistant to treatment with the monoclonal antibody Bamlanivimab, and also highlighted early lab studies indicating "limited reduction in neutralisation by antibodies". It stressed, though, that "real-world impacts" on the effectiveness of vaccines against the variant for instance "may be limited". WHO said the spread of B.1.617, alongside other more transmittable variants, appeared to be one of several factors fuelling India's dramatic surge in new cases and deaths. India -- a country of 1.3 billion people -- is the world's second-most infected after the United States with nearly 23 million Covid-19 cases, and is currently recording more than 300,000 new cases and close to 4,000 deaths each day. The new surge in cases has ravaged major cities, including the capital New Delhi and financial hub Mumbai, pushing hospitals to breaking point and leading to severe shortages in oxygen and beds. "WHO found that resurgence and acceleration of Covid-19 transmission in India had several potential contributing factors, including increase in the proportion of cases of SARS-CoV-2 variants with potentially increased transmissibility," it said. It also pointed to "several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing; and, under-use of and reduced adherence to public health and social measures". "The exact contributions of each of these factors on increased transmission in India are not well understood." WHO stressed that so far, only 0.1 per cent of positive Covid tests in India had been genetically sequenced and uploaded to the GISAID database to identify the variant in question. By the end of April, B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 accounted for 21 and seven per cent respectively of all sequenced samples from India, it said. In addition, other more contagious variants are also spreading in the country, including B.1.1.7, which was first detected in Britain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-covid-19-variant-b1617-found-in-44-countries-all-six-who-regions-984989.html
12-05-2021||National||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin gets nod for phase 2, 3 trials for 2-18-year-olds||Indian drug regulators have approved Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s proposal to carry out a clinical trial of its Covid-19 vaccine on children aged between two to 18 years. The Subject Expert Committee on the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation met on Tuesday to approve the phase-II/III trial in which the Covaxin’s ability to generate immune response among the kids and its ability to protect the kids will be examined. The company first put forward the proposal before the CDSCO panel in February when it proposed a clinical trial for children between five and 18 years. The regulator asked the firm to revise the proposal and submit the fresh clinical trial protocol. "After detailed deliberation, the SEC recommended for conduct of proposed phase II/III clinical trial of whole virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine in the 2 to 18 years age group subject to the condition that the firm should submit the interim safety data of phase II clinical trial along with Data Safety Monitoring Board recommendations to the CDSCO before proceeding to phase III part of the study," PTI reported, quoting a source. The trial will take place in 525 kids at various sites including All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi; AIIMS, Patna and Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur. “Recently, the SEC gave permission for vaccine trials on children from two to 18 years of age to Bharat Biotech. We're waiting for the DCGI approval. Hopefully, we will soon start phase II and phase III trials,” said Sanjeev Sinha, a professor at the department of medicine, AIIMS. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is one of the two Covid-19 vaccines being used in India at the moment along with Serum Institute’s Covishield. Developed by Indian scientists, the vaccine has been currently approved for use in individuals above 18 years. Interim results from phase-III trials of Covaxin have demonstrated overall interim clinical efficacy of 78 per cent for the vaccine and 100 per cent efficacy against severe Covid-19 disease||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotechs-covaxin-gets-nod-for-phase-2-3-trials-for-2-18-year-olds-984999.html
12-05-2021||National||India logs record 4,205 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours, 3.48 lakh cases||India on Wednesday saw its highest rise in single-day Covid-19 deaths while new infections increased compared to the previous day but have remained off record highs for three days now. The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections in India is at 3,48,421 taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,33,40,938, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday at 8 am. The death toll climbed to 2,54,197 with 4,205 fresh fatalities, the highest so far. After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have reduced to 37,04,099 comprising 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent. According to the ICMR, 30,75,83,991 samples have been tested up to May 11 with 19,83,804 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 4,205 new fatalities include 793 from Maharashtra, 480  from Karnataka, 347 from Delhi, 301 from Uttar Pradesh, 298 from Tamil Nadu, 214 from Punjab, 199 from Chhattisgarh, 169 from Rajasthan, 144 from Haryana, 132 from West Bengal, 118 each from Gujarat and Uttarakhand, 108 from Andhra Pradesh and 103 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,54,197 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 77,191 from Maharashtra, 20,010 from Delhi, 19,852 from Karnataka, 16,178 from Tamil Nadu, 16,043 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,593 from West Bengal, 10,941 from Chhattisgarh and 10,918 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-record-4205-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours-348-lakh-cases-985001.html
12-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae likely to hit Maharashtra-Goa coast: How are cyclones named?||The IMD has issued a warning of light to moderate rainfall over Lakshadweep, Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu starting Thursday and lasting till May 16. Fishermen from these coastal states have been advised against going to sea from Friday and those already out at sea have been urged to return by Wednesday night. Last year, India had witnessed two cyclones by May named Amphan in the Bay of Bengal, and Nisarga in the Arabian Sea. Here’s a look at how meteorologists name cyclones: The word “Tauktae” is a Burmese word, suggested by Myanmar, which means gecko, a lizard known for its distinctive vocalisations. The name is the fourth from a new list of 169 names released by the IMD last year. Last year’s “Amphan” was the final name used from the previous list. Pronounced as “Um-pun”, the word means sky and was suggested by Thailand in 2004, while Bangladesh suggested the name for cyclone Fani that pounded the Odisha coast in 2019, meaning snake’s hood. Across the world, cyclones are named by regional specialised meteorological centres (RSMCs) and Tropical Cyclone Warning Centres (TCWCs) in the regions of their formation. There are six RSMCs in the world, including the IMD, and five TCWCs. The IMD names cyclones developing over the north Indian Ocean, which includes the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea, in keeping with standard procedure. The IMD also issues cyclone advisories to the 12 other countries in the region. The IMD assigns names to cyclones in the regions from a pool of names from 13 nations in the region collectively known as WMO/ESCAP (World Meteorological Organisation/United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific), which comprises Bangladesh, India, the Maldives, Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Thailand, Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. All the countries in the WMO/ESCAP suggest future names for cyclones and the list is compiled by the IMD and released publicly. The fundamental criteria of a name being deemed as acceptable are that the name should be short and readily understood when broadcasted. The names definitely must not be culturally sensitive or convey some unintended and potentially inflammatory meaning. Based on the list, the next few cyclones will be named Yaas, Gulaab, Shaheen and Jawad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-likely-to-hit-maharashtra-goa-coast-how-are-cyclones-named-985005.html
12-05-2021||National||SC dismisses Gautam Navlakha's bail plea in Bhima Koregaon case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea by activist Gautam Navlakha for default bail in the Bhima Koregaon case. A bench of U U Lalit and K M Joseph rejected a contention by his counsel, senior advocate Kapil Sibal that Navlakha ought to be released on default bail, as the charge sheet was filed after 93 days of his custody. He also maintained two days period of transit from Delhi to Mumbai should also be counted in 90 days period. The top court had reserved its judgement in the matter on March 26. On March 16, 2020, the top court had declined anticipatory bail to Navlakha and told him to surrender within three weeks before the NIA. On April 8, 2020, it gave him one more week to surrender in the case of their alleged link to banned Maoist outfit, allegedly emerged after the Bhima Koregaon violence. An event 'Elgar Parishad' was held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly led to caste violence on January 1, 2018. Several prominent activists have already been arrested in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-gautam-navlakhas-bail-plea-in-bhima-koregaon-case-985016.html
12-05-2021||National||India in touch with Israel after Kerala woman dies in Hamas rocket attack||The Embassy of India in Tel Aviv has been in touch with the Government of Israel after a 32-year-old caregiver from Kerala, Soumya Santhosh, was killed in a rocket attack at Ashkelon in the West Asian country on Tuesday. V Muraleedharan, Minister of State for External Affairs, spoke to the bereaved family in Kerala and assured all possible assistance from the Government of India. He noted in a tweet that New Delhi had condemned the “attacks and violence in Jerusalem” and urged both sides to exercise restraint. Spoke with the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance. We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides. Santhosh was originally a resident of Keerithodu in the Idukki district of Kerala. She was working as a caregiver to an 80-year-old woman in Ashkelon, a coastal city in southern Israel. The 32-year-old was killed as one of the rockets fired by the militants of Hamas from Gaza Strip hit the house of the octogenarian woman, who was also injured and hospitalized. Unlike many houses in the locality, the one where they lived did not have a fortified room to protect them from aerial bombardment. The two women could not reach the nearby rocket shelter before being hit, according to the reports received in New Delhi. Santhosh was on a video-call with her husband in Kerala just before the rocket attack started. “On behalf of the state of #Israel, I convey heartfelt condolences to the family of Ms. Soumya Santosh (Santhosh), murdered by Hamas indiscriminate terror attack on innocent lives,” Ron Malka, the ambassador of Israel to India, posted on Twitter. “Our hearts are crying with her 9 years old son that lost his mother in this cruel terrorist attack.” Malka too spoke to the family of Santhosh. “I just spoke to the family of Ms. Soumya Santosh, the victim of the Hamas terrorist strike. I expressed my sorrow for their unfortunate loss & (and) extended my condolences on behalf of the state of Israel. The whole country is mourning her loss & (and) we are here for them,” he tweeted.   The hostility between Israel and Palestine escalated over the past few weeks. The aerial strikes and counter strikes by Hamas and the Israel Defence Force intensified over night. At least 35 were killed in the Gaza Strip and five in Israel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-touch-with-israel-after-kerala-woman-dies-in-hamas-rocket-attack-985022.html
12-05-2021||National||WHO hasn't associated B.1.617 with 'Indian variant': Centre||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday said that the World Health Organisation did not classify the B1.617 variant of the SARS-CoV-2 as Indian variant, putting across the government views on whether the strain can be commonly described as “Indian variant”. Reported first in India late last year, the strain has gained popularity as Indian variant because of the country where it has been reported first. Other new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 reported first in the UK, Brazil or South Africa have been named after their country of origin in the popular press without any reactions from the public health authorities of those countries. But the Indian health ministry in a statement said, “This is to clarify that WHO has not associated the term “Indian Variant” with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in its 32 page document. In fact, the word “Indian” has not been used in its report on the matter.” “Several media reports have covered the news of WHO classifying B.1.617 as a variant of global concern. Some of these reports have termed the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus as an “Indian Variant”. These media reports are without any basis, and unfounded.” The 32-page WHO report released on Tuesday, mentioned that the viruses in the B.1.617 lineage were first reported in India in October 2020. “The resurgence in Covid-19 cases and deaths in India has raised questions on the potential role of B.1.617 and other variants (e.g, B.1.1.7) in circulation.” In its report, the world health body says that the B1.617 variant has three major sublineage – B1.617 (1) found in 34 countries, B1.617 (2) reported from 31 countries and B1.617 (3) reported from four countries. Taken together, B.1.617 has been found from 44 countries in all six WHO regions. The world body received reports of detections from five additional countries. “It is better not to identify the variants with the names of the countries first reported. Unfortunately, the general public and the media prefer names such as British, South African, Brazilian or Indian variants. These names are easier to refer to and remember than complicated numbering,” Abdul Ghafur, a consultant on infectious disease at Apollo Hospital, Chennai told DH. “If that is the case, we should call the original one the Wuhan virus. The variants can be called the British or Indian variant of the Wuhan virus!” said Ghafur, who was among the first group of medical researchers to raise awareness on the New Delhi Metallo Beta Lactamase-I (NDM-1) super bug that triggered a similar controversy a decade ago on the naming of a super-big after the Indian capital where it was found first. "Typically it is always best scientifically to annotate by ID rather than country name , as B.1.617 has now three sublineages and this causes confusion as all are indeed Indian. In that count B.1.618 is also Indian," added another Indian geneticist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-hasnt-associated-b1617-with-indian-variant-centre-985031.html
12-05-2021||National||ISIS not just regional terror outfit but global syndicate with affiliated groups globally: India||India has told the UN Security Council that the Islamic State is not just another regional terrorist outfit but a global syndicate with affiliated groups across the world, including in the country's neighbourhood. Deputy Permanent Representative - Political Coordinator R Ravindra said on Monday that the only accountability for acts of terror and strong measures against states that support terrorism can strengthen the credibility of the global fight against the scourge. "The Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has carried out inhuman atrocities against the people of Iraq. Victims of ISIL’s horrific crimes also included 39 Indian nationals,” he said at the Security Council briefing on Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh/ISIL (UNITAD). ISIL, also known as ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria), is a jihadist group with a violent ideology that calls itself a caliphate and claims religious authority over all Muslims Ravindra said ISIL has systematically committed genocide, torture, rape, slavery and kidnapping throughout the territory under its control in Iraq and Syria. "The Islamic State, therefore, cannot be seen as just another regional terrorist outfit. It is a global syndicate with affiliated terrorist groups across the world, including in our neighbourhood,” he said. Ravindra stressed that India strongly believed that “the credibility of our collective fight against terrorism can be strengthened only when we ensure accountability for the grave and inhuman acts of terror committed by terrorists and take strong measures against states that encourage, support and finance terrorism.” Special Adviser and Head of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, Karim Asad Ahmad Khan told the Council that based on its independent criminal investigations, UNITAD has established “clear and convincing evidence that genocide was committed by ISIL against the Yazidi as a religious group.” He said the team has also established that numerous other international crimes were also committed against the Yezidi community, including extermination, enslavement, sexual violence, forcible transfer, persecution on religious and gender grounds, and conscription of children into an armed group. “Yazidi children were in many cases directly targeted and disproportionately impacted by Da’esh’s crimes. Anyone who escaped alive, but particularly children, carry daily the burden of the lasting effects of these crimes,” he said. Ravindra said terrorists and terrorist groups affiliated with ISIL have committed crimes against humanity in an unprecedented manner. “The perpetrators of these crimes should be brought to justice by their respective countries of origin. Sharing of information and evidence collected by UNITAD with other member states will further strengthen these efforts,” he said. Noting that the full realisation of UNITAD’s mandate would not be possible until the team is able to share its large volumes of evidence with the Iraqi authorities, Ravindra termed it “unfortunate” that despite a lapse of almost three years, UNITAD has been unable to service its primary client to the fullest extent possible. "Delay in sharing of evidence will further delay justice to those victims and their loved ones, whose lives have been devastated by the atrocities committed by ISIL,” he said. Ravindra said accountability for crimes committed by ISIL, especially those against various minority communities in Iraq, was critical for achieving smooth reconciliation and sustained peace in Iraq. India has welcomed the adoption of the Yazidi Female Survivors Law, implementation of which and the recent Sinjar agreement will help Iraq move closer to achieving justice for the victims, contribute to restoring normalcy in the lives of Yazidi survivors, enhance their quality of life and pave the way for their safe return. “The people of Iraq have made immense sacrifices in their fight against ISIL. Justice would not be delivered to them until those responsible for the atrocities carried out are held to account. The full implementation of UNITAD’s mandate would contribute to securing justice for the survivors in Iraq and beyond. India stands ready to offer its support to UNITAD,” he said. Expressing concern over the team’s observation that evidence collected and analysed confirms the repeated use of chemical weapons by ISIL against civilians, Ravindra said India firmly condemns the use of chemical weapons anywhere, at any time, by anybody, under any circumstances. “India has been highlighting the serious threat to international peace and security emanating from the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction by ISIL and other terrorist groups and the need for greater international co-operation to prevent it,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isis-not-just-regional-terror-outfit-but-global-syndicate-with-affiliated-groups-globally-india-985033.html
12-05-2021||National||Fire at Covid care centre in Gujarat; 61 patients shifted||A fire broke out at a hotel- turned-Covid care centre in Gujarat's Bhavnagar town in the wee hours Wednesday, officials said, adding nobody was hurt. Altogether 61 coronavirus patients were shifted from the facility to other hospitals after the "minor fire and smoke", an official said. There were 68 patients at the facility when the fire broke out. The remaining seven will be shifted soon, he said. The hotel, around 170 km from the state capital, was converted into a Covid care centre by a private hospital. The fire was minor and was doused immediately, the official said. Smoke engulfed the third floor of the "Generation X Hotel" facility, where the patients were kept, said senior fire officer of Bhavnagar fire brigade, Bharat Kanada. "The fire was caused by a spark in a TV shortly after midnight. It was brought under control quickly. However, thick smoke filled the top floor of the three-storey hotel, making it difficult for the patients to be kept there," he said. "As a precaution, 61 patients were shifted to other hospitals with the help of fire personnel. The remaining seven will also be shofted soon," he said. Bhavnagar Collector Gaurang Makwana said all the 68 coronavirus patients at the centre were safe and the "minor fire" was brought under control immediately. Sixteen Covid-19 patients and two nurses died in a blaze at the four-storeyed Welfare Hospital in Bharuch in the state on May 1. The Gujarat High Court on Tuesday criticised the state government over the Bharuch hospital fire, saying it was contemptuous on its part to not remain vigilant and avoid such incidents, and cited many orders passed in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-at-covid-care-centre-in-gujarat-61-patients-shifted-985035.html
12-05-2021||National||Want to transfer your SBI account from one branch to another? Now you can do it from home||SBI has over 22,000 branches and more than 57,889 ATMs across the country. As of December 31, 2020, it had 85 million internet banking and 19 million mobile banking users. The bank's number of UPI users stood at 135 million at December-end. At present, the bank has 35 million registered users of YONO, the digital lending platform. So, how will you transfer your account by using the YONO SBI? 1. You log in to the YONO SBI app on your mobile phone. 2. Then, click on the ‘Services’ option. 3. After that, go to the ‘Transfer of Saving Account’ option where you will have to select your savings account. 4. You have to provide the new branch code, where you wish to transfer your account. Then click on the ‘Get Branch’ name option and you will be able to see the new branch’s name. 5. Once you have done that and you are sure about transferring your account, click on ‘Submit’. Don't have the app? Nothing to worry about. You can do it online using the SBI website as well. Here is how: 1. Log in to OnlineSBI by entering your username and password. At the first login, you will need to go through a simple initialisation process. Then you go to the ‘Personal Banking’ tab. 2. Then click on the ‘e-services’ option and select the ‘Transfer of Savings Account’ option. You can view your account details like the number and branch name. 3. Select the account you wish to transfer and you have to provide the code of the new branch. 4. Then you will get the branch name. Select it and submit the request. Verify the account transfer details using the existing and new branch codes. 5. Once you click on the ‘Confirm’ button, a one-time password (OTP) will be sent to your registered mobile number. 6. Enter the OTP and click on ‘Confirm’ to register your request. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/want-to-transfer-your-sbi-account-from-one-branch-to-another-now-you-can-do-it-from-home-985039.html
12-05-2021||National||ICMR chief bats for a 6-8 week lockdown to rein in Covid-19||The head of the main Indian health agency responding to the coronavirus has said districts reporting a high number of infections should remain locked down for another six to eight weeks to control the spread of the rampaging disease. Dr. Balram Bhargava, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said in an interview that lockdown restrictions should remain in place in all districts where the rate of infection is above 10% of those tested. Currently, three-fourths of India's 718 districts have what is known as a test-positivity rate above 10%, including major cities like New Delhi, Mumbai and the tech hub of Bengaluru. Bhargava's comments are the first time a senior government official has outlined how long lockdowns, which already encompass large parts of country, need to continue to rein in the crisis in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has shied away from imposing a nationwide lockdown because of the economic impact and has left it to state governments. Several states have introduced varying levels of curbs on economic activity and public movement to stop the spread of the virus, which are mostly being reviewed and extended on a weekly or fortnightly basis. "The high positivity districts should remain (shut). If they come to 5% from 10% (positivity rate) we can open them, but that has to happen. That won't happen in six-eight weeks, clearly," Bhargava said in an interview at the New Delhi headquarters of the ICMR, the country's top medical research body. Referring to the capital, one of India's hardest-hit cities where the positivity rate reached around 35% but has now fallen to about 17%, Bhargava said: "If Delhi is opened tomorrow, it will be a disaster." India is in deep crisis in the current wave of Covid-19 infections with around 350,000 cases and 4,000 deaths being reported daily. Hospitals and morgues are overflowing, medical staff is exhausted and oxygen and drugs are running short. Many experts say the actual case tallies and deaths could be five to 10 times higher. Modi and other top political leaders have faced a public backlash for addressing mass election rallies where no major Covid-19 safety protocols were followed. The federal government also didn't intervene to stop a religious festival in a northern state in March that was attended by millions of devout Hindus. 'Slight delay' Bhargava did not criticise the Modi government but conceded there had been a delay in responding to the crisis. "I think the only discontent we have was there was a slight delay accepting the 10% (recommendation), but that did happen," he said. He said an April 15 meeting of the National Task Force on Covid-19 had made the recommendation to the government to lock down areas with a 10% positivity rate or higher. Yet, in a televised speech on April 20, Modi dissuaded states and said a lockdown should be used as "last resort" and the focus should remain on "micro containment zones". On April 26 - more than 10 days after the task force meeting - India's home (interior) ministry wrote to states, asking them to implement strict measures for "large containment areas" in hard-hit districts, but only for 14 days. India's home and health ministries, as well as Modi's office, did not respond to requests for comment. Reuters reported earlier this month the head of the National Centre for Disease Control had privately told an online gathering that strict lockdown measures were required in early April. Two senior ICMR officials told Reuters the organisation was frustrated about political leaders addressing large rallies and allowing religious gatherings, saying the actions publicly flouted required safety measures. Modi himself addressed several of the political meetings, maskless. "Our messaging has been completely incorrect, not in sync with the situation," said one of the officials, referring to the government. "We have miserably failed." Bhargava denied there was any discontent within the ICMR and added the agency was on the same page with policymakers. Without commenting directly on political leaders, he said mass gatherings during Covid-19 should not be acceptable in India or anywhere else. "It's common sense," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-chief-bats-for-a-6-8-week-lockdown-to-rein-in-covid-19-985046.html
12-05-2021||National||India's coronavirus death toll goes past 2,50,000-mark; WHO finds B.1.617 variant in dozens of countries||India's coronavirus death toll passed 2,50,000 on Wednesday as the World Health Organization said the B.1.617 variant fuelling the surge had been found in dozens of countries across the globe. While vaccinations have helped to ease the pandemic crisis in the United States and Europe, India is in the grip of a devastating wave. A record 4,205 new Covid-19 deaths were reported on Wednesday, taking total fatalities to 254,197. But many experts believe the official numbers of people dying in India are an underestimate. "Even three to four times would be an underestimate," Anant Bhan, an independent health policy and bioethics researcher, told AFP. Across the country, overwhelmed hospitals have been unable to treat people and there have too many bodies for crematoriums to deal with, and many Covid-19 deaths are not properly recorded as such. Bodies being burnt in car parks and other public places have highlighted the scale of the crisis. Bodies have also been seen floating down the holy Ganges river, stoking concerns that the virus is now raging in India's vast rural hinterland where two-thirds of people live. On Wednesday, the number of bodies of suspected virus victims washing up on the banks of the Ganges in Bihar rose to 71, according to officials. Bihar's water resources minister said a net had been placed in the river to catch any more bodies. Huge political rallies and religious events that attracted millions of people over recent months are two key factors being blamed for India's crisis. A variant of the virus called B.1.617, which was first detected in India in October, is another. It has been detected in at least 44 nations, the World Health Organization said on Tuesday. Britain had the largest number of Covid-19 cases caused by the variant outside India, according to the WHO. The organisation this week declared the strain a "variant of concern", placing it alongside three others that were first detected in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. The United States has officially been the world's worst-affected country, with more than 500,000 confirmed virus deaths. Under President Joe Biden, a successful immunisation drive in recent months has eased the crisis and the United States is now looking to share some of its enormous vaccine surplus. Biden said Tuesday that almost half the world's leaders had asked him for US help in obtaining vaccines. "Every country in the world is now looking at us to provide for their lack of capacity to produce and/or have vaccines," Biden said in a virtual meeting with US state governors. "I literally have, virtually 40 per cent of the world leaders calling and asking, can we help them," Biden said. "We're going to try." Biden pledged last month to distribute 60 million AstraZeneca doses, with India expected to be a recipient. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used widely around the world, but questions have continually arisen about potential side effects. On Tuesday, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and other Brazilian states suspended AstraZeneca vaccinations of pregnant women, following advice from the national health regulator after a reported death. Slovakia also Tuesday suspended its use as a first dose, citing new data showing increased risks of blood clots. Canada's most populous province of Ontario did the same, also citing blood clot risks. The EU executive also announced Tuesday it was suing AstraZeneca to force the British-Swedish pharmaceutical group to deliver 90 million more doses of the vaccine before July. The demand stems from a row between Brussels and AstraZeneca over a shortfall of tens of millions of vaccine doses the company was meant to have delivered to the EU since the beginning of the year. In contrast to the supply problems in Europe, the tiny Pacific nation of Nauru announced it had become the first country to have vaccinated its entire adult population -- albeit fewer than 8,000 people -- using AstraZeneca. "The National Coronavirus Taskforce is extremely pleased with this world record result and thanks everyone on Nauru for playing their part to keep Nauru Covid free and safe," the government said in a statement on Tuesday. Nauru received AstraZeneca as part of the global Covax programme aimed at boosting immunisation in poorer nations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-death-toll-goes-past-250000-mark-who-finds-b1617-variant-in-dozens-of-countries-985047.html
12-05-2021||National||Doubts surround India's official Covid-19 death toll||India's coronavirus death toll passed 2,50,000 on Wednesday but comparisons of official data with those from people on the frontlines suggested the true number is several times higher. Across the vast nation, the devastating Covid-19 wave has overwhelmed hospitals with patients and crematoriums with bodies, and many coronavirus deaths are not being properly recorded as such. Experts say the official 2.5-lakh death count is hugely underreported. "Even three to four times would be an underestimate," Anant Bhan, an independent health policy and bioethics researcher, told AFP. Harrowing images from overwhelmed crematoriums, graveyards, and even makeshift funeral pyres have highlighted the scale of the crisis. Bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims have also been seen floating down the holy Ganges river. The discrepancies appear particularly stark in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state of Gujarat. In Rajkot in the west of the state, the official death toll between April 1-23 was 154, yet the city's own health officials put it at 723. And in Bharuch, the official count for the same period was just 23 but there were 600 funerals. Gujarat's chief minister Vijay Rupani insisted that the state was following guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research. Those say only deaths directly caused by Covid-19 can be recorded as such, but not fatalities triggered by co-morbidities -- when a patient had heart problems and dies of cardiac arrest, for instance. Even before the pandemic, just 22 percent of the nearly 10 million annual deaths in India were medically certified, and experts say the spike in funerals points to the same happening with Covid-19 fatalities. The surge has pushed the Aishbagh Burial Ground in Lucknow, capital of Uttar Pradesh state, to the brink. Hafiz Abdul Mateen from the graveyard told AFP it handled four to five burials a day before the pandemic. "Today, 45 bodies of Covid victims have been buried here," he said. "We've increased the number of gravediggers but that's also not enough as these men are getting tired and falling sick." The official figures for deaths in some other states including Uttar Pradesh and Haryana also do not align with the number of funerals. Media reports have also suggested that the official numbers for the capital New Delhi also fall well short of the reality. "Our estimate is 50 percent of Covid-19 deaths are not registered by the government," Jitender Singh Shanty, in charge of one of Delhi's 26 crematoriums, told AFP. Health economist and research Rijo M. John described the situation as a "battle for data, data sharing and transparency". But a spokesperson for India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party denied allegations of undercounting or political motivations behind the mismatch in fatality numbers. "It is not possible for anyone to hide the numbers in this age and time," R.P. Singh told AFP. Despite the assurances, some are not convinced. "There is massive underreporting of deaths and cases," said college student Sonalika Sahay, 22. "The government is saying the positivity rate is coming down and the situation is improving. How can it be possible when corpses are being dumped in rivers in dozens?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doubts-surround-indias-official-covid-19-death-toll-985056.html
12-05-2021||National||Nursing staff at forefront of fighting Covid-19: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised the nursing staff on International Nurses Day on Wednesday, saying their sense of duty, compassion and commitment towards a healthy India is exemplary. International Nurses Day is observed to mark the birth anniversary of the founder of modern nursing Florence Nightingale.  In a tweet, Modi said, "International Nurses Day is a day to express gratitude to the hardworking nursing staff, who is at the forefront of fighting Covid-19. Their sense of duty, compassion and commitment towards a healthy India is exemplary." International Nurses Day is a day to express gratitude to the hardworking nursing staff, who is at the forefront of fighting COVID-19. Their sense of duty, compassion and commitment towards a healthy India is exemplary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nursing-staff-at-forefront-of-fighting-covid-19-pm-narendra-modi-985060.html
12-05-2021||National||Net across Ganges to catch suspected Covid-19 corpses||Authorities in northern India said they have installed a net across the Ganges river after the bodies of dozens of suspected Covid-19 victims washed up. Locals suggested to AFP that relatives immersed the bodies in the river because they could not afford wood for traditional cremations or because crematoriums were overwhelmed by the number of funerals. Bihar's water resources minister Sanjay Kumar said on Twitter on Wednesday that a "net has been placed" in the river on the state border with Uttar Pradesh and patrolling increased. He said the state government was "pained at both the tragedy as well as harm to the river Ganges". Kumar added that postmortems confirmed that the bodies were four to five days old. Press reports said as many as 25 bodies had also been recovered in the Gahmar district of Uttar Pradesh. The Hindu daily quoted a local police official there as saying there were long queues at cremation grounds in the northern state. "It is possible that some disposed of the bodies in hurry in the river like this," the cop was quoted as saying.   India's official Covid-19 death toll soared past a quarter of a million on Wednesday, but many experts believe the real number is several times higher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/net-across-ganges-to-catch-suspected-covid-19-corpses-985065.html
12-05-2021||National||A Ramzan like no other: Covid shadow on Muslim fasting month||The shadows over Ramzan are darker this time and the despair deeper, the scramble for oxygen, hospital beds and even a decent burial for their loved ones eclipsing the gloom that marked the fasting month last year. With no large congregations in mosques, no ‘iftar’ parties and no late night shopping, it was said 2020 Ramzan was like no other in living memory. But as a second, deadlier Covid-19 wave ravages large parts of the country, Ramzan 2021 has rewritten even that pandemic norm. Almost every family across the country is affected by the pandemic in one way or another with many losing friends and family members and several others battling the dreaded virus. "Ramzan is a time for family and friends, but this year I have lost many of my near and dear ones and many in the family have been infected by the virus. This has been a tough month and I spent it just praying to Allah that this deadly virus goes away from our lives," said Tanvir Parvez, a lawyer from Ghaziabad. The festivities, the cheer, the morning ‘sehri’ at food joints that underscored Ramzan and Eid for not just devout Muslims but for others as well have receded like a distant dream for those like Parvez. Who would have thought that instead of dwelling on the spread laid out across virtually every dining table in a Muslim household at 'iftar', families this Ramzan would be sweating over arranging oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, hospital beds and plasma or a burial spot for friends and family hit by the deadly virus. "Iftar is such an amazing time when we pray to God, have a wholesome meal with the family and count our blessings. But it has not been so this time where we are daily dealing with some bad news or another,” Parvez told PTI as India on Wednesday again reported more 4,000 Covid deaths. With 4,205 fresh fatalities, the country's death toll has risen to 2,54,197. According to Health Ministry data, 3.48 lakh new cases were recorded to take the tally to 2,33,40,938 (23 million/2.33 crore). As the holy month of Ramzan nears its end with Eid likely to be celebrated on May 13 or 14 in India, depending on the sighting of the moon, Covid fears hang like a cloud over the festivities. "This year, the fasting month went by running around dealing with health emergencies, deaths and funerals for relatives and friends," said Qazi Rafat Masood, an agriculturist from Uttar Pradesh's Nagina district. Though mosques have been open in many places during Ramzan, prayers were held with Covid norms and restrictions. Also, many appeals were made by clerics asking people to pray at home, especially in Covid hotspots. Masood said Ramzan, a time for self-discipine and introspection, would be marked with great fanfare in his locality of 'Qazi Sarai' every year. Throughout the month, there would be a 'Roza Iftar' party in one house or the other.  The inevitable comparisons of cooking skills of each household would add a dash of fun to the iftar parties, he said, looking back at the good times when the run-up to Eid was about shopping and preparing for feasts with 'sheer and sewai' sweet dishes topping the culinary agenda. This year, somewhat like last year, it has been about lockdowns, deserted streets and shuttered shops -- symbolic of the emptiness during what is generally a festive time. The special Eid prayers will also not be the same. In several cities, it has been decided that prayers will not be held in Eidgahs but in local mosques with social distancing norms. At other places, calls have made urging people to offer Eid prayers at home. "I appeal to all Muslims to perform Eid prayers following all local Covid-related protocols and guidelines. Do not gather in large numbers and it would be best that you perform prayers inside your homes," prominent Muslim body Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind president Maulana Arshad Madani told PTI. In Delhi, two other prominent clerics -- Ahmed Bukhari of  the Jama Masjid and Mufti Mukarram Ahmed of the Fatehpuri mosque -- have issued separate video appeals to Muslims to offer Eid prayers at home. Social media is also abuzz with calls for celebrating Eid in accordance with Covid protocols with hashtags such as 'EidAtHome' and 'SayNoToEidShopping' doing the rounds on Twitter. Madani said Muslims had acted with a lot of patience during Ramzan as many lost their loved ones, many saw their family members struggle in hospitals and many were infected by the dreaded virus themselves. This Ramzan, several people also missed their fasts after getting infected by coronavirus and lamented about not being able to fast throughout the duration of the holy month. "I usually never miss any Ramzan fasts, but this year I could not keep fasts after the first week as I tested positive for Covid-19. It was frustrating to miss out on fasts," Saad Majeed, a resident of Dwarka, said. "Having been infected with coronavirus and then not being able to fast was a double whammy that took time to come to terms with," he told PTI. The going has been tough in many different ways. While middle and upper class homes struggled to come to terms with the social and emotional toll of the pandemic, the poor and the needy worked to make ends meet. "Ramzan always brings cheer in our otherwise full of struggles life, but for two years we have been robbed of that. This year was even more dreadful as so many in my family got infected by this virus," said Shaheen Bano, a domestic help and mother of six. "Also, financially we are struggling as many households have asked me not to come for the fear of the virus. We begin our fast just by drinking water and don’t know whether our family will have enough for ‘iftar’," she said. With lockdown in several places as Eid approaches, medium and small traders have also been feeling the pinch with their businesses and shops taking a serious hit. As Muslims mark the end of the holy month and head for Eid, there is just one thing on everyone's mind -- to pray for this pandemic to end. Ramzan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar during which Muslims worldwide refrain from eating and drinking from dawn to dusk and end their fast in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-ramzan-like-no-other-covid-shadow-on-muslim-fasting-month-985070.html
12-05-2021||National||J&K’s Covid-19 peak may reach in another three to four weeks: Experts||With Covid-19 cases and deaths continue to shatter Jammu and Kashmir, health experts believe the peak of infections was yet to arrive and it may take another few weeks. Dr Rouf Rather, a Community Medicine specialist, working in Kashmir’s Divisional level Covid-19 control room, believes Kashmir has two to four weeks more to go till it reaches its peak. “Our peak is expected at the cusp of May and June. During the first part of June, daily cases would be constant with no major fluctuations. And in July, Kashmir will see a significant respite in the number of cases and a downward curve,” he predicts. However, Dr Rather has a word of caution. “The calculations depend on a number of factors that contribute in increasing or decreasing cases and delaying or hastening the peak,” he said. “The number of cases would directly depend on the number of tests carried out. No model can calculate the exact number of cases, it is just an estimate based on certain variables – tests, public health measures and community behavior,” the medical expert added. Prof Parvaiz Koul, a renowned pulmonologist and a physician said the past experience showed that Kashmir’s peak lagged a few weeks from the rest of the country. “However, this time around it is a different scenario, given the sudden spike in infections. The new variants are constantly changing the dynamics of the pandemic,” he said.   Dr Koul said lockdown and lockdown-specific behavior are both factors affecting the case load. “I estimate we have around three more weeks to reach where other states of India are right now,” he said.   Notwithstanding lockdown for almost two weeks, J&K continues to see a constant rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths. The Union Territory (UT) has been witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases since April 20 when daily cases breached the 2,000 mark for the first time. And since then the situation has only worsened with the Union Territory (UT) recording 564 deaths and 48,815 positive cases in the first 11 days of May. The barrage of patients requiring admission is a looming crisis for the region’s healthcare system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-s-covid-19-peak-may-reach-in-another-three-to-four-weeks-experts-985071.html
12-05-2021||National||Ex-CBI officer who probed Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, no more||Former CBI officer K Ragothaman, who was the Chief Investigating Officer in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, died here on Wednesday, police sources said. The veteran, 76, was admitted to a hospital here last week for Covid-19 treatment and breathed his last this morning, hospital sources said. Ragothaman was the CIO in the CBI's Special Investigation Team (SIT) that probed the killing of Gandhi on May 21, 1991, at Sriperumbudur, near here, during an election rally, by a female LTTE suicide bomber. He had penned a few books, including on Gandhi's sensational killing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-cbi-officer-who-probed-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-no-more-985076.html
12-05-2021||National||Fuel rates controlled before polls, but raised later, says Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil on Wednesday hit out at the Centre over fuel price hike, claiming the rates of petrol and diesel are controlled ahead of elections, but increased after polls get over. Patil, who is also the state NCP chief, asked Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to throw light on what planning is this. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 25 paise per litre each on Wednesday, the third increase this week, propelling the petrol price to cross the Rs 100 per litre-mark in various cities, including Bhopal and Indore. The petrol and diesel prices are now at record high across the country, as per the price notification of state- owned fuel retailers. "The Union finance ministry is making financial plans of a different class. The rates of petrol and diesel are controlled when polls are around and price rise is certain once the polls are over. @nsitharaman should throw light on what planning it is," Patil tweeted, using the hashtag 'PetrolDieselPriceHike'. He did not mention any specific polls in his tweet. Notably, fuel prices were cut in March and April this year. During the last two months, Assembly elections were held in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. On Wednesday, the petrol price in Mumbai was hiked to Rs 98.36 a litre from Rs 98.12, while the diesel rate was increased to Rs 89.75 from Rs 89.48, the price notification showed. According to a statement issued by Patil, the petrol price is the highest in Marathwada's Parbhani district at Rs 100.75 per litre, while diesel is being sold there at Rs 90.68 per litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-rates-controlled-before-polls-but-raised-later-says-maharashtra-minister-985078.html
12-05-2021||National||Centre engaging with drug makers to ramp up production of anti-fungal drug amid mucormycosis scare||The government is engaging with the drug manufacturers to ramp up the production of an antifungal drug used for the treatment of mucormycosis, the Chemicals and Fertilizers Ministry said, as a rash of cases of rare black fungus infection have been reported among people either recovered or recovering from Covid-19. With a spike in the cases of Covid-19 in the country, doctors have been reporting a rare infection mucormycosis, also called as black fungus, among people recovered from Covid-19. The infection is caused by exposure to mucor mould and it affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening. "A sudden increase in demand has been observed in some states for Amphotericin B which is being actively prescribed by the physicians to patients suffering from mucormycosis, a post-Covid complication," the ministry said in a statement. The government is therefore engaging with the manufacturers to ramp up production of the drug. The supply position is expected to improve with extra imports of this drug and an increase in its production domestically, it added. "After reviewing the stock position with the manufacturers/importers, and the demand pattern of Amphotericin B, the Department of Pharma, has on 11th May, 2021, allocated this drug amongst the States/UTs based on expected supply that will be available from May 10 to May 31, 2021," the statement said. States have been requested to put in place a mechanism for equitable distribution of supplies amongst government and private hospitals and health care agencies, it added. States have also been requested to publicise in the state the 'Point of Contact' for private and government hospitals to obtain the drug from this allocation, the statement said. "The arrangements for supply will be monitored by the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA)," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-engaging-with-drug-makers-to-ramp-up-production-of-anti-fungal-drug-amid-mucormycosis-scare-985091.html
12-05-2021||National||Active Covid-19 cases in country dip for second day||India's total Covid-19 active cases dipped to 37,04,099 with a net decline of 11,122 cases in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. This is the second consecutive day that active cases have dipped, the ministry said. The active caseload now comprises 15.87 per cent of the country's total infections,  Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh cumulatively account for 82.51 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said.  India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,93,82,642  with 3,55,338 people recuperating in a span of 24 hours. New recoveries have outshone new daily cases for the second consecutive day, the ministry said. It also said that Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Delhi and Haryana reported 71.22 per cent of the 3,48,421 new cases reported in a day. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 40,956. It is followed by Karnataka with 39,510 while Kerala reported 37,290 new case The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent, the ministry said. A total of 4,205 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 73.17 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (793). Karnataka follows with 480 daily deaths. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 17.52 crore, the ministry said. A total of 17,52,35,991 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,47,534 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. These include 95,82,449 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 65,39,376 HCWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 5,58,83,416 and 78,36,168 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,39,59,772 and 1,62,88,176 beneficiaries more than 60 years have taken the first and second dose. A total of 4,79,282 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose of Covid vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 30,44,463 across 30 states and UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive. More than 24.4 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of  24 hours. As on Day-116 of the vaccination drive (May 11), 24,46,674 vaccine doses were given. Across 18,543 sessions, 10,92,452 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 13,54,222 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine. The Centre is delivering global aid to states and UTs under the “Whole of Government” approach to augment their efforts in Covid management.  It also said that 9,200 oxygen concentrators, 5,243 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen generation plants, 5,913 ventilators/ Bi PAP and 3.44 lakh Remdesivir vials received as part of global aid to India have been delivered or dispatched to states and UTs to strengthen and supplement their Covid response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-covid-19-cases-in-country-dip-for-second-day-985092.html
12-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Growing clamour to stop calling B.1.167 variant the 'Indian variant'||There is a growing chorus to refrain from referring to the so-called “double mutant” strain of Covid-19, officially known as the B.1.167 variant, as the “Indian variant”, highlighting the potential of social stigmatisation as a result of the usage. Calls for a crackdown on the use of the phrase “Indian variant” have been building on social media as well, with Twitter users drawing parallels to the racist undertones that many critics had identified in using the term “Wuhan virus” in the early days of the Covid pandemic. Funny how "Indian variant" isn't racist, but "Chinese Flu" is...🤫🤫 Asian-Americans experienced increased racial abuse and physical violence last year after former US President Donald Trump insisted on referring to the virus as the “Chinese virus”. There were also reports that a White House official at the time had called it the “Kung-Flu”. All of this, critics say, contributed to generating heightened social stigma around people of Chinese origin. Some backers of the call to clamp down on the use of the term are concerned that Indians around the world may face similar stigmatisation, pointing out that the World Health Organisation (WHO) does not identify or link variants to the country of their origin. Other Twitter users, however, have brushed off the central government’s censure of media outlets using the phrase as harping on a technicality as cases rise exponentially in the country. “Word 'Indian' Not In WHO Report On Covid Variant: Government Fact-Checks” One user pointed out that the Indian government itself had referred to other variants based on the country of their origin. Earlier this week, the WHO classified the variant as a “variant of concern” and said the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19, first identified in India, had seen 4,500 samples uploaded to an open-access database in 44 countries and all six WHO regions. A mutation is considered a variant of concern when it satisfies at least one of several criteria, which includes easy transmission, more severe illness, reduced neutralisation by antibodies or lower effectiveness of treatment and vaccines. Apart from the variant in question, three other variants originating in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil have been given the same classification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-growing-clamour-to-stop-calling-b1167-variant-the-indian-variant-985108.html
12-05-2021||National||Pune ranks first, Delhi-NCR at bottom among top 8 cities on health infra parameters: Report||Pune is ranked first while Delhi-NCR is at the lowest position among eight major cities in health infrastructure-related parameters, including number of hospitals beds, air-water quality and sanitation, according to a report by Housing.com. The real estate portal, which is owned by US-based News Corp and its Australian group firm REA, on Wednesday released its report titled 'State of Healthcare in India'. The report ranks health infrastructure in India's most urbanised eight cities -- Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi-NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai Metropolitan Region(MMR) and Pune -- on the basis of Housing.com's City Health Card. These rankings are benchmarked against parameters such as number of hospital beds per 1,000 people, air quality, water quality, sanitation, liveability index and 40 per cent weightage has been given to number of hospital beds. "When it comes to health infrastructure, Pune is the most equipped city in India, offering 3.5 hospital beds per 1,000 people," Housing.com said. This is much higher when compared to India's national average. In the public healthcare system, only half a bed and 1.4 beds are available if we count public plus private hospital beds available per 1,000 people in India, the report said. India also has the lowest number of doctors (0.86) per 1,000 people while other major economies have between 2-4 doctors per 1,000 people, it added. The top-ranked city Pune also scored significantly high on parameters such as ease of living, water quality, and performance and sustainable initiatives taken by its local government. "India, which is the third-largest economy in Asia, needs to significantly increase its spending on healthcare. "This has been made eminently clear as the country is currently struggling to keep its people safe from the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic," said Mani Rangarajan, Group COO of Housing.com, Makaan.com and PropTiger.com. India needs to focus on building quality healthcare infrastructure, he added. With nearly 3.2 hospital beds per 1,000 people, Ahmedabad is ranked second in the list. Bengaluru is ranked third despite a high number of hospital beds per 1,000 people and its top ranking in the ease of living index. The city's score on parameters such as air quality, water quality and availability, and municipal performance index pulled down its ranking. Delhi-NCR, which covers the national capital, Gurugram, Faridabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, was ranked the lowest in the list, primarily because of the region's poor scores on air and water quality, sanitation and performance of municipal bodies. "The density of hospitals is lower in Ghaziabad and Greater Noida regions compared to Gurugram, Noida and Faridabad which also have higher levels of service sectors, warehousing and manufacturing activity," the report said. Mumbai Metropolitan Region ranks fourth on the Housing.com's City Health Card, with parameters such as the number of beds, air quality, and liveability pulling its overall score down. Hyderabad, Chennai and Kolkata occupy the fifth, sixth and seventh positions, respectively. Stating that quality housing remains integral to health, Rangarajan said states should come up with more reformative measures to ensure a larger number of its citizens are able to afford housing, which acts as a preventive measure against health risks. Ankita Sood, Head of Research, Housing.com and PropTiger, said India spends only 3.5 per cent of its GDP on healthcare, as opposed to 10-18 per cent spent by developed economies". "The gravity of the gap is manifested in the not so encouraging statistics on the number of hospital beds available per thousand people, which in India is abysmally low at 1.4 beds as against the global average of 3.2," she said. This glaring paucity translates into a shortfall of 2.4 million beds (public plus private) with the majority being concentrated in our urban areas alone, she pointed out. According to her, the residential development in top eight cities is skewed, with healthcare services not adequately complementing the scale and direction of residential development. For the City Health Card methodology, hospitals with more than 100 beds were considered. The data for each hospital have been taken from government sources and/ or official hospitals' websites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-ranks-first-delhi-ncr-at-bottom-among-top-8-cities-on-health-infra-parameters-report-985109.html
12-05-2021||National||Tata Chemicals scripts success story in rescue of whale sharks||In a successful conservation story, Tata Chemicals Ltd partnered with the Wildlife Trust of India and the Gujarat State Forest Department, and rescued and released 813 whale sharks into the Arabian Sea since 2004. The project was launched with an aim to study and understand the whale shark habitat, map their migration, various aspects of its life cycle, their genetics patterns, estimate the population, and document the results for effective and efficient protection. “Street play based on whale sharks was performed at all fishing settlements along the Saurashtra coast, and had an overwhelming impact on the communities who pledged to protect the species,” said Alka Talwar, Chief, CSR & Sustainability, Tata Chemicals. The campaign strategy also leveraged the Indian traditional and cultural ethics of ‘Ahimsa’ (non-violence) and ‘Atithi Devo Bhava’ (Guest is God). This was publicized through street plays put up in fishing villages and towns. Thousands of school children and young people were involved in the campaign across Gujarat through rallies, marches, postage stamps, drawing competitions in schools, exhibitions and fêtes with the whale shark conservation theme, which helped reposition the Whale Shark as the "Pride of Gujarat". In past, Whale Shark Mela had been jointly organised by Tata Chemicals, the Wildlife Trust of India and the Marine National Park in Dwarka to make locals, including stakeholders from the fishing community, school and college students actively participate and lend their support to the protection and conservation of whale sharks and the coral reef along Gujarat's coastline. To invoke an emotional response and fire-up the paternal protection instinct among the people,  revered spiritual leader Morari Bapu, who was the brand ambassador of this campaign named the Whale Shark, 'Vahli' (the dear one) and highlighted the similarity of the Whale Shark coming to Gujarat's shores to breed with that of a daughter returning to her maternal home ('maika') for childbirth. “The project led to the establishment of Whale Shark rescue and release protocol for the first time in India. It also helped forge an alliance between national and international organisations and contributed to the global repository of Whale Shark research,” Talwar told DH. The local fisherman started releasing the whale sharks caught in their nets and monetary relief for damages incurred during rescues is reimbursed by the State Forest Department. Waterproof cameras have been given to fishermen to capture photographs of the fish and of rescue operations both as proof for availing the cash relief from the Gujarat Forest Department and also to provide greater information about the Whale Sharks that visit the Gujarat coast. As of March 2021, the project has rescued and saved 813 whale sharks. Zero incidents of whale shark poaching have been reported along the Saurashtra coast. To date, Mumbai-headquarters Tata Chemicals Ltd has spent 3.21 crore in this conservation project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tata-chemicals-scripts-success-story-in-rescue-of-whale-sharks-985112.html
12-05-2021||National||Central govt doctors can have private practice, tele-consultancy without permission during Covid-19 pandemic||All central government doctors will be allowed to conduct practice or provide tele-consultation outside official duty during the Covid-19 pandemic without taking permission from superior officers, amid people finding it difficult to consult a medical practitioner with several hospitals out of bounds for out-patients. The order was issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on Wednesday after it received queries and requests from government servants for providing tele-consultation during the pandemic. At present, a medical practitioner in any system of medicine will have to take permission from the Heads of Department for conducting practice during their "spare time" on a "purely charitable basis" without detriment to the official duties. The DoPT said the decision has been taken in view of the unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and meant to utilise the in-house capabilities available in the government to contain the spread of Covid-19 and to provide relief to the public. "...it has been decided that the Central government employees holding recognised qualifications in any system of medicine...requires no permission from the Head of Departments concerned to undertake the practice/provide tele-consultation, subject to the condition that such practice/telecommunication is undertaken during spare time, on a purely charitable basis, without detriment to the official duties of the government servant concerned," the order said. However, it said, it was desirable that these doctors should keep their departments concerned informed for record purposes only. People have been finding it difficult to reach out to doctors after the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country as several hospitals were converted into Covid-19 facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-govt-doctors-can-have-private-practice-tele-consultancy-without-permission-during-covid-19-pandemic-985120.html
12-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Change of heart? Anti-maskers finally ready to take preventive measures||Anti-maskers are finally willing to don masks, ironically, in response to a conspiracy theory that suggests they are at risk from those who have been vaccinated. After months of refusing to wear masks to guard themselves against the Covid-19 pandemic, anti-maskers are turning towards protective gear as some believe vaccinated people “shed” certain proteins onto those who have not taken the jab, which could lead to unwanted effects. The main concern for those that believe this theory is that the proteins cause irregular menstruation, infertility and miscarriages. While the theory has little scientific or evidential backing, many anti-vaxxers have actively encouraged their followers to protect themselves against the vaccinated. Anti-vaxxers have long held the belief that COVID-19 was a hoax with the ultimate aim of culling populations, and the vaccine is what will do the job. However, researchers and health experts have consistently debunked their claims and say anti-vaxxers fundamentally misunderstand how vaccines work but have been repeatedly on the receiving end of outrage and abuse. Anti-vaxxers typically believe that the costs of vaccines outweigh their benefits, despite a long list of academic literature to the contrary. They also believe that vaccines can cause autism, which too has been proven to be unfounded. There have been several instances where anti-vaxxers and anti-maskers have refused to follow Covid protocol and even gathered in large rallies protesting the imposition of masking as an infringement of their legal rights. Social media and the internet have largely been held accountable for the burgeoning distrust of vaccine and health protocols as many of these unregulated spaces allow for people to disseminate misleading information with few checks on accuracy. The anti-vaxxer community is also currently split on the issue of whether masks can actually protect them from the “shedding”, with a blog on Natural News, an anti-vaccination conspiracy site, saying wearing a mask was useless to protect against “spike protein transmission.” The website instead recommends “pine needle tea” as a possible safeguard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-change-of-heart-anti-maskers-finally-ready-to-take-preventive-measures-985122.html
12-05-2021||National||Centre to procure 1.5 lakh units of DRDO's Oxycare systems for Rs 322.5 crore||Centre has decided to procure 1.5 Lakh units of Oxycare Systems costing Rs 322.5 crore through the PM-CARES fund amid panic triggered around lack of medical oxygen cylinder supply required to treat the critical cases. The Oxycare system delivers supplemental oxygen based on the SpO2 levels and prevents a person from sinking into a state of hypoxia which can be fatal. It is a comprehensive system developed by DRDO to regulate oxygen being administered to patients based on the sensed values of their SpO2 levels. An official statement said that PM-CARES Fund has accorded the sanction for this procurement. DRDO has transferred the technology to multiple industries in India who will be producing the Oxycare Systems for use all across India. Oxycare system reduces the workload and exposure of healthcare providers by eliminating the need of routine measurement and manual adjustments of Oxygen flow. The current medical protocol recommends oxygen therapy for all severe and critical Covid-19 patients. The government feels that while given the current status of oxygen generation, transport and storage, oxygen cylinders have proved to be effective, sourcing only one type of system may not be practical considering the present Covid pandemic situation with a large number of individuals requiring oxygen therapy. All the manufacturing plants making the basic building blocks of the system are already running at their maximum capacity. A mix and match of the system would prove to be a useful arrangement in the given situation. While the capacity of existing domestic manufacturers of carbon-manganese steel cylinders is very limited, as an alternative, DRDO has suggested light material portable cylinders which can easily act as substitutes for normal oxygen cylinders. The new system has been developed in two configurations. The basic version consists of a 10 litre Oxygen cylinder, a Pressure Regulator cum Flow Controller, a Humidifier and a Nasal Cannula. The Oxygen flow is regulated manually based on the SpO2 readings. The intelligent configuration includes a system for automatic regulation of Oxygen through a Low Pressure Regulator, Electronic Control System and an SpO2 Probe in addition to the basic version. SpO2 Based Oxygen Control System optimises consumption of oxygen based on the SpO2 level of the patient and effectively increases the endurance of portable Oxygen cylinder. The threshold SpO2 value for initiating flow from the system can be adjusted by the health staff and the SpO2 levels are continuously monitored and displayed by the system. It reduces the workload and exposure of healthcare providers by eliminating the need of routine measurement and manual adjustments of Oxygen flow, thereby facilitating tele-consultation also. The automatic system also provides suitable audio warning for various failure scenarios including low SpO2 values and probe disconnections. These Oxycare systems can be used at Homes, Quarantine Centres, Covid Care Centres and Hospitals. In addition, Non-Rebreather Masks (NRM) are integrated with the Oxycare Systems for efficient use of oxygen which results in saving of Oxygen by 30-40%. DRDO has transferred the technology to multiple industries in India who will be producing the Oxycare Systems for use all across India, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-procure-15-lakh-units-of-drdos-oxycare-systems-for-rs-3225-crore-985144.html
12-05-2021||National||SC rules UP govt's policy on premature release of life term convicts on R-Day as discriminatory||The Supreme Court has declared as bad and discriminatory a 2018 policy of the Uttar Pradesh government restricting the premature release of prisoners, undergoing life term, to the event of Republic day each year only. A bench of Justices Navin Sinha and V Ramasubramanian said the court cannot approve of the policy prepared on August 1, 2018, which stated that those who did not apply for remission would be ineligible for consideration. "The avowed object in the policy is to prevent overcrowding in prisons of the State, and to check frustration of emotions and disappointment and to ensure rehabilitation. It assumes much more significance in the present pandemic times to prevent super spreaders," the bench said. After interacting with the UP State Legal Services Authority, the court said as a welfare State, it was an obligation on the government to make periodic assessment to order premature release of the prisoners. "The policy having statutory force under Article 161 of the Constitution will naturally apply to all persons sentenced to life imprisonment," the bench declared. The court said the policy is discriminatory in nature as there is no nexus to be achieved by providing for premature release only on a specified date (Republic Day), when those eligible to be considered for premature release formed a class of persons sentenced to life imprisonment. It said the policy was bad too as it was contrary to the Allahabad High Court's order asking the state government to lay down a transparent policy in regard to premature release of convicts who were lying in prison for a long time. The top court passed its judgement on a batch of pleas and directed the state authorities to pass a "reasoned and speaking" order on their representation for premature release under the 2018 policy. It asked the Executive Chairman of the UP State Legal Services Authority, to monitor not only the case of the petitioners, but of such other convicts, who may be eligible for consideration, but are unable to do so for one reason or the other.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rules-up-govts-policy-on-premature-release-of-life-term-convicts-on-r-day-as-discriminatory-985152.html
12-05-2021||National||Could have saved many lives with door-to-door vaccination: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said if the Union government had started door-to-door vaccination programme for senior citizens a few months back, then lives of many of them, including prominent persons, could have been saved. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni asked the Union government why not pro-actively start this programme when the lives of senior citizens, who are unable to go to vaccination centres to get inoculated, are concerned. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed by two lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari seeking door-to-door vaccination facility for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled persons and those who are bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. The court reiterated its earlier order of April 22 in which it asked the Union government to relook at its decision to not initiate a door-to-door vaccination programme. "It has been three weeks and the government (Union) is yet to inform us of its decision. The government should have taken a decision one way or the other," the court said. It directed the Union government to file an affidavit by May 19, when it would hear the matter further. The court noted that many foreign countries have already started door-to-door vaccination facilities. "In India, we do many things late and things travel to our country very slowly," Justice Kulkarni said. Why not start this (door-to-door vaccination) pro-actively when the lives of senior citizens are concerned? the court asked. "Speaking off the cuff, if we had a door-to-door vaccination programme sometime back, then so many of our senior citizens, including prominent members of society from various walks of life, who have lost their lives to Covid-19, could have been saved," Justice Kulkarni said. The court further said it had seen photographs of senior citizens and many wheelchair-bound persons waiting outside vaccination centres in long queues. "This was very heart-rending and not a good sight. They must be already suffering from so many ailments and now they face the risk of being infected with Covid-19 also (while) waiting in such crowds," the bench said. The court noted that senior judges of the HC had a meeting with Birhanmumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Chahal on Tuesday where he said the civic body was planning to start ward-wise vaccination camps from next week, which would have the capacity to inoculate 70,000 people per day. "If such camps are starting, then maybe senior citizens and people who cannot step out of their homes can be identified and the staff can go to their homes and vaccinate them," Chief Justice Datta suggested. The bench directed the BMC to file an affidavit stating details of the same and by when it would begin and what steps the corporation plans to take for the next few days with regard to the vaccination programme. The court noted that the availability of vaccines was also a problem. To this, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the court that the Covishield vaccine would be made available in a few days. The court also sought to know from the civic body about what measures it plans to take for the vaccination of homeless people, beggars and those living on streets. "They are also a significant population and are spreaders of the coronavirus, the HC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/could-have-saved-many-lives-with-door-to-door-vaccination-bombay-hc-985159.html
12-05-2021||National||India’s new Covid-19 cases have peaked, Cambridge tracker shows||By Jeanette Rodrigues, The number of new coronavirus infections in India has peaked, according to a new tracker developed by researchers at Cambridge Judge Business School and the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. “But there is substantial variation among states and union territories in their trajectories, with cases continuing to increase over the next two weeks in areas such as Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Tripura,” the researchers wrote.  The projections are based on reported numbers and are in line with those from some other experts, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s advisers. India reported a record 4,14,188 new cases on May 7 -- about 32% higher than the world’s previous peak reported by the US last year but with just a fraction of the testing and vast undercounting -- and official data suggest daily deaths could continue near the unprecedented 4,000-level. Health services remain overwhelmed and several hospitals face a shortage in oxygen supplies. With the state being criticized for failing to ensure critical needs including oxygen and medicines, businesses are suspending operations and offering employees time off “to heal.” A variant of the virus first identified in India appears to have higher rates of transmission and preliminary evidence suggests potentially reduced effectiveness of certain antibodies, the World Health Organization said in its latest report. The nation has reported more than 3,00,000 new infections for more than 20 straight days. The numbers are probably vastly undercounted, experts say. “A recent risk assessment of the situation in India conducted by WHO found that resurgence and acceleration of Covid-19 transmission in India had several potential contributing factors, including increase in the proportion of cases of SARS-CoV-2 variants with potentially increased transmissibility; several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing; and, underuse of and reduced adherence to public health and social measures,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-new-covid-19-cases-have-peaked-cambridge-tracker-shows-985164.html
12-05-2021||National||103-year-old Gandhian back home after battling Covid-19||Eminent Gandhian and freedom fighter H S Doreswamy has won the Covid-19 battle at the ripe old age of 103 and is returning home. "I developed symptoms five days ago but there were no complications as such. Yet, I decided to get admitted because I have respiratory problems. Now, I am getting discharged," the centenarian told PTI on Wednesday. According to him, he got admitted to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research (SJICSR), a government-owned autonomous hospital. Sources close to him said the director of the Jayadeva Institute Dr C N Manjunath, an eminent cardiologist and the son-in-law of former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, personally monitored the treatment for Doreswamy. Born on April 10, 1918, Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy took a plunge into the freedom struggle by taking part in the Quit India movement and was jailed for 14 months from 1943 to 1944. The Gandhian had also participated in the Mysuru Chalo movement to compel the Mysuru Maharaja to accede to the Indian State post-independence. A bachelor of science from the Central College, Bengaluru, he was into the teaching profession and tried his hand at journalism by bringing out a newspaper called Pauravani. Age did not diminish the spirit of Doreswamy as he was an active social activist taking part in various agitations till the Covid-19 broke out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/103-year-old-gandhian-back-home-after-battling-covid-19-985171.html
12-05-2021||National||Should we laugh or cry: Akhilesh Yadav on 'cow dung therapy' against coronavirus||Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday ridiculed the practice of people smearing cow dung and urine over their bodies, hoping to attain immunity against the coronavirus that has been raging across the country in a deadly second wave.  Sharing a video report by a news agency on Twitter, Yadav wrote, "'Should we laugh or cry."   Doctors have voiced concern after reports of 'cow dung therapy' emerged from Gujarat where a cow shelter, named Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Prathisthanam, is hosting as many as 15 persons on Sundays for the so called therapy. The bovine waste is later washed off with milk, an official at the shelter said. Experts say there was no evidence to say cow dung can offer protection to humans against the virus. In fact, they say such attempts could lead to many other infections, some of which can be fatal.  Some of the visitors at the cow shelter include even doctors and frontline workers.  As of Wednesday, India had over 37 lakh active cases of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/should-we-laugh-or-cry-akhilesh-yadav-on-cow-dung-therapy-against-coronavirus-985172.html
12-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Railways operate 100 Oxygen Express trains since April 19||The Indian Railways has successfully operated 100 Oxygen Express trains on Wednesday since April 19  when it started first such service and delivered nearly 6,260 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to different states. "100 Oxygen Expresses have completed their journey so far and brought relief to various states. It is the Indian Railways endeavour to deliver as much LMO as possible in the shortest time possible to the requesting states. So far, nearly 6,260 tonnes of LMO has been delivered in 396 tankers," the statement said. The Railways delivered 800 tonnes of LMO to the nation on Tuesday, it said. Till now, 407 tonnes of oxygen has been offloaded in Maharashtra, nearly 1,680 tonnes in Uttar Pradesh, 360 tonnes in Madhya Pradesh, 939 tonnes in Haryana, 123 tonnes in Telangana, 40 tonnes in Rajasthan, 120 tonnes in Karnataka, and more than 2,404 tonnes in Delhi, it said. The first Oxygen Express train to Uttarakhand with 120 tonnes of the life-saving gas from Tatanagar in Jharkhand and the first such train to Pune carrying more than 50 tonnes of oxygen from Angul in Odisha reached their destinations on Tuesday night, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-railways-operate-100-oxygen-express-trains-since-april-19-985177.html
12-05-2021||National||SII to raise monthly vaccine production to 10 crore doses by August, Bharat Biotech promises 7.8 crore||Amid multiple states reporting a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine, Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have submitted to the Centre their production plan for the next four months, informing they can ramp it up to 10 crore and 7.8 crore doses respectively by August, official sources said on Wednesday The sources said the Union Health Ministry and the office of Drugs Controller General of India had sought from both the firms their production plan for June, July, August and September. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield, being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, are currently being used in India's inoculation drive against coronavirus. Dr V Krishna Mohan, the Whole-time Director of Bharat Biotech, is learnt to have conveyed to the government that the production of Covaxin would be raised to 3.32 crore in July, and to 7.82 crore in August which will be maintained in September too. Similarly, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India, has communicated that the production of Covishield would be ramped up to 10 crore doses each in August and will be maintained at that level in September, the official sources said. “We confirm that the quantities mentioned will be fulfilled under all circumstances. Also, we are trying our best by utilising all our resources to increase our production capacity of Covishield. In view of this, the production during June and July may also increase by some quantity," Singh said in a communique to the health ministry. An inter-ministerial group, comprising Rajneesh Tingal, Joint Secretary in the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Dr Mandeep Bhandari, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health, which was constituted for facilitating the capacity augmentation of domestic vaccine manufacturing, had visited the production facilities of both the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech in April. Several states and UTs including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana have decided to opt for global tenders for procurement of vaccine shots with the domestic supply falling short to meet the rising demand. Meanwhile, Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said Bharat Biotech has informed the Delhi government that it cannot provide "additional" Covaxin doses to the national capital. The stock of Covaxin in Delhi has finished and as a result around 100 vaccination centres set up in 17 schools have been closed, he said. The Ministry of Science & Technology had said in a statement on April 16 that the production capacity of indigenously developed Covaxin will be doubled by May-June 2021 and then increased nearly 6-7 fold by July-August 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-to-raise-monthly-vaccine-production-to-10-crore-doses-by-august-bharat-biotech-promises-78-crore-985186.html
12-05-2021||National||Invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic production of Covid-19 vaccine: top Opposition leaders||Twelve top Opposition leaders on Wednesday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to procure Covid-19 vaccines centrally from domestic and global suppliers, invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic production and immediately start a free and universal vaccination across the country. Emphasising that the Covid-19 pandemic in our country has "assumed unprecedented dimensions of a human catastrophe", the leaders, including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, also demanded that the government stop the Central Vista construction and use the money allocated for the project for procuring oxygen and vaccines. The joint letter was also signed by former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda (JD-S), NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray (Shiv Sena), West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee (Trinamool Congress), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin (DMK), Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren (JMM), National Congress patriarch Farooq Abdullah, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, CPI General Secretary D Raja and Bihar Opposition Leader Tejaswi Yadav (RJD). This is the second joint letter by Opposition leaders to Modi in ten days. On May 2, the leaders had urged the Centre to focus all attention in ensuring the uninterrupted flow of Oxygen supplies to all hospitals and health centres across the country. "We have repeatedly in the past drawn your attention, independently and jointly, to the various measures that are absolutely imperative for the Central government to undertake and implement. Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy," they said.  The leaders also demanded that the government should release all money held in the unaccounted private trust fund, PM-CARES to buy more vaccines, Oxygen and medical equipment required. They also wanted that the jobless be given at least Rs 6,000 per month besides free distribution of foodgrains to the needy, saying that over one crore tonnes of foodgrains are currently rotting in central godowns. Referring to the farm protests, the leaders also demanded that the controversial agri laws should be repealed, claiming that it should be done to lakhs of "our annadatas (providers of food) becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people". "Though it has not been the practice of your office or government, we would appreciate a response to our suggestions in the interests of  India and our people," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/invoke-compulsory-licensing-to-expand-domestic-production-of-covid-19-vaccine-top-opposition-leaders-985189.html
12-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India sees highest rise in single-day deaths||India's ongoing battle with the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has raised many questions -- action taken, or the lack of it, by those in power; state of our crumbling healthcare infrastructure; the efficacy of vaccines. The latest question to be added to this list is over India's "real death toll".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-sees-highest-rise-in-single-day-deaths-985190.html
12-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Bombay HC says door-to-door vaccination could have saved many lives||In your evening news brief, Bombay HC says door-to-door vaccination could have saved many lives; UK PM Johnson announces Covid-19 public inquiry and the Karnataka government postpones K-CET 2021 due to Covid-19.  Here is the top news of May 12, 2021: The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said if the Union government had started door-to-door vaccination programme for senior citizens a few months back, then lives of many of them, including prominent persons, could have been saved. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni asked the Union government why not pro-actively start this programme when the lives of senior citizens, who are unable to go to vaccination centres to get inoculated, are concerned. Britain will hold a public inquiry into the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic next year, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday. "This process will place the state's actions under the microscope," he told parliament. The inquiry will have the backing of legislation giving it far-reaching powers, Johnson said. The Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) 2021 has been postponed keeping in mind the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The K-CET-2021, which was earlier scheduled to be held on July 7, 8 and 9 has been now deferred to August 28, 29 and 30, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) announced in a press statement on Wednesday. Source: DHNS/ Reuters/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bombay-hc-says-door-to-door-vaccination-could-have-saved-many-lives-985191.html
12-05-2021||National||SC judge Justice Chandrachud tested positive of Covid-19||A Supreme Court judge, Justice D Y Chandrachud has tested Covid-19 positive, prompting the top court to cancel its hearing on Thursday in a Suo Motu matter related to ensuring essential supplies during the pandemic. According to sources, the judge has isolated himself and recovering well. With this development, an important hearing on Thursday in a Suo Motu case related to the availability of vaccines and essential drugs during the Covid-19 pandemic would not take place. Justice Chandrachud has headed the bench, which also comprised Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat. Earlier also, a few judges of the top court had tested positive for the viral disease. The top court has been conducting virtual hearing since March, 2020. However, the staff of the top court's registry continued to physically attend the offices, albeit in a limited capacity, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-judge-justice-chandrachud-tested-positive-of-covid-19-985195.html
12-05-2021||National||SC asks Legislature to consider house arrest in post-conviction cases||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said courts can order house arrest of an accused in suitable cases and legislature can even think over using it in post conviction cases too, due to overcrowding of jails. The top court said courts in appropriate cases can order house arrest of accused based on the criteria like age, health condition and the antecedent. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and K M Joseph held that the number of days spent by a person under house arrest can be counted as period of custody for the purpose of filing charge sheet stipulated under the law.  However, the top court rejected plea by activist Gautam Navlakha for default bail in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. He contended 34 days of his house arrest should be computed for the NIA to file charge sheet under the maximum period of 90 days as mandated under Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The court found that in the instant case, Navlakha, along with co-accused, themselves have offered to remain under the house arrest.  In a 206-page judgement, Justice Joseph said, "'House arrests’ have been resorted to in India, in the context of law relating to ‘preventive detention’. What is however relevant is that preventive detention is also a form of forced detention. House arrest is also custody and forced detention." The court suggested the legislature can ponder over use of house arrest in post conviction cases as well, in view of problems of overcrowding in prisons and the cost to the state in maintaining prisons. "There is a tremendous amount of overcrowding in jails in India. Secondly, a very large sum (Rs 6,818.1 crore) was the budget on prisons. Both aspects are relevant in the context of the possibilities that house arrest offer," the court said. Delhi had the highest occupancy rate of 174.9 % followed by Uttar Pradesh which came second with 167.9 %. The court also held a period of transit remand authorising production of an accused before a jurisdictional court would be considered for computing the period of custody for the purpose of filing the charge sheet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-legislature-to-consider-house-arrest-in-post-conviction-cases-985197.html
12-05-2021||National||India’s strict rules on foreign aid snarl Covid-19 donations||Bake sales on Instagram. Online fundraisers involving Hollywood celebrities. Pledges of aid from companies like Mastercard and Google. A middle-of-the-night flight by a FedEx cargo plane transporting thousands of oxygen concentrators and masks. India’s devastating surge in Covid-19 cases has galvanized corporations, nonprofit organizations and individuals in the United States into raising millions of dollars and sending medical supplies to the nation of 1.4 billion. But a sweeping change to India’s decades-old law governing foreign donations is choking off foreign aid just when the country needs it desperately. The amendment, passed by the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September with little warning, limits international charities that donate to local nonprofits. The effect is far-reaching. Almost overnight, the amendment gutted a reliable source of funding for tens of thousands of nongovernmental organizations, or NGOs, that were already stretched thin by the pandemic. It prompted international charities to cut back giving that supported local efforts — and supplemented the government’s work — in fields such as health, education and gender. The amended law has forced newly formed charities to rush to find NGOs that can accept their donations without tripping legal wires. And it has smothered nonprofits in red tape: To receive foreign funds, charities must get affidavits and notary stamps and open bank accounts with the State Bank of India, which is government-owned. “Everyone was caught off guard, especially given the role that NGOs played in Covid relief last year,” said Nishant Pandey, chief executive of the American India Foundation, one of the largest US nonprofits working in India. “To come with an amendment like that in the middle of pandemic was problematic.” Pandey’s foundation, which has raised $23 million for Covid-19 relief efforts, wired $3 million to its affiliate on the ground on May 5 to build 2,500 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. A week later, the money still had not cleared, Pandey said. He attributed the holdup to the new bank requirement; funneling aid through a single bank during a time of overwhelming need can make the process frustratingly slow. The Modi government has said the amended law would strengthen compliance, improve monitoring and bring more accountability to an important source of funding in the nonprofit sector. The government has also encouraged international donors to contribute to official charities, including one called the PM Cares fund, which was founded last year and is controlled by Modi and other government leaders. The government, however, provides little clarity around how donations will be used. The Ministry of Home Affairs in New Delhi did not respond to calls or an emailed request for comment. The new regulations have “paralyzed” India’s nonprofit sector, a group of 13 NGOs said in a letter that was recently sent to various Indian and US government bodies and shared with The New York Times. The regulatory changes have forced NGOs to “divert scarce time, bandwidth and human resources” toward compliance rather than delivering relief during the pandemic, the letter said. The signatories — including the Center for Advancement of Philanthropy, the National Foundation for India and the Center for Social Impact and Philanthropy — sought a delay or relaxation of the new restrictions during the crisis. “The organizations best placed to respond to community needs at the grassroots in a timely, agile manner are unable to access these donors,” the letter said. India’s needs are pressing. It has suffered more than 22 million infections and over 236,000 deaths, but experts say the toll is severely undercounted. Medical oxygen is in short supply. Hospitals are turning away patients. Only a tiny fraction of the population has been vaccinated. Modi’s government has come under increasing criticism inside and outside the country over its handling of the second wave. Nongovernmental organizations help provide basic health services in India, picking up the slack in a country where government spending in that area totals 1.2% of gross domestic product. The United States spends close to 18% on health care. When the pandemic first surged in India, in March 2020, Modi asked NGOs to help provide supplies and protective gear and to spread the message on social distancing. At the same time, India’s relationship with NGOs — a catchall term for the roughly 3 million nonprofits working across the country, including religious, educational and advocacy groups — has occasionally been fraught. Various governments have tried to regulate the flow of foreign aid into the country. The original legislation, called the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, was passed in 1976 by the government of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi with the aim of limiting foreign involvement in domestic politics. In 2010, the law was amended to put some curbs on foreign investment. In 2015, a year after Modi came to power, his government tightened restrictions on some prominent charitable groups including the Ford Foundation, citing national security. In September, the Indian government raided the premises and froze the bank accounts of Amnesty International, forcing it to close its India operations. Amnesty said the actions were reprisals for criticizing India’s human rights record. The government said the organization had violated India’s rules on foreign funding. The ties between Indian NGOs and their foreign benefactors had long been symbiotic: Global foundations provided the money, while local nonprofits brought the expertise. They obtained a license under India’s law so that they could accept foreign funds, but relied largely on donations — called sub-grants — from foreign nonprofits that worked in India rather than soliciting grants directly from abroad. Last year, about a quarter of India’s NGO funding — roughly $2.2 billion — came from foreign donors, according to Bain & Co., the consulting firm. The September amendment, which was met with a backlash from India’s vocal community of activists, changed the landscape drastically. “It came into existence so quickly that there was not the kind of public input or eyes on it that could tell you why it came into existence,” said Ted Hart, the chief executive of Charities Aid Foundation of America, an Alexandria, Virginia, nonprofit. “It was a shock.” Charities Aid Foundation’s India counterpart was forced to relinquish a major part of its business model, which involved making grants to smaller nonprofits that could carry out the work, Hart said. Now, both entities are directly managing the programs they support rather than sub-granting, he said. “Regulations are happening,” Hart said. “We have to comply.” The foundation has recently provided over 75,000 K-N95 masks to state governments and is distributing dry rations to poor communities. Some nonprofits have resorted to creative workarounds. Direct Relief, a Santa Barbara, California, nonprofit, recently wired $2.5 million to United Way in Bangalore. The funds were raised by an Indian organization called Act Grants from mostly Silicon Valley donors. But Act Grants, which was set up by the country’s startup community during the pandemic, did not have government approval to receive foreign funds. Procuring it would have been time-consuming, said Thomas Tighe, the president and chief executive of Direct Relief, so his firm helped channel the money through United Way. “They had supporters but didn’t have a mechanism to get the funds over, so we said, ‘Let us help you do that,’” Tighe said. Direct Relief, which has long worked with FedEx, also partnered with the shipping giant to charter a Boeing 777F to transport supplies to India free of cost. The Indian diaspora of about 4 million people in the United States has swung into action. Some have given money to online platforms such as GiveIndia that route money to Indian nonprofits set up to receive foreign contributions. It took just a few days for Indiaspora, a nonprofit community of mainly Indian American donors, to raise around $5 million, including $1.6 million through an online fundraiser in Hollywood. “The approach we’ve taken is that the house is burning,” said Indiaspora’s founder, M.R. Rangaswami, a Silicon Valley investor and entrepreneur who lost his sister to COVID-19 in India. But his group is stepping carefully in giving that money away. It decided to stick with a small group of well-established nonprofits to which to direct its funding. “The way we’re handling our giving is that we’re making sure that the organizations are FCRA compliant,” Rangaswami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-strict-rules-on-foreign-aid-snarl-covid-19-donations-985198.html
12-05-2021||National||India may overtake China as most populous country sooner than UN projections of 2027: Report||Chinese demographers say India will become the world's most populous country earlier than the United Nations' projection of 2027, surpassing China where a steady drop in the birth rate has been recorded in the last few years. India is expected to add nearly 273 million people to its population between now and 2050, a UN report said in 2019, forecasting that the country will cross China as the world's most populous country by 2027. India will remain the most populated country through the end of the current century, the report said. In 2019, India had an estimated population of 1.37 billion and China 1.43 billion, according to the UN figures. The once-in-a-decade census released by China on Tuesday said China's population grew at its slowest pace to reach 1.41178 billion, keeping its status as the world's most populous country amid official projections that the numbers may decline from next year. The drop in population was expected to lead to labour shortages and a fall in consumption levels, impacting the world's second largest economy's future economic outlook. China’s state-run Global Times daily on Wednesday quoted Chinese demographers as saying that India’s population may overtake China’s well before 2027. With the Chinese birth fertility rates expected to drop in the coming years, demographers predicted that India with its much higher fertility rate will overtake China as the world's most populous country by 2023 or 2024, earlier than the last UN prediction in 2019, the daily’s report said. Lu Jiehua, professor of sociology at Peking University, said China’s population may peak by 2027 before it starts to decline. Some demographers believe the peak may come as soon as 2022. China is also facing the risk of falling into the trap of low fertility, as it recorded 12 million births in 2020, marking a drop for the fourth consecutive year. China's total fertility rate of women of childbearing age was 1.3, a relatively low level. The global fertility rate was 2.5 in 2019, as per the UN's World Fertility and Family Planning, 2020, report. Liang Jianzhang, an economics professor at Peking University, told the Global Times that China's fertility rate will continue to drop in the coming years, and may become the world's lowest. "According to the existing data, in the next 10 years, the number of women aged 22 to 35, which is the childbearing period, will drop by more than 30 per cent compared with the present data”, he said. “Without strong policy intervention, China's new-born population is likely to fall below 10 million in the next few years, and its fertility rate will be lower than Japan's, perhaps the lowest in the world," Liang predicted. In view of the demographic crisis, China stopped the one-child policy in 2016 and allowed two children, but it has had very limited impact to halt the declining population as few people came forward to have a second child. China is expected to lift all restrictions on the number of children that a couple can have.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-overtake-china-as-most-populous-country-sooner-than-un-projections-of-2027-report-985201.html
12-05-2021||National||Delhi HC to Centre: 'High time' to fix MRP of oxygen concentrators to stop black marketing||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday told the Centre to fix MRP of oxygen concentrators immediately, in a bid to stop black marketing and hoarding other Covid-19 related medical equipment. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said it is “high time” that the government fixed MRP of oxygen concentrators and medical equipment required for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The court made the suggestion while issuing contempt notices to all persons named in the FIRs lodged after May 2 in connection with hoarding and black marketing of medicines and equipment. The bench said the notices would be served to the persons though the SHO of the local police stations and directed the accused persons to appear before it virtually on May 19. The High Court said the notices would be served to those persons whose names were added in the 40 odd FIRs during investigation. On May 2, the High Court, in its order, had said individuals, booked for black marketing and hoarding should be brought before it and the it will take contempt of court action against them. Advocate Sanjeev Sagar submitted before the High Court that in the hearings in connection with these FIRs in the trial court, the prosecutor appeared to be unaware of May 2, order of this bench to book those who are involved in hoarding and black marketing. The bench was informed that a trial court had said that offences cannot be "made up" against such individuals. Amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao submitted that trial court cannot be blamed as MRP has not yet been fixed for a majority of the imported equipment. He further added that Centre should inform the High Court on the steps taken in the matter. Rao added that people can escape prosecution in the long run as no MRP has been fixed for the imported medicines and equipment involved in the treatment of Covid patients. Media reports in connection with the trial court hearing of the anticipatory bail filed by businessman Navneet Kalra in the alleged seizure of oxygen concentrators from his upscale restaurants, were cited before the High Court. The court was informed that the trial court had noted a law has to be made to regulate the prices and people cannot be penalised in a hurry. The court asked Sagar to prepare a note on the issue of price fixation, which can be circulated amongst public prosecutors and judicial officers in the subordinate courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-to-centre-high-time-to-fix-mrp-of-oxygen-concentrators-to-stop-black-marketing-985203.html
12-05-2021||National||Reserve 70% Covid-19 vaccines for second shot: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday asked the states to reserve 70% of their vaccine doses for the second shot while using the rest to administer the first dose as a significantly large population has received only the first dose of the two-dose regimen. "Of the 17 crore doses administered in the last 114 days, as many as 13.66 crore people have been administered the first dose, the second dose has been administered to only 3.86 crore. Hence it is very important that we first focus more on second dose vaccinations. States should not lose sight of those who are to get the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine," the minister said at a meeting with the health ministers of eight states and UTs. Even after nearly four months, the first targeted group of one crore healthcare workers did not receive the two doses of the vaccine. Just about 96 lakh of such workers got the first dose while nearly 66 lakh received both doses. Among the frontline workers whose vaccination began 15 days after the healthcare workers, 1.42 crore received the first dose, whereas 80 lakh received both. Talking to the ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Telangana, Vardhan asked them to ensure that healthcare workers and frontline workers were fully vaccinated as they belonged to the vulnerable categories. On vaccine availability, the minister said every month 50% of the vaccine doses of every manufacturer would be available for direct procurement by the state and private hospitals while the Centre would continue to procure its share of 50% of the vaccines and make it available to the states free of cost as was being done earlier. However, in an affidavit in the Supreme Court, the Central had earlier clarified that the Union government in consultation with the vaccine manufacturers would determine the pro-rata population of each state in the age group of 18-44 and each state would procure only that quantity so that there is no disparity in availability of vaccines between the states based on the difference in their bargaining power. Each state has been informed by the central government in writing about the number of vaccines it would receive for the month of May. “In addition, the production capacity of the vaccine manufacturers is also being ramped up. It will touch 8 crore doses by May 2021 and 9 crore in June 2021,” Vardhan said. The minister’s clarifications on Covid-19 vaccines come on a day when India recorded 3.48 lakh new cases in the past 24 hours (Health Ministry data released at 8 AM). The total number of active cases stands at 37 lakh for the past five consecutive days and there is a net decline in the number of active cases in the last 24 hours for the second consecutive day. The death count, however, remains on the higher side with a toll of 4,205 recorded in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra tops the list with 793 casualties followed by Karnataka (480) and Delhi (347).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reserve-70-covid-19-vaccines-for-second-shot-harsh-vardhan-985234.html
12-05-2021||National||Time for govt to understand there's more to life than image building: Anupam Kher on Covid-19 efforts||It is important to hold the government responsible for what is happening in the country in the wake of the second Covid wave, actor Anupam Kher said on Wednesday while asserting that public criticism towards authorities is "valid in lots of cases". The veteran actor, who is often viewed as being close to the Narendra Modi-led government, added that it was time for the government to understand that there's more to life than image building. In an interview to NDTV, the former FTII (Film and Television Institute of India) chairperson also said that while the government has "slipped" somewhere in its management of the health crisis, it was wrong for another political party to use the lapses to its advantage. Asked if the efforts of the government should have been more in providing relief right now than managing their own image and perception, the National Award-winning actor said it is important for the government to rise to the occasion and do things for the people who elected them. "I think the criticism is valid in lots of cases... Only an inhuman person will not get affected by the bodies floating (in the rivers)," Kher said in a reference to the scores of bodies found floating in the Ganga and other rivers, leading to suspicion that they might be those of Covid-19 patients. "But for another political party to use it for their gain, I think that is also not right. I think we should, as people, get angry. It is important to hold the government responsible for what's happening. Somewhere they have slipped. It is time for them to understand that there is much more to life than just image building maybe," he added. The Shimla-born actor said the people are facing a tough time today after having taken "undue advantage of Mother Nature". "There are problems, pain, anger, frustration, that's obvious... Lot of people say 'You are always so optimistic', but I say there's no other way out for me. Our lives haven't been smooth sailing. It is just that this situation has happened on a world level," Kher said. Terming the state of affairs in the country a "war-like" situation, the actor said people have the right to complain, get angry, and feel helpless, but it should not hold back on being compassionate towards fellow citizens. "How can you console someone who has lost a family member due to shortage of oxygen, medical facilities or beds? You can't. But that does not stop life... I lost a friend to corona. I'm still doing my job." The actor has started Project Heal India to extend support to the needy amid the pandemic. He has collaborated with Dr Ash Tewari, urology (chair) at New York's Mount Sinai Hospital, and Baba Kalyani, managing director of Bharat Forge Ltd. Together, they have sent medical equipment, including oxygen concentrators and ventilators, to various hospitals in cities such as Mumbai, Kanpur, Delhi, Pune, and Ghazipur. "I'm assisting humanity, people in pain. I'm helping myself by helping others. That's a natural process of feeling compassion towards others. People have gone out of their way to help each other in times of war, floods, drought, and earthquakes. It's not the first time people are helping each other," he added. Kher said they are also working towards mental health issues like anxiety, which has developed as a major problem amid the pandemic and lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-for-govt-to-understand-theres-more-to-life-than-image-building-anupam-kher-on-covid-19-efforts-985242.html
12-05-2021||National||States should resolve technical issues about ventilators with manufacturers: PM Modi||Amid Centre facing flak from Opposition-ruled states on the oxygen supply issue and 12 Opposition leaders writing a joint letter to him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a high-level meeting to review the availability and supply of oxygen and medicines. After getting a briefing about the status of procurement of oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders as well as the status of PSA plants being installed across the country, Modi said that states should be asked to operationalize ventilators in a time-bound manner and resolve technical and training issues with the help of the manufacturers. He was also briefed about the operations of oxygen rail and sorties by IAF planes. Modi expressed confidence that India has a very vibrant Pharma sector and the government's continued close coordination with them will ensure proper availability of all medicines. He also took stock of the situation on oxygen availability and supply in the country. It was discussed that the supply of oxygen is now more than three times the supply during the peak of the first wave. Modi was told that the government is monitoring the supply of drugs being used in the management of Covid as well Mucormycosis and the concerned departments are in regular touch with the manufacturers to enhance production and extend all kinds of help needed. The Prime Minister was also informed about the current production and stock of APIs for each such drug. It was discussed that states are being provided medicines in good quantities and the production of all drugs including Remdesivir have been ramped up significantly in the last few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-should-resolve-technical-issues-about-ventilators-with-manufacturers-pm-modi-985243.html
12-05-2021||National Politics||Govt celebrated 'Tika Utsav' but made no arrangements to provide Covid-19 vaccines: Priyanka Gandhi||Attacking the Centre, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the BJP-led government celebrated 'Tika Utsav' in April but allegedly did not make arrangements to provide vaccines against Covid-19 which led to a decline in vaccinations. The government had marked 'Tika Utsav', a vaccination drive between April 11 and 14, with an aim to inoculate the maximum number of eligible people against coronavirus amid a surge in cases. "India is the largest vaccine-producing country. The BJP government marked 'Tika Utsav' on April 12, but did not make arrangements for providing vaccines and in 30 days there was an 82 per cent decline in our vaccinations," Gandhi alleged, sharing graphics comparing the number of vaccinations on April 12 and May 9. भारत सबसे बड़ा वैक्सीन उत्पादक देश है। भाजपा सरकार ने 12 अप्रैल को टीका उत्सव मना दिया, लेकिन वैक्सीन की कोई व्यवस्था नहीं की और इन 30 दिनों में हमारे टीकाकरण में 82% की गिरावट आई। She also shared a graph showing that India was behind countries like the US, the UK, Turkey and France in terms of vaccinating citizens. "Modi ji went to vaccine factories, also got photographs clicked, but why did his government placed its first order for vaccine doses only in January 2021?" the Congress general secretary said. "The United States and other countries placed orders with Indian vaccine companies long ago. Who will take responsibility for this?" she said. जनवरी 2021 में क्यों किया? अमरीका और अन्य देशों ने हिंदुस्तानी वैक्सीन कंपनियों को बहुत पहले ऑर्डर दे रखा था। इसकी जिम्मेदारी कौन लेगा? घर-घर वैक्सीन पहुंचाए बिना कोरोना से लड़ना असम्भव है। 2/2 It is not possible to fight coronavirus without ensuring that the vaccination drive reaches every household, she asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-celebrated-tika-utsav-but-made-no-arrangements-to-provide-covid-19-vaccines-priyanka-gandhi-985067.html
12-05-2021||National Politics||Govt seeing opportunity in crisis by imposing GST on Covid vaccines, medicines: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday accused the government of seeing an opportunity in crisis by imposing GST on Covid vaccines and medicines and claimed that it has collected over Rs 6,000 crore from such taxes. Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh also claimed that had the government taken steps at the right time, the second wave of coronavirus would not have struck India and lives of people saved. He urged the government to stop spreading positivity and image-building and focus on the handling the pandemic and vaccinating all Indians to defeat the virus. "This is a government of 'opportunity in crisis' as it is finding opportunities by collecting taxes to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore on medicines, vaccines and oxygen concentrators," he said at an online press conference. "The government should not miss the last bus and should act now. Have a vaccine policy in which all Indians will be vaccinated in the next six months, then only we can defeat coronavirus," he also said. Vallabh alleged that while people are dying for want to vaccines, oxygen and life-saving drugs, the government is collecting GST of 5 per cent on vaccines, 12 per cent on Remdesivir, other medicines and oxygen concentrators, 18 per cent on sanitisers and 28 per cent on ambulances. "If GST is removed from these essential items, over Rs 6000 crore relief will be there by exempting items like Remdesivir, oxygen concentrator and vaccine. Is it not justified to exempt them," he said. The Congress leader said from the same Rs 6,000 crore we can buy 12 lakh oxygen concentrators, or 1.20 lakh new ventilators can be put in hospitals across the country. With this amount, one can also give vaccine doses to 20 crore people or set up another six AIIMS-like institutes can be set up in the country. "The handling of the current crisis by the BJP government at the Centre has been nothing short of abysmal. Sheer mismanagement, lax approach, no foresight, no preparedness, misplaced priorities and no empathy are the words you associate with the central government going by the way they have handled this current crisis. They have betrayed the trust bestowed by crores of Indians on them," he alleged. "Their arrogant, unapologetic attitude is adding on to the plight of crores of Indians every day, we read tragic news of people dying due to lack of oxygen, oxygen concentrators not available and people finding it extremely difficult to source Remdesivir and other key medicines," he further alleged. He said "sane voices" from around the country including various chief ministers have requested the government to reduce GST rates being levied on key medical items such as vaccines, oxygen concentrators and ventilators. "The government on the contrary is eyeing an opportunity to make money in the times of crisis. The finance minister has been making frail arguments justifying the current GST rates being levied," he said. "The Congress party, once again, demands that the central government exempt all Covid-19 related medical items from GST. Taxes are collected to provide benefits to citizens. When the citizens can benefit directly from GST exemption, why not pass the benefits to them directly," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-seeing-opportunity-in-crisis-by-imposing-gst-on-covid-vaccines-medicines-congress-985224.html
12-05-2021||National Politics||Covid-19: BJP in positivity overdrive; Congress cites crematoriums||The Congress on Friday ridiculed the central government asking it to go to a crematorium & tell grieving families to be "positive" as BJP government is fighting backlash on social media and growing criticism on its handling of the Covid crisis on the ground. The BJP appeared to be going on an overdrive for image correction and countering the Opposition campaign around the "failure" in handling the pandemic. This comes after Congress having hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his "thundering silence" amid repeated appeals of states on oxygen scarcity and vaccine shortage. The Opposition has been raising questions on the absence of senior ministers of the government from the forefront in fighting Covid-19. Central ministers have avoided any direct media interaction on the pandemic issue so far, asking journos to keep their questions for the health minister's briefing on the pandemic instead. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Tuesday, chairing a meeting on Covid with states, emphasised the need of keeping the public informed about the action taken by the Central and state governments and assured that no stone would be left unturned to provide timely oxygen supply and other medical resources to the hospitals. Information and Broadcasting Ministry and BJP at the government and the party level are now pushing the message of positivity, repeatedly trotting out how the Prime Minister was leading from the front on the issue, how two indigenous vaccines were developed by the country and it became Aatmanirbhar in manufacturing masks and other Covid-related equipment in this period. RSS has asked its volunteers to chip in to provide succor to Covid victims as well as counter the atmosphere of negativity, though an RSS insider said this was not about government but countering pessimism among people. Congress, however, took potshots at reports of a positivity drive. Rahul Gandhi said that the false assurance of 'positive thinking' is a joke on those families and health workers who have lost their loved ones and are suffering a crisis of oxygen, hospitals and medicines. Burying one's head in the sand is not positive - it is a betrayal of our citizens. Launching a hashtag-BJPsPRUnlimited campaign on Twitter, Congress put out pictures of patients struggling for treatment and oxygen. The Modi Govt & the RSS plan to start a "Positivity Unlimited" campaign to dispel criticism. What they fail to understand once again is that propaganda will never hide the truth of India's pain. "Go to a crematorium & tell grieving families to be "positive". Go to a hospital & tell overwhelmed doctors & nurses to be "positive". Hold a PC & tell journalists who have lost their colleagues to be "positive"," the Congress said. BJP leader Anurag Thakur, however, slammed what he called confused commentary of Congress while Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri put out tweets of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on January 4 and April 21 to allege the congress party’s narrative on the vaccines is getting increasingly bizarre by the day. "Mr Tharoor’s tweets of 2021 alone would qualify for a book on self-contradictions. After consistently airing doubts on vaccine efficacy, he has made a turnaround on 28 April 2021, but not without pointing out that he wasn’t wrong about being wrong! Imagine the situation if GoI had heeded his ‘advice’ & waited till two weeks back to start vaccine production," Puri said. BJP national general secretary of Goa, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu CT Ravi tweeted "Nehru Dynasty built just 2 AIIMS in 48 years. PM Vajpayee built 6 AIIMS in 6 years. PM @narendramodi  built 14 AIIMS in just 7 years. But, according to CONgress & its Ecosystem, India is managing #COVID19 pandemic only because the Dynasty built hospitals. Let this sink in ! !"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-bjp-in-positivity-overdrive-congress-cites-crematoriums-985240.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | Bodies of Covid-19 victims float on Ganga?||Locals at Chausa in Bihar’s Buxar district were left horrified on Monday after they saw numerous bodies floating in the mighty Ganga. Most of these bodies were suspected to be floating for the last 24 hours, and, as locals admit, could be of those who died due to coronavirus. The locals were scared that these bodies floating near their village could infect hundreds of villagers. When the Buxar SDO, KK Upadhyay, visited Mahadev Ghat at Chausa to take stock of the situation, he was informed by the villagers that the bodies could be from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-float-on-ganga-984982.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Cabinet Secy-chaired meeting dicusses Covid-19 situation, vaccination drive||The Centre on Tuesday stressed on prioritising those eligible for the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine and informed the states about the plan to install 1,213 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants within the next three months. The issues were discussed at a meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba with the states and UTs to review the Covid situation in the country. The plan to set up PSA inside public health facilities has been envisaged to meet the oxygen shortage. Shortage in oxygen supply has also led to multiple incidents of deaths of patients in hospitals across the country. These plants will be established in identified government hospitals at district headquarters of various States/UTs and the procurement will be done through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. At the meeting attended by Chief Secretaries and Health Secretaries of all states/UTs, besides Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Information and Broadcasting Amit Khare and other officials, Gauba expressed concern over the misinformation on the subject of vaccination and insisted that vaccination wastage should be minimised. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan informed the states to constitute dedicated teams to interact with the vaccine producers on a daily basis. He requested the states/UTs to prioritise in terms of testing, intensive action and local containment of the pandemic, strengthening of hospital infrastructure, augmentation of human resource and rational utilisation of oxygen. The Cabinet Secretary briefed the states on the action taken by the central government in controlling the effect of the Covid pandemic since last year and shared with them the work done by the Task Force and Expert Groups constituted by the Government of India on crucial matters like improvement and augmentation of health infrastructure, research & production of vaccines, the welfare of poor people, vaccination and supply of oxygen. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had constituted a Group of Experts for the development and production of vaccines in the country in April, 2020 and another Group of Experts later in August, 2020 for the distribution of vaccines. Gauba told the states that the priority groups were identified on the advice of experts and vaccination for these priority groups were supplied to the States by the Government of India free of cost. Thereafter, as per demand, other vulnerable groups were also included in the priority list. The central government also told the officials that all vaccines that are procured either by the central government or the state governments, are actually meant for the public in the states and there is no consumption at the central level. Amid a burgeoning demand from states for oxygen, Centre emphasised the need for rational utilisation of oxygen. Gauba also talked about the Centre's engagement with domestic industries for production and supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen since September, 2020 has helped in resolving various logistics issues of transport of LMO on land, air and water. Gauba assured that no stone would be left unturned to provide timely oxygen supply and other medical resources to the hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cabinet-secy-chaired-meeting-dicusses-covid-19-situation-vaccination-drive-984985.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Militants attack police with grenade in Jammu's Samba||Militants hurled a grenade at a police party in Nud area of Jammu's Samba district during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Reports said an explosion took place on late Tuesday night and later it was found that a grenade was hurled  towards police naka at Nud area on Samba-Mansar road. The grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road causing no damage. Immediately after the incident searches were launched in the area to nab the culprits, reports added. Inspector General of police (IGP) Jammu, Mukesh Singh confirmed the incident and said that a grenade was hurled on police naka but no damage was reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-attack-police-with-grenade-in-jammus-samba-985021.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Corpses found in Madhya Pradesh river while suspected Covid-dead flood the Ganga: Report||Corpses have been found floating in Madhya Pradesh’s Runj river after scores of bodies were washed up on the banks of the Ganga in neighbouring states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh amid a devastating second wave of Covid-19. Residents of Panna district alleged that four to five bodies were found in the tributary to the river Ken, which acts as a source of drinking water for cattle in the village. District collector Sanjay Kumar Mishra, however, said only two bodies had been dragged out of the river. One belonged to a 95-year-old villager and the other was a cancer patient, both from Nandanpur village. “The village sarpanch has told us that both bodies were immersed and not cremated, as part of a long-standing tradition. Both bodies were retrieved on Tuesday and buried safely," Mishra told the media. Bihar minister Sanjay Kumar Jha expressed similar sentiments, adding that a net has been placed in the Ganga in Ranighat, on the border with UP. Reports suggest that dozens of bodies have been buried on the banks of the cremation ghats in Ganga in Unnao district, which is next to Kanpur, owing to the shortage of firewood. There have also been reports and videos on social media of ambulances from both UP and Bihar dumping bodies into the river from a bridge near the Bihar border in Saran district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corpses-found-in-madhya-pradesh-river-while-suspected-covid-dead-flood-the-ganga-report-985025.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Bharat Biotech can't supply Covaxin to Delhi citing government directives: Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia||As the shortage of vaccines makes India's Covid-19 fight harder, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the national capital has exausted its stock of Covaxin and has had to shut centres owing to the shortage of Covaxin, which he alleged was not being supplied to the UT citing 'government directives'. Sisodia said that Covaxin manufacturers, Bharat Biotech, wrote to the Delhi government that they are making dispatches according to directives of concerned government officers and cannot provide to Delhi because they have to supply as per Central Government norms. "We had demanded 1.34 crore doses, 67 lakhs each of Covaxin and Covishield. Covaxin makers wrote to us yesterday that they can't provide it jabs. They wrote 'we're making dispatches as per directives of concerned government officials'. Obvious that these are central government official," Sisodia was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He urged the Centre to understand the severity of the situation, stop vaccine exports. The stock of Covaxin in Delhi has finished and as a result around 100 vaccination centres set up in 17 schools have been closed, he said. "The Covaxin manufacturer has in a letter said that it can not provide Delhi government vaccines due to unavailability, under instruction of concerned government official. It means that the central government is controlling supply of the vaccine," Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister said the Centre should stop the export of vaccines and share the vaccine formulae of the two manufacturers in the country with other companies for mass-scale production. He also requested the Union government to approve vaccines available in the international market for use in India, and direct states to vaccinate everyone within three months. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-biotech-cant-supply-covaxin-to-delhi-citing-government-directives-delhi-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-985029.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||AMU deaths: MP Danish Ali urges PM to send central team to help combat 'virus variant'||In the wake of deaths among Aligarh Muslim University teachers and staffers due to Covid-19 and Covid-like symptoms, Lok Sabha MP Kunwar Danish Ali on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to send a central team to the varsity to help fight the "virus variant" there. In a letter to Modi, the Bahujan Samaj Party leader said the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) is facing the most challenging time in a century due to the "dangerous explosion of a new variant" of Covid-19 that has devastated the campus. "Apart from being a Member of Parliament, I am also a Member of AMU Court, and a lot of AMU alumni from all over the country and abroad, are expressing their concern and urging to save this great educational institution which recently completed 100 years of its existence and you yourself addressed the centenary celebrations as a chief guest, in December, last year," Ali said in his letter to Modi. AMU needs an immediate visit by a central team from the Ministry of Health and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to assess the situation on the spot and take action without any further delay, he said. "AMU's Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College is not fully equipped to handle such a challenging situation due to shortage of medical equipment and other facilities," Ali said. "I, therefore, humbly request you to immediately send the central team to the AMU campus and provide medical assistance or allocate sufficient funds to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College to fight the new Covid variant and save precious lives in the campus and surrounding areas," he said. Alarmed by deaths in recent days among AMU teachers due to Covid-19 and Covid-like symptoms, Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor had written to the ICMR on Sunday, urging it to study if a particular coronavirus variant is circulating around the university campus. At least 35 serving and retired AMU faculty members have died from coronavirus and coronavirus-like symptoms so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amu-deaths-mp-danish-ali-urges-pm-to-send-central-team-to-help-combat-virus-variant-985062.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh doctors to consult with US counterparts to tackle black fungus: Minister||Government doctors in Madhya Pradesh will hold consultations with their counterparts in the US on how to deal with cases of mucormycosis fungal infection among Covid-19 patients, state Medical Education Minister Vishwash Kailash Sarang said on Wednesday. In some cases of mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, a rare but serious infection, the affected part has to be surgically removed, Sarang told PTI. According to health experts, the symptoms of mucormycosis include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision. A number of cases of the fungal infection among Covid-19 patients have also been reported in neighbouring Maharashtra and Gujarat. "A team of doctors from the government-run Hamidia Hospital in Bhopal will interact with their counterparts in the US via video conference to discuss steps to check the spread of the fungal infection," Sarang said. The minister held a meeting with officials of various government and private medical colleges on Tuesday evening and it was suggested that a protocol be laid down for the treatment of the fungal infection. They also discussed ways to deal with the possible third wave of coronavirus. Sarang said US-based infectious diseases expert Dr Manoj Jain, who hails from Madhya Pradesh, also took part in the meeting and gave suggestions on how to check the spread of Covid-19, its treatment protocol and focus areas during the third wave. Health experts recently warned of a third wave of the coronavirus infection in the country, which could also affect children. Sarang said during the meeting, they discussed arrangements to be made to check the viral infection among children and to ensure availability of necessary medicines and resources to deal with the problem. They also discussed steps to raise the number of beds in the Intensive Care Unit (ICUs) and High Dependency Units (HDUs) for Covid-19 patients and ways to develop an effective IT solution to monitor patients under home isolation, he said. Discussions were also held on preparing a training module for final year students of medical, dental and nursing streams to rope them for treating Covid-19 patients, he said. It was also suggested to train patients who have recovered from Covid-19, NCC personnel and NGO members and deploy them for dealing with the coronavirus situation during the third wave, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-doctors-to-consult-with-us-counterparts-to-tackle-black-fungus-minister-985063.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Cases down, tests on decline, deaths still on higher side: Delhi’s war against Covid-19||Delhi in mid-May is not what it was two weeks ago when people were scrambling for a hospital bed or oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 patients. The cases and positivity rate have come down with the number of tests sliding by around 20-25,000, but deaths continue to hover over 300 a day while the city government has opened a battle front with the Centre over supply of vaccines. The national capital is still in lockdown, which was imposed on April 20, but this week it was made more stringent with the shutting down of Metro services and banning marriage functions in public places like banquet halls with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday saying that the time was not ripe to lift the restrictions, though cases have come down. On Tuesday, the capital recorded 13,287 cases out of 78,035 tests with a positivity rate of 17.03%, the lowest since April 16 when the positivity rate was 19.69% and 98,957 tests were done. The capital’s test positivity rate had risen since then and had touched 36.24% on April 22. Delhi had been conducting over 80-90,000 tests daily till April 20 but has since then decreased – in the past 21 days, the number of tests crossed 80,000 mark only twice, while the last few days has seen the number of tests between 60-70,000. Since April 1, the highest number of tests were conducted on April 11 when 1,14,288 samples were tested. While the cases are decreasing, one of the concerns is the number of deaths. While on April 1, there were only nine deaths, it rose to 448 on May 3, the highest for a single day, and since April 22, the casualties have never gone below 300-mark, except for May 9. The first three days of May saw over 400 deaths. Kejriwal said that Covid-is 19 reducing in Delhi and the “second wave is also subsiding” but added that one needs to maintain caution, even as the oxygen supply to the capital has almost stabilised after a bitter fight with the Centre. However, health economist Rijo M John, who is studying Covid-19 cases trend, is concerned about the situation. “Indeed Delhi's cases started declining only after the daily testing started declining. However, the average daily test positivity rates have also begun to decrease in the past few days suggesting that the new cases may be actually on the decline. However, it is a bit early to confidently say it has reached a peak. One could have said it with confidence only if the Delhi government had not decreased daily testing” John told DH. Bhramar Mukherjee, Professor of Epidemiology in University of Michigan School of Public Health, tweeted on May 9 that the curve for Delhi shows public health interventions work and they save lives. "We have a lot more work to do, people are still suffering and in tremendous pain, but after Maharashtra, Delhi also looking hopeful. However, we cannot declare premature victory, never again!" she said. While the hospital infrastructure is being ramped up, the Delhi government has also flagged concerns about the supply of vaccines to the capital, saying it is inadequate and accusing the Centre of exporting it when there is huge demand. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said it’s stock for Covaxin, one of the vaccines, has finished and it had to close down around 100 vaccination centres in 17 locations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cases-down-tests-on-decline-deaths-still-on-higher-side-delhi-s-war-against-covid-19-985110.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Video of rape victim’s father, brother being beaten goes viral, case registered||A case was registered on Wednesday against eight people, who could be seen thrashing a rape victim's father and brother with sticks in a viral video, police said here, adding one of the accused was arrested. The video shows the two being attacked on the banks of Yamuna river. The incident occurred on Tuesday evening at Balkeshwar Ghat under Kamla Nagar Police Station, police said. The victims, aged 45 and 20, were being treated at Sarojani Naidu Medical College and Hospital. Two of the accused in the viral video were identified as Rahul and Jogendra, who are named in the rape case of the 45-year-old's daughter. They are out on bail, police said, adding the rape survivor was a minor when she was assaulted. The accused attacked her father and brother after they refused to accept a compromise, they added. Superintendent of Police, Agra, Botre Rohan Pramod told reporters that the arrested accused was identified as Vikas Gautam and efforts were on to nab the other seven.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-of-rape-victim-s-father-brother-being-beaten-goes-viral-case-registered-985126.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Kashmir to celebrate fourth consecutive Eid amid restrictions||As Kashmir is readying to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr, this will be the fourth festival in the Valley which has come amid severe restrictions. There are two major Eids in the Islamic calendar per year -- Eid ul-Fitr, which is celebrated after a month of fasting from dawn to dusk, and Eid al-Adha, which comes two months and 10 days later. Eid ul-Fitr is also known as Meethi Eid in India and Eid-ul-Adha as Bakr-Eid. The first Eid to be celebrated amid strict restrictions came on August 12, 2019, just a week after the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370. People had to celebrate Bakr Eid that year amid curfew, unprecedented communication blockade, uncertainty and confusion. People could hardly do any Eid shopping and purchase sacrificial animals. Unconfirmed reports said only 5% people could perform ‘qurbani’ (a Muslim tradition to sacrifice an animal on Bakr-Eid) that year. And fearing law and order problems, authorities did not allow big Eid prayer congregations anywhere in Kashmir that time. The second Eid held amid restrictions was Eid ul-Fitr, which was celebrated on May 24 last year, amid strict Covid-19 lockdown. Authorities didn’t give any relaxation in restrictions to allow people to do Eid shopping. And the third Muslim festival amid Covid-19 lockdown was Bakr Eid on July 31 last year. Though authorities in Kashmir gave a three-day relaxation in Covid lockdown so that people could make purchases, especially of sacrificial animals, the usual hustle and bustle was missing in the markets due to Covid-19 scare and ensuing liquidity crunch. Like previous three Eids, this time too, the festival has arrived amid tough restrictions due to the resurgence of Covid pandemic. Restrictions were imposed across Jammu and Kashmir from April 29 to stem the rising positive cases and deaths related to Covid. There is no festive atmosphere in the air as Kashmir is all set to have low-key Eid-ul-Fitr celebrations either on May 13 or May 14. The administration has barred the holding of big Eid congregations in view of the spike in coronavirus cases. “We have gone through successive lockdowns during the past two years. The government should focus on implementing Covid-related standard operating procedures instead of shutting down markets to control the pandemic,” a shopkeeper in city center Lal Chowk, told DH. He rued that the government has no plan in place for shopkeepers and small-time traders and they have been left to fend for themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-to-celebrate-fourth-consecutive-eid-amid-restrictions-985154.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh minister bats for 'yagya' to get rid of Covid-19 pandemic||Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur has said 'yagya' is an ancient method of purifying the environment and claimed such a practice is being followed since ages to get rid of pandemics. Amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, Thakur on Tuesday appealed to people to perform "havan" (a fire ritual) at one time. "We appeal to all to perform yagya and offer aahuti (oblation) and purify the environment because performing this sacred ritual to eliminate pandemics has been a tradition since ages," she told reporters. She claimed 'yagya' is a practice to purify the environment and it is "not bigotry or ritualism". "So, let us all offer two aahutis each and purify the environment. The third wave of Covid-19 will not be able to touch our country," she said. Thakur also said the state government was aware of the threat of a third wave of the viral infection. It is being said that this wave will affect children. The state is making full preparations to curb it, she added. "I am confident that we will be able to handle third wave of the pandemic properly because no problem can stay if we make joint efforts with good intentions. We pray to God that this wave may not cause hardships to people," she said. Earlier, on March 7, Thakur had stressed on the need for adopting a Vedic lifestyle for protection against coronavirus, and claimed that "havan" of a cow dung cake can keep a house sanitised for 12 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-minister-bats-for-yagya-to-get-rid-of-covid-19-pandemic-985170.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 mortality continues to surge in J&K as 65 deaths reported||For the second consecutive day, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 65 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday which is the highest ever fatalities on a single day. Official data shows that out of 65 Covid patients who died in the last 24 hours in the Union Territory (UT), 46 were from Jammu region and 19 from Kashmir valley. The UT also reported 4,509 cases during the day, taking the total tally to 2,29,407 while total death toll has reached 2,912. Out of the total Covid cases reported today, Kashmir clocked 2,644 infection cases and Jammu 1,708. The mortality rate due to Covid has witnessed an upsurge in the recent weeks with most of the deaths being reported from the Jammu division. In the last 12 days, J&K has reported over 639 deaths. Srinagar again topped the list of major contributors in J&K. The summer capital reported 863 infection cases, taking the total number of Covid cases reported in the district to 55,544, of which 44,150 have recovered while 10,755 are active. The total number of active cases in the UT is 51,542, of which Kashmir has 33,104 and Jammu division 18,438. J&K administration has designated 5,090 beds in 25 health institutions across J&K and currently 3,159 Covid patients are admitted, 2,737 are on oxygen support and 135 on ventilator support. However the number of recoveries has shown a gradual increase in the UT. On Wednesday 3,603 persons recovered from Covid-19 taking the total number of recoveries recorded so far in J&K to 1,74,953. On Tuesday 3,537 patients had recovered from Covid-19. The big jumps in cases and mortality continues amid lockdown across J&K since April 29. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is over 18,000 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 1.25 crore. The national average per million population so far is over 16,800. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. The coronavirus outbreak was reported in Jammu and Kashmir on 7 March 2020, when two persons tested positive for the deadly infection. The peak of the first wave was September 12 when 1,698 cases were reported. Meanwhile, a day after several areas in Kashmir witnessed a huge rush of people ahead of Eid festival, curfew-like restrictions were imposed in the valley on Wednesday as authorities enforced the lockdown put in place to contain an alarming surge in coronavirus cases in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-mortality-continues-to-surge-in-jk-as-65-deaths-reported-985185.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Kashmir DM beats up women, elderly for defying Covid curfew||An additional district magistrate in Kashmir was Wednesday seen beating up people, including women and elderly, in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district for defying Corona curfew, forcing the administration to order an enquiry. In a video that has gone viral on social media, additional district magistrate, Baramulla, Mohammad Ahsan Mir is seen beating people randomly including a senior bank manager, and a young woman in the midst of a market in the northern district without prior warning. After trying his stick on a middle-aged man, citing “lockdown”, the one-minute odd video shows, Mir then roughing up a man pulling a handcart nearby. The man leaves the cart to escape the sudden beating. The ADC doesn’t even spare a middle-aged woman, the next victim, who also gets a strike or two of the stick. Fortunately, she is shielded by a man nearby. The incident evoked a massive outrage on social media with netizens demanding strict action against the erring officer. While some called for his sacking, others wondered “if he doesn’t have a mother, wife or daughter at home.” Taking cognizance of the incident, Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir ordered the concerned Deputy Commissioner to hold an enquiry. Deputy Commissioner, Baramulla, Bhupinder Kumar said he has taken cognisance of the matter. “The issue shall be thoroughly enquired into and necessary action taken,” he assured. In a similar incident, a senior medico was allegedly manhandled by police in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. The Medical Superintendent of District Hospital, Shopian in a complaint to the concerned Deputy Commissioner, has brought the issue to the light. “….. one of our doctors namely  Dr Ehsan ul Haq (MD Pediatric) while travelling from his residence to the hospital to attend his routine duty was stopped by the JK police even after showing the identity card and was manhandled and placed under police custody at police station without any provocation/ reason at least for four hours with criminals,” the complaint reads. It further says that the act of the police towards doctors has demoralised the medical fraternity amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Due to the absence of the doctor who was put under police custody, patient care suffered a lot today at the hospital,” the complaint added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-dm-beats-up-women-elderly-for-defying-covid-curfew-985208.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Government cannot turn blind eye to overcharging of Covid-19 patients by private hospitals: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said the Delhi government cannot "turn a blind eye" to overcharging of Covid-19 patients by private hospitals in the city and directed it to hold a meeting of all stakeholders to arrive at a "realistic" amount so that people are not fleeced. "We want this taken up on top priority," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said and also asked the Delhi government why it had not done anything till now to address this "serious" issue. "Merely because there were no complaints, the situation on the ground cannot be ignored. We agree (with the petitioner) that you cannot turn a blind eye to it. "We had asked you to again speak to all stakeholders. That exercise should have been done. You could have seen the condition on the ground, spoken to all the stakeholders and then arrived at a reasonable figure so that people are not fleeced," the bench said. The court also said that once they arrive at a figure, then it has to be enforced by all means. It asked the Delhi government why it has not done anything till now despite the court "repeatedly" telling them to do something on this issue. It referred to a hospital bill, placed on record by petitioner and lawyer Abhay Gupta, in which the ICU package price was Rs 30,000, but the charges for Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machine, oxygen, monitors, etc were additional and to the tune of thousands of rupees per day. The bench said that prima facie the BiPAP machine, monitors, oxygen, etc all ought to have been part of the ICU package and therefore, the issue raised by Gupta of overcharging was "serious". It said that the Delhi government was right to say that the private hospitals have to be taken along, during the pandemic, "but that does not mean they can be so exorbitant". Senior advocate and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao told the court that according to his research, a whole bunch of private hospitals were refusing to admit patients, even if they had cashless insurance cover, unless they deposit Rs 50,000. "Some of these practices have to stop," he said. The court said that the government can have different slabs based on services offered so that there is transparency and each hospital does not charge whatever they feel like. It said it does not want to pass an order saying that all private hospitals and nursing homes have to adhere to the rates fixed by the Delhi government last year as then they would be "up in arms" and may not provide services. "But then you should come up with a realistic figure," the bench said to the government. The court directed the Health Secretary to convene a meeting of a cross section of all hospitals and their associations as well as the amicus curiae to discuss the aspect of uniformity and rationalisation of charges levied by private hospitals and nursing homes. The bench said based on what transpired in the meeting, the Delhi government shall issue an order on the amounts to be charged by private healthcare institutions for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The Delhi government told the court that it will try to arrive at a formula which would satisfy all the stakeholders and would also benefit the citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-cannot-turn-blind-eye-to-overcharging-of-covid-19-patients-by-private-hospitals-delhi-high-court-985232.html
12-05-2021||North and Central||Govt can't swing like pendulum, sense of equilibrium should be there: High Court to Delhi government||A government cannot swing like a pendulum from one side to the other and there has to be a sense of equilibrium, the Delhi High Court told the Delhi government when it said it was sometimes forced to recall its actions as a result of judicial intervention. The Delhi government, during hearing of a plea regarding overcharging by private hospitals, said that it can initiate audits of these institutions and also take strict action, but the court should not stay the same if any of them "come crying".  The government said that recently it had issued an order that nursing homes without fire clearances can only treat patients on the ground and first floors and the same had to be withdrawn when the matter reached court. To this, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said, "There has to be a sense of equilibrium. The government cannot swing like a pendulum from one side to another." Explaining what it meant by the observation, the bench said when the nursing homes issue had come before it, the court had said that the government had allowed them to function till now and in the midst of the pandemic if they were asked to let go of their patients, especially those suffering from Covid-19, such people would have nowhere to go as beds were scarce. The court said that all it had told the Delhi government was that it could have asked the nursing homes not to admit patients on second and above floors once the patients already there were discharged with a clean bill of health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-cant-swing-like-pendulum-sense-of-equilibrium-should-be-there-high-court-to-delhi-government-985237.html
12-05-2021||Opinion||BJP could see Rajya Sabha numbers decline by July 2022||Comprehensively winning the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, barely nine months away from now, is important for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not only in the context of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls but to keep its numbers in the Rajya Sabha robust. The BJP’s failure to win West Bengal, its lack of success to improve by any significant margin its numbers in the other states that went to the polls in April, and its string of poor shows in most Assembly polls held since December 2018 have meant its numbers in the Rajya Sabha could start declining by July 2022. The BJP would need a repeat of its 2017 Assembly performance in UP, when it won 325 of the 403-seats, to arrest the dwindling of its Rajya Sabha numbers. At the current juncture, this looks like a difficult task because of the Covid19 spread in the state and the anti-farm laws protests. The party’s UP leadership has spent the last one week trying to dispel the perception that it was jolted in the recently concluded panchayat polls in the state. From April to August 2022, as many as 75 MPs – nearly a fourth of Rajya Sabha’s 245 MPs – will retire. MPs will retire from several states where the BJP was the ruling party but performed poorly since the end of 2018, including in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, and Jharkhand. Of the 75-seats, 11 are from UP, all of which are to be filled by July of next year, that is after three months of the Assembly polls in UP. Of the 11, BJP currently holds five seats. UP sends 31 MPs to the Rajya Sabha. Even now, the BJP’s dominance of the Lok Sabha conceals its lack of majority in the Rajya Sabha. The BJP is at 95 MPs in the Upper House, two dozen short of the majority mark of 123 in a House of 245 MPs. Of the BJP’s 95, 22 MPs, or more than a fifth, are from UP. Even the BJP’s 95 was reached by getting eight of the 12 nominated members in the Rajya Sabha to join its ranks and engineering defections in the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Samajwadi Party. The exit of old allies, like the Shiromani Akali Dal and Shiv Sena, in the last two years has chipped away at the numbers of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which the BJP leads. The AIADMK’s loss in Tamil Nadu will further decrease NDA’s numbers. A small silver lining for the BJP is the seven current vacancies (apart from the 75 vacancies that will come up between April to August next year) that are to be filled immediately. These include a vacancy from Bihar and two nominated members, which could help BJP inch closer to the century mark. But that number might turn out to be its best until the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Of the 75-seats, four seats will fall vacant in Andhra Pradesh in April 2022. Thanks to poaching the TDP, the BJP currently holds three of the four. Given the YSR Congress Party’s brute majority of 151-seats in a 175-member Andhra Assembly, all four are likely to be won by that party. Of the four seats from Rajasthan to fall vacant in July 2022, the BJP currently holds all four. The Congress majority in the Rajasthan Assembly could redress the situation in its favour with it winning at least three of the four. Two vacancies will arise from Jharkhand, both of which are currently with the BJP. Here again, the BJP could lose at least one seat to the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-Congress alliance. Of the two seats to fall vacant from Chhattisgarh, the BJP currently holds one, which it might lose given the Congress numbers in the Chhattisgarh Assembly. It seems unlikely that either the BJP or its former ally, the SAD, might turn the corner in the Punjab Assembly polls in February 2022, and the BJP could lose the lone Rajya Sabha seat that it holds from that state. Compared to its losses, the BJP’s gains will be marginal. It is likely to win the lone vacancies to arise from Himachal Pradesh and Tripura, and one of the two vacancies from Assam. Bihar and Maharashtra numbers are unlikely to change, and spoils set to be shared equally, given the near stalemate in the strengths of the respective alliances in the two states.Even the BJP’s allies are likely to suffer. Of the six seats to fall vacant from Tamil Nadu, AIADMK, an ally of the BJP, currently holds four and could lose at least half of these to the DMK. Unless it performs a miracle in UP, the BJP’s Rajya Sabha numbers are set to decline in the remainder of its current term at the Centre, which would make it difficult for the government to push through contentious constitution amendment bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-could-see-rajya-sabha-numbers-decline-by-july-2022-984979.html
12-05-2021||Panorama||Why you should make a will||The Google trend of search terms ‘death’, ‘making a will’ in India has shown a recent increase. The proportion of the elderly population is approximately 10% in India. With the property prices rising along with the need for inter-generational transfer, especially from the ‘Baby Boomer’ generation, people have a choice between making a will or division of property. Conflict among siblings that leads to civil court proceedings are not uncommon and a report suggests that pending property dispute cases in court may run in millions. This issue could be reduced by amicable division of property or through making a will.  Each individual has his own reason for making a will and deciding its timing. Some people may say they are old or diagnosed with a particular illness, or after their children start to live separately. Some people prefer to divide the property when they are around. After crossing 60 years of age, there is a sudden dip in income generation and even with financial planning, they may have to budget and balance their income and expenditure. Since longevity is increasing and healthcare costs rising, many of the elderly need to revise their financial planning, in comparison to the individuals from the previous generation.  A study by the Belgaum community medicine team estimated the prevalence of cognitive impairment is close to 9% in the urban elderly population. Therefore, the question does come up whether an older adult has the capacity to make a will, which is termed testamentary capacity. Ageing alone cannot be a criterion to suspect incompetence to make a will, as it will be discriminatory towards the elderly. Again, a likelihood or presence of a dementia diagnosis or any other neuropsychiatric condition on its own, does not make that person incapable of making a will but could indicate the need for assessment of their testamentary capacity.  Unable to manage their finances and a lack of awareness of their incapability to manage finances, can itself be one of the early features of dementia. There can be a risk of financial exploitation also. Even in mild cognitive impairment, some researchers found discrete inability to manage finances. The capacity to manage finances and the capacity to make a will are two separate issues, and so must have assessments separately.  Knowledge of the extent of their property, understanding what making a will means, knowledge of potential legal beneficiaries and ability to foresee consequences after the execution of the contents of the will are some of the key core features examined, to see if the person has the testamentary capacity to make a will. The testator must not be under undue influence from anyone and is making the will voluntarily. Psychiatrists or neurologists may act on a request from an advocate to examine the testamentary capacity and could certify.  Senior Citizens could seek advice from a legal aid clinic in the outpatient campus of NIMHANS, Bangalore where advice is offered by lawyers representing the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. If any senior citizen feels pressure from anyone, they could seek assistance from elder helplines either locally or if in Bangalore urban, by calling 1090.  The elderly mostly rely on their pension or savings. Making a will for the purpose of planning financial security for their spouse is also important. Succession will happen, as death is inevitable. In the midst of Covid, with worries over their own longevity, some senior citizens could be opting to make a will. There is always scope for minor amendments or changing the will later. The will comes into action only after death. One cannot make a will after found to have testamentary incapacity particularly due to an irreversible condition. It is best to seek consultation with a legal expert and proceed. (The writer is a psychiatrist with expertise in Geriatric Psychiatry and Dementia)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-you-should-make-a-will-984949.html
12-05-2021||Panorama||The time is now||These are unprecedented times. Almost everyone has a story to tell about a friend or relative who has been claimed by this pandemic. Which makes it so very important to not put off until tomorrow what you can do today. The time is truly now for anything on your to-do list. My late father used to remind the family of what his father taught him – that every day is a good day and that it was God-given. Whether it is quality time that needs to be carved out for loved ones despite the routine demands of the day or the daily sanity fix--communing with God, nature, the universe, the dream project that needs to be started and completed,do it now. Time not only flies, it is among the three things that do not return besides a spoken word and a lost opportunity. So, take that crucial, elusive first step. True we all came in with a prescribed time span but have you noticed how now all of a sudden there is a sense of urgency.? Leaving aside the pandemic and ridding ourselves of any paranoia, if we begin to work with a today is the best day or rather today may be all that we have approach, we will certainly accomplish more. About three weeks ago an elderly friend got interested in the Srimad Bhagavatam thanks to one of the stories I had narrated from this sacred book. I wanted to gift a copy to him and quickly organised a purchase. A few days after receiving the book, the friend called to say that he had crossed nine pages and was planning on doing nine a day and would come back once he had done so. The day after that call, his cold got worse and after a week-long battle with Covid in hospital he passed on. I later realised that the purana which opens with King Parikshit wanting to know what he should read and chant in the seven days before the curse that was to kill him took effect, was in fact narrated the Bhagavatam. My consolation was that my gift was sent in the nick of time though I had neither the context in mind nor imagined that things would pan out the way they did.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-time-is-now-984950.html
12-05-2021||Panorama||Is India less corrupt or has the nature of corruption changed?||Going by the two available international corruption rankings of countries, India has become less corrupt, at least over the recent period 2013-20. In terms of TRACE (an international business association) index, which measures ‘Bribery Risk’ as perceived by foreign investors while doing business in 194 countries, India’s rank has hugely improved from 185 in 2014 to 77 in 2020. The Transparency International (TI) Corruption Perception Index, which measures corruption as perceived by domestic businesspeople in 180 countries, placed India at 94th rank in 2013 and at 86th rank in 2020, which is also an improvement. In terms of absolute measure of corruption, too, India has become less corrupt. For India, TRACE absolute score has vastly improved from 45 in 2014 to 80 in 2020 while TI absolute score has shown a small improvement from 36 in 2013 to 40 in 2020. (Note: here higher score implies less corruption.) Both the above indexes gather the perceptions from MNCs and big domestic businesses. Thus, the perceptions of small and medium enterprises are not captured in these measures. Big businesses often strike deals with top-level politicians and bureaucrats. The small enterprises, on the other hand, have to deal with lower-level politicians, bureaucrats and inspectors who are more in number. Hence, for them, the scope for harassment/corruption is greater and recurring. But what about the perception of ordinary citizens? In several respects, the situation has definitely improved over the years. For example, the days when ordinary taxpayers had to arrange a tout to bribe the tax officials to complete the income tax assessment and get refunds are gone. The same was the case for reservation of berths in trains. The use of technology, like computerisation in income tax department and rail reservations, made this possible. But then, the nature of corruption is changing over time. In the days of licence-permit regime with shortages, rationing and price controls, the scope for corruption was enormous. People had to wait for years to get things like a HMT watch, a Bajaj Chetak scooter or a Maruti 800 car or a BSNL landline telephone or an LPG gas connection. Bribing to jump the queue was commonplace. Alongside, a thriving black market developed as people lucky to get the permits found it profitable to sell those coveted permits/goods to others willing to pay a premium price. Smuggling and black-marketing were rampant in the markets for foreign exchange and imported goods. These types of corruption have mostly vanished with the abolition of industrial licensing, entry of new players with corresponding increase in supply of goods, abundance of foreign exchange reserves, abolition of import quotas and sharp reduction in import duties. Following the big spectrum and coal scams, the Supreme Court ruling that all sales/leases of natural resources will have to go through open competitive auctions has put an end to this type of corruption. But illegal mining and sale of natural resources (coal, sand, wood, other mineral and forest products), in collusion with political leaders and local administrations, continues unabated. Some politicians have found new ways of illegal self-enrichment. These are popularly known as ‘Syndicate Raj’ (meaning anyone building a house is forced to buy either sub-standard building materials at more than market prices from people belonging to the ruling party) and ‘cut-money’ (meaning, the recipients of various government welfare schemes have to share a part of the benefits with local political bosses – otherwise their names will not figure in the list of beneficiaries). With the proliferation of government welfare schemes, the scope for such types of corruption has increased over time. There are many allegations of corruption in allocation of seats in educational institutions, beds in government hospitals and appointment/posting/transfer of government teachers and officials, including even IAS and IPS cadres.       The politician-police nexus has also given rise to another kind of extortion racket. Under this ‘hafta’ system, all businesses and operators – ranging from the small street-side tea vendors, hawkers, bars, restaurants to rich business houses – have to make a monthly payment which is shared between the police and the political leaders. Otherwise, they will face harassment for violating some law/regulation. Illegal trade in banned substances like drugs, arms and gutka also flourish the same way. That it is a huge money-spinner is coming to the surface by the unfolding Vaze extortion scam in Mumbai. The buying of MLAs and MPs (known as ‘horse-trading’) is a new type of corruption thriving in our democracy. It is not surprising that the lion’s share of   the electoral contributions (in the form of Electoral Bonds) has gone to BJP because, as the ruling party at the Centre and in many states, it has the biggest power to bestow favours as well as wield the sticks. Some important differences exist between Indian-style corruption and the corruption that prevails in the developed countries. Even in countries like the US, Japan, South Korea and Israel, corruption exists in high places and several prime ministers and presidents have been forced to resign on corruption charges. But, unlike in India, ordinary people there do not have to face corruption in everyday life. In addition, in India, sometimes there are multiple contenders (in government offices and political parties) who promise to deliver a service in exchange for bribes. One is not sure whom to bribe and whether the person taking the bribe would actually be able or willing to deliver the promised favour. Some suggest that the punishment for corruption needs to be severe if it has to be an effective deterrent. Actually, it is not the quantum of punishment but the probability of getting caught, prosecuted and ultimately sentenced that holds the key. Here, the honesty/efficiency of regulators, police and judiciary working in a time-bound manner comes into play. These are areas where a lot is lacking in India. (The writer is a former professor of Economics, IIM, Calcutta and Cornell University, US)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/is-india-less-corrupt-or-has-the-nature-of-corruption-changed-984955.html
12-05-2021||Right in the Middle||The nostalgia of newspapers||For decades, my two morning fix, the smell of fresh newsprint, and the invigorating aroma of filter coffee had always been on the same page. As of today, I get six newspapers, three English and three Tamil, delivered with a resonant thud on my doorstep. Nothing gives me greater joy than taking the bundle instantaneously to the vicinity of my nose for a deep inhalation to provide a treat to my olfactory sense. I separate the main sections from their conjoined companions; supplements or pull-outs, some in glazed print, dedicated to varying features, all in a splash of colour. The only irritant is the insertion of advertisers’ hand-bills, that slither down on the floor like leaves in autumn, compelling me to stoop grudgingly, with creaking knees, to pick up to throw into the bin. I used to sit on the floor cross-legged to read them, but not anymore because my knees have become stiff. I do have a set pattern of going through the papers, their pages spread-eagled on my desk, choosing and reading them leisurely, one after the other in a bespoke, inexplicable rote. My family would never touch them before I got up from my desk after that ritual, satiated. The papers thereafter are scattered on the floor, all mixed up, in a conglomerate heap, due to my lack of patience in putting them back in the same way they were delivered. This is a character aberration my family puts up with. When I look at them later, I am reminded of the fully served, parrot-green banana leaf, at which a hungry eater sat to devour the delicacies and rose from it to wash the hands. The leaf no longer looks inviting and will have to be cleared pronto. This analogy, though uncharitable, to some extent applies to the newspapers. Slowly, steadily but sadly, the print media is moving away to give room to the digital editions, ostensibly permitting the trees to breathe in comfort. Indeed, a proverb that warns - one should not waste firewood even when a forest is nearby. Before long, one can read only from the Web, the cursor at the command of the mouse flipping through the pages. Necessarily, one has to change with the times. But what about the smell of the newsprint fresh from the press? Before long, I wish the perfumery folks come out with a spray that would replicate the newsprint smell. The dwindling print media aficionado will have to do is squirt one or two short spurts near the computer screen before opening the web site. Sounds far-fetched and crazy? But that could be an amicable compromise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-nostalgia-of-newspapers-984954.html
12-05-2021||Second Edit||Thriving extremism in Maldives||The attempted assassination of former Maldives president and the current speaker of its parliament Mohamed Nasheed underscores the rising threat of terrorism and extremism in the Indian Ocean country. A bomb rigged to a motorcycle parked a few metres outside his house went off, injuring Nasheed, two of security personnel and a British bystander. The former president was in a critical state but is now improving. A strong voice in the fight against climate change, Nasheed is an outspoken proponent of democratic and secular values. Consequently, he has many enemies, who would want to eliminate him. No terror group has claimed responsibility for the blast but Maldivian officials believe that Islamist extremists are behind the bomb attack against the former president. Three people with suspected links to the assassination attempt have been taken into custody so far. Maldives is known to be an idyllic paradise but behind this image lie several grave problems such as religious extremism and drug trafficking. The country has suffered at least two major terror attacks linked to religious extremism. In 2007, a blast in a park in Male injured 12 foreign tourists. A little over a year ago, the Islamic State (IS) carried out multiple bomb attacks at Mahibadhoo harbour destroying a sea ambulance and four speedboats. While the number of violent attacks in the archipelago may be small especially when compared to that in other South Asian countries, the Maldives has witnessed a far greater degree of religious radicalisation. Many Maldivians have gone with their families to Syria and Iraq to fight alongside IS terrorists. Indeed, Maldives has the highest per capita numbers of jihadists who fought in these two war-torn countries. Several of them returned home to indoctrinate others. The assassination attempt points to a failure of intelligence. The government had no inkling of the plot to eliminate Nasheed. This is a matter of concern. The Maldives’ geography – the archipelago comprises over a thousand islands, many of which are uninhabited – makes it difficult for the government to monitor jihadist training and indoctrination activities in the remote islands. But these are unacceptable excuses. To the credit of the Solih government, it has put in place programmes to de-radicalise youth. It is also rehabilitating jihadists returning from Iraq and Syria and other battlefields. These are welcome steps but clearly not enough. Some of the ruling Maldivian Democratic Party’s allies are known to have links with extremists. Their statements and activities are providing fertile ground for religious extremism to thrive. The Solih government must act against them to keep Maldives safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/thriving-extremism-in-maldives-984948.html
12-05-2021||South||Ward-level task force should actively take part in creating awareness on spread of Covid-19: Karnataka minister||District in-charge minister Kota Srinivas Poojary directed officials to take all precautionary measures to check the surge in Covid-19 cases in urban areas in Dakshina Kannada. Chairing a meeting on the situation, the minister said about 75-80 per cent of Covid cases reported in DK comes from Mangaluru City Corporation jurisdiction. Ward-level task force committees should actively take part in creating awareness on the spread of the deadly virus. Ward-wise task force committees, led by corporators, should convene a meeting daily at 10 am and collect information on those infected, undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Patients in home isolation should be monitored and provided with assistance. If need arises, patients should be shifted to Covid care centres for treatment, said the minister. MLA Dr Bharath Shetty said a sticker should be pasted on the wall of houses where a Covid-infected patient is undergoing treatment in home isolation. All primary contacts should be traced and made to undergo tests. The corporators should work on converting schools, hostels and other establishments in their ward to care centres. MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath said there is a need to check long queues waiting for vaccines in front of Urban Health Centres and Primary Health Centres. Priority should be given to only those who are scheduled for the second dose. The corporators should create awareness on the spread of Covid-19 as well as the importance of getting vaccinated in their respective wards. Asha workers and corporators should ensure that people do not come out of their houses unless necessary. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said even those with mild symptoms should get tested for Covid-19. Mayor Premananda Shetty, MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar and others were also present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ward-level-task-force-should-actively-take-part-in-creating-awareness-on-spread-of-covid-19-karnataka-minister-985008.html
12-05-2021||South||Permission to hold weddings at home during Covid-19 lockdown may increase child marriages: Activists||The state-wide lockdown in Karnataka and the state government's advice on holding wedding ceremonies at home has raised concerns among activists, who fear this might lead to an increase in the number of child marriages. According to child rights activists, if weddings are permitted to be held at home, monitoring and prevention become difficult. As per data made available from ChildLine, during the lockdown in 2020, the state had witnessed over 2,000 child marriages between April and September. The 'ChildLine' helpline also faced challenges with verification of facts, non-availability of transport facilities etc. However, a few marriages were prevented due to timely help rendered by the local police, tahsildars and other enforcement authorities.  As many as eight districts in North and South Interior Karnataka reported more than 100 child marriages during this period. The highest child marriages in Karnataka were seen at Ballari (253), Mysuru (196) and Chikkaballapura (154). Even Mandya district reported 141 cases of child marriages, according to data sourced by the activists. "As March, April and May approach, it would be the season for conducting such marriages in a hush-hush manner. Last year alone, we witnessed 1,016 child marriages during this period," revealed an activist from Bengaluru. Keeping in mind the figures that were reported last year, activists have written to women and child welfare minister Shashikala Jolle, requesting to put in place some strict measures while conducting marriages at individual households. Shockingly, however, Belagavi -- home district of the minister -- reported 105 cases of child marriage. Similarly, Vijayapura district, whose charge is also with Shashikala Jolle, reported 83 cases of child marriage. Nagasimha G Rao, child rights activist, said, "The government should make it mandatory to register the age of the bride and groom at the nearest government school or anganvadi, police station and invite members of the local Panchayat, headmaster of the school to the marriage." Even though the government mandates permission from local authorities to conduct the marriage, child rights activists have demanded that local authorities must verify the age of the bride and groom. "Child marriage is more dangerous than Covid-19, it kills children every day. We urge the concerned authorities to re-look into provisions made to conduct marriages at home and help stop child marriage," said Rao. The activists have appealed to citizens to protect the rights of children. In case anyone comes across any child marriage during this lockdown, they must report it immediately to 1098.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/permission-to-hold-weddings-at-home-during-covid-19-lockdown-may-increase-child-marriages-activists-985059.html
12-05-2021||South||Animals at Covid-hit houses find shelter in a Kerala panchayat||With domestic animals in families of the Covid infected left in the lurch, a panchayat at Alappuzha in Kerala has started an animal care centre. Domestic animals ranging from cow to dogs belonging to families of the Covid infected would be taken care of at the facility. Already over 15 domestic animals, mainly cows, were taken care of by the panchayat run animal care centre started about two weeks back. The initiatives assumes much significance as many families in the regional eke out a living from rearing domestic animal like cows and goats. The Kanjikuzhi panchayat, about 15 kilometres from Alappuzha town, has come out with the novel idea. Panchayat vice president Santosh Kumar told DH that the need to set up the animal care facility came up as entire members of many families in the regions had to go on quarantine. This indeed affected the care for the domestic animals of such households. The panchayat had set up a common facility where up to 16 cows could be kept at a time. Apart from properly feeding and caring the domestic animals, milk from the cow will be distributed to the local milk society. A team of trained personnel were also given charge of the care facility. The service is offered free of cost. Meanwhile, the state Animal Husbandry Department (AHD) is also constantly monitoring the condition of domestic animals especially following some reports of animals also getting the infection. AHD  joint director Dr. Giri S S said that samples from domestic animals showing any symptoms were being collected an tested at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases. So far no instance of Coronavirus infection in animals in Kerala were detected, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/animals-at-covid-hit-houses-find-shelter-in-a-kerala-panchayat-985077.html
12-05-2021||South||Autos double up as ambulances in Chennai, provide oxygen to Covid-19 patients||At a time when oxygen is in high demand amid the second wave of Covid-19 in the country, with people scampering for hospital beds with oxygen supply, a city-based NGO is reaching out to the needy in makeshift ambulances with the life-saving gas. This "emergency auto ambulance" is also being used by patients home quarantined and in dire need of it. City-based Kadamai Educational and Social Welfare Trust is operating innovative auto ambulances, albeit in a smaller radius in the northern parts, but is fast turning out to be a much sought after service. "A jumbo hospital oxygen cylinder from the clinic we run and another cylinder that we obtained from an industrial unit, both of 47 lt capacity, were fitted to two autos to provide oxygen to the people in north Chennai area, round the clock," T C Kumaraswamy, head of the education department of the trust, told PTI. These emergency auto ambulances are operated by six persons on a shift basis and they respond promptly to callers who seek medical oxygen to improve their oxygen levels. "Presently, we operate only within 15 km radius in north Chennai alone and we don't discourage callers seeking oxygen," Kumaraswamy said.  On average, the trust receives about 150 to 200 calls a day. On Monday night, an ambulance ferrying a coronavirus patient ran out of oxygen and its driver approached the trust for help. "The 64-year-old patient from Royapuram was administered oxygen from our auto and he was taken to the hospital later," he added. The service is restricted to patients who could sit comfortably in the auto, Kumaraswamy said. "We have been running the service successfully for the twelfth day today. We respond to requests also from people who have no access to ambulances or oxygen cylinders at home," C Vasantha Kumar, founder secretary of the trust said. Further, another metro-based volunteer organisation has launched a "Help Chennai breathe" campaign, aimed at crowdfunding a sum of Rs three crore to provide equipment like 420 oxygen cylinders and 240 oxygen concentrators to five government hospitals in the city. Gayathri Suryanarayanan of 'Samarpana' said she launched the initiative after her own experience with oxygen issues. "I tried nearly 25 hospitals to get a bed to treat my friend's father whose oxygen level dipped to 70, but couldn't get one. His life ended after a long wait. This was a personal loss to me," Suryanarayanan said. In another instance, her friend's grandmother, aged 75, waited for nearly 26 hours outside a hospital along with an oxygen cylinder, for a bed at a hospital. "Then I decided to procure oxygen cylinders for the poor patients desperately in need of oxygen but could not afford it. And they have nowhere else to go other than government hospitals," she said. After being told by various officials of instances of people waiting without oxygen for such beds, she said she started the crowdfunding initiative. The effort has helped the organisation raise about Rs 25 lakh. Suryanarayanan immediately got in touch with the deans of the medical college hospitals here and offered help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/autos-double-up-as-ambulances-in-chennai-provide-oxygen-to-covid-19-patients-985084.html
12-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis: Shortage of oxygen, hospital beds in Kerala||The ground situation in Kerala has turned grim. While hospitals are running out of oxygen, Covid-19 patients are struggling to get hospital beds. The vaccination drive is also progressing slowly, with just 18 per cent of the state’s total population getting inoculated so far. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja has, however, said the situation is not yet beyond control. With experts projecting that the number of active cases in Kerala may touch the 6-lakh mark by next week from the present 4.2 lakh, the state is keeping fingers crossed. TPR in state is also remaining high at 27 percent. While health experts say that, at present, there seems to be nothing more the state could do, the government is being widely criticised for lowering its guard. Social distancing norms were constantly flouted by all political parties during the election campaigns. Public health expert Dr V Ramankutty said political parties could not keep off from the responsibility of flouting Covid protocols during campaigning. He also said it was quite certain that Covid would last for quite some time and hence long-term strategies need to be chalked out. While many states were witnessing an oxygen crisis, Kerala boasted of being an oxygen-surplus state. However, the reality is that oxygen demand in the state, at that point, was very low and the situation has now changed. The total daily oxygen production of the state is 219 MT, along with a buffer stock of 1,000 MT. Now, he buffer stock is almost exhausted and the requirement is expected to reach 450 MT daily by next week. Hence, the state is desperately urging the Centre to send additional oxygen supply. Although the government maintains that there is no crisis, many major hospitals are making SOS calls for oxygen every day. Another major concern is scarcity of hospital beds. Even as the state government has ordered all private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent beds for Covid care and prescribed treatment rates, many patients are complaining of difficulties. The health minister said steps are being taken to increase the number of ICU beds in the state. Additional oxygen allocation from the Centre and pooling of oxygen from steel plants could address the oxygen crisis to a large extent. Vaccination delay is caused by delay in supply from centre, she said. The state revised the discharge policy by sending asymptomatic patients home. This is helping in freeing hospital beds. Although active cases in Kerala currently stands at 4.2 lakh, only 35,000 have been admitted to hospitals. The remaining are in home quarantine. Dr S S Lal, a former technical officer at WHO and Congress candidate in this Assembly election, said strictly following Covid protocol was the only option now. Instead of a total lockdown that could lead to frustration, stringent enforcement of social distancing at public places could be a better option, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-shortage-of-oxygen-hospital-beds-in-kerala-985162.html
12-05-2021||South||Mother killed in Israel; son still awaits her phone call||His chances of a reunion with his mother crushed forever, the nine-year-old son of Soumya Santhosh, killed in a Palestinian rocket attack in Israel, is unable to cope with the loss and still awaits her phone call. Condoling Soumya's death, Israel's envoy to India said the situation reminded him of Moses, the Israeli boy who was orphaned in the terrorist attack in Mumbai in 2008. The family of the 30-year-old Kerala woman, who lost her life in a deadly rocket attack in Israel, is yet to recover from the shock and cannot believe they will never be able to see her again. Soumya's husband Santosh is struggling to console their son, who could not cope with the situation. "He is awaiting her call," Santhosh, a resident of Keerithodu in Idukki district, told reporters here, while holding back his tears. The shell-shocked family never imagined Soumya will meet with such a tragic end after she travelled to Israel in search of better fortunes. She had worked as a caregiver for an elderly woman in Ashkelon in that country, although she had often shared her anguish with her family about massive firings in the Israeli territory by the Palestinian militants. It all happened as Soumya was planning her return to Kerala, ending over seven years of toil in the Israeli city, for a better life back home. It was a Tuesday afternoon and Soumya was on a video call with her husband telling him about the tense atmosphere in the southern Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon. Little did she know that it would be her last call. As she was sharing the details of the war-like situation prevailing in the area, Santhosh heard a huge sound on the other end. Her phone, which was still connected, had fallen down. "I uttered "hello, hello" over the phone, but there was no response from the other side." "After a minute-and-a-half, I could hear the noise of some people on the other end. The phone was still connected," Santhosh said. Sensing danger, Santhosh immediately alerted his family members, who got in touch with Soumya's friends in Ashkelon and came to know of her tragic demise. Meanwhile, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said the Indian embassy authorities in the Isareli capital Tel Aviv are making efforts to bring Soumya's body to India. Muraleedharan, who spoke to the Indian Ambassador to Israel, Sanjeev Kumar Singla, over phone, said Israeli authorities will hand over the body to India after completing all the formalities there. The Minister said he had telephoned the family of Soumya on Tuesday night to convey his condolences. "Spoke with the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance." "We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides," Muraleedharan said in a tweet. Israeli Ambassador to India, Ron Malka, said he contacted Soumya's family and offered his condolences. "I just spoke to the family of Ms. Soumya Santosh, the victim of the Hamas terrorist strike. I expressed my sorrow for their unfortunate loss & extended my condolences on behalf of the state of Israel. The whole country is mourning her loss & we are here for them," he tweeted. He said the death of Soumya, a mother, reminded him of the Israeli boy Moses, who was orphaned in the terrorist attack in Mumbai, in 2008. "My heart goes out to her 9-year-old son, Adon, who has lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. This evil attack reminds me of little Moses, who also lost his parents during the 2008 #Mumbaiattacks. May God give them strength and courage," he said in the tweet. Senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said he has written to the Indian ambassador to Israel, urging him to take steps to bring home Soumya's body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mother-killed-in-israel-son-still-awaits-her-phone-call-985169.html
12-05-2021||South||Bored of WFH? IRCTC offers 'work from hotel' package in Kerala||IRCTC has launched a special ‘work from hotel’ package, providing professionals a “refreshing and soothing ambiance” in hotel rooms in Kerala as an alternative to the ‘work from home’ set up, a statement said on Wednesday. This is part of the Railways' catering and tourism arm’s efforts to rekindle confidence among guests to step out for availing hospitality services in the post Covid world, the IRCTC said in the statement. The package per person on triple occupancy for five night stay starts from Rs 10,126 and includes disinfected rooms, all three meals, twice tea/coffee, complimentary wi-fi, secured parking place for vehicle, and travel insurance. “In the ongoing lockdown period, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd (IRCTC) has launched exclusive packages for professionals to continue with their work with a different yet refreshing and soothing ambience from the comfort of hotel rooms, wherein they can relax and enjoy along with their routine,” the statement said. “Working away from the typical office setting has become the new normal during these pandemic times. Professionals can pick their favourite destination in Kerala among the list of hotels offered under ‘work from hotel’ concept,” it added. To start with, professionals can choose among Munnar, Thekkady, Kumarakom, Marari (Alleppey), Kovalam, Wayanad, and Cochin, the statement said. The duration of package would be for a minimum of five nights which can be extended on prorate basis. Similar packages for other locations are also being explored, it said. “Stringent Covid safety protocols and high standard of hygiene is maintained. The packages can be booked online through the IRCTC website or IRCTC tourism mobile apps - android and IOS,” the statement said. Designed keeping Covid-19 in mind, the package does not include any sightseeing, it said. India saw a record rise in Covid-19 deaths with 4,205 fresh fatalities taking the country's death toll to 2,54,197, while 3,48,421 new coronavirus infections were reported, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bored-of-wfh-irctc-offers-work-from-hotel-package-in-kerala-985181.html
12-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to float global tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines, use trains to bring in oxygen||Global tenders would be floated for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines and all steps shall be taken expeditiously to inoculate those between the 18-45 age group, the Tamil Nadu government said on Wednesday. Chief Minister M K Stalin has also ordered industries and medical departments to immediately set up more units to produce oxygen and procure it from steel plants located in other states and it should be brought to TN through trains. Karnataka and Telangana are among the states that have decided to go in for global tenders to buy Covid-19 vaccines. Following a meet chaired by Stalin here to review the Covid-19 scenario in the state, the government said an allocation of about 13 lakh vaccine doses to the state is not sufficient to cover all those in the 18-45 age group. Hence, "the government has decided to go in for global bids to procure vaccines," an official release said. The Centre is providing vaccine doses to all states for vaccinating people above the age of 45 and the union government has now said that states should go in for buying vaccines to inoculate those in the 18-45 age group. All steps shall be in place to vaccinate people in the 18-45 age bracket expeditiously, the release said. Though the oxygen allocation to Tamil Nadu has been increased to 419 tonnes from 280 by the Centre, the state requires more of it, the release said. Therefore the CM ordered industries and medical departmtents to immediately set up more units to produce oxygen and also procure it from steel plants through trains from other states. The oxygen received should be properly distributed to hospitals that need it, the CM advised. Tamil Nadu has over 1.60 lakh active virus cases as of Tuesday. Top officials, Ministers, including Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma Subramanian, participated in the review meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-float-global-tenders-to-procure-covid-19-vaccines-use-trains-to-bring-in-oxygen-985183.html
12-05-2021||South||Malayali woman was on video call with husband while being killed in Israel bombing||A Malayali caretaker killed in shelling in Israel on Tuesday was on a phone call with her husband at Idukki in Kerala when the incident occurred. Soumya Santosh, 31, hailing from Idukki, was killed following shelling by Hamas at a flat at Ashkelon in Israel where she was working as caretaker of an aged woman. Santosh told the media that he was on a live video call with Soumya at the time of the incident and he could hear the loud noise and screaming of people. "I was on a video call with Soumya by around 11 am. Soumya was preparing to move out of the location owing to the tension prevailing in the region. She packed the bags and was waiting for the arrival of the aged woman’s daughter to shift them. She was having some gruel and talking to me. All of a sudden a loud noise was heard and the phone was thrown away. Nothing was visible afterwards. But soon screaming of people could be heard,” Santosh recollected the harrowing experience. Santosh said that tension was prevailing in the region over the last several days and Soumya also used to sent a video of shelling. Soumya, who also leaves behind a son, was working in Israel for more than seven years. The financial problems of the family compelled her to work abroad. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that steps were being taken to bring home Soumya’s body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayali-woman-was-on-video-call-with-husband-while-being-killed-in-israel-bombing-985212.html
12-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis deepens in Kerala; positivity rate nears 30%||Despite the lockdown, Kerala continues to register spiralling Covid-19 cases, with the test positivity rate reaching the highest ever rate of 29.75 per cent on Wednesday. With 43,529 fresh positive cases, the total active cases reached over 4.3 lakh. The state saw record daily fatalities of 95 deaths on Wednesday.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that he has urged the centre to provide more vaccines to the state at the earliest as those aged above 45 need to be vaccinated swiftly to keep the death rate low. Fresh norm for entering Kerala The state decided that those coming from other states to Kerala should carry an RT- PCR negative certificate taken within 72 hours before the start of the journey. The lockdown imposed in the state till May 16 is likely to be extended further.  In view of the delay in getting the RT-PCR test owing to the high number of tests, the state also decided to conduct RT-PCR tests only to those tested negative in antigen tests and showing symptoms of Covid. This is in accordance with ICMR’s new guidelines, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-deepens-in-kerala-positivity-rate-nears-30-985233.html
12-05-2021||State||Negative Covid-19 report not older than 72 hours must for Karnataka travellers to enter Goa||Passengers travelling from Karnataka to Goa must carry Covid-negative reports not older than 72 hours prior to their entry in the destination state, the South Western Railway has said.  In a news release, the railways cited a recent notification by the Goa government to issue the advisory.  Goa has directed that no passenger can enter the state after May 10 unless they possess a Covid-negative report that’s not older than 72 hours. Only residents of Goa, those entering the state for work or those who are fully vaccinated (two doses) will be exempted as long as they produce the documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/negative-covid-19-report-not-older-than-72-hours-must-for-karnataka-travellers-to-enter-goa-984945.html
12-05-2021||State||Karnataka govt suspends vaccination for 18-44 age group from May 14||Just two days after opening vaccination for the 18-44 age group at select sites in Bengaluru and Karnataka, the state government on Wednesday announced that vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group (including those who have already booked appointment) will be temporarily suspended from May 14 till further orders. This order will be applicable for Covid vaccination at all Government Covid vaccination centres in the state, as well as private vaccination centres, who are vaccinating 18-44 age group with Covishield and Covaxin in Bengaluru, include Apollo hospital group, BGS Gleneagles and Manipal Hospital group.  On May 7, it was decided by the government to utilise the complete supply of vaccines provided by the Government of India for vaccination of persons above 45 years of age and for vaccinating beneficiaries who were due for a second dose. "Today, the state government has decided that the vaccine procured directly by the state for vaccination of persons between 18 to 44 years will be utilised for vaccination of beneficiaries who are due for the second dose. Therefore all vaccines available with the state government (supplied by Government of India and procured directly by state) will be utilised for vaccination of beneficiaries due for the second dose," said a note by the State health department issued on Wednesday. On May 1, what seemed like a symbolic start to vaccination of 18-44 years age group, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa flagged off vaccination drive at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital where a mere 24 out of the 44 who registered on Co-WIN showed up. Till 3.30 pm on Wednesday, 22,506 people were vaccinated in the age group of 18-44 years. Till May 12, according to official data, 70,371 people have been vaccinated in the 18-44 age group till 3.30 pm across the state.   Earlier today, rattled by a shortage of vaccines, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra also decided to temporarily suspend inoculation of the 18-44 age group and divert the stock to carry out a seamless and trouble-free vaccination of the 45+ category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-suspends-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-from-may-14-985210.html
12-05-2021||State||Karnataka government clears investment proposals worth Rs 13,000 cr||The government on Wednesday cleared nine new investment proposals, along with the expansion of one project, worth Rs 13,487 crore promising the creation of over 6,000 jobs. The biggest project of this lot is an integrated township proposed by Rasasri Tech Park LLP on 211 acres in Yelahanka in Bengaluru, worth Rs 4,042 crore. The project is expected to generate 3,000 jobs.   The cleared projects include a unit for liquid and gaseous oxygen, liquid and gaseous nitrogen, liquid argon by JSW Techno Projects Management Limited at Toranagallu, Ballari. The project is worth Rs 892.3 crore. The projects were cleared by the State High Level Clearance Committee, headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.  Of the ten projects, three are in Bengaluru Rural, one each in Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Chitradurga, Chamarajanagar, Mangaluru and Chikkamagaluru. The projects are spread across cements, petroleum, chemicals, engineering, solar among others. Other approvals include those of Indian Oil Corporation (storage and despatch unit of petroleum products in Chitradurga), Shree Cement (Clinker grinding and cement bagging plant in Doddaballapur). The committee has also cleared a proposal by Mylar Sugars to increase the capacity of its distillery (in Ballari) with an additional investment of Rs 312.67 crore.  All the ten projects put together are expected to create employment opportunity for about 6,256 persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-clears-investment-proposals-worth-rs-13000-cr-985255.html
12-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government postpones K-CET 2021 due to Covid-19||The Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) 2021 has been postponed keeping in mind the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The K-CET-2021, which was earlier scheduled to be held on July 7, 8 and 9 has been now deferred to August 28, 29 and 30, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) announced in a press statement on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-postpones-k-cet-2021-due-to-covid-19-985130.html
12-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus vaccine supply could take months: Karnataka Chief Secretary||Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Wednesday candidly said it could take months, not just days, for Karnataka to receive the three crore Covid-19 vaccine doses that the government has ordered. “I can’t say how many days it will take (to receive the doses). It can take months also. We are also waiting,” Kumar told reporters. Karnataka has placed orders for three crore vaccine doses - two crore for Covishield and one crore for Covaxin. “Out of the three crore, we have received seven lakh doses,” he said. Owing to the shortage of vaccines, all available doses will be given to those aged above 45 years due for their second dose. “For the 45+ age category, our vaccine allotment for the first 15 days of the month is 13 lakh Covishield and one lakh Covaxin. We have received seven lakh Covishield and 80,000 Covaxin doses,” Kumar said. “Whatever is coming now will be given to those who are due for the second dose,” he said, adding that on-site registration for vaccination is no longer available. Kumar put the onus on the vaccine manufacturers. “We have placed orders. We need the companies to give us a schedule based on which we can plan,” he said. Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, is made locally by the Serum Institute of India whereas Bharat Biotech makes Covaxin. The Covid-19 vaccination in Karnataka started on January 16. “In four months, we have received one crore doses,” Kumar said. “We will need 6.5 crore doses in all. It depends on the manufacturers, their production capacity and delivery schedule,” he said. On Tuesday, Karnataka finalised its plan to float a global tender to import two crore vaccine doses. “If more vaccines are approved, then we will have more suppliers,” Kumar said. When asked about the status of the Russian Sputnik vaccine, Kumar was not entirely sure. “The Centre says it is still in the trial stage. But the news is that Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has been licensed to start production. We have asked the Centre if we can place an order,” he said. The response to the government’s global tender will depend on the production capacity of the manufacturers the world over. “In some countries, vaccine exports are not allowed. So, let’s see. It is not in our hands.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-vaccine-supply-could-take-months-karnataka-chief-secretary-985161.html
12-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government launches helpline for cremation of Covid-19 patients||The Karnataka government on Wednesday announced a helpline for Bengaluru to aid the cremation of Covid-19 patients, an intervention that Revenue Minister R Ashoka said will prevent long queues outside crematoriums and burial grounds.  The helpline 84959 98495 will work round-the-clock.  “The helpline has 19 people working in three shifts,” Ashoka said. “Family members of persons who die due to Covid-19 can call the helpline and they will be provided with a vehicle free of cost. Also, the time of the cremation will be fixed so there won’t be a need to queue up outside crematoriums,” he said.  There are 18 functional crematoriums in the city, according to the minister. “New crematoriums at Giddenahalli, Tavarekere, Mavallipura, Bidaraguppa, Anekal and Devanahalli have started,” he said.  Ashoka also said that the cremation of Covid-19 patients at crematoriums will be done free of cost. “At no cost should citizens be fleeced. Everything should be free, including firewood and the ash pot. There shouldn’t be any charges. Strict action will be taken if money is demanded from citizens,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-launches-helpline-for-cremation-of-covid-19-patients-985174.html
12-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown in Karnataka has failed to curb Covid-19 case growth so far: Analysis||The statewide restrictions imposed by the government since April 28 have failed to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection in Karnataka, according to an expert analysis. Mysore Sanjeev, the convener of Project Jeevan Raksha, who conducted the analysis, said that positive cases in Karnataka went up by 28% since lockdown (April 28-May 8) while active cases shot up by 63%. The total number of deaths increased by 18%.  "This indicates that 10 days of lockdown has not yielded any results. Now, Karnataka has extended the lockdown up to May 24. What is the plan to improve the performance? Who is accountable for the results? What happens if the situation remains the same at the end of the lockdown period?" Sanjeev sought to know. Project Jeevan Raksha is an initiative of Proxima, supported by the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). During the lockdown, the positive cases Moving Growth Rate (MGR) was highest in five districts – Kodagu (55%), Chamarajanagar (47%), Tumakuru (43%), Mandya (39%), and Ramanagara (38%). This means the doubling period of Covid-19 cases in these districts are relatively shorter when compared with other districts. It was also found that Bengaluru Rural, Udupi, Mysuru, Hassan, and Kodagu have the highest number of Covid-19 cases per million population among the rest of Karnataka districts (excluding Bengaluru Urban). Karnataka witnessed a 63% jump in active cases during the lockdown period.  "The surge in active cases was seen in those districts which have the poor medical infrastructure and inadequate qualified medical professionals -  Uttara Kannada, Haveri, Koppal, Bagalkote, and Ramanagara."  The state also witnessed 2,768 Covid-19 deaths at an average of 277 deaths per day. Since the start of the second wave, 5,425 people have died due to Covid-19. Mysuru (390) and Dharwad (362) continues to have the highest deaths per million population among the rest of Karnataka (excluding Bengaluru Urban). Two districts – Koppal and Dakshina Kannada have abnormally low mortality in the second wave, in spite of witnessing 50% surge in positive cases. Why did lockdown fail? "During the lockdown, the gross test positivity rate (including repeat tests of 20%) is 27% and effective test positivity rate is 34%. This clearly shows that the containment management in Karnataka has collapsed and the testing capabilities are overstretched. This also indicates only symptomatic people are being tested," Sanjeev Mysore explained. As there is tremendous shortage of hospital beds in almost all districts of the state, Covid-19 positive patients who are in the borderline of mild/moderate or severe cases, especially with comorbidities, are being encouraged for home isolation. "Delay in getting admission is contributing to higher mortality. No tests being conducted before discharging mild, very mild or pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a Covid care facility. Further, in order to reduce the pressure of active cases, a large number of patients are being declared as recovered and discharged," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-in-karnataka-has-failed-to-curb-covid-19-case-growth-so-far-analysis-985176.html
12-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka DCM bats for longer gap between Covid vaccine doses||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday said the government was considering extending the gap between the first and second doses of the Covid-19 vaccine amid the scramble by citizens to get inoculated.  Narayan, a doctor by training who heads the Covid-19 Task Force, pointed out that the gap between the two doses was longer in some countries. “In Canada, for example, the gap is 3-4 months. Here, we have a gap of 4-6 weeks,” he said.  “Extending the gap is something the technical advisory committee (TAC) should do. So, I’ve asked the health department to write to the TAC on this. We’ll decide based on what the TAC says,” he added.  According to the CoWIN portal, the second dose of Covaxin should be taken between 28 days to 42 days after the first dose. The second dose of Covishield should be taken between 42 days to 56 days after the first dose. Narayan pointed out the disparity between the doses in that the number of people who have received the second jab is far lower. “Then we also have people in the 18-44 age bracket who need the vaccine. Extending the time will help the government carry out its intended vaccination programme,” he argued.  According to a Bengaluru-based public health expert, who did not wish to be named, there is little evidence to support Narayan’s opinion. “For Covishield, as per research, the time period is between 2-4 months. There is no evidence on whether it will be useful or not beyond this period. As for Covaxin, the time period is 28 days,” he said.  On the actual availability of the vaccines, Narayan maintained that there was no problem. "We're giving one lakh doses daily to those who are due for the second jab. In fact, 70% of the doses are being given to them and the rest for first-timers. We’re trying everything to make sure vaccines come in large numbers,” he said.  Oxygen on Ola Narayan launched the ‘O2ForIndia’ initiative to provide oxygen concentrators free of cost through the Ola app for home-isolated Covid-19 patients. The initiative will start in Malleswaram and Koramangala before expanding throughout the city, Narayan said. The service was launched with a stock of 500 oxygen concentrators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-dcm-bats-for-longer-gap-between-covid-vaccine-doses-985204.html
12-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 39,998 new Covid-19 cases, 517 deaths||Karnataka's death toll due to Covid-19 touched 20,368 with 517 fatalities on Wednesday, while 39,998 fresh cases took the infection count to 20,53,191, the health department said. The state has 5,92,182 active cases whereas the total discharges stood at 14,40,621 with the recovery of 34,752 people today. Bengaluru Urban district reported 16,286 infections and 275 fatalities, which is highest in the state. The city has so far reported 9,99,805 infections and 8,964 deaths. There were 3,60,619 active cases. Tumakuru district registered 2,360 infections, which is second to Bengaluru, and 14 deaths. According to the health bulletin, there were 1,823 infections in Ballari, 1,773 in Mysuru, 1,572 in Hassan, 1,223 in Mandya, 1,138 in Bengaluru Rural, 1,125 in Shivamogga, 1,077 in Dakshina Kannada. Bagalkote, Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Kolar, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir were among the districts with over 500 cases. The department said 26 deaths took place in Shivamogga, 23 in Kalaburagi, 19 in Hassan, 17 in Ballari, 14 in Tumakuru, 12 each in Koppal and Bengaluru Rural, and 10 each in Haveri, Kodagu and Mandya. Deaths were reported in 19 other districts as well. There were 1,34,792 tests conducted on Wednesday including 1,24,232 using RT-PCR and other methods. So far 2.74 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-39998-new-covid-19-cases-517-deaths-985239.html
12-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Announce financial aid, ration for workers of unorganised sector: Rights activists||Labour rights activists urged the state government to immediately provide financial aid for the loss of work, besides dry rations to prevent a major crisis. They said that the government has already escaped its responsibility by avoiding the use of the word 'lockdown' for the May 7-10 restrictions which was called as 'Janata Curfew', Manjunath Kamble of the Indian National Migrant Workers Union said. "Now, there is talk of a lockdown of six more weeks. The government should provide a minimum of Rs 5,000 and ration kits for all the laborers for the month of May and June," he said. Advocate Maitreyi Krishnan said the government should have learnt from the past year's "mistakes" but was bent on repeating the same. "In fact, the measures taken this time are much weaker than last year's. The government had in 2020 issued directions against retrenchment and eviction of people over delay in payment of rent. This time, there is only an appeal against eviction," she said. She said an order should be passed to bar both salary cuts and retrenchments. "People are yet to recover from last year's lockdown. Any retrenchment would prove to be the last straw," she said. Activists have already moved the court seeking economic and social security for people from the unorganised sector. While Rs 5,000 per month is too inadequate to cover for the rent, utility expenses and medical costs, they believe that a full provision of dry ration includng rice, dal, oil, spices will help lakhs of people survive the crisis in a humane way. Another activist said that food distribution through Indira Canteen failed last year and the government had hopped on the Garib Kalyan Yojana, which also did not succeed in helping the people. "Finally they delivered some ration kits in a haphazard way and announced a policy to provide financial aid which reached less than half of beneficiaries," he added. "While Indira canteen food distribution is welcome, asking people to line up three times in a day will only lead to increased risk of the spread of the virus. Ration kits will allow people to stay home and avoid infection," Maitreyi added. Even last year, trade unions had moved the Labour Department against companies, including government sector units, for failing to provide wages to contract workers. The department was yet to take up the issues with officials citing Covid duty for delay in processing the files.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/announce-financial-aid-ration-for-workers-of-unorganised-sector-rights-activists-985254.html
12-05-2021||West||Maharashtra may have over 2,000 cases of Mucormycosis: Health Minister Rajesh Tope||The Maharashtra government has decided to use hospitals attached to medical colleges as treatment centres for Mucormycosis, a serious but rare fungal infection now affecting coronavirus patients, said health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday. Symptoms of Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision. He said, There could be over 2,000 Mucormycosis patients in the state as of now and with more and more Covid-19 cases coming up, their number would increase for sure." The state government has decided to select hospitals attached to medical colleges for treatment of Mucormycosis patients as it demands a multidisciplinary approach, Tope said. He said black fungus has a 50 per cent mortality rate and is found in Covid-19 patients with suppressed immunity or co-morbidities. "A Mucormycosis patient needs to be seen by various experts such as ENT, ophthalmologists and neurologists among others. We are trying to cover most of the treatment under the Mahatma Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (the state's flagship health scheme), the minister said. Commenting over the costly treatment, he said, I will be writing to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority to bring down the MRP of medicines needed for Mucormycosis treatment." Amphotercin-B is a key medicine required for treatment of such patients. Haffkine (a state-run pharma firm based in Mumbai) is going float a tender for one lakh injections of the drug, Tope said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-may-have-over-2000-cases-of-mucormycosis-health-minister-rajesh-tope-984991.html
12-05-2021||West||ED case: Deshmukh says Centre may be upset over his decisions as minister||Reacting to the Enforcement Directorate's move to file a case against him, NCP leader Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said the Union government might have been peeved with him because of some of his decisions as Maharashtra home minister. The NCP and Congress termed the ED's action as politics of revenge" and said it was aimed at diverting attention from the "failure" of the Narendra Modi government in tackling the pandemic. The ED filed the case under the anti-money laundering law in an alleged "bribery" case after studying a CBI FIR that was filed against Deshmukh late last month. The Bombay High Court had earlier directed the CBI to conduct a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) against Deshmukh after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh raised allegations of corruption against the senior NCP leader. "I have learnt through the media that now the ED will probe me. I am being punished for a political motive for the offence I did not commit," Deshmukh said. With Deshmukh as home minister, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra had in October last year rescinded the general consent given to the CBI to probe cases in the state. Deshmukh said that during his tenure as minister, he had ordered probe into the death of Dadra Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. Also, an offence was registered in connection with interior designer Anvay Naiks "suicide", he noted. "The Centre might be upset with me over these decisions," Deshmukh alleged. Maharashtra Minority Affairs Minister and NCP's national spokesperson Nawab Malik earlier in the day accused the BJP of trying to defame the state government as well as the Sharad Pawar-led party. The Congress, one of the constituents of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government besides the NCP, dubbed the ED's move as an attempt to cover up the Modi government's "failure" to manage the pandemic by diverting the public attention. "Right from Singh's allegations to the filing of the case by the ED, it is all politically motivated and aimed at defaming him (Deshmukh) by misusing power. It is clear that the BJP is playing politics using the CBI, ED and other Central agencies," Malik said in a statement. In a series of tweets, Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged the ED case reflects the "dangerous politics" being pursued by the Modi government which is "detrimental" to democracy". "It's an attempt to cover up Modi govt's failure to handle Corona crisis and divert public's attention, as well as (to take) political revenge," Sawant tweeted. The action has been taken based on the "lies" of Singh, he said, and questioned why the ED got involved when there was no monetary transaction. BJP leader Kirit Somiaya, on the other hand, tweeted that "AnilParab is next in line". Somaiya was apparently referring to Maharashtra Transport Minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab. Suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze had last month claimed Parab had asked him to collect money from contractors. Parab had denied the allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-case-deshmukh-says-centre-may-be-upset-over-his-decisions-as-minister-984997.html
12-05-2021||West||Forest officer's suicide: Suspended MTR director M Shriniwas Reddy gets bail||Bombay High Court has granted interim bail to suspended forest officer M Shriniwas Reddy in the case of suicide of range forest officer Deepali Chavan. In an order issued on Tuesday, Justice Manish Pitale of the high court's Nagpur bench found no material on record implicating Reddy in the case. Reddy, the field director of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Maharashtra, is co-accused in the case and was arrested last month. Chavan, a range forest officer posted in Melghat, allegedly committed suicide by shooting herself with a service weapon due to harassment by senior officials in March this year. Reddy had moved the high court seeking bail and quashing of the FIR registered against him. Last week, a division bench of high court's Justices A S Chandurkar and Pushpa Ganediwala said police can conduct a probe against Reddy in the case, but shall not file a charge sheet against him till further orders. The court had sought replies from the prosecution by June 14 and adjourned the case for final disposal. Earlier, Deputy Conservator of Forest Vinod Shivkumar was also arrested in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/forest-officers-suicide-suspended-mtr-director-m-shriniwas-reddy-gets-bail-985012.html
12-05-2021||West||Journalists must be treated as frontline staff for Covid-19 vaccination, says Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday demanded that journalists, photographers and camerapersons be included in the frontline workers category to get them inoculated against coronavirus. In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP leader said at least 12 states in the country have recognised journalists and camerapersons as frontline workers and vaccinated them. "Some 12 states in the country have recognised journalists and camerapersons as frontline workers and given them the vaccine. Unfortunately, the decision is still pending in Maharashtra," Fadnavis said. Several media persons have succumbed to Covid-19 in the first and second waves of the pandemic, he said. "It is our duty to take care of journalists. Once they are recognised as frontline workers, they will get prioritised in the vaccination drive," he said. Journalists visit hospitals, crematoriums and other places to highlight problems faced by the common man during the pandemic, the leader of opposition said. "They are involved in sensitising people about Covid- 19 appropriate behaviour, physical distancing and other norms. Many journalists cannot work from home. Hence, there should be no further delay in including them in frontline workers category, so they get vaccinated," he said. States including Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal among others have recognised media persons as frontline workers for the Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/journalists-must-be-treated-as-frontline-staff-for-covid-19-vaccination-says-devendra-fadnavis-985064.html
12-05-2021||West||Indian Naval Ship Tarkash brings medical oxygen to Mumbai from Qatar||Amid the ongoing battle against Covid-19, Indian Naval Ship Tarkash brought two containers with 20 MT liquid medical oxygen each and 230 oxygen cylinders here from Qatar on Wednesday, a Navy spokesperson said. The Indian Navy has deployed its various ships to bring oxygen and other medical equipment to the country under operation 'Samudra Setu II'. The oxygen containers were facilitated as part of the French mission 'Oxygen Solidarity Bridge' and the cylinders of the life-saving gas were gifted by the Indian diaspora in Qatar, the spokesperson said. The consignment was handed over to Maharashtra's civil administration for further necessary action, the Navy said. On Monday, INS Trikand brought 40 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen here from Qatar as part of the French mission to support India's fight against the pandemic. The Navy earlier said it has stepped up its efforts as ships from all three naval commands in Mumbai, Visakhapatnam and Kochi were deployed to bring oxygen and other medical equipment under operation 'Samudra Setu II'.  Last year, the Navy had launched Operation Samudra Setu as part of the Vande Bharat evacuation mission under which it brought back to India around 4,000 stranded Indians from Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran. As India battles a devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, several countries have sent medical supplies, including oxygen-related equipment, to help it tide over the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-naval-ship-tarkash-brings-medical-oxygen-to-mumbai-from-qatar-985097.html
12-05-2021||West||Giripremi’s Jitendra Gaware climbs Mt Everest, Mt Annapurna in a month||Pune-based adventure and mountaineering organisation Giripremi’s Jitendra Gaware summited Mt Everest, the tallest mountain in the world, on Wednesday. It is his second 8000er metres peak in less than a month as he climbed Mt. Annapurna-1, the tenth tallest mountain in the world on April 16, during Giripremi’s Mt Annapurna-1 Expedition 2021.  Umesh Zirpe, the veteran mountaineer and leader of Giripremi’s 8000er meters mountains expedition, Bhushan Harshe, Everest Summitter, Dr Sumeet Mandale, summitter of three 8000er meters mountain mentored, guided and helped Gaware for his 8000er meters mountain endeavours.  Before Mt Everest, Gaware climbed Mt Annapurna-1 in April 2021, Mt Kanchenjunga, the third tallest mountain in the world, in May 2019 and Mt Ama Dablam, one of the toughest mountains in the world in October 2019.  Ganesh More, Everest Summitter, Vivek Shivade, mountaineer and Dr Avinash Kandekar, geography professor at Savitribai Phule Pune University helped Gaware in weather forecasting. Their timely and accurate updates helped Gaware and his fellow Sherpa-Pasang Zarok Sherpa to reach the top of Mt Everest having an altitude of 8848.86 meters at 07:30 am on Wednesday Jitendra Gaware, a resident of Vadgaon Sheri in Pune, has been receiving accolades from all parts of the society for his courageous dual achievement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/giripremi-s-jitendra-gaware-climbs-mt-everest-mt-annapurna-in-a-month-985149.html
12-05-2021||West||Mumbai NGO Rouble Nagi helps kids whose parents test positive for Covid-19||For young kids, it is not easy if their parents test Covid-19 positive or are in quarantine or isolation. For the less-privileged children staying in slums, things could be far more difficult. Thanks to the Rouble Nagi Art Foundation (RNAF), a Mumbai-based NGO, these children are put up in their ‘balwadis’ that they run across Mumbai and elsewhere. “What happens when both parents tested positive, but have children to care for?....less-privileged families are finding it difficult to isolate and quarantine themselves when children involved are to be taken care of,” said Rouble Nagi, an award-winning, internationally acclaimed artist with over 800 murals to her credit and 150 exhibitions worldwide. “Less privileged-families are finding it difficult to isolate and quarantine themselves when children are to be taken care of. The RNAF Covid-care centre is catering to Covid-positive parents who are in a fix and struggling to find a place to keep their uninfected kids,” Nagi told DH on Wednesday. These centres are equipped to house the children till the parents recover and it is be done free of charge. Till their parents come back, RNAF will give them a positive environment and look after them. “Right from breakfast to lunch to dinner, we are making them feel at home, also they are doing a bit of meditation, play games in the compound, study…there are teachers and volunteers around,” she said, adding that they are preferring the age group of 7-14. “Before the kids enter the ‘balwadis’ to stay, they undergo a RT-PCR test,” Nagi said. The foundation has contributed significantly towards the Covid-19 medical relief for children in the slums and the villages of India. During the first wave of the 2020 pandemic, RNAF reached out to over 3 lakh families across India and is now actively stepping forward to contribute and make a difference in the second wave of Covid-19. Organising relief camps in the localities, conducting regular tests and temperature checks and ensuring that the children in the slums get proper medical care, RNAF is doing its bit for society. Nurturing and protecting children, the RNAF team lays special focus on forming relief squads and sending help wherever required. RNAF's skill centre has been producing and distributing over 40,000 masks in the neighbouring villages and slums while educating people about the significance of staying protected, especially now more than ever. They are regularly distributing sanitary napkins to women in slum dying lockdown as it is very crucial at this stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-ngo-rouble-nagi-helps-kids-whose-parents-test-positive-for-covid-19-985150.html
12-05-2021||West||Weatherman, Coast Guard sound Tauktae cyclone alert||With cyclone Tauktae building up in the Arabian Sea, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has asked mariners and fishermen to take shelter in the nearest ports. The cyclone is likely to hit and make a landfall over the weekend. “A low pressure area is very likely to form over the southeast Arabian Sea around 14th May morning. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards across southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area and intensify gradually. It may intensify into a Cyclonic Storm over east central Arabian Sea around 16th May and continue to move north-northwestwards,” a forecast by IMD headquarters in New Delhi said. The Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) has said that there could be heavy rainfall on the Maharashtra-Goa coast. “There would be strong winds and Arabian Sea would be rough,” said Shubhangi Bhute, Scientist, RMC-Mumbai.  Meanwhile, the Mumbai-headquartered ICG (Western Region) has sent out an advisory to mariners and fishermen. “Due to prevailing low pressure area over south-east Arabian sea and chances of its subsequently concentrating into depression and intensifying as a cyclonic storm over east-central Arabian sea later this week, the Coast Guard Region (West), taking a preemptive measure has directed it’s Coastal District Commanders of Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Lakshadweep Islands to relay the weather warnings to the mariners at sea in general and fishing boats in particular to take shelter in nearest port / shore and in addition has issued an advisory to the fishermen ashore not to venture out at sea.  “Coast Guard ships at sea and aircraft are reaching out to fishing trawlers, fishing boats and Merchant Mariners relaying them IMD weather warnings on VHF and urging them to return to the shore as soon as possible or take shelter in nearest port/harbour,” said Commandant RK Singh. The weathermen said they squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is very likely over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep – Maldives area and equatorial Indian Ocean from 14th May morning. It is very likely to increase gradually becoming 50- 60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph over the same region from 15th morning. It is likely to increase gradually becoming Gale wind speed reaching 60 – 70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph over east-central Arabian Sea and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area from 16th May morning. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph likely along & off Kerala coast on 14th May and 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph along & off Kerala - Karnataka coasts on 15th and16th May. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph very likely to prevail over ComorinMaldives area during 14th–15th May. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph very likely to prevail along and off Maharashtra-Goa coasts on 16th May||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/weatherman-coast-guard-sound-tauktae-cyclone-alert-985160.html
12-05-2021||West||Maharashtra govt suspends vaccination for 18-44 age group||Rattled by a shortage of vaccines, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra has decided to temporarily suspend inoculation of the 18-44 age group and divert the stock to carry out a seamless and trouble-free vaccination of the 45+ category. The decision was taken at the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. “The vaccination for the 18-44 age group commenced on May 1…so far, we have vaccinated 5 to 6 lakh people in that category, however, there is a shortage of vaccines,” state’s Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters. According to Tope, there is a shortage of both, Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Covaxin, which is rolled out by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. “The priority now is to give vaccines to the 45+ group who had already taken one jab….that should not go  waste and hence the second shot is to be given on a priority basis,” said Tope emerging from the Cabinet meeting. “Efficacy of the vaccines can be affected if the second dose is not administered within the stipulated time period,” said Tope, adding that hence the government decided to "keep in abeyance" the vaccination of the 18-44 age group. "We have been requesting for more stocks, we are making all possible efforts including securing vaccines from the market," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-suspends-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-985202.html
12-05-2021||West||Goa O2 shortage: Bombay HC warns against more deaths; BJP MLA demands Health Minister's resignation||A day after 26 patients admitted to the Covid ward of Goa's top government hospital died due to oxygen shortage, the Bombay High Court bench in Goa said that oxygen shortage scenario in the state was grim and directed the government to ensure that at least no one dies at the health facility due to lack of oxygen "at least tonight". The HC, which is hearing several public interest litigations questioning the shoddy Covid-19 management efforts by the state government, also said that material placed before the Court establishes that patients were dying at the Goa Medical College, the apex government health facility, due to oxygen shortage. "We post the matter tomorrow with the fond hope that at least tonight, and even hereafter, with the joint efforts of the Dean and the State Administration of which he is a part, there are no casualties at the Goa Medical College for want of oxygen," an order by the division bench of the High Court led by Justices Nitin Sambre and Mahesh Sonak said. "According to us, the situation about the supply of oxygen at the Goa Medical College is quite grim. We have long passed the stage of determining whether patients are suffering from the lack of oxygen or not. The material placed before us establishes that patients are indeed suffering and even in some cases succumbing for want of the supply of oxygen, in the State of Goa," the order also said. The Court is expected to hear the matter again on Thursday. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday had said that 26 patients had died in the Covid ward of the Goa Medical College due to oxygen shortage from 2 am to 6 am on Tuesday morning. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant had however insisted that the patients had died due to mismanagement of the available oxygen resources. The differences between the two top ruling politicians has also sparked a sideshow in the BJP, with a BJP MLA Atanasio Monserrate demanding the resignation of the Health Minister. "CM distributes the portfolio. What stops the CM from keeping that (Health) portfolio with him until the crisis gets over. There can only be one captain of the ship, there cannot be two captains," Monserrate said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-o2-shortage-bombay-hc-warns-against-more-deaths-bjp-mla-demands-health-ministers-resignation-985207.html
12-05-2021||West||Gujarat: Crematorium workers declared 'corona warriors'||The Vijay Rupani government in Gujarat on Wednesday declared employees of crematoriums in the state as "corona warriors" and extended benefits including Rs 25 lakh assistance to the families of them in case of death due to Covid-19. However, there was no clarity with regards to number of beneficiaries, eligibility and other criteria like whether people involved in final rites or entire staff will be treated as "corona warriors." The announcement comes in view of most of the crematoriums across the state reporting a higher number of final rites. Although the state government has been denying under reporting of coronavirus deaths, the crematoriums have been busy burning dead bodies as per the Covid-19 protocol. There have been widespread reports on pyre furnaces melting and chimneys breaking down due to excessive use. "I am not aware of this announcement but it is a welcome move. We have a staff of 25 people that includes clerks and accountants. Last several months have been unprecedented when all ten pyres, including gas and wood furnaces, have been busy round the clock. The situation has improved a bit in the last couple of weeks but it is still nearly 60 per cent higher than the normal days," said Prashant Kabrawala who manages Surat's Ashvini Kumar Crematorium.  Gujarat on Wednesday reported 11,017 positive cases while 102 deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state stood at 1, 27, 483 cases, out of which, 804 were on ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-crematorium-workers-declared-corona-warriors-985238.html
