13-05-2021||Comment||World needs a vaccine patent waiver and needs it soon||Last October, India and South Africa proposed at the World Trade Organisation that intellectual property rights on Covid-related drugs and vaccines be suspended. This proposal was supported by 60 countries. However, the United States, still under the Trump administration then, and the EU, were opposed to the proposal. Then presidential candidate Joe Biden had in early July itself said that he supported such a proposal. So, there was expectation, but the pressure from the pharma lobby was intense, too. Besides, abruptly curtailing patent rights is against the basic sanctity of contracts. You can’t renege on a sovereign promise, which is what patent rights are. Then, in April, more than 100 Nobel Prize winners and several prominent world leaders, including former heads of State, urged the US to support a waiver of the TRIPS (Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights) clause in the WTO. Such a waiver, they said, would vastly increase inoculation rates, and would legally allow developing countries to make their own vaccines, which were currently developed and produced by global pharma companies. The letter also said that vaccine knowhow and technology should be shared openly, and industry monopolies should not be allowed to create artificial supply shortages. This is seen as essential to winning the war against the pandemic. Winning over US support for a patent waiver is crucial because it entails taking on the might of major pharma companies like Pfizer, Moderna, Novavax, Johnson and Johnson and AstraZeneca. Of course, there is the argument, which has been examined by India as well, that the current TRIPS regime of the WTO has an escape clause in case of emergencies. This is called ‘compulsory licensing’, wherein a company can be forced to disclose and license its patents to others, in national emergencies. But developing countries have been reluctant to use this clause for fear of displeasing the US, which could counter the move with some other diplomatic or economic punitive measures. It must be remembered that during the anthrax scare of 2001, the Canadian government had threatened to break the patent protection of Bayer and use compulsory licensing to produce ciprofloxacin on a mass scale. Bayer, however, settled the matter with Canada by donating large amounts of ciprofloxacin and offering more in case of an emergency. This led Canada to agree to acquire cipro exclusively from Bayer for the duration of the patent agreement. So, there is a precedent, but many developing countries of Africa have been reluctant to use this route, even for genuine national emergencies like AIDS. An interesting success story, without breaking any patent rules, was that of Indian pharma company Cipla, which in 1993 developed and sold a drug at one-tenth the prevailing price. By 2001, Cipla had developed an anti-AIDS drug cocktail and sold it at a very low cost, upending existing monopolies, and vastly contributed to the effort to combat and control AIDS. So, in the present context of Covid, the compulsory licensing avenue is only of academic interest. Besides, the US has been increasingly under diplomatic pressure to relax the restrictions on export of vaccines which lie unutilised. Last week, President Biden announced that he would support a TRIPS waiver at the WTO. This is a historic decision. It comes after surmounting the challenges and pressures mounted by the pharma lobby, including the scare that the Russians and Chinese would get American pharma technology, and that if there was an indiscriminately large production of vaccines all around the world, it would create a big stress on supply chains. As of this writing, 120 out of 164 member countries in the WTO are supporting the TRIPS waiver for vaccine patents. Added to this is the statistical evidence that 60% of the world’s supplies have been cornered by the rich countries, or only about 16% of the world’s population. There is excess stock sitting around in the US which will remain unutilised. Sure enough, the US decision was opposed by many pharma companies and leaders like German Chancellor Angela Merkel. She said that patents were not the limiting factor responsible for the vaccine shortage. It was production capacities and high quality standards. But she surely misses the point that patent waiver allows production to happen on a massive scale so that the current capacities are no longer the bottleneck since newer capacities will come up, without fear of infringing on patents. German company BioNTech echoed Merkel’s sentiments, saying that replicating the manufacturing process and mastering the technology can take years. It also said it was committed to selling its mRNA vaccine to developing countries on a no-profit basis. But that no-profit price surely has the value of the patent, which itself makes it prohibitive. Strangely, even Brazil has opposed the patent waiver proposed by Biden, and so has Bill Gates. Of course, if Covid vaccine patents are going to be breached now, the world has to find a way to compensate the pharma companies for the breach of contract. How this waiver proposal travels through the WTO voting process remains to be seen. Crucial time may be lost, so India cannot count on this proposal to help its cause. It needs to rapidly ramp up vaccine production and imports, and immediately go in for universal and free vaccination. It should not depend only on app-based booking, because given the great digital divide, it puts the poor and underprivileged at a great disadvantage. Imagine areas where telecom connectivity is poor, digital literacy is low (can you do a captcha in 20 seconds), and when an open slot on the Cowin website is as elusive as a passing comet in the sky. The issue of the TRIPS waiver for Covid vaccines is also the right time to examine excessive patent protection, and overall exorbitant monopoly drug prices. There is now abundant research that shows that the maxim “no patents, no drugs” is false. The billions in dollars needed to develop a new drug is mostly due to costs incurred on stage 2 and stage 3 clinical trials, which are actually in the nature of “public goods”. That’s because once the safety and reliability of the new drug is established in those trials, it deserves to be public knowledge. Hence, that cost should simply be reimbursed, and patent-induced monopoly rights should be drastically reduced. This is a longer-term plan. Right now, the Covid vaccines are on the agenda. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)  (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/world-needs-a-vaccine-patent-waiver-and-needs-it-soon-985291.html
13-05-2021||First Edit||Covid-19 spread in Karnataka's districts alarming||On Monday, Karnataka reached a grim Covid-19 milestone. It reported 39,305 new cases of Covid infections and 596 related fatalities over the preceding 24 hours; it overtook Maharashtra to emerge as the state with the most daily infections and fatalities. While the number of new infections in the state have fallen in the last few days, there is reason for concern. There are apprehensions that the ‘decline’ in infections is on account of reduced testing rather than a reflection of the reality on the ground. As worrying as the large number of infections is the high positivity rate in the state. According to the Union Health Ministry, 26 of Karnataka’s 31 districts have positivity rates that are higher than the national average. While the national positivity rate is 21%, districts like Uttara Kannada and Ballari show rates of 45.7% and 44.3%, respectively. While Bengaluru Urban has borne the brunt of the pandemic in the state right from its outbreak last year, infections in the districts are growing at an alarming rate in recent weeks. In mid-April, the districts accounted for 30% of Karnataka’s new infections. Fifty-five percent of the new cases reported from Karnataka on Saturday came from the districts. Inter-district travel during the Ugadi festival would have triggered the surge in late April. Added to this, lakhs of people working in Bengaluru returned to their homes in villages and towns when the lockdown was announced. This would have led to the geographic spread of infections to the rest of the state. Of particular concern is the state of health infrastructure in Karnataka’s small towns and villages. If Bengaluru with its large number of hospitals and health centres has not been able to cope with Covid-19 cases, what hope is there for patients living elsewhere in the state? The death of 23 people over a span of a day in a government hospital in Chamarajanagar due to a shortage of oxygen highlighted the abysmal state of public health infrastructure in Karnataka’s small towns. With the number of new Covid-19 infections surging in the towns, fatalities will grow unless the government prepares better. Much of Karnataka’s public health infrastructure is concentrated in Bengaluru. Availability of beds, medicines and ventilators in the districts is limited and beyond the reach of most of our population. A pandemic tsunami looms over the districts and the Yediyurappa government must be proactive in building up oxygen and medicine stocks in rural and small town Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-19-spread-in-karnatakas-districts-alarming-985293.html
13-05-2021||In Perspective||A look at the linguistic and socio-political history of 'Dravidian stock'||On May 7, when M K Stalin took oath as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, he added an intriguing detail to his Twitter bio. He stated that he belonged to the ‘Dravidian stock’. It was, at one level, a mere detailing of his linguistic and cultural background since Tamil, Stalin’s mother tongue and the language of Tamil Nadu, is a Dravidian language. But at another level, the assertion deserves a closer look. Besides being a cultural descriptor, ‘Dravidian’ has also come to stand for a worldview that came into the public consciousness through a movement that began in the early 20th century. Linguistic term In Banabhatta’s Kadambari, a 7th century text, reference is made to men hailing from the region of “Andhra, Dravida and Sinhala.” The Dravidas presumably spoke Tamil, since the Andhras and Sinhalas are differentiated from them and, therefore, Dravida could not have been a blanket term for all of South India. Dandin, the 6-7th century Sanskrit grammarian, who hailed from Kanchipuram in modern-day TN, used the term ‘Dravidesu’ to refer to the Tamil-speaking region in his Dashakumaracharita, a coming-of-age narrative of 10 princes. In Tantravarttika by Kumarila Bhatta, another 7th century text, the term ‘Dravidadi Bhashayam’ was used to refer to the tongue(s) he heard spoken in modern-day South and North Arcot, Chinglepet and Chittoor districts. Lilatilakam, a 14th century treatise on grammar and poetics, an important work in Maṇipravāḷam (a blend of Malayalam and Sanskrit) laid down the condition “Dramida Sanghatakashara Nibaddham” (only Dravidian letters are to be used) for the pattu (song) genre of literature. All these are instances of ‘Dravidian’ being employed in a linguistic context in pre-modern times. When ‘Dravidian’ was employed by Robert Caldwell in his 1856 book, Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian or South Indian Family of Languages, he was, he said, drawing from Kumarila Bhatta’s usage of the word. But unlike Bhatta and the others, Caldwell used ‘Dravidian’ as a generic name for the family of languages spoken in southern India to distinguish them from Indo-Aryan, the branch of Indo-European languages spoken in the Indian subcontinent. Credit must also be accorded to Francis Whyte Ellis (1777-1819), a British administrator who was the first to point out that the South Indian languages were a distinct family. With the Dravidian family of languages being distinctly identified, events in the second half of the 19th century resulted in distinct faultlines emerging in the ‘Indian’ narrative that many were then attempting to fashion. Tamil, its champions asserted, was possessed of an independently ancient cultural and literary tradition and could not be subsumed under the larger Sanskritic (read Indian) narrative. The discovery of the long-forgotten Sangam texts in the late 19th century further strengthened this claim. While the other South Indian languages too, in time, asserted their separateness from Sanskrit and much work was done to establish their ancient traditions, Tamil was the first to do so. This then gave rise to a distinct stream of thinking, best embodied in the social justice movement that adopted the name ‘Dravidian’. The movement In November 1916, at a historic meeting in Chennai, a ‘Non-Brahmin Manifesto’ was issued by C Natesa Mudaliar, P Theagaraya Chetty, Dr T M Nair, and others. Among their demands was for more non-brahmin representation in the then Brahmin-dominated government services. In 1919, the organisation that had taken birth on account of this meeting—the South Indian Liberal Federation (popularly known as the Justice Party)—won the first elections in the Madras Presidency under the dyarchy system introduced by the Montagu-Chelmsford reforms. Among the government’s actions in the 1920s were the introduction of a caste-based reservation in government services and State control of many temples in the province. Nair’s death in 1919 and Chetty’s in 1925 meant that the leadership of the movement passed into the hands of E V Ramasamy Naicker (‘Periyar’). Periyar’s ascent ensured that the movement took both a vernacular and a popular turn. His movement, which he called the ‘Self-Respect Movement’, confronted caste, religion and patriarchy upfront. Periyar had been a part of the Congress, but had left in disgust at what he saw as the casteism of its Brahmin leaders. He sought to make a distinction between the indigenous Dravidian and the North Indian Aryan, who in the Madras Presidency was represented, in his view, by Brahmins. One of the movement’s more trenchant agitations was against the imposition of Hindi by the Rajaji-headed Congress administration that ruled the province between 1937 and 1939. The Justice Party and Periyar’s movement merged in 1938 and in 1944, assumed the name Dravida Kazhagam (DK). In 1949, the DK split, with C N Annadurai forming the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and choosing to pursue the electoral politics route, something Periyar had been ambivalent about. Stalin’s assertion of his Dravidian identity harks back to both these proud histories. Tamil identity embodied in the ancient Tamil language as well as the DMK’s origins in a social justice movement that eschews caste and religion both find place in the moniker ‘Dravidian’. (The author is a Bengaluru-based editor and writer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-look-at-the-linguistic-and-socio-political-history-of-dravidian-stock-985292.html
13-05-2021||In Perspective||Maldives: Rising jihadi networks||In a bomb attack on May 6, former Maldivian president Mohamed Nasheed was critically injured, as were a few others. Going by the magnitude, the attack looks small, but in terms of the target selected, it cannot be underestimated. The fact that the attackers could get close to a high-profile target like Nasheed, who is also currently Speaker of the People’s Majlis, the Maldivian parliament, raises two principal questions: Is there a larger jihadist context to the attack? Or was it an attack by his political opponents? Over the past decade or so, Islamic radicalisation has reared its head in this Sunni-majority state. The number of Maldivians drawn to Islamic State (IS) and Pakistan-based madrasas and jihadist groups has risen. Protests by Islamists bearing IS flags have become common on the islands. According to a Government of Maldives report, about 200 Maldivian citizens had travelled to Syria and fought alongside IS; double that number did try to sneak out, but many were impeded. In terms of proportion to population, this number is high, compared to other Muslim-majority Asian countries. Notably, those who returned from Syria indulge in radicalisation and recruitment of unemployed youth on behalf of IS through Furqan and Noor mosques. Political uncertainty and socio-economic issues are the main drivers that have fuelled Islamic radicalism in the atoll state. Pakistan-based jihadist group Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) has exploited these faultlines through its charitable front organisation, Idara Khidmat-e-Khalq, to establish a foothold, especially in southern Maldives, in the garb of relief operations post-2004 tsunami. Developments in West Asia and the Af-Pak region have also influenced Maldivians toward radicalisation. Maldivian youth who returned from religious studies in Pakistani madrasas controlled by various jihadist groups and from Saudi Arabian madrasas carried radical ideas, and also jihadi connections. The madrasa-educated youth are indoctrinated to wage jihad in trouble spots like Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and Chechnya. This has had impact on the domestic front in the form of the rise of new Islamic radical groups with opportunistic political connections. Interestingly, Nasheed himself observed in 2019 that “The al Qaeda and IS are developing a deep state within the Maldives and are capturing strategic positions in the security establishments – in the police, military, in immigration, in the education ministry...so that a deep state is able to influence.” Consequently, the country, which is known for its tourist attraction, has been witnessing violent attacks in the past decade. The first major terror attack took place in 2007 in Malé’s Sultan Park, resulting in 12 casualties. Afrasheem Ali, a member of parliament, was assassinated in October 2012 for his anti-radicalisation stance. In August 2014, a local al Qaeda affiliate group claimed to have killed Ahmed Rilwan Abdulla, a noted journalist critical of Islamic radicalism in the country. In February 2020, three foreign tourists were attacked on the island of Hulhumalé. In April 2020, the IS claimed that it was responsible for the attack on Mahibadhoo harbour. Now, the attack on Nasheed is likely due to his criticism and personal push for countermeasures against Islamic radicalisation in the country. Notably, 17 jihadist organisations were banned in Maldives on the recommendations by the Parliamentary Committee on National Security that fall within the purview of Nasheed as the Speaker of the Majlis.  The emerging pattern, therefore, suggests a clear involvement of a jihadist group associated with the IS. Ever since its loss in Syria and Iraq, IS has been spreading in the rest of the continent, most notably in South and Southeast Asia. The dispersion is in the form of affiliate groups that show allegiance to IS. The Easter attacks in Sri Lanka in April 2019 were, for instance, perpetrated by local affiliate groups like NTJ and JMI. Some of the local jihadist affiliates in Maldives include Soldiers of the Khilafah in the Maldives, Dot and al Mustaqim Media.  Despite the emerging patterns, it is surprising that the local intelligence and security agencies failed to foresee an attack on a high-profile target like Nasheed. Maldives’ intelligence mechanism and cooperation with other countries has to be strengthened. The US withdrawal from Afghanistan and a possible resurgence of the Taliban may encourage possible outflow of Maldivian youth to Afghanistan. It is, therefore, important for Malé to keenly monitor egress of would-be jihadists and ingress of battle-hardened returnees. There are indeed some countermeasures taken by the present government in the form of strengthening existing Prevention of Terrorism Act and establishing a National Counter Terrorism Centre for better coordination of all counterterrorism activities by various government bodies. But they are not sufficient. A national-level counterterrorism strategy that addresses the very root causes of radicalisation in various remote and poverty-stricken islands of the archipelago is the need of the hour. (The writer is Associate Professor, Department of International Studies, Political Science and History, Christ (Deemed to be University), Bengaluru.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/maldives-rising-jihadi-networks-985643.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Young mother with Covid-19 dumped outside Mandya hospital, dies||The ongoing oxygen crisis claimed the life of a 33-year-old woman on Tuesday night after she was abandoned by her ambulance driver and refused admission at several hospitals.  Safina (name changed), a widow with three pre-teen children and a resident of Tumakuru district, came down with symptoms of the disease on May 2. When her oxygen saturation levels began to deteriorate, neighbours informed her family in Mandya. “We tried to get her admitted to the government hospital in Tumakuru on Tuesday morning, but they said they did not have any vacant beds. Oxygen was given to stabilise her SpO2 levels and she was asked to leave,” explained Safina’s brother Mohammed Ismail.  He added that his sister had no comorbidities of any kind. What followed was a frantic dash across several districts in an ambulance in a bid to find a bed. Ismail said that by the time his sister was transported to the Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), her oxygen saturation levels had dropped below 50. “MIMS refused to admit the patient citing non-availability of oxygen and beds,” said Tabraiz Amman, a citizen volunteer who tried to find a bed for the patient. Dr Ravindra Gowda, Resident Medical Officer at MIMS told DH that the hospital has 404 beds in total, out of which 273 are oxygenated, with a further 30 being ICU-ventilator beds. There are no vacancies at all and furthermore, there is a waiting list of 45 people for the ICU-V beds,” he said. Safina was subsequently taken to Channapatna Government Hospital on Tuesday evening on the promise that beds were available. However, she was returned to MIMS after being rejected at Channapatna due to her low oxygen saturation levels, Amman said.  Ismail said that the ambulance driver abandoned Safina. “The driver said he could not stay anymore. He shut off the oxygen supply and forced us to take my sister out in front of the emergency entrance at MIMS and drove off,” Ismail said. “We placed her on the road beside the entrance. Her Spo2 level dwindled to 2.5. She complained of being unable to breathe and died at about 10.30 pm,” he said. Mandya Deputy Commissioner Aswathi S said that the district was scaling up the number of oxygenated beds, including setting up 150 additional beds at MIMS, plus 50 oxygenated beds at various taluk hospitals. “However, we would need 6 to 10 kilolitres of additional oxygen per day to operationalise these beds,” she said, adding that oxygen manufacturers had not yet agreed to enhance supplies. She said that oxygen generators had also been promised by the government and could be installed in three to four weeks from now in two taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/young-mother-with-covid-19-dumped-outside-mandya-hospital-dies-985270.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mobile swab collection units in Urban Health Centres soon, says Mayor Premananda Shetty||The Mangaluru City Corporation has appointed nodal officers in all 60 wards to fight Covid-19 effectively. A meeting chaired by Mayor Premananda Shetty said that mobile swab collection units in all the Urban Public Health Centres will be introduced shortly. The meeting has decided to take people to confidence and initiate measures to check the spread of Covid-19. The nodal officers will take measures in all the wards and the UPHC areas in the city. The nodal officers should take the corporators of the respective wards into confidence and take measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. All primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases should be identified, and they should be made to undergo RT-PCR tests to check further spread of Covid-19 infections. Stickers should be pasted in front of the houses that are declared as containment zones to inform people that the place is being monitored by the officials. The officials should ensure that those positive patients in home isolation do not move around freely. The Mayor directed the nodal officers to provide the necessary infrastructure in PHCs for RT-PCR sample collection and vaccination. Pandals should be erected in front of the PHCs to protect people from sunshine and rain while waiting in a queue for the vaccines. Seating arrangements should be made and drinking water should also be arranged at the PHCs. There should be separate areas for vaccination and RT-PCR sample collection in all the PHCs. Separate teams will be formed to collect swabs through mobile units in the city. Each PHC will be manned by two Home Guards. Vaccination centres can be shifted to nearby schools if the urban health centres lack sufficient space. Asha workers from the Health department and multi-purpose workers (MPW) of the MCC will conduct a door-to-door survey to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms, the Mayor said. 'Give PPE kits separately' MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar has appealed to the people to provide used PPE kits, masks or any bio-sanitary wastes separately to the waste collectors. "Several infected patients are in home isolation. The MCC has the responsibility to dispose of the garbage collected from the houses scientifically. In the interest of the health of the civic workers, people should hand over the bio-wastes separately," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mobile-swab-collection-units-in-urban-health-centres-soon-says-mayor-premananda-shetty-985347.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kuvempu University Vice-Chancellor files police complaint against ex-Registrar||Kuvempu University is in the news for all the wrong reasons, with the battle between Vice-Chancellor B P Veerabhadrappa and former registrar SS Patil reaching the police station. The Vice-Chancellor has lodged a complaint at Bhadravathi rural police station, alleging that Patil opened the lock of the Registrar's room without his permission and demanded action against him for trespassing. Speaking to DH, B P Veerabhadrappa said the state government had issued an order appointing KAS Officer C N Sridhar as Registrar on May 10. So, SS Patil was relieved of the charge. Sridhar assumed charge on May 11 in the morning, but the government withdrew the order in the afternoon and appointed Sridhar as skill development officer instead. However, it did not reappoint Patil as Registrar. So, the room of the Registrar was sealed on May 11, he noted. Explaining the incident, he added, "Patil broke the lock of the room the next day and spent hours there without taking my permission. So, I have lodged a complaint in this regard. I have written a letter to the state government, seeking direction." He said he is ready to obey the order of the government. Meanwhile, Sridhar has decided to approach the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kuvempu-university-vice-chancellor-files-police-complaint-against-ex-registrar-985376.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada records 1,077 fresh Covid-19 cases||Dakshina Kannada district recorded 1,077 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of active cases in the district to 12,673. With 1,030 discharges, the total recoveries in the district are 46,073. Two more fatalities have been reported, thus, taking total deaths to 797. The total positive cases registered so far is 59,543. With May 13 being 'National Immunisation Day', no Covid-19 vaccines will be administered for those above 45 years old. The immunisation programme will be carried out for children. Further, no Covishield vaccines have reached the district. The date of the vaccination camp will be announced later. As scheduled, the first dose of vaccine for those in the age group of 18 to 44 will be continued at the district Wenlock Hospital and in the four taluk hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-records-1077-fresh-covid-19-cases-985405.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Don't venture into sea, ICG urges fishermen||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has urged fishermen not to venture into the sea for fishing as Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted the formation of a low-pressure area over south-east Arabian Sea later this week. Coast Guard Commander DIG Venkatesh said that the ICG Ships and CG Dornier aircraft on patrol relayed weather warning to fishermen at sea on VHF Channel to return to nearest shores. As per the IMD forecast, the cyclone Tauktae may intensify into a cyclonic storm over the east-central Arabian Sea by May 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dont-venture-into-sea-icg-urges-fishermen-985407.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 patient dies for want of oxygen in Chitradurga||A 70-year old Covid patient reportedly died for want of oxygen in general hospital in Hiriyur town of the district on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Ramappa (70), resident of Katanayakanahalli, Hiriyur taluk. Family members alleged that he did not get oxygen in time, and so he breathed his last in the hospital. The district requires 7,000 litres of oxygen everyday. But it is receiving only 6,000 litres of oxygen. Harihar-based Southern Agency has been entrusted with the responsibility of supplying oxygen to the district. The tanker which was supposed to come on May 12th evening did not arrive on Thursday morning also. This led to shortage of oxygen in the district. Deputy Commissioner Kavita S Mannikeri said oxygen supply was disrupted in the district on May 12 and it had led to tension. However, doctors managed with the existing cylinders. The exact cause of death of Covid patient in Hiriyur taluk general hospital is yet to be known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-patient-dies-for-want-of-oxygen-in-chitradurga-985416.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA turns Good Samaritan, saves lives of 20 Covid-19 patients||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's political Secretary and MLA M P Renukacharya turned a Good Samaritan by bringing 24 jumbo cylinders from Southern Gas Agency in Harihar on May 12 midnight and saving the lives of 20 Covid-19 patients, who are undergoing treatment in a general hospital in Honnali town. In this way, the MLA averted the Chamarajanagar-like tragedy. The MLA traveled with tahsildar and police to Harihar, which is 40 km from Honnali, to bring cylinders. The hospital medical officer Chandrappa called the MLA around 12:00 am on May 12 am and told that they were facing a shortage of oxygen and patients may die if oxygen was not brought in within two to three hours. The MLA went to the hospital immediately and saw the conditions of the patients. He called the Deputy Commissioner from the hospital and asked him to make oxygen cylinder arrangements. Later, he went to Southern Gas Agency in Harihar along with tahsildar Basana Gouda Kotur and circle police inspector Devaraj with empty cylinders and got them refilled, and returned to the hospital around 2:30 am. The patients who were in need of oxygen got it in time and survived. The hospital staff told that the MLA broke down after seeing the death of a Covid-19 patient in his presence in the hospital. He instilled confidence in the remaining patients and left the hospital to bring oxygen cylinders.  The MLA also conquered the hearts of people by breaking the lock of the vaccination centre at Ambedkar Bhavan and helped people, who had been standing in queue for hours together, get vaccine. Though people were waiting in queue to get the vaccine, the centre was not opened as the key was lost. After learning about this, the MLA broke the lock with the help of an iron rod and opened the room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-turns-good-samaritan-saves-lives-of-20-covid-19-patients-985498.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman dies, oxygen shortage alleged||A Covid infected woman succumbed at the government hospital in Pandavapura taluk on Thursday, while the family members alleged that she died of oxygen shortage. Jyothi (45) of Hemavathy Layout in Pandavapura town is the deceased. She was suffering from blood pressure and diabetes and she took ill on Wednesday night and faced breathing problem. She was immediately admitted to the government hospital, where she tested positive for Covid. Later, she was shifted to Covid ward and died on Thursday morning. The family members alleged that she died of oxygen shortage. Jyothi’s brother Rajendra said that as soon as they found oxygen had stopped, they immediately informed the nurses on duty. But, they claimed that there was no stock of oxygen and told us to shift her to other hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-dies-oxygen-shortage-alleged-985565.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivanandanatha Swami passes away||Shivananda Swami (61), of Chunchanakatte branch the Adichunchanagiri Mutt in KR Nagar taluk, passed away on the early hours of Thursday. According to mutt sources, the seer tested positive for Covid and was shifted to Adichunchanagiri Hospital at Bellur Cross in Mandya district on Sunday, after he suffered breathing problems. Shivananda Swami took charge of the Chunchanakatte branch in the year 2000 and served for the educational development of rural children. He had also started an orphanage, where more than 350 children are provided education and guidance. He started Adichunchanagiri Educational Institution at Mirle village in KR Nagar taluk. The last rites were performed at Adichunchanagiri, Nagamangala taluk, Mandya district, under the guidance of seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami, on Thursday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivanandanatha-swami-passes-away-985568.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gundlupet taluk hospital stoned as Covid patient dies||Even as the number of Covid deaths in Chamarajanagar district are increasing, the relatives of the victims are feeling helpless. Sometimes, they are turning violent. On Thursday, relatives of a Covid patient, who died, attacked the taluk government hospital in Gundlupet, Chamarajanagar district, and pelted stones. The enraged relatives used even oxygen cylinders to smash the doors and windows. The glass doors of the windows were damaged and the glass pieces were littered all around. They also assaulted the hospital staff, who tried to stop them. The police personnel rushed to the spot and pacified the protesters. They also admitted two persons, Girish and Bangaru, who were injured while hitting the glass panes, with bare hands, to the hospital. Unhappy with the protest and attack by the relatives of the Covid victim, the doctors and other staff of the hospital staged a protest. The police officials pacified them and assured of initiating action against those, who attacked the hospital and its staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gundlupet-taluk-hospital-stoned-as-covid-patient-dies-985569.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Infected woman kills self at Covid care centre||A Covid infected woman ended her life by hanging, at the Covid Care Centre at the BCM Hostel in Maddur town on Thursday. Gowramma (55), wife of Chowdaiah of Belur village, Mandya taluk, is the deceased. According to the officials, Gowramma was admitted to the Covid Care Centre after she tested positive on May 10. She was supposed to be discharged on Thursday. But, she was found hanging in the toilet, with her saree. The incident created panic among other patients for a while. Tahsildar Vijay Kumar and Taluk Health Officer Dr Ashalatha visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/infected-woman-kills-self-at-covid-care-centre-985570.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Staff shortage hits services at Central Hospital for Beedi Workers||Even as various steps are being taken by the state government and the district administration, to manage the Covid-19 crisis, the lack of adequate healthcare professionals and the lack of commitment among a section of them, is becoming a cause for concern. The Central Hospital for Beedi Workers on Mahadevapura Main Road in the city, is a Covid Care Centre, a Covid Vaccination Centre and also a Covid Mitra dispensary. But, there are no sufficient doctors and nurses to take care of the patients. The concerned people’s representatives had to take up the issue with District Health Officer (DHO) Dr T Amarnath and warn him of staging a protest, if doctors were not posted to the prime government hospital under Narasimharaja (NR) Assembly constituency. Besides six doctors who were posted on May 1, the DHO assured of posting another seven doctors. But, among the total 13 newly-posed doctors, only one is an Allopathy doctor. The remaining are all Ayurveda doctors. Former corporator and secretary of Mysuru Beedi Workers’ Association K C Showkath Pasha said, “There are 45 Covid inpatients, including 16 of them on oxygenated beds, at the Central Hospital for Beedi Workers. The situation was grim on Wednesday, as only one doctor, Dr Munavar, and a nurse were on night shift. We were worried, as there were no adequate staff, in case of an emergency.” “On Thursday, all corporators and leaders of the areas, met the DHO and demanded posting of more doctors, to treat Covid patients at the Central Hospital for Beedi Workers. There were no doctors and nurses for the night shift on Wednesday. All doctors and nurses, who were on duty for more than 10 days, till Tuesday, relieved themselves, as per the Covid protocol, as a precautionary measure. Thus, only Dr Munavar, along with a newly-recruited operation theatre (OT) trained nurse, was doing the rounds on Wednesday night. Fortunately, nothing untoward happened,” said Pasha. Dr Munavar said, “The situation eased on Thursday, as a couple of doctors turned up. With more postings by the DHO, we may be able to provide proper care to the Covid patients Friday onwards.” Pasha said, “The entire building of the Central Hospital for Beedi Workers was taken over by the government, under disaster management, with the efforts of MLA Tanveer Sait. The complete infrastructure was developed by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and other departments concerned. Sufficient medicine supply is provided and the system has been upgraded by spending lakhs of rupees, with the efforts of Sait. The only problem is non-availability of doctors.” “Tanveer Sait held several meetings with District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag to upgrade the hospital to the standards of the district hospital, for the benefit of the people residing in and around the NR Assembly constituency,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/staff-shortage-hits-services-at-central-hospital-for-beedi-workers-985571.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police bust three gangs selling Remdesivir for higher price||The Mysuru police have been cracking down on the black marketers of Remdesivir, as its demand is increasing over the past few days, following a surge in Covid-19 cases. The police, under limits of three police stations of Mysuru city, have busted three separate gangs that were selling Remdesivir drugs for Covid-19 patients in the black market and arrested a total of seven nurses, on Wednesday. The arrested nurses under Krishnaraja Police Station are: G Suresh, son of Gurusiddashetty, a native of Uppinamole in Yalandur taluk of Chamarajanagar district, and an employee of Kamakshi Hospital in JP Nagar; D M Raghavendra, son of Mahadevu, a native of Deganahalli in KR Nagar taluk, and an employee of Institute of Nephro and Neuro Sciences, KR Hospital; and Ashok, son of Ramegowda, a native of Ramanakoppalu in Arkalgud taluk of Hassan district and an employee of KR Hospital. Suresh used to steal Remdesivir vials from Kamakshi Hospital, instead of administering them to the patients, and give them to Raghavendra and Ashok, who would sell them to needy patients for higher price. Krishnaraja police recovered four Covefor (Remedesivir injection 100 mg/20 ml), injections and Rs 7,000 in cash from the accused. The nurses arrested under Narasihmaraja police station are: K Rakesh, son of Kumar, a native of Kodanahalli in Mysuru taluk; and D V Mallesh, son of Basavaraju, a native of Doora in Mysuru taluk; both employees of Girish Chandra Multi-Speciality Hospital in Vishweshwara Nagar, Vidyaranyapuram. Rakesh and Mallesh had stolen six Remedesivir vials, supposed to be administered to patients, and have sold them in the black market for higher price. The arrested under the VV Puram police station are: David Innos, son of Robert, a resident of 1st Main, Near Church, STF Circle; and Ajay, son of Shankaregowda, a native of Agasanahundi Colony in HD Kote taluk; both employees of Chandrodaya Eye General Hospital on KRS Road, Gokulam. David and Ajay had stolen Remdesivir vials, supposed to be administered to patients, and have sold them in the black market for higher price. Two vials have been recovered from them. CCB Inspectors R Jagadish and R Shekar, under the guidance of CCB ACP C K Ashwatha Narayana and DCPs A N Prakash Gowda and M S Geetha Prasanna, conducted the raids and busted the cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-bust-three-gangs-selling-remdesivir-for-higher-price-985572.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Anti-Covid-19 drug: Mysuru-based firm makes a breakthrough||A Mysuru-based company, which was involved in research, to develop a drug for Covid-19, since the pandemic started last year, has achieved a breakthrough. Dr B H Manjunath, managing director, DRM Innovations, said that four drugs against human anti-SARS-CoV-2 have been discovered and are under the trials. “The SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) virus pandemic, over the last one year, has affected many countries, with complete lockdown, loss of jobs, economic downturn, overburdened health systems and huge number of deaths. SARS-CoV-2 viral multiplication, within the cell, depends on RdRp, a key enzyme that is involved in the RNA synthesis, the core material in the virus. For the first time, DRM Innovations, has developed the new drugs to kill the SARS-CoV-2 virus, using artificial intelligence,” he said. Dr Manjunath said, “National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, a leading Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) affiliate, conducted studies and confirmed that the new drugs had good inhibitory effects in killing the virus in cell-based systems. Additional studies provided preliminary information that the drugs had no toxicity in the cell-based systems and on animals. Further, animal studies in JSS Pharmacy College, Mysuru, observed that the drug can be given orally. Advanced software-based analysis identifies these drugs to be virocidal and has drug and dosage characteristics, similar to Remdesivir,” he said. He said, “The key advantages in the new drugs are that they can be given orally and has the potential to cross the blood brain barrier, since many Covid patients suffer from neurological problems and Remdesivir does not cross the blood brain barrier." "DRM Innovations is looking for funding from the Union government, drug manufacturers and philanthropists to take this innovation into clinical use for the benefit of the nation and mankind. Once an effective oral drug is available, Covid will join the ranks of H1N1 influenza (swine flu), which caused disruptions in 2011. But, now, H1N1 is an easily treatable disease,” he added. Dr Manjunath said that his team of researchers include, Dr Basappa, chairman, Laboratory of Chemical Biology, Department of Studies in Organic Chemistry, University of Mysore; Dr P A Mahesh, professor, Department of Respiratory Medicine, JSS Medical College and Hospital, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research; Dr Priya Abraham, Dr Pragya Jadhav and Dr Anitha Shete, National Institute of Virology, Pune; Dr Pramod Kumar principal, JSS Pharmacy College; and Saravanan Babu, JSS Pharmacy Research head. Dr Manjunath said that the drugs have been tested in the laboratory at Johnson and Johnson, Belgium, also, and was found to be effective against SARS Covid 2 virus. “The drugs would be effective even if the Covid virus undergoes mutations as the mutations occurs mostly in the membrane protein, while the drugs target the RdRp directly,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anti-covid-19-drug-mysuru-based-firm-makes-a-breakthrough-985573.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rain causes flood-like situation in Shivamogga||Heavy rains accompanied by strong wind and lightning lashed several parts of the district on Thursday.  Many residential areas in Shivamogga city including Bapujinagar and Gopala Gowda lay out were waterlogged due to heavy rains. Houses in low lying areas were also flooded. Meanwhile, a 47-year-old man Umesh died in Hosanagar taluk after he was struck by lightning while working in a farm field.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-causes-flood-like-situation-in-shivamogga-985626.html
13-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka government cheated people by lying about Covid-19 vaccines: Congress||Congress legislators led by seniors Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar on Wednesday staged a protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Vidhana Soudha against the government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation.  The leaders shouted slogans against the BJP government in a “symbolic” protest.  “We don’t know what’s happening in the government. They have lost the plot,” Shivakumar said, adding that his party’s protest against the government’s “failure” will continue.  “The government has cheated people by lying about vaccines,” Siddaramaiah said. “If there aren’t enough vaccines, why did they say they’d inoculate everybody? What was the need to formally launch the vaccination drive in the state,” he asked, hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  He also attacked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for not announcing any relief measures for those affected by the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-government-cheated-people-by-lying-about-covid-19-vaccines-congress-985283.html
13-05-2021||Main Article||Covid-19: India basking in global aid?||There is a strange, even a bizarre, sense of self-satisfaction, if not self-congratulation, among officials and policy wonks about the international aid from more than 40 countries, including China, flowing into India in the wake of Covid-19’s second wave. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla, at a press conference on April 29, listed the countries from where medical and oxygen equipment was flowing into India, which includes Uzbekistan, Guyana, Egypt, Bangladesh, apart from the United States, Russia, South Africa, and others. What could have been a moment of embarrassment is turned into one of satisfaction and triumph, an example of the huge goodwill that India enjoyed among all countries, the rich and the powerful, and the small and the poor. Contrast this with the aid, with or without strings, that came India’s way in the mid-1960s, especially the PL480 wheat shipments from the US as India battled crop failure, famine and mass starvation. Those who wince in recalling that period did not seem to feel any sense of humiliation today as they tried to portray how quickly US President Joe Biden had, after the telephone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 26, organised the dispatch of oxygen-making equipment, raw materials for the manufacture of vaccines, and ready-to-use vaccine stocks, and tweeted later that as India was there for America, so America is there for India. It was meant to seem like an exchange between two countries standing on equal footing.  Yes, India is capable of shopping in the global markets for all the equipment and pharmaceutical materials, including raw materials and ready-to-use vaccines, and it does not have to depend on aid as such. The only obstacles for the shopping could be the tariff barriers, intellectual property rights issues, and the scarcities in the global supply chains. In a time of pandemic, there is not enough of the essential materials like medicines to go around. India, as a matter of fact, was expected to fulfil some of the gaps, especially in the manufacture of vaccines at low cost. But India has its own struggles in coping with the pandemic emergency, and it may not be able to play its rightful role in the global exchange of goods and services. It is quite easy to enter the feel-good cocoon and declare with the Victorian poet that God’s in His Heaven and all is well with the world. The prime minister’s public relations machinery would want this to be the theme song. But this would require ignoring the inconvenient facts that Indian hospitals do not have enough ventilators or medical oxygen supplies to deal with an emergency, or that there are not enough medicine supplies, including vaccines, in the country. The government and the policymakers are required to address these shortages and even plan to avoid such exigencies. This would require an honest appraisal of the existing systems and policies, and an admission that all is indeed not well.  No opinion-maker seems to feel the need to observe that this is a reversal of fortunes in India’s position when last summer Prime Minister Modi made the loud and magnanimous offer of sending out medical aid to other countries, and how India would fulfil its self-assigned role of the ‘pharmacy of the world’, and he had even given the spin that Atmanirbhar Bharat affirms the ancient India motto of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. The pouring in of international aid at a time of acute shortage of critical medical components should serve as a revelation that India is seriously lacking in essential things. Any self-respecting country would have shopped around for all that it needs at this time -- as India did during the Kargil conflict in 1999 when international orders were placed for coffins and they were delivered much after the end of the skirmish -- and not wait for global aid. What is curious is that the Modi government did not feel the need to buy the medical equipment that the public health system needed to combat the Covid-19 surge because it seems to be labouring under the delusion that Atmanirbhar Bharat does not need to import life-saving medical equipment and materials. There have been knee-jerk decisions by the Modi government to buy vaccines from the global, specifically US, market because it has become evident that the indigenous production of vaccines by the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech may not be sufficient to meet the target of vaccination of nearly a billion people. The pandemic-ravaged India of 2021 is not the India of the mid-1960s, when it depended on shipments of wheat under PL480. It is better placed today than it was 50-60 years ago. But it must be realised, especially among those in power and those who are in the business of projecting ‘Brand India’, that the country has a long way to go before it is possible for ordinary Indians not to have to desperately run from hospital to hospital for a bed with oxygen or ventilator. Everything should be done to remedy this woeful lack of capacity. The pouring in, and official acceptance, of international aid after a long gap is a grim reminder that India is still neither powerful nor rich enough to serve the needs of its own people fully on its own. There can be no national pride when the wails of the people are much too loud to be drowned by propaganda, or by the stony silence of governments. Cynical spinmeisters cannot turn the generous global aid to Covid-distressed India into a tribute to India, the emerging power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/covid-19-india-basking-in-global-aid-985644.html
13-05-2021||National||Kerala woman Soumya Santhosh, who died in Hamas rocket firings was a minute away from safety shelter||The nearest ‘safety shelter’ was just a minute’s run away, but 32-year-old Soumya Santhosh could not reach it to save herself when the barrage of rockets fired from Gaza Strip rained into Ashkelon in southern Israel. She was with another woman – an 80-year-old, whom she was appointed to take care of. Soumya, originally a resident of Idukki in Kerala, couldn’t survive the rocket attack on Tuesday. Her death, however, prompted the Embassy of India in Tel Aviv to once again advise all citizens of the country living currently in Israel to stay close to ‘safety shelters’ – reinforced concrete rooms that dot the conflict zones of West Asia. Amid intense aerial bombardment by both Hamas and the Israel Defence Force, the Embassy of India in Tel Aviv asked the citizens of the country in the West Asian nation to remain vigilant and observe safety protocols as advised by the local authorities. “Please exercise caution, avoid unnecessary movement and stay close to safety shelters,” it stated in an advisory issued for the citizens of India in Israel. The Embassy of India in Tel Aviv has also got in touch with the Government of Israel for repatriation of the mortal remains of Soumya. V Muraleedharan, Minister of State for External Affairs, spoke to the bereaved family in Kerala and assured all possible assistance from the Government of India. He noted in a tweet that New Delhi had condemned the “attacks and violence in Jerusalem” and urged both sides to exercise restraint. Spoke with the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance. We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides. Santhosh was originally a resident of Keerithodu in the Idukki district of Kerala. She was working as a caregiver to an 80-year-old woman in Ashkelon, a coastal city in southern Israel. The 32-year-old was killed as one of the rockets fired by the militants of Hamas from the Gaza Strip hit the house of the octogenarian woman, who was also injured and hospitalized. Unlike many houses in the locality, the one where they lived did not have a fortified room to protect them from aerial bombardment. The two women could not reach the nearby rocket shelter before being hit, according to the reports received in New Delhi. Santhosh was on a video-call with her husband in Kerala just before the rocket attack started. “On behalf of the state of #Israel, I convey heartfelt condolences to the family of Ms. Soumya Santosh (Santhosh), murdered by Hamas indiscriminate terror attack on innocent lives,” Ron Malka, the ambassador of Israel to India, posted on Twitter. “Our hearts are crying with her 9 years old son that lost his mother in this cruel terrorist attack.” Malka too spoke to the family of Santhosh. “I just spoke to the family of Ms. Soumya Santosh, the victim of the Hamas terrorist strike. I expressed my sorrow for their unfortunate loss & (and) extended my condolences on behalf of the state of Israel. The whole country is mourning her loss & (and) we are here for them,” he tweeted. The hostility between Israel and Palestine escalated over the past few weeks. The aerial strikes and counter strikes by Hamas and the Israel Defence Force intensified over night. At least 35 were killed in Gaza Strip and five in Israel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-woman-soumya-santhosh-who-died-in-hamas-rocket-firings-was-a-minute-away-from-safety-shelter-985262.html
13-05-2021||National||DH Toon | BJP leaders share puff piece in 'positivity push' to defend PM on Covid-19 crisis||An article exalting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic made a sudden appearance on the Twitter timelines of BJP leaders. “PM Modi has been working hard; don’t get trapped in the opposition barbs,” read its headline in all capitals. The article was shared by BJP IT Cell Head Amit Malviya, Minister of State in the Ministry of Minority Affairs Kiren Rijiju, BJP MP Dr Jitendra Singh who holds multiple ministries, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Home Affairs Kishan Reddy, Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi, BJP MP Narendra Keshav Sawaikar, former Jharkhand CM Raghubar Das and former BJP MLA Archana Chitnis. The entire piece argues how the Prime Minister is working his best, in silence, for the betterment of the country, how Chief Ministers have been acting like ‘crybabies’, how the previous Congress government did little to build strong healthcare infrastructure and how PM Modi’s critics have been trying to paint a negative image of the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bjp-leaders-share-puff-piece-in-positivity-push-to-defend-pm-on-covid-19-crisis-985325.html
13-05-2021||National||US-approved vaccines effective against B.1.617 variant of Covid-19: Official||Covid-19 vaccines approved by the United States like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson have effectiveness against the B.1.617 variant of the virus that is predominant in India, which is experiencing one of the worst outbreaks of the pandemic, a top American health official said. The observation is based on the latest data about the variant and the three major vaccines approved by the United States, said Dr Francis Collins, Director of National Institute of Science. “The data is coming in, and it looks very encouraging that the US-approved vaccines, the Pfizer, the Moderna, the J&J, do have effectiveness against this variant called B.1.617,” Collins told the media. “It's a little less effective in that case than some of the others, but it looks like it ought to be good enough to make Americans protected. And that's really a good thing to hear,” he said in response to a question. Early this week, the World Health Organization classified the B.1.617 SARS-CoV-2 variant, which was first detected in India, as a variant of concern. The WHO said that evidence showed B.1.617 was more transmissible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-approved-vaccines-effective-against-b1617-variant-of-covid-19-official-985326.html
13-05-2021||National||India reports 3.62 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 4,120 deaths||India reported 3,62,727 new Covid-19 cases in a single day on Thursday while 4,120 people died from the infection, data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare updated this morning showed. The country has so far registered 2,58,317 deaths from the virus. The fatality rate is 1.09 per cent. There are now 37,10,525  active Covid-19 cases in India. So far, 2,37,03,665 people across the nation have contracted the virus since the beginning of the pandemic last year. Over the past 24 hours, 3,52,181 recovered from the disease. India's recovery rate stands at 83.26 per cent. The surge in cases has been accompanied by a slowdown in vaccinations, although Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccinations would open to all adults from May 1. Two states - Karnataka, which includes tech hub Bengaluru, and Maharashtra, which includes Mumbai - have announced they will temporarily suspend vaccination for people aged 18-44 years as they prioritise those over 45 who need their second dose. India is the world's largest vaccine producer but has run low on stocks in the face of the huge demand. As of Thursday, it had fully vaccinated just over 38.2 million people, or about 2.8% of a population of about 1.35 billion, government data shows. Meanwhile, a top American health official said that Covid-19 vaccines approved by the United States like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson have effectiveness against the B.1.617 variant of the virus that is predominant in India, which is experiencing one of the worst outbreaks of the pandemic. However, some studies have shown that the variant can bypass the vaccine's efficacy. Multiple states on Wednesday stopped vaccinations for the 18-44 age group after a symbolic start since May 1 after acute shortages were reported. India has seen the biggest rise in daily infections in the world with hospitals still struggling to keep up with a swarm of critical patients. With low supplies of vaccines and shortage of oxygen, deaths -- official and unofficial -- have been on the rise. Experts believe that India's unofficial Covid-19 death toll is far higher than can be accounted for. Experts remain unsure when numbers will peak and concern is growing about the transmissibility of the variant that is driving infections in India and spreading worldwide. Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Michigan, said most models had predicted a peak this week and that the country could be seeing signs of that trend. Still, the number of new cases each day is large enough to overwhelm hospitals, she said on Twitter. "The key word is cautious optimism." The situation is particularly bad in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh. Television pictures have shown families weeping over the dead in rural hospitals or camping in wards to tend the sick. Bodies have washed up in the Ganges, the river that flows through the state, as crematoriums are overwhelmed and wood for funeral pyres is in short supply. "Official statistics give you no idea of the devastating pandemic that is raging through rural UP," wrote well-known activist and opposition politician Yogendra Yadav in The Print. "Widespread ignorance, lack of nearby or adequate testing facilities, official and unofficial cap on testing and inordinate delays in test reports have meant that in village after village, virtually no one has been tested, while scores of people complain of a ‘strange fever’".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-362-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-4120-deaths-985340.html
13-05-2021||National||UP, J&K extend Covid-19 lockdown till May 17||Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday extended Covid-19 restrictions till May 17 as Covid-19 cases ravage states across the country. Uttar Pradesh, where a 'partial corona curfew' was in place, recorded 18,125 fresh Covid-19 cases that raised the infection count to 15,63,238, while 329 new fatalities pushed the death toll 16,372, officials said on Wednesday. Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 4,509 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 2,29,407, while 65 deaths in the past 24 hours pushed the toll 2,912 in the Union Territory, officials said. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-jk-extend-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-17-985350.html
13-05-2021||National||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin gets DCGI nod for phase 2, 3 trials for 2-18-year-olds||India's apex drug regulator has granted permission for conducting the phase II/III clinical trial of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 2 to 18 years, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The trial will be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers.   "The National Regulator of the country, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), after careful examination, has accepted the recommendation of Subject Expert Committee (SEC) and accorded permission to conduct the Phase II/III clinical trial of Covaxin (Covid vaccine) in the age group 2 to 18 years, to its manufacturer Bharat Biotech Ltd on May 12," the ministry said. Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech had proposed to carry out the clinical trial in the age group of 2 to 18 years. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses at day 0 and day 28. As rapid regulatory response, the proposal was deliberated in Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 meeting held on May 11. The Committee, after detailed deliberation, recommended for grant of permission to conduct proposed phase II/III clinical trial to certain conditions. Earlier the proposal was deliberated in the SEC  meeting on February 24 and the firm was asked to submit a revised clinical trial protocol.  Covaxin, which has been indigenously developed by Bharat  Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used on adults in India's ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotechs-covaxin-gets-dcgi-nod-for-phase-2-3-trials-for-2-18-year-olds-985356.html
13-05-2021||National||Gap between Covishield doses can be increased to 12-16 weeks: Govt panel||A government panel has recommended increasing the gap between two doses of Covishield Covid-19 vaccine to 12-16 weeks, official sources said on Thursday. No change has been suggested for dosage interval of Covaxin by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). It has also suggested that pregnant women may be offered the choice to take any Covid-19 vaccine and that lactating women can be inoculated any time after delivery. The NTAGI has also stated that those having laboratory test proven SARS-CoV-2 illness should defer Covid-19 vaccination for six months after recovery, the sources said. According to the current protocol, vaccine must be taken four to eight weeks after recovery from Covid-19 infection. "Based on the available real life evidence particularly from the UK, the Covid-19 working group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine.No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended," the sources said. Currently, the recommended interval between two doses of Covishield is four to eight weeks. The recommendations come amid several states reporting shortage of vaccines. Several states and UTs including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana have decided to opt for global tenders for procurement of anti-coronavirus shots with the domestic supply falling short to meet the rising demand. The recommendations of the NTAGI, which came after a recent meeting of the panel, will be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Adminstration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). The panel also rejected the proposal for routinely screening all vaccine recipients with rapid antigen testing prior to Covid vaccination. The NTAGI recommended that all pregnant women visiting for ANC care may be informed about risks and benefits associated with Covishield and Covaxin. Based on the information provided, a pregnant woman may be offered the choice to take any of the Covid 19 vaccine. An educational tool comprising information on risk of Covid 19 infection during pregnancy, benefits associated with the vaccination and rare complications associated with vaccines like thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (with Covishield) may be developed. Also, all lactating women are eligible to receive the Covid 19 vaccines any time after delivery, the panel suggested. According to the current vaccination protocol, pregnant and lactating women should not be administered the shots as they have not been part of any anti-coronavirus vaccine clinical trial so far. In case of individuals who have received the first dose and before completion of the dosing schedule if they test positive for Covid-19, they should wait for 4-8 weeks after clinical recovery from the illness. Also, Covid-19 patients who have been given anti-SARS-CoV-2 monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma may defer Covid-19 vaccination for three months from the day of discharge from hospital, the recommendations stated. Individuals having any other serious illness requiring hospitalisation or ICU care should also wait for 4-8 weeks before getting the next Covid vaccine, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gap-between-covishield-doses-can-be-increased-to-12-16-weeks-govt-panel-985360.html
13-05-2021||National||Covid-19 positive should defer vaccination by 6 months: Govt panel||Government panel NTAGI on Thursday recommended that those testing positive for coronavirus should defer vaccination for at least six months after recovery, news agency PTI quoted sources as saying. The panel also recommended the gap between Covidshield doses be increased to 12-16 weeks. Pregnant women may be offered the choice to take any Covid-19 vaccine while lactating women are eligible for jabs any time after childbirth. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-positive-should-defer-vaccination-by-6-months-govt-panel-985362.html
13-05-2021||National||50 employees of Bharat Biotech test Covid-19 positive; Joint MD's tweet draws bouquets and brickbats||Bharat Biotech's Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella's tweet saying 50 of their employees tested positive for Covid-19 received bouquets and brickbats from netizens with some saying Covaxin was saving lives while a few questioned as to why the staff were not vaccinated. Reacting to her tweet, one user wrote: "How come your 50 employees down with Covid-19? We're they not vaccinated? Also, why not hire more people on temporary basis?" How come your 50 employees down with Covid? We’re they not vaccinated? Also, why not hire more people on temporary basis? Ella's tweet got 9,373 likes and was retweeted by 2,564 people (at 10.30 AM on May 13). "Hi just wanted to say Thank you. Both my grandparents are over 75 & took their first jab 5 weeks back, both tested Covid-19 positive 2 weeks back. Low fever were their only symptoms, tested negative today, on the road to recovery with no major issues," tweeted another netizen. How come your 50 employees down with Covid? We’re they not vaccinated? Also, why not hire more people on temporary basis? "Thank you Bharat Biotech for your hard work and commitment on delivering vaccines every corner of India," another Twitter user said. Another user said, "If you say that your employees are sick of Covid-19, it speaks volumes about efficacy of your vaccine." If you say that your employees are sick of covid, it speaks volumes about efficacy of your vaccine Ella said as many as 18 states received Covaxin though in smaller shipments. The Hyderabad-based firm is supplying Covaxin to 18 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Jharkhand and Delhi. The other states are Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Telangana, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-employees-of-bharat-biotech-test-covid-19-positive-joint-mds-tweet-draws-bouquets-and-brickbats-985375.html
13-05-2021||National||Race for jabs in India's Covid-19 vaccination drive exposes digital divide||It's 2:00 am and Ananya Maskara's face is lit up by her smartphone as she nervously scrolls through a list -- looking for a green or yellow tab indicating that a Covid-19 vaccination slot is available in New Delhi. For anyone aged between 18 and 44, getting a slot in India's expanded vaccination drive -- already plagued by shortages and political squabbles -- has been like buying tickets for a rock concert where popular bands sell out in minutes. "It was... a rollercoaster of emotions," the 19-year-old told AFP of her frantic, multi-day search to find a slot on India's online or app vaccination portals. "It was really difficult... A lot of my friends haven't gotten a slot until now and they are still waiting." Maskara, like millions of younger Indians, is terrified by the current surge in infections, is rushing to get vaccinated against the coronavirus after the country this month opened up its inoculation drive to all adults. But the expansion came with restrictions, including only online registrations for the 18-44-year-olds, locking out up to half of India's population, particularly in poor and rural areas, who don't have smartphones or internet access. Numerous Indian states are also struggling with vaccine shortages, meaning there are limited slots available for the up to 600 million people in the 18-44 cohort now eligible for jabs. Maskara was eventually successful in finding a slot, but many others are still desperately searching. "I have better chances of winning the lottery than getting a vaccination shot," grumbled one Mumbai-based Twitter user. So far, only three per cent of India's 1.3 billion people -- or 39.5 million -- are fully vaccinated with both doses. An additional 10.6 per cent have received just their first shot. Techies have developed workarounds to help users in some cities where slots have been opening up at random times of day and are filled within one or two minutes. Berty Thomas, 35, a Chennai-based hobbyist programmer and business analyst, created a tool that alerts users via the Telegram messaging app when slots in their district open. It's already gotten more than 400,000 subscribers. "My focus right now is to expand these alerts to multiple small towns and villages across the country," Thomas told AFP, adding that some users wanted to book for relatives in regional and rural areas. "(Getting slots) has been an issue, particularly in the villages where internet is scarce. So the only way is... for people who have access to internet to help those who don't." Local media say some families have even travelled long distances to secure slots for their younger members. Devang Bhatt, 28, told AFP that after days of scouring the vaccine portal for a slot in Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat, he found one on the outskirts of the city. "It was tiring, but worth it," Bhatt said of his vaccine trip. But for Seema, a house-help working in the northern city of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh state -- which has been ravaged by the virus -- getting vaccinated seems unlikely. "I don't have access to the internet... A few boys in my neighbourhood do have smartphones but they don't know how to use it for this (registration)," the 40-year-old who goes by one name told AFP.  "(The government) should think about people like us. Every day I run the risk of exposing myself to the disease as I work for three households. I wish I could get myself vaccinated." Experts say that the government should allow walk-ins at vaccination centres -- a measure already introduced for people above 45 years old. Authorities should also consider "taking vaccines to the people rather than having people coming to the vaccines", Ashoka University physics and biology professor Gautam Menon told AFP. He suggested steps like mobile vaccination clinics in remote areas. For Mohendra Sharma, who doesn't own a mobile phone, such changes can't come soon enough. "There needs to be a system for door-to-door vaccination. Those who don't have a smartphone -- what will they do?," the 26-year-old told AFP at a milk store in Delhi where he works. "I am worried for my family and for myself if we don't get the vaccination."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/race-for-jabs-in-indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-exposes-digital-divide-985381.html
13-05-2021||National||Abandoned bodies found in Uttar Pradesh again: Several corpses buried in sand in Unnao||Just days after bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients were found floating in the Ganga in Bihar and UP districts, fresh reports have now emerged of several bodies found buried in sand at two places by the river in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao district. "Some people do not cremate the bodies, but bury them in the sand by the river. After I got information, I sent officials to the spot. I have asked them to carry out an enquiry and we will take action," district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said to the media. He later said information received so far did not indicate that these bodies were of Covid-19 patients. Meanwhile, some locals said shortage of wood for funeral pyres might be one reason why bodies are being abandoned in this manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abandoned-bodies-found-in-uttar-pradesh-again-several-corpses-buried-in-sand-in-unnao-985385.html
13-05-2021||National||Covid-19 | UPSC defers Preliminary Civil Services Exam: Check new date here||The Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination 2021, scheduled on June 27, has been deferred and it will now be conducted on October 10 owing to the second wave of Covid-19. This was announced by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Thursday. The UPSC has cited the prevailing situation in the country due to the second wave of Covid-19. The preliminary examination was rescheduled last year also as the country went into a lockdown in April-May. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-upsc-defers-preliminary-civil-services-exam-check-new-date-here-985396.html
13-05-2021||National||Dhananjay Munde urges Maharashtra CM to categorise journalists as frontline workers||Maharashtra Minister Dhananjay Munde on Thursday said he has appealed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to categorise journalists and other media representatives as frontline workers and vaccinate them against coronavirus on priority. The social justice minister contended that media persons have been risking their lives while reporting about the present situation and spreading awareness among people. "Journalists and news channel representatives have been doing the job of reporting and spreading awareness among people by risking their lives during the Covid-19 pandemic. Have requested @CMOMaharashtra to categorise all media representatives as frontline workers and vaccinate them on priority," Munde tweeted on Thursday. The NCP leader also shared a copy of his May 11 letter to Thackeray raising the demand. In the letter, Munde said doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation workers, police and others involved in essential services have strengthened the fight against coronavirus. Media representatives too have been performing their duties along with Covid-19 warriors by reporting about the fight against the disease and taking information to the people, the minister said. The possibility of contracting Covid-19 is higher during the second wave, he said, noting that some media persons had lost their lives to the disease. "Vaccination is an important weapon in our hands in this fight. Hence, all journalists, media representatives should be categorised as frontline workers and need to be vaccinated on priority," Munde said. Meanwhile, MNS leader Amit Thackeray, son of party chief Raj Thackeray, too wrote to the chief minister with a similar demand. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had on Wednesday also pitched for categorising journalists, photographers and camera persons as frontline workers to get them inoculated against coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dhananjay-munde-urges-maharashtra-cm-to-categorise-journalists-as-frontline-workers-985398.html
13-05-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi to release 8th installment of PM-KISAN benefits on Friday||Over 9.5 crore farmers are scheduled to get Rs 2,000 under the PM-KISAN initiative on Friday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release Rs 19,000 crore to the beneficiary farmers and interact with them on Friday. “Tomorrow is an important day for crores of farmers of the country. I will be honoured to release the eighth installment of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi through video conferencing at 11:00 am,” Modi said. Farmers from West Bengal were also expected to receive their first installment as the state government was in communication with the Centre to start the initiative. The farmers in West Bengal could not receive financial assistance as Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee insisted on routing the funds through the state government instead of directly into the bank accounts of farmers. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal installments. Farmers receive the financial benefits directly in their bank accounts. A PMO statement said an amount of Rs 1.15 lakh crores has been transferred to farmer families so far since the initiative was launched in February 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-release-8th-installment-of-pm-kisan-benefits-on-friday-985399.html
13-05-2021||National||Ten states account for over 72% of India's new Covid-19 cases||Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are among 10 states that account for 72.42 per cent of the 3,62,727 new cases in the country in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan are the other states in the list of 10. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 46,781. It is followed by Kerala with 43,529 while Karnataka reported 39,998 new cases. India's total active caseload has increased to 37,10,525 and now comprises 15.65 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 6,426 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a day. Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana cumulatively account for 79.67 per cent of India's total active cases. The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent, the ministry said, adding that 4,120 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states also account for 74.30 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (816). Karnataka follows with 516 daily deaths. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,97,34,823 with 3,52,181 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 72.90 per cent of the new recoveries. The ministry also said that the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 17.72 crore. A total of 17,72,14,256 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,70,537 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. These include 96,00,420 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 65,70,062 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,42,34,793 FLWs who have received the first dose and 80,30,007 FLWs have taken the second dose and 34,80,618 beneficiaries in 18-45 age group have taken received the first dose. Besides, 5,62,43,308 and 81,58,535 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,40,99,241 and 1,67,97,272 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have taken the first and second dose respectively. Maharashtra, Rajasthan,Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.73 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. It stated 4,31,285 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 34,80,618 across 30 states and UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive. Nearly 19 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on Day-117 of the vaccination drive (May 12), 18,94,991 vaccine doses were given. Across 17,684 sessions, 9,98,409 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 8,96,582 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine. The ministry further said that the Centre is clearing and apportioning global aid to strengthen tertiary medical care across States and UTs for Covid management. Cumulatively, 9,284 oxygen concentrators; 7,033 oxygen cylinders; 19 oxygen generation plants; 5,933 ventilators/Bi PAP and over 3.44L Remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air, so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-states-account-for-over-72-of-indias-new-covid-19-cases-985400.html
13-05-2021||National||States turn to Ivermectin to fight Covid-19 against WHO advice||At least two states have said they plan to dose their populations with the anti-parasitic drug Ivermectin to protect against severe Covid-19 infections as their hospitals are overrun with patients in critical condition. The move by Goa and Uttarakhand, come despite the World Health Organization and others warning against such measures. "The current evidence on the use of Ivermectin to treat Covid-19 patients is inconclusive," WHO said in a statement in late March. "Until more data is available, WHO recommends that the drug only be used within clinical trials." Merck, a manufacturer of the drug, has also said available data does not support using the drug as a Covid-19 treatment. "We do not have enough data to support its use," said Anita Mathew, an infectious diseases expert in Mumbai. The state of Goa, a major tourist haven, said earlier this week it plans to give Ivermectin to all those older than 18, while the Himalayan state of Uttarakhand announced plans on Wednesday to distribute the tablets to any person over the age of two, except for pregnant and lactating women. "An expert medical panel has recommended this" said Uttarakhand's Chief Secretary Om Prakash. "We are waiting for supplies to come in. Once they do, we will distribute this drug." Uttarakhand state in March and April played host to the Kumbh Mela, a weeks-long Hindu gathering that attracted millions of devotees from across the country. Images of the gathering showed scant evidence of any mask wearing or social distancing as throngs of people congregated for a holy dip in the river Ganges. The state, ruled by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, has since early April seen its Covid-19 cases surge from under 300 a day to above 7,000 a day and the death toll has also risen sharply. Despite India's overwhelming surge in cases, Modi has shied away from imposing a nationwide lockdown fearing the economic fallout and has left it to state governments, which experts say have acted too late. Uttarakhand currently has Covid-19-related social restrictions, including curbs on interstate travel. Goa, which is also ruled by the BJP, remains open to tourists and only imposed an extended 15-day lockdown this week, despite data showing more than one in three patients were testing positive for Covid-19 since mid-April. The state is reporting the highest positivity rates in the country. Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said an expert panel based in Europe had found the drug Ivermectin reduced the time to recovery and risk of death, but regulators such as the WHO and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration say there is little evidence of this. The Indian Council of Medical Research recommends doctors could use the drug for mild Covid-19 patients, but warns this is based on "low certainty of evidence". Rane did not respond to a Reuters request for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-turn-to-ivermectin-to-fight-covid-19-against-who-advice-985412.html
13-05-2021||National||Bihar extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 25||Emboldened by the encouraging results in the number of coronavirus cases after lockdown was imposed on May 5, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday announced an extension of lockdown in the state till May 25. “I took stock of the Covid situation in the meeting with Cabinet colleagues and senior officials. There was a general consensus that lockdown imposed in Bihar from May 5 to May 15 had shown encouraging signs and helped check the spread of coronavirus. It was, therefore, decided to extend the lockdown by another ten days from May 16 to May 25,” tweeted Nitish in Hindi. आज सहयोगी मंत्रीगण एवं पदाधिकारियों के साथ बिहार में लागू लॉकडाउन की स्थिति की समीक्षा की गयी। लॉकडाउन का सकारात्मक प्रभाव दिख रहा है। अतः बिहार में अगले 10 दिनों अर्थात 16 से 25 मई, 2021 तक लॉकडाउन को विस्तारित करने का निर्णय लिया गया है। Nitish’s decision is backed by figures as Bihar had been witnessing around 15,000 Covid cases per day (between April 15 and May 5) till lockdown was imposed in the state on May 5. “The figure of positive cases (per day) has now come down to 9,853 (in the last 24 hours) ,” said a Health Department official. The Opposition, including the RJD and the Congress, have not opposed the lockdown. However, the Left, particularly the CPI-ML, have urged Nitish to provide some relief to the common man by allowing sale of essential items like milk, vegetables, groceries and fruits even in the evening hours. Presently, one can purchase these essential commodities only from 7 am to 11 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-25-985413.html
13-05-2021||National||iSERA Biological develops anti-Covid serum||In a significant development that broadens the scope of fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, Sangli-based iSERA Biological Pvt Ltd has developed an anti-Covid serum and has applied for clinical trials. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India, one of the biggest manufacturers of vaccines and supplier to the world, has chosen iSERA Biological as a partner in R&D of this new therapeutic anti-serum drug on Covid-19. The iSERA Biological management has applied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for clinical trials. Following this the iSERA team had an online meeting with the Drugs Controller General of India. The iSERA Biological is located in Shirala in Sangli district of Western Maharashtra –and is engaged in producing anti-snake venom serum, anti-rabies serum, anti-diphtheria serum and anti-tetanus serum. The anti-Covid serum has been tested successfully on animals - and now they are heading for clinical trials. “We have been closely working together since the last few months and successfully passed various stages up to its clinical trials. We are on the right path to develop one of the safest and most effective antidotes in the next few days which will be available to serve mankind. This will certainly help in not only reducing cost of hospitalization and fear but substantially help our affected economy to normalize,” said iSERA Biological Director Pratap Deshmukh in a statement posted on the company's website.  Shiv Sena MP from Hatkanangale, Dhairyasheel Mane, confirmed the development. “This is a major breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 subject to the clinical trials…according to the company, it can treat all strains of Covid-19,” Mane told DH over phone. According to him, nearly 3 lakh vials are ready. “Vaccination is being carried out all over the world to prevent Coronavirus. That is a preventive strategy, however, this drug claims to be a cure of Covid-19,” he said, adding that it is a curative drug for treatment of serious patients. Mane has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan. Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan, who is an MLA from Karad, too visited the Shirala facility recently. “iSERA has created an Equine based hyper immune plasma facility. They are now going for clinical trials for a Covid-19 curative drug. My best wishes for their success,” said Chavan, a technocrat-politician.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isera-biological-develops-anti-covid-serum-985417.html
13-05-2021||National||Emergency use of foreign-made vaccines on the cards, says Union health minister Harsh Vardhan||India may soon approve emergency use of foreign-made vaccines that have been granted similar approvals in the United States, United Kingdom, Europe and Japan or have been included in WHO’s Emergency Use Listing, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. Only 3.86 crore people had been given the second dose in the last 114 days, compared with 13.66 crore people administered the first dose, the Union minister said at a meeting of health ministers from eight states and Union Territories. “States should not lose sight of those who are to get the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine," he added. Even after nearly four months of the country’s vaccination drive, the first targeted group of one crore healthcare workers has not yet received two doses of the vaccine. About 96 lakh healthcare workers have received their first dose, while nearly 66 lakh have taken both doses. It is a similar story for frontline workers, with 1.42 crore having received the first dose and 80 lakh inoculated twice. The Union minister drew the state ministers’ attention to the issue and requested them to ensure that these workers were fully vaccinated as soon as possible since they are the most vulnerable to the virus. However, Vardhan said states should not have any “unrealistic or impractical” expectations around the supply of Covid vaccines as doses were limited and would be systematically rationed to the states. He assured the states that vaccine manufacturers were stepping up capacity and production would likely hit 8 crore doses in May and 9 crore in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emergency-use-of-foreign-made-vaccines-on-the-cards-says-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-985425.html
13-05-2021||National||Arzooo rolls out Covid-19 vaccine slot tracker||Retail-tech startup Arzooo on Thursday announced the launch of a Covid-19 vaccine slot tracker on its business-to-business platform as well as its main website. With this, Arzooo joins a growing list of companies that have introduced digital tools to help people amid the deadly second wave of the pandemic. Arzooo said the latest initiative would enable people to check availability, and also get notified for the next available vaccine slots. "As the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive progresses, the primary challenge for people has shifted to finding an appointment slot. To help combat this battle, Arzooo... today announced the launch of a Covid-19 vaccine slot tracker on its B2B platform as well as its main website...," the company said in a statement. Arzooo added it has dedicated the website for vaccine slot tracking. However, the slot finding feature on its B2B (app) platform is created exclusively for the partner retailers. Arzooo currently has a retail network of 10,000 partner retailers. Speaking on the initiative, Khushnud Khan, co-founder and CEO of Arzooo said one can check for the vaccine availability as per the pin-code or district and select between 18-plus and 45-plus age groups. The new feature also helps users in finding nearby vaccination centers and can send notification when the vaccine slots are available. "We are dedicating our whole website to the cause of vaccination for next couple of months, there won't be any other business on the corporate site. This opens the window for every citizen of the country to use the platform to check vaccine slot availability," Khushnud added. The vaccination drive in India was rolled out on January 16, with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. Subsequently, it was opened for different age groups. While people have rushed to register for the jab, certain states have flagged limited availability of vaccines. Right from giants like Facebook and Google to startups such as HealthifyMe have introduced a slew of tools over the past few weeks to help people find slots for vaccination appointments. Drawing on the country's proven tech prowess and massive reach of social media platforms, many companies and developers are also enabling people looking for resources like hospital beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arzooo-rolls-out-covid-19-vaccine-slot-tracker-985426.html
13-05-2021||National||Children most vulnerable in third wave of Covid-19, vaccinate parents quickly: Narayana Health founder||Dr Devi Shetty, cardiac surgeon and chairman and founder of Narayana Health, has chalked out a preparation plan for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, which is expected to affect children the most. The first wave of the pandemic in India mostly affected those above 60 years of age. The second wave affected the younger generation. Now that most adults are either infected or vaccinated, it is expected that children may be at risk in the third wave. How can we avoid this situation? As the children stay with their families in most cases, their exposure to the virus can be reduced by fully vaccinating both parents. That means 300 million young parents in India need to be vaccinated quickly in the next few months. Dr Shetty suggested that the government should reduce the price of the vaccines as there are more options available to the country. This will help in making vaccines available to the masses who otherwise can’t afford it. He further mentioned that 70 per cent of the vaccines should be distributed in private hospitals and 30 per cent in public ones because private hospitals can provide services 24*7. Learning from the previous waves, the production of drugs like crocin syrup and disposables used for children in ICU and procurement of large ventilators should start immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-most-vulnerable-in-third-wave-of-covid-19-vaccinate-parents-quickly-narayana-health-founder-985431.html
13-05-2021||National||Rishabh Pant gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Star India wicket-keeper batsman Rishabh Pant on Thursday received his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The 23-year-old player, who has been named in the India squad for the World Test Championship final against New Zealand and the subsequent series in England, posted a picture of him taking the jab. “Got my first jab today. When you are eligible, please step up and get the vaccine. The sooner we do it, the sooner we can beat this Virus,” wrote Pant on his Twitter handle, along with the picture. Pant has been in tremendous form this year as he played a key role in India's Test series victories against Australia and England. He also led the Delhi Capitals in the suspended Indian Premier League. Several of Pant’s teammates, including skipper Virat Kohli, Ajinkya Rahane, Cheteshwar Pujara, Umesh Yadav, Ishant Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah have taken the first dose of the Covid 19 vaccine at different centres in the country. Head coach Ravi Shastri was the first from the Indian cricket team to receive the vaccine. He got his first jab in the first week of March, when vaccination was made open for all senior citizens. In order to ramp up the coronavirus vaccination drive in the country, the Centre had last month announced a 'liberalised and accelerated' Phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination from May 1. Everyone above the age of 18 is now eligible to get Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rishabh-pant-gets-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-985432.html
13-05-2021||National||States gear up to tackle Covid-19 in villages with online consultations, surveillance committees||As the Covid-19 wave gradually shifts to rural areas, several states are gearing up to check its spread through self-proclaimed lockdowns by Panchayati Raj institutions, creating a database of migrants and providing free online medical consultation to the sick. The initiatives have been taken by states in consultation with the Centre to stop the virus from spreading further in villages, government sources said. Among the measures include imposition of self-proclaimed lockdown by Panchayati Raj institutions in Gujarat and creation of migrant database for capturing the return of migrants in panchayats both from within and outside in Assam, besides announcing formulation of village defence parties. Himachal Pradesh has started 'eSanjeevani OPD' for providing free online medical consultation to sick people and the launch of Kudumbashree Community Network in Kerala, a joint programme of the Government of Kerala implemented through Community Development Societies (CDSs) of poor women, serving as the community wing of local governments. Kerala has started a transportation plan by providing ambulances in each gram panchayat to support the health system besides providing two chambered cars and auto rickshaws for the needy. Periodic awareness programmes, setting up of village monitoring committee and specific quarantine/isolation centres for migrant labourers have been set up in Haryana. Door-to-door surveillance using pulse oximeter, temperature guns and antigen test kits and setting up of gram yoddha samiti in villages for supporting families of patients have also been set up in Gujarat. States like Andhra Pradesh have announced formulation of Corona Kattadi (monitoring) Committee and gram panchayats in the states have passed resolutions of "No mask no entry", besides initiating proactive sanitation and door-to-door surveillance. Uttar Pradesh has set up village 'nigrani samiti' in all gram panchayats with focus on promoting cleanliness, while Uttarakhand has set up village monitoring committees (VMC) and formation of block response team at the block level to ensure and monitor proper deliverables. A 24x7 help desk system has also been set up by the directorate of Panchayati Raj in the state. West Bengal is undertaking an awareness programmes in panchayats with the help of NGOs and self help groups and is enabling safe operations of local markets/haats, besides smooth distribution of food grains to the poor under PDS. In Madhya Pradesh, containment zones have been set up in villages with high rate of infections and villages have been divided in Red, Orange and Green zones based on number of active Covid patients. Control rooms have also been established at the block, district and state level. Similarly, Maharashtra has initiated 'My Family My Responsibility awareness campaign; and formed Corona Prevention Committee, besides carrying out door-to-door surveillance. In Punjab, village monitoring committees (VMC) have been set up in each village, which are also organising 'thikri pehras' to ensure night curfew is not violated. Rajasthan is distributing medical kits daily in many rural areas. Arunachal Pradesh has issued advisories to all district commissioners on widespread sanitisation of public places, formulation of village monitoring committees and initiation of community involvement and awareness programmes. In Bihar, a drive for mask distribution among all families in villages and local procurement of masks to promote employment has been initiated. Health experts and authorities have called for emulation of such measures by other states to help break the chain of coronavirus. The Ministry of Panchayati Raj has also issued advisories to states towards management of Covid-19 at the village level and requested states to take effective actions to respond to the spread of the pandemic in rural areas. India added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-gear-up-to-tackle-covid-19-in-villages-with-online-consultations-surveillance-committees-985435.html
13-05-2021||National||PNB scam: Court issues show-cause notice to Nirav Modi||A special court here has issued a public notice to fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, wanted in India for alleged fraud and money laundering in the PNB scam case, asking why his properties should not be confiscated under the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act. Special Judge V C Barde has also asked Modi to appear before the court on June 11. The court said if the accused failed to appear, it will proceed with action against him under the FEO Act. "I, V C Barde, Special Judge, PMLA, 2002 and Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018, issue NOTICE to you to show cause as to why the properties mentioned in the application (ED's plea), in which you have pecuniary interest and/or otherwise, should not be confiscated under the said Act," the recent notice said. The special court had in December 2019 declared Nirav Modi a fugitive economic offender, on a plea of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is conducting a probe into the case. A similar notice was also issued to Nirav Modi's wife Ami, sister Purvi and brother-in-law Maiank Mehta. The notice said the family members have been enumerated as "interested person" in the application. The investigating agency has alleged that Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, in connivance with certain bank officials, allegedly cheated the Punjab National Bank (PNB) to the tune of Rs 14,000 crore through issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs). The LoUs were allegedly issued in a fraudulent manner by a Mumbai branch of the PNB to a group of companies belonging to Nirav Modi since March 2011, till the case came to light. Under the FEO Act, a person can be declared a fugitive economic offender if a warrant has been issued against him for an offence involving an amount of Rs 100 crore or more and he has left the country and refuses to return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pnb-scam-court-issues-show-cause-notice-to-nirav-modi-985437.html
13-05-2021||National||Restore frequency of cargo flights, stop surging prices of Covid-19 medical supplies: India to China||India has asked China to help stop the sharp increase in prices of essential medical supplies being procured from Chinese manufacturers by private Indian traders to deal with the Covid-19 surge in the country and restore the normal frequency of cargo flight services to maintain a steady supply chain. Soaring prices of medical supplies like oxygen concentrators and disruption of cargo flights to India are slowing arrivals of medical goods, India’s Consul General to Hong Kong Priyanka Chauhan said. “What I would like to say is that our expectation at this point is that the supply chain should remain open and product prices should remain stable,” Chauhan said in an interview with the South China Morning Post on Wednesday. “Even if there is a little bit of supply-demand pressure, there has to be some stability and predictability to product prices," she told the Hong Kong-based newspaper. “And there has to be a sense of governmental level support and efforts. I don’t have the information as to how much influence the Chinese government can have in this matter but if they can, then it would be welcome,” she said. Her comments came in the backdrop of efforts by private Indian traders to source much-needed medical supplies, especially oxygen concentrators to meet the shortages in hospitals. The cargo flight disruptions were amplified by the decision by Sichuan Airlines to suspend all its 11 cargo flights for 15 days from April 26, citing coronavirus the situation in India. Though the state-run airline said it is reviewing its plans to restore the flights, it is yet to do so. Freight Forwarders in Shanghai told PTI here that Sichuan Airlines has announced plans to restore three of its freight flights from Chongqing and Xian to Delhi from May 17. Currently, the air shipments are being carried by other airlines including India’s Spice Jet and Blue Dart, which runs empty flights from India to bring the medical supplies from China. When asked whether there should be more government-level cooperation between China and India during the pandemic for more of a guarantee on price stability and supply chain, Chauhan told the Post that India would be open to discussing the issue to see if a better mechanism could be agreed. About the travel bans due to the Covid-19 situation in India, Chauhan said she appreciated the need for travel bans based on public health concerns, but added that India was asking China to facilitate cargo flights so that supplies could be delivered. She said a phone conversation between Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar in April had helped with the clearance and approval of cargo flights, but they had not returned to the same frequency as before the second wave. She suggested that higher-level assurances to officials for flight clearance could help. “Unreasonable control should be avoided, and transport linkages should be maintained,” she said. About the international response to rush aid to India, Chauhan said more than 50 countries have supported India by sending supplies. India is currently grappling with the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak. India added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restore-frequency-of-cargo-flights-stop-surging-prices-of-covid-19-medical-supplies-india-to-china-985438.html
13-05-2021||National||Look for modern ways to check pollution at crematoriums: HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said considering the prevailing Covid-19 situation and the increase in number of deaths, civic authorities should look for modern techniques while disposing of the bodies in crematoriums to reduce pollution. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Pune resident Vikrant Latkar, raising concerns over air pollution in the areas near crematoriums. Latkar's advocate Asim Sarode told the HC on Thursday that some of the crematoriums in Pune are currently handling cremations of over 80 bodies per day. This creates a lot of pollution in the vicinity, he said. The petition further said the chimneys of many crematoriums are not constructed according to the standard design, due to which the fumes released does not move upward. The bench directed advocate Abhijit Kulkarni, appearing for the Pune Municipal Corporation, to file an affidavit in response to the petition. "Crematoriums have to function effectively, especially now. In fact, all civic authorities should now look into modern techniques to see how pollution can be controlled," the court said and posted the matter for hearing next week. On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 46,781 new Covid-19 cases, raising the infection tally to 52,26,710, while 816 deaths pushed the toll to 78,007, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/look-for-modern-ways-to-check-pollution-at-crematoriums-hc-985441.html
13-05-2021||National||Priyanka Gandhi demands judicial probe into bodies floating in Ganga||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday demanded a judicial probe headed by a high court judge into bodies floating in the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and said what is happening is inhuman and criminal. "What is happening in UP is inhuman and criminal. The government is busy image building while people are suffering unimaginably. "There must be an immediate judicial enquiry headed by a High Court Judge into these events," she wrote on Twitter. Her remarks came amid reports of bodies floating in the Ganga in Ballia and other places of Uttar Pradesh as well as in Bihar. "Bodies are floating in the ganga in Ballia and Ghazipur. Reports are coming in of mass burials on the banks of the river in Unnao. Official numbers from cities like Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Kanpur appear to be grossly under-reported," the Congress general secretary said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-demands-judicial-probe-into-bodies-floating-in-ganga-985442.html
13-05-2021||National||Consider harsh realities of migrant workers, provide ration, meal, transportation: SC tells Centre, states||The Supreme Court on Thursday told the Centre and states to consider harsh realities being faced by migrant workers and ameliorate their miseries caused by renewed restrictions imposed to tackle second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The court directed the Centre, Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration, cooked meal and transportation, to the stranded migrant workers in the National Capital Region. "How will migrants survive with no money or work? Some sustenance must be provided for the time being…..you have to consider the harsh realities," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, after taking note of fresh restrictions, night curfews and lockdowns announced in April, 2021. The court was hearing a plea filed by three activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bharadwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar, who through their counsel Prashant Bhushan sought directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers, transport facilities and other welfare measures for migrant workers. The court asked the Centre and the Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh to respond by detailing the steps taken by them with regard to migrant workers' plight. The top court also issued notice to the Maharashtra, the Gujarat and the Bihar governments to give details of measures undertaken by them for transportation ofstranded migrant workers and for providing them with dry ration as well as cooked meals. As interim measures, the court directed the Centre, Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration from May to the migrant workers by utilising PDS without insisting on identity cards, and ensure adequate transport for them by road and train. The court also directed Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments to open community kitchen at well-advertised places in the National Capital Region for stranded workers, in order to ensure two meals a day for them and their families. It gave 10 days time to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Odisha to file their specific responses in terms of the court's order passed in Suo Motu matter on migrants crisis on June 9 and July 31, 2020 with regard various measures including food security, health insurance for migrant labourers, resumption of work for migrant labourers. During the hearing, advocate Bhushan, representing the petitioners, contended that a large number of migrant workers were facing distress due to the pandemic, as they have lost jobs and got no money to look after their families.  Terming the plea as "far from reality", Mehta submitted before the bench the country is fighting the worst form of the pandemic and the state governments are trying to ensure that industrial and construction activities are not halted. “This year, the effort of every state is to ensure that it is not a lockdown in a sense which we have seen last time,” he said. He emphasized that the states are alive to the situation and insisted that states should be allowed to place all the details before the top court.  The top court had in May, last year, taken suo motu cognisance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers and had passed a slew of directions for the state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-harsh-realities-of-migrant-workers-provide-ration-meal-transportation-sc-tells-centre-states-985448.html
13-05-2021||National||MHA denies info on FCRA amendments citing 'national interest' as NGOs battle fund crunch||An RTI showed that the Centre denied information, including Cabinet Notes and file noting, on the new amendments to the Foreign Contributions Regulation Act, 2010 citing "national interest", which have adversely hit NGOs in their Covid-19 operations. Transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak had in October-November last year filed two RTIs seeking information on Cabinet notes, file noting, inter-ministerial consultations and other correspondences but even after an appeal, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has declined to provide information. Last September, Parliament had passed amendments to the FCRA, which stipulated NGOs to open a link account in an SBI branch in Delhi. It also prohibited any NGO to transfer foreign funds to any other person and asked to provide Aadhaar numbers of its Trustees and office bearers. Due to the pandemic, many NGOs are unable to complete formalities and are not able to get foreign funds that could be used for Covid-related work. They have been asking the government to keep the amendments in abeyance. To queries on information like Cabinet Notes and official documents held by the MHA on the issue, the MHA cited the 8(1)(a) and 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act and said the information held by the Ministry has "fiduciary relationship with multiple stakeholders and disclosure of the same is not likely to serve larger public interest". On file noting and correspondence held by the Ministry in paper and electronic form, the MHA cited "national interest". "As the Act's regulations intend to safeguard national interest (security strategy or economic etc) of the state, the requested information may impinge upon the elements of Section 8(1)(a) of RTI Act. Hence it may not be disclosed," it said. As the information was denied, Nayak submitted first appeals on the two RTIs in February and the decision came last month upholding the earlier decision. It said, "It is found that disclosure of the information in this matter will not serve any public interest. It may undermine the relations of state with foreign states and also hit strategic and economic interests of the state." "If there is no public interest in disclosure, then why was the FCRA amended and the new Rules notified? Those actions are guided by what the government thinks is in the public interest, namely, the need for imposing a stricter and tougher regulatory regime that will make it more and more difficult for most NGOs to receive foreign funds," Nayak, who will be approaching the Central Information Commission with a second appeal, told DH. "The NITI Ayog is also holding online meetings with around 1,000 NGOs to help fight the pandemic on the one hand while severely impeding their ability to attract funds from abroad to deliver in areas where the government's reach is minimal if non-existent. It is also quite audacious for them to ask NGOs what they have done to fight the pandemic and mitigate the suffering of people like they did last year while trying to cut the flow of funds to such organisations," he said. NGOs have approached Delhi and Guwahati High Courts against the amendments. An NGO has moved the Delhi High Court against the provision that these organisations should open a bank account in Delhi while another has approached the Guwahati High Court against the provision of providing Aadhaar numbers of its functionaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-denies-info-on-fcra-amendments-citing-national-interest-as-ngos-battle-fund-crunch-985449.html
13-05-2021||National||Gap between Covishield vaccine doses extended to 12-16 weeks||The Health Ministry on Thursday announced that the gap between the first and second doses of Covidshield vaccine can be increased to 12-16 weeks from the existing six-eight weeks. The recommendation to increase the interval between the two doses of Covishield was made by the Covid Working Group chaired by Dr N K Arora based on the new studies that were now available and the “real life experience” from Britain. “Based on the available real-life evidences, particularly from UK, the Covid-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine,” a health ministry statement said. The ministry said there will be no change in the interval of Covaxin vaccine doses. This is the second time in three months that gap between Covishield doses have been increased. In March, the ministry had asked states to increase the gap from 28 days to six-eight weeks saying the “protection was enhanced if the second dose of Covishield was administered between six and eight weeks but not later than that”. “We are dealing with a dynamic situation… data is reviewed periodically,” V K Paul, member (health), Niti Ayog, told reporters here. Besides Arora, the Director of INCLEN Trust, Rakesh Agarwal of GIPMER Puducherry, Gagandeep Kang of CMC Vellore, Naveen Khanna of ICGEB, Amulya Panda of National Institute of Immunology, J P Mulliyal retired professor of CMC Vellore, and V G Somani Drug Controller General of India are members of the Covid Working Group. Paul said that the issue of increasing the gap in two doses of Covishield vaccine was deliberated by scientists at the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, the Covid Working Group, as well as the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19. Some scientists also cited the increase in breakthrough infections as a reason to put off the second dose of Covishield, Paul said. Paul said the extension had been recommended “after careful study and without pressure from anyone” and data from the World Health Organization was also analysed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gap-between-covishield-vaccine-doses-extended-to-12-16-weeks-985450.html
13-05-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine: Sputnik V to be available in India from next week||Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V will be available in the market from next week, according to the Centre.  "Sputnik vaccine has arrived in India. I'm happy to say that we're hopeful that it'll be available in the market next week. We're hopeful that the sale of the limited supply that has come from there (Russia), will begin next week," Dr VK Paul, a member (Health), NITI Aayog, told ANI. "Two billion doses (216 crore) will be made in the country in five months for India and for people of India. Vaccine will be available for all as we move forward," he said, adding by the first quarter of the next year, the number is likely to be three billion. He estimated that between August to December, production of 75 crore doses of Covishield is estimated, while 55 cores doses of Covaxin will be made available. Further, Biological E is expected to produce 30 crore doses, Zydus Cadila 5 crore, Serum Institute of India 20 crore doses of Novavax, and Bharat Biotech 10 crore doses of its nasal vaccine, while Gennova will make available 6 crore doses and Sputnik V 15.6 crore doses. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-to-be-available-in-india-from-next-week-985451.html
13-05-2021||National||Should we hang ourselves over non-availability of vaccines: Union Minister Sadananda Gowda||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday sought to know whether people in the government should hang themselves for their failure to produce vaccines as was directed by the court. "The court has with good intention said everyone in the country should get vaccinated. I want to ask you if the court says tomorrow that you have to give this much (of vaccine), if it has not been produced yet, should we hang ourselves?" Gowda told reporters. Replying to queries on the shortage of vaccine, the Union Minister stressed on the plan of action of the government and said its decisions are not guided by any political gain or by any other reason. Gowda said the government has been doing its job sincerely and honestly during which time some shortcomings have surfaced. "Practically, certain things which are beyond our control, can we manage it?," the Union Minister sought to know. He, however, clarified that the government has been doing its best to ensure that in a day or two, things improve and people get vaccinated. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, who was present with Gowda, claimed that things would have been worse if arrangements had not been made well in time.  "If proper arrangements were not made well in advance then there would have been fatalities 10 times or 100 times more," Ravi said. He said oxygen supply has been increased from 300 metric tonnes to 1,500 tonnes due to systematic preparation. "But our preparations failed because of the unimaginable spread of coronavirus," Ravi told reporters. Regarding courts pulling up the government on the issue of coronavirus, Ravi said, "Judges are not all-knowing (Sarvajna). Whatever is available with us, based on that the technical advisory committee will recommend how much (vaccine) has to be distributed. Based on their report, we will take a decision." With the alarming rise in Covid cases in the state, which is reporting 40,000 to 50,000 cases daily, the demand for vaccines has grown manifold. According to the Karnataka government officials, the state has placed an order of three crore vaccines and the money has already been paid to the two vaccine manufacturers. However, only seven lakh doses have arrived in the State. The panicked citizens have been queuing up before the vaccination centres in the State for inoculation only to be turned down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/should-we-hang-ourselves-over-non-availability-of-vaccines-union-minister-sadananda-gowda-985458.html
13-05-2021||National||Centre to allow import of any Covid-19 vaccine approved by FDA, WHO||The Centre has decided to allow import of any Covid-19 vaccine that is approved by FDA and WHO. NITI Aayog health expert also said that import license will be given within one to two days.   Meanwhile, the Centre on Thursday approved extending the gap between the two doses of the Covishield vaccine to 12-16 weeks following a recommendation from a government panel, and said it is a "science-based decision" taken with confidence that there will be no extra risk. However, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI)  has suggested no change for the dosage interval for Covaxin, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-allow-import-of-any-covid-19-vaccine-approved-by-fda-who-985468.html
13-05-2021||National||CJI actively considering live telecast of Supreme Court proceedings||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Thursday said he was “actively” considering the proposal to live telecast the proceedings of the Supreme Court by seeking consensus among the judges. “Transparency is a time-honored principle when it comes to the judicial process in our country. Hearing of cases have always taken place in public courtrooms, with access being allowed not only to the lawyers and the litigants in a particular case, but also to the general public," he said. The CJI was speaking at the launch of mobile application to grant access of virtual proceedings of the top court to the media persons. He noted that access to the public is important, as court rulings, and more particularly of the Supreme Court, did have a bearing on the lives of people throughout the country. “The role of the media assumes importance in the process of disseminating information. Unfortunately, when Covid-19 struck, the systems which were earlier in place could no longer be relied upon. The judicial system has had to adapt quickly, in order to ensure that justice dispensation does not stop in the country," Justice Ramana said. Notably, the top court had in 'Swapnil Tripathi' (2018) favoured adopting live streaming of important cases. Recalling his brief stint as a journalist, the CJI said, "That time we did not have car or bikes. We used to travel on bus as we were directed not to avail conveyance of organisers of the event.” Justice Ramana also said another feature on the official website and mobile application of the top court would be added to provide summary of important cases for quick understanding of the judgements. “This new feature, called “Indicative Notes” is aimed at providing concise summaries of landmark judgments in an easy-to-understand format. This will serve as a useful resource for media persons and the general public who wish to be better informed about the rulings of the Court. Thanks are due to my predecessor Justice Bobde for initiating this," he said. He cited that small issues are bound to arise, which should not be unnecessarily magnified. “I request everyone to be patient, to be encouraging and supportive to the technical team to ensure that the application works without any problems. I hope that everyone gives the system the requisite time to evolve and expand," he added. Pointing out the tough time faced by staff of the top court, he said, “Till date, approximately 800 Registry staff have tested positive of Covid-19. Six of our Registrars and 10 Additional Registrars have tested positive at different times. Unfortunately, we lost three of our officials. As per the data available, 2,768 judicial officers and 106 Judges of the High Court have tested positive. We are yet to receive the data from two major High Courts. 34 Judicial Officers and three judges of the High Court have lost their life, battling this pandemic." Justice D Y Chandrachud, who is head of top court’s e-committee, said "We hope that this facility which CJI unveils will keep you all safe. Journalists are exposed so much to outside world.” Justice A M Khanwilkar and Justice Hemant Gupta also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-actively-considering-live-telecast-of-supreme-court-proceedings-985469.html
13-05-2021||National||Second wave of Covid-19 may be over by June-end, says virologist T Jacob John||Driven mostly by new variants from the UK, South Africa and Brazil, noted virologist Dr T Jacob John said the second wave of Covid-19, which has ravaged India and its health systems, is nearing its peak and should end in another eight weeks, by the end of June. He added that these variants crept up when no one was checking and the government, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and INSACOG, the three responsible agencies failed India.  Commenting on the accuracy of the government's projected Covid-19 fatality rate of 1.2 per cent, Dr John said it would make no difference if it was higher as it will not change the way Covid management is approached. "The overall death rate is low in India for three reasons. One gross under-reporting, second, demographic advantage, with 30 per cent of population below 15 years and only 30 per cent above 45 years and only 5 per cent are over 65. Third, all those vulnerable to die from communicable diseases have probably died already because India has no communicable diseases control programme," he is quoted as saying. The virologist said that the scale and speed of the second wave surprised many because everyone thought India mainly had the founder variant of the virus from Wuhan.  He also said that the health system in India has always been overstretched, even during the first wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-wave-of-covid-19-may-be-over-by-june-end-says-virologist-t-jacob-john-985479.html
13-05-2021||National||Oxygen shortage in India sparks hunt for $1,000 oxygen concentrators||By Corinne Gretler and P R Sanjai, Raphael Koch, a retailer of medical devices in the small Swiss town of Wil, has been busy for the past two weeks fielding a flurry of phone calls. Most are from Indians or India-based companies looking for oxygen concentrators, with some even wanting as many as 500 at once. But Koch’s Oxymed store barely has any stock left of the little known machines that separate the critical gas from air and assist patients with low blood-oxygen levels. And he isn’t expecting fresh supplies from manufacturers at least until mid-June. “They’re desperate,” he said, referring to the callers he’s been speaking to lately. “They tell me about relatives dying on the streets, that there’s no space in the hospitals and that the few oxygen concentrators that are still available are being sold for up to 10 times the normal price.” After a new coronavirus variant unleashed a brutal wave of infections in India, taking thousands of lives and sending millions to overcrowded and poorly equipped hospitals, demand has shot up for the device. When health-care facilities are running short of oxygen tanks and beds, the portable machine is increasingly becoming a line of defense for those seeking to avert breathing difficulties while recuperating at home. Worst crisis India has reported more than 300,000 daily infections for 22 consecutive days, highlighting the country’s slide into the world’s worst health crisis. One research model is predicting deaths could almost quadruple to 1,018,879 by end-July from the current official count of 258,317. Just as some countries needed ventilators in large quantities last year, India is now desperately seeking oxygen supplies and concentrators. The latest outbreak has seen oxygen requirements at Indian hospitals rise 10-fold, according to Abhinav Mathur, founder of the Million Sparks Foundation, which is part of efforts around Delhi to import the devices and donate them to healthcare facilities. A small part of this surge is being met by the concentrators, he said. To be sure, oxygen concentrators are useful only to those who don’t require intensive care. The machines deliver about five to 10 liters of the gas per minute, typically at about 93% purity, whereas those fighting Covid in hospitals may need as much as 60 liters per minute, which can be met only by liquid-oxygen tanks. Data tracked by the Indian Council of Medical Research between August 2020 and April 2021 show shortness of breath was reported by almost 48% of patients hospitalized this year, compared with about 42% last year. Oxygen utilization jumped to 55% in the second wave, from 41% during the first. Foreign aid India needs as many as 200,000 oxygen concentrators to meet the current demand, or five times pre-pandemic levels, Mathur said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on May 10 said it distributed 6,738 of them from the pool of foreign aid it received in recent weeks, underscoring the inadequacy of supplies and donations trickling in from countries ranging from the US to China and Switzerland. Distraught families are looking to source the gadget -- which could set some back by as much as $1,000, or about half of India’s per capita gross domestic product -- from wherever they can. The cost is an additional burden for some Indians who face shrinking incomes after losing businesses and jobs to lockdowns. A study by Pew Research Center showed an estimated 75 million people slipped into poverty in India since the outbreak began. Some of the biggest manufacturers including Royal Philips NV are stepping in to help. The company has “significantly increased its global production and is making these products available in India to help save more lives,” Philips said in an emailed statement, declining to elaborate. Enough capacity Chinese maker Jiangsu Yuyue Medical Equipment & Supply Co. said in an investor call in April that “orders from India continue to grow.” The Nanjing-based company said its daily production capacity of 4,000 units is sufficient to deliver orders amounting to 18,000 pieces. Shares of the company have jumped 18% in the past month in Shenzhen, compared with the 3% gain in the Shenzhen Stock Exchange Composite Index. Koch’s Oxymed website lists several oxygen concentrators. The EverFlo by Philips, for example, costs 1,550 Swiss francs ($1,715). Other devices have price tags ranging from 1,250 francs to 4,850 francs. Models imported from China may be more affordable at 25,000 rupees ($340), but because of high demand and price gouging, some in Delhi are paying 80,000 rupees for any available piece. Indian budget airline SpiceJet Ltd. said it has airlifted more than 27,000 oxygen concentrators from the US, Hong Kong, mainland China and Singapore. Until recently, India’s federal government used to levy an import duty of as much as 20.4% on the oxygenates, but the levies were scrapped temporarily in the first week of May after the red tape prevented life-saving equipment and medicines from reaching the needy. A relief fund set up by the prime minister last year is set to order 150,000 units of an oxygen supply system developed by India’s Defence Research & Development Organisation, the government said Wednesday. Demand for oxygen concentrators are only likely to surge further, said Million Sparks Foundation’s Mathur. Home care, government-run facilities adding more beds and hotels getting converted into Covid-19 care centers will fuel the demand, he said. “The next big worry is that the pandemic is clearly seen moving to semi-urban and rural areas,” he said. “The government should start to plan for improving the availability of oxygen in these areas to be ready to respond.” Meanwhile, in a tiny village about 20 miles east of Zurich, Dino Vivarelli runs MediCur AG, a specialist retailer of all things oxygen, ranging from therapies to air purifiers. He has never done business outside of Switzerland. But after the Indian embassy contacted him about two weeks ago to source large quantities of liquid oxygen, Vivarelli said he’s been getting inquiries from charities and the Indian diaspora in Switzerland and Germany. Until recently, he said he used to be able to order oxygen concentrators by the dozen by email and receive them the next day. “Those days are over,” he said by phone. “It started with a delay of a week. Now we’re already at about a month.” --With assistance from April Roach, Deirdre Hipwell, Claire Che and Jeanette Rodrigues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-shortage-in-india-sparks-hunt-for-1000-oxygen-concentrators-985484.html
13-05-2021||National||Puri, Tharoor in war of words over vaccine policy||Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor sparred on Twitter, with the BJP leader accusing Congress leaders of fuelling vaccine hesitancy and Tharoor hitting back, saying when will the Centre take responsibility for its "manifest failures" of policy rather than pointing fingers at the Opposition. Puri, in a series of tweets on Wednesday, said some of Congress leaders like Shashi Tharoor are betraying an almost "childish stubbornness" in admitting their fault about India's vaccine policy. "The Congress party’s narrative on the vaccines is getting increasingly bizarre by the day," Puri said. The congress party’s narrative on the vaccines is getting increasingly bizarre by the day. "Some of their leaders like Shashi Tharoor, to name one, are betraying an almost childish stubbornness in admitting their fault about India’s vaccine policy," the civil aviation, and housing and urban affairs minister said. The entire pack through statements and tweets fuelled vaccine hesitancy, Puri alleged. They openly cast doubts about vaccine efficacy, choice of manufacturers and roll-out to sow doubts in the minds of people, he said. "Mr Tharoor’s tweets of 2021 alone would qualify for a book on self-contradictions," Puri said. "After consistently airing doubts on vaccine efficacy, he has made a turnaround on 28 April 2021, but not without pointing out that he wasn’t wrong about being wrong!" the Union minister said. "Imagine the situation if GoI had heeded his ‘advice’ & waited till two weeks back to start vaccine production," he said in another tweet. Now, when the nation is battling Covid, instead of running with the hare and hunting with the hound, as the opportunity suits them, these leaders can, if they cannot join the nation in its fight, spend time to study their own statements and tweets to see where they went wrong, Puri said. Tagging one of Puri's tweets, Tharoor said on Thursday, "Let me keep it simple: 1. Is the vaccine shortage because of Congress’ tweets? 2. Did GOI fail to order enough vaccines because of my tweets? 3. Is differential pricing in May the result of my pointing out on Jan 3 that that Phase 3 trials of Covaxin were not complete?". In short, when will the BJP government take responsibility for its "manifest failures of policy and management" rather than pointing fingers at the Opposition in a vain attempt to divert attention from its own poor performance, the Congress leader asked on Twitter. The war of words between the two leaders comes amid the Congress-BJP duel over the vaccine policy, with the Opposition party alleging that the government had failed to come up with a sound vaccination policy while the ruling dispensation accusing the Opposition of politicising the issue of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puri-tharoor-in-war-of-words-over-vaccine-policy-985485.html
13-05-2021||National||India to have over 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines soon, says govt advisor||More than 2 billion doses of coronavirus vaccines will likely be available in India between August to December this year, a top government advisor said on Thursday. Those doses would include 750 million of AstraZeneca's vaccine, produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, as well as 550 million doses of Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech, government advisor V K Paul told reporters at a news conference on Thursday. Several Indian states are reporting an acute shortage of vaccines, even as coronavirus cases surge across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-have-over-2-billion-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-soon-says-govt-advisor-985487.html
13-05-2021||National||Plateauing in daily new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate recorded over past 3 days: Centre||Plateauing in daily new Covid-19 cases and positivity rate has been recorded in the country over the past three days, the government said Thursday, but added 10 states still have a positivity rate of 25 per cent or more. According to the government, the number of districts with week-on week rise in Covid-19 tests, yet decline in positivity rate has increased from 125 in April 22-28 to 338 between May 6 and 12. Addressing a press conference, a senior official, also said as many as 12 states have more than 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases, while 24 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity rate. India has been reeling under a catastrophic second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On Thursday, the country added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections, taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated this morning. The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plateauing-in-daily-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-recorded-over-past-3-days-centre-985489.html
13-05-2021||National||NHRC issues notice to Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar over dead bodies floating in Ganga||Several bodies, presumably of Covid-19 victims, floating in the River Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have attracted the attention of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday, which sought reports from the Centre and the state governments. The NHRC has issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of both the States and the Secretary of Union Ministry of Jal Shakti (Department of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation) after receiving complaints, calling for action taken report within four weeks. Issuing the notices, a statement said, the NHRC has observed that it seems the public authorities have "failed to take concrete efforts in educating the masses and checking the immersion of half-burnt or unburnt dead bodies into the River Ganga". It said the practice of disposal of dead bodies in the Ganga is clearly in violation of guidelines of the National Mission for Clean Ganga project. It has noted that The River Ganga (Rejuvenation, Protection and Management) Authorities Order, 2016 has laid down not only the comprehensive principles to be followed for rejuvenation, protection, and management of River Ganga but also made it clear that "no person shall do any act or carry on any project or process or activity which, notwithstanding whether such act has been mentioned in this Order or not, has the effect of causing pollution in the River Ganga". The complainant has expressed apprehensions that these dead bodies were of Covid-19 victims, hence, the disposal of dead bodies in such a manner may seriously affect all those persons, who are dependent on the holy river for their day-to-day activities, the NHRC said. "Even if these dead bodies were not of Covid-19 victims, then such practice/incidents are shameful to the society as a whole as that amounts to a violation of human rights of even deceased persons. The complainant has sought the intervention of the Commission for strict action against negligent public authorities, who have failed to prevent such incidents," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-issues-notice-to-centre-uttar-pradesh-and-bihar-over-dead-bodies-floating-in-ganga-985500.html
13-05-2021||National||Delhi High Court criticises 'irritating' dialer tune asking people to get vaccinated when there is no Covid-19 vaccine||The dialer tune message of the Centre asking people to get vaccinated was criticised by the Delhi High Court which on Thursday said the "irritating" message was being played for "we don't know how long" asking people to get the jab when there was not enough vaccine. "You have been playing that one irritating message on the phone whenever one makes a call, for we do not know how long, that you (people) should have the vaccination, when you (Centre) don't have enough vaccines. "You are not vaccinating people, but you still say that vaccination lagavaiye (get vaccinated). Kaun lagayega vaccination (who will get vaccinated), when there is no vaccination. What is the point of the message," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. "You should give it to everyone. Even if you are going to take money, give it. That is what even children are saying," the bench said and added that the government needs to be "innovative" in such things. The court said that the government should prepare more such messages instead of preparing just one and running it always. "Till like a tape it stops running or starts skipping, you will run it for 10 years," it said. The bench said the government, state or Centre, have to react to the situation on the ground. "So please have more of them (dialer messages). When a person hears a different one every time, maybe it will help him/her," the court said. It also suggested using TV anchors or producers to create programmes, on making people aware about use of oxygen concentrators and cylinders or on vaccination, of short durations which can be aired on all channels. It also said that celebs like Amitabh Bachchan can be asked to chip in and that all this "needs to be done soon". The court said that a lot of "publicity and propaganda" was there last year on washing of hands regularly and wearing of masks and now there should be similar audio-visual initiatives on use of oxygen, concentrators, medications, etc. "We are losing time. There should be a sense of urgency," the bench said and directed the Centre and Delhi government to file their reports by May 18 on what steps they are going to take for disseminating information on Covid management via print and TV media and also dialer tunes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-criticises-irritating-dialer-tune-asking-people-to-get-vaccinated-when-there-is-no-covid-19-vaccine-985503.html
13-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Sputnik V to be available in India from next week||In your evening news brief, Sputnik V will be available in the market from next week; The death toll from more than two days of Israeli strikes on Gaza has risen to 83 and four workers including a woman were killed and 10 injured due to release of Ammonia after a boiler exploded in a chemical plant in Cuddalore. Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V will be available in the market from next week, according to the Centre. "Sputnik vaccine has arrived in India. I'm happy to say that we're hopeful that it'll be available in the market next week. We're hopeful that the sale of the limited supply that has come from there (Russia), will begin next week," Dr VK Paul, a member (Health), NITI Aayog, told ANI.   Four workers including a woman were killed and 10 injured on Thursday due to release of Ammonia after a boiler exploded in a chemical plant in Cuddalore, the government said. Chief Minister M K Stalin ordered a solatium of Rs 3 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. He has also directed an assistance of Rs one lakh to each of the injured. "Ammonia gas got released following boiler explosion," a government release said adding it led to the death of four people and 10 were injured.   The death toll from more than two days of Israeli strikes on Gaza has risen to 83, the health ministry controlled by the territory's Islamist rulers Hamas said Thursday. The dead included 17 children, while 487 people have been wounded, the ministry said. The Israeli military said it had struck Gaza more than 600 times since Monday evening while Hamas has fired more than 1,600 rockets towards Israel.   Source: DHNS/ AFP/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sputnik-v-to-be-available-in-india-from-next-week-985504.html
13-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Indrani Mukerjea seeks interim bail on health ground||Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, has sought interim bail on health grounds after testing Covid-19 positive. The prosecution on Thursday submitted its reply opposing her bail plea before special CBl court judge J C Jagadale. The court noted that it has received Mukerjea's written submissions on the bail alongwith a letter from the Byculla jail in central Mumbai, where she is currently lodged. Mukerjea had tested coronavirus positive in the last week of April, following which, she had written to the court seeking interim bail on health grounds. Meanwhile, her regular bail plea is pending before the Bombay High court. In June last year also, she had sought interim bail, citing the spread of Covid-19 in the prison. Mukerjea is facing trial for allegedly killing her daughter Sheena Bora. Bora (24) was allegedly strangled to death in a car by Mukerjea, her then driver Shyamvar Rai and Sanjeev Khanna in April 2012. Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district. Mukerjea was arrested in August 2015. Later, former media baron Peter Mukerjea was also arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy. He is currently out on bail granted by the high court earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indrani-mukerjea-seeks-interim-bail-on-health-ground-985508.html
13-05-2021||National||Asaram seeks bail for Ayurvedic treatment, HC hearing adjourned till next week||Self-styled godman Asaram will now have to wait at least a week before the Rajasthan High Court decides if he can be given interim bail for medical treatment through Ayurveda in Haridwar. For now, the rape convict who was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Jodhpur after being infected with coronavirus will continue his treatment there. The division bench of Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Devendra Kachhawaha on Thursday adjourned the hearing on the bail plea till May 21, summoning a fresh medical report. The adjournment followed submission of his medical report by the AIIMS, advising the completion of his treatment for Covid-19 and his isolation. In its order, the court said it is taking into view Asaram’s old age and medical condition to direct that “his treatment shall be continued at the AIIMS, Jodhpur under supervision of the concerned doctors/specialists”. Earlier, his counsel Siddharth Luthra, appearing through video conference from Delhi, argued that Asaram suffered from heart and other ailments and preferred Ayurvedic treatment for them. But public prosecutor Anil Joshi countered that Asaram is currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at AIIMS and there is no point arguing on his bail plea until he is cured and has completed the 14-day isolation period. Joshi said the AIIMS medical report did not point to any other physical ailment as stated by Asaram. The court adjourned the hearing till May 21 and sought a fresh medical report from AIIMS. Asaram had tested positive for coronavirus in Jodhpur Central jail and was admitted at MG Hospital on May 5 after he complained of difficulty in breathing. Two days later, he was shifted to AIIMS, where he has been undergoing treatment for Covid-19. His condition is stated to be stable there. In 2018, a Jodhpur court sentenced Asaram to life imprisonment for raping a minor at his ashram in Rajasthan five years earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asaram-seeks-bail-for-ayurvedic-treatment-hc-hearing-adjourned-till-next-week-985513.html
13-05-2021||National||Cow urine to 'fitkari': Myths hitch a ride on second Covid-19 wave||As Covid-19 cases rise, so do myths about coronavirus cure. From onion to rock salt and tea to cow dung, Indians are mouthing suggestions on a daily basis to cure the disease, which is claiming over 4,000 lives and infecting a little less than four lakh cases daily. Centre's PIB Fact check is inundated with such claims arising from every nook and corner of the country. On an average, it is calling out four to five such widespread misinformation on social media every day. MyGovMythBusters is also doing the same. Even during the first wave of Covid-19, myths and fake remedies had led the government to press its wings with the Press Information Bureau countering the menace by asking people to beware of click baits in the garb of information on coronavirus. Facebook, Twitter, Google and YouTube, Microsoft and LinkedIn had then issued a joint statement resolving to fight the menace of fake news around the Covid-19 pandemic. During the first wave of Covid-19, the therapies prescribed included cabbage, garlic, gourd juice. This time, the prescriptions have been more 'innovative' with many suggesting chewing betel leaves and drinking tea to treat coronavirus-infected patients. There was a claim that alum or 'fitkari', a transparent salt-like substance that is used in cooking as well as for medicinal purposes, can cure coronavirus. Another batted for rock salt ('sendha namak' or 'kala namak'), claiming it could be the wonder drug. "News stating that COVID patients are recovering from the intake of rock salt along with raw onion are FAKE! Don’t fall prey to misinformation!" the government said. A purported message by the head of Command Hospital Air Force, Bangalore (CHAFB) claiming that inhaling hot water steam kills #COVID19 is also fake, according to the PIB Fact Check. The  Fact Check also stamped as fake a virtual audio message on social media that claimed that deaths attributed to Covid-19 are happening due to 5G network testing. Another message claimed that prolonged usage of masks leads to the intoxication of CO2 and oxygen deficiency in the body, while another one said women should not take the Covid-19 vaccine five days before and after their menstrual cycle. Both were vehemently countered. These myths do not dominate social media alone but have travelled to the ground as well. A video of cow dung therapy from a cow shelter Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Pratishthanam in which people were seen smearing cow dung and urine over their bodies prompted Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav to post on Twitter, "'Should we laugh or cry." US-based Faheem Younu tweeted: "IMPORTANT: Use of cow dung as a “COVID Cure” could be causing deadly Black Fungus disease  (Mucormycosis) in India. I can’t prove it but it’s highly likely. Weigh your risks." BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh Surendra Singh claimed that drinking cow urine has protected him from Covid-19. His prescription was to "mix 50 ml cow urine with 100 ml water", which he claimed, also works as "superpower" medicine even in patients with heart disease. He said he has remained healthy using this even as he mingles with people most of the time. Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur was roasted on social media for her appeal to people to perform "yagya'' and offer "aahuti" to purify the environment because performing this sacred ritual to eliminate pandemics has been a tradition for ages. This was not the first time that she made such a remark and courted controversy. In March this year, she had said, "The pandemic has sent out a message that we have to return to the Vedic lifestyle". She suggested performing 'havan' during sunrise and sunset with cow dung cake mixed with ghee made cow milk and rice to get rid of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cow-urine-to-fitkari-myths-hitch-a-ride-on-second-covid-19-wave-985537.html
13-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up | 15 more coronavirus patients die at top Goa hospital||Oxygen, the lack of it, continues to end lives in this country. Meanwhile, the Centre has decided to allow the import of any Covid-19 vaccine that is approved by the FDA and the WHO. More than 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines will likely be available in India between August and December this year, a top government advisor said. Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V will be available in the market from next week, according to the Centre.  The Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination 2021, scheduled on June 27, has been deferred and it will now be conducted on Oct. 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-15-more-coronavirus-patients-die-at-top-goa-hospital-985552.html
13-05-2021||National||Migrant workers continue to going back to their natives as Covid-19 cases increase in cities||With increasing Covid-19 cases and many states announcing lockdowns, migrant workers continue their return journeys to their home states. According to Indian Railways, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and West Bengal-bound trains from cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Surat and Gandinagar are running with full capacity. Most of the sleeper class and second seating class were full in East-bound trains, said an official from the railways, indicating large number of migrant workers are going back to their native places from big cities. Continued lockdown in many states and lack of job availability in cities were forcing migrant workers to return to their natives, said the official. The railways, which operated around 600 summer special trains, also witnessed full booking. Around 700 special trains from cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Surat, Bengaluru and Delhi, and terminating in East Indian places including Patna, Darbhanga, Gorakhpur and Guwahati also witnessed 100% occupancy, said the official. Unlike last year's lockdown, where train services were completely halted, this time the government ensured trains services continued without any disruption to enable smooth movement of people. Even though few states have requested the Centre to stop the services of local passengers trains and inter-city trains, none of them have asked to halt the services of long distancing mail and express trains. Though some divisions of railways have suspended the services of a few long distancing mail and express trains services due to poor occupancy, the railway officials says they were continuesly monitoring the situation. "Wherever the demand for tickets are high, they will operate extra trains to facilitate passengers movement," said the official. The railways is operating around 70 % of trains at present, compared to pre-Covid-19 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-continue-to-going-back-to-their-natives-as-covid-19-cases-increase-in-cities-985556.html
13-05-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with 100 worst-hit districts' magistrates on May 18 and 20||Going micro on the Covid-19 management as the Centre faces flak for it, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold interactions with district magistrates of 100 districts with high caseloads on May 18 and 20. Many District Magistrates from Karnataka, the second-worst hit state in the country in terms of new cases after Maharashtra, will attend the meeting.  Bengaluru Urban is among the top ten districts with high Covid caseload while six are from Maharashtra including Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nashik. The other two are Raipur and Durg from Chhattisgarh. In the first meeting, the DMs of 46 districts from nine states will participate and the remaining 54 districts from 10 states will take part on May 20. Chief Ministers of the concerned states will also attend the meetings. The PM's last meeting with all Chief Ministers on April 23 ran into a row as Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal went public with the live telecast of the meeting. Modi had then changed track and held one-on-one interactions with Chief Ministers of 15 states and LGs of two UTs last week. This is the first time that he will directly interact with the top district-level administrative officers and it comes at a time when the deadly disease has hit rural India in a big way. DMs have a key role in health management especially in tier II and III cities, which neither have a central government-owned hospital nor top private hospitals. Earlier Centre had asked states to activate panchayats to provide necessary institutional village-level support catering to their respective locations and wherever possible, improvise households as home quarantine locations. Continuing with his attack, Rahul Gandhi mocked the Prime Minister, saying he was missing "along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines during the pandemic" and slammed him for remaining focussed on Central Vista". Congress launched a hashtag on Twitter #ModiShahGayabHai and said, "the judiciary is stepping in to do what the Modi govt should have done months ago, but what's worse: the Modi govt is trying all it can to evade judicial review. Neither will BJP step up to pull India out of this crisis nor will they let others help!" Gandhi further said when a country faces a crisis, the government should ask itself if it is taking from the people or giving to them, if it is helpful or harmful. वैक्सीन, ऑक्सीजन और दवाओं के साथ PM भी ग़ायब हैं। बचे हैं तो बस सेंट्रल विस्टा, दवाओं पर GST और यहाँ-वहाँ PM के फ़ोटो। "But the GoI has abdicated its duty so people must come together for those in need. India stands united," he tweeted. While initial signs of plateauing have been reported from 18 states including Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat, there is a clear surge in states including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The trend is also catching up in eastern states including West Bengal. The Health Ministry's updated data on Thursday said just ten states — Delhi, Haryana,  Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan accounted for over 72 per cent of new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-100-worst-hit-districts-magistrates-on-may-18-and-20-985557.html
13-05-2021||National||India's public spending on healthcare lowest among BRICS nations: DEA Secretary||India's public expenditure on health is the lowest among the BRICS nations, Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) Secretary Ajay Seth said stressing that technology can play a great role in improving access to healthcare. BRICS is the grouping of five major emerging countries — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa — which together represent about 42 per cent of the population, 23 per cent of GDP, 30 per cent of the territory, and 18 per cent of the global trade. While making an opening remark at a virtual seminar jointly organised by the Finance Ministry and the New Development Bank (NDB) on the topic 'Social Infrastructure Financing and use of Digital Technologies', Seth on Thursday noted that this pandemic has caused a setback in the journey of sustainable development goals. Observing that resources are always limited, he said, "Question then arises is whether the focus is on access or focus is on quality... there is a wide variation in life expectancy and the public expenditure that happens on health as well as on education." With regard to education, he said, three BRICS countries spend 4-4.5 per cent of GDP, while two countries -- Brazil and South Africa -- spend about 6 per cent of their GDP. "Health again, India's public expenditure is the least among the BRICS countries. Here again, a more nuanced approach to financing, as well as the best way of delivery, will have to be adopted," he said adding that technology can help in easing the delivery. Telemedicine, diagnostic interpretation are a big area where access problems can be mitigated to a large extent by using technology, he said. Technology should be such that it does not lead to further digital divide but where the poor should have access first, he said. Seth added that "we have to build technology that helps at the bottom of the pyramid first before the people at the top of the pyramid." Speaking at the seminar, eminent economist Jeffrey D Sachs, who is also director (Center for Sustainable Development) at Columbia University, said this is time for major investment scale-up and this is the way China achieved the most remarkable sustained growth over four decades through upfront large-scale investments. "I think this is what development finance is all about in the coming years," Sachs said. He suggested that NDB can help to bring about universal access to healthcare services through digital access.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-public-spending-on-healthcare-lowest-among-brics-nations-dea-secretary-985566.html
13-05-2021||National||DMK's strength in Rajya Sabha set to go up||Two AIADMK Rajya Sabha MPs – K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam – winning the April 6 elections in Tamil Nadu and choosing to retain their membership in the Assembly has brought some good news for the ruling DMK. Another seat held by AIADMK has also fallen vacant with the death of A Mohammed John in March this year. The Rajya Sabha website says three seats are vacant and if one goes by the strength of the current assembly, the DMK will win at least two seats, taking its strength to nine from the current seven. While DMK commands the support of 159 MLAs including allies, the AIADMK has the support of just 75 – 66 of its own, PMK (5), and BJP (4). By all means, AIADMK will lose the two seats that its members resigned and hand them over to the DMK. AIADMK's current strength in the Rajya Sabha is 6, while two seats are held by its allies Tamil Maanila Congress and PMK. The biennial elections to Rajya Sabha seats in Tamil Nadu is scheduled only in 2022, but the resignation of two members and the death of one MP from AIADMK has necessitated the by-polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmks-strength-in-rajya-sabha-set-to-go-up-985577.html
13-05-2021||National||Peak will come, Covid-19 can emerge again, says Centre||As the country battles the second wave of Covid-19, the government Thursday said the virus may emerge again and so preparations have to be made at the national level in collaboration with states, infrastructure needs to be ramped up, while curbs and appropriate behaviour must be followed. Dismissing allegations that the government was unaware of the intensity of the second wave, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said, "We kept warning again and again from this platform that the second wave of Covid-19 will come. "It was said that the sero-positivity is 20 per cent, 80 per cent of the population is still vulnerable and that virus has not gone anywhere and other countries were also witnessing a resurge." At a press conference, Paul said, "The prime minister had conveyed the country about the emerging second wave on March 17 without creating panic and had said that we have to fight it." "Was such a peak expected," he said, "well, no modelling can predict the size of a peak as the unexpected behaviour virus is well known." "So peak will come, the virus can again emerge, we know. So preparations have to be made at country level in collaboration with states, infrastructure has to be ramped up, containment measures have to be implemented and Covid appropriate behaviour has to be followed. "We had not created panic... other countries have faced multiple peaks after all it's a pandemic," he said. He said it is the nature of the disease that it will ultimately go to villages. This epidemiology is well known, Paul said as he urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and embrace vaccination. Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said that plateauing in daily new Covid-19 cases and a slight decline positivity rate have been recorded in the country over the past three days, but added 10 states still have a positivity rate of more than 25 per cent which was "worrisome trend". He said as many as 12 states have more than 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases, while 24 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity rate.  "There are 10 states --Goa, Puducherry, West Bengal, Karntaka, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha where the Covid-19 case positivity rate is more than 25 per cent while there are eight states including Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Kerala where it is more than 20 per cent, which is a worrisome trend," he said.   He, however, said the number of districts with week-on week rise in Covid-19 tests, yet decline in positivity rate has increased from 125 in April 22-28 to 338 between May 6 and 12.    Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan,Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and Telangana were among 20 states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Punjab, Assam, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Pudusherry and Manipur were among 16 states and union territories showing continued increasing trend in daily new Covid-19 cases and remain area of concern. There 316 districts showing an increasing trend in Covid-19 cases since last two weeks while 187 districts have relatively shown a decline in Covid-19 cases during the same period , he said. India has been reeling under a catastrophic second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.  On Thursday, the country added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections, taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated this morning. The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/peak-will-come-covid-19-can-emerge-again-says-centre-985580.html
13-05-2021||National||Rahul recovering from post-Covid cough: Priyanka Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is recovering from a bout of post-Covid cough, his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Thursday. “Yes, he tested a few days ago and came negative. He is well but still has slight post-Covid cough etc.,” Priyanka said in a #AskPGV session on Instagram. “Go to my mother’s house and give her a big, huge …. tight, tight hug,” Priyanka said to a question on the first thing she would do post Covid-19. Rahul had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20. He did not attend the meeting of the Congress Working Committee on May 10 citing post-Covid-19 discomfort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-recovering-from-post-covid-cough-priyanka-gandhi-985597.html
13-05-2021||National||EC sets up committee to suggest ways to get Covid-19 protocol enforced during polls||The Election Commission on Thursday set up a committee to study how it can make agencies responsible for enforcing Covid-19 safety protocols do their job more efficiently during polls “irrespective of and in addition to” its own guidelines. The committee, which will be headed by the EC Secretary General, will also recommend measures needed to strengthen the legal and regulatory framework to enable the commission to ensure compliance of its guidelines and directions, including the Covid-19 safety protocols, more effectively during polls. It will also identify shortcomings and gaps in the EC’s regulatory regime and the gaps in implementation and enforcement of the commission’s directions and guidelines at the level of the Chief Electoral Officers of states as well as local authorities in districts, a spokesperson of the poll-panel stated. The EC decided to set up the committee after it drew flak for failing to enforce the Covid-19 safety protocols during the recent assembly polls in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry in March and April. The poll panel was also blamed for exacerbating the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The polling went on for several weeks in West Bengal, where the EC conducted voting in eight phases, even as the second wave of the pandemic wreaked havoc across the country. The votes were counted in all the states and Puducherry on May 2. The commission conducted the assembly elections in Bihar in October and November 2020, when the first wave of the pandemic had started to wane in several states across the country. The EC had on August 21 last year issued a guideline for safely conducting polls at the time of the pandemic. It had stressed the implementation of its guidelines during recent polls, too. It was however criticized for failing to enforce norms like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing during campaigning by candidates and the political party they represented. The Madras High Court on April 26 observed that the EC was “singularly responsible” for the second wave of the Covid-19 in the country as it failed to enforce safety protocols required to check the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus during electioneering. The court also observed that the EC officers should probably be booked for murder. The EC, however, sought to pass the buck, by pointing out that the responsibility of enforcing the measures to contain the Covid-19 pandemic – like lockdown, restriction on or curtailment of public gatherings – had been assigned to the respective State Disaster Management Authorities (SDMAs). It alleged that SDMAs had not imposed public gatherings under the Disaster Management Act 2005 during the period when the assembly polls were held in the four states. The commission stressed in a press release issued on April 27 that it had never taken over the SDMAs' task of enforcing the Covid-19 safety protocols. The recommendations of the committee will help the commission to chalk out a way forward for forthcoming polls. The committee has been asked to submit its report within a month, a spokesperson of the EC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-sets-up-committee-to-suggest-ways-to-get-covid-19-protocol-enforced-during-polls-985600.html
13-05-2021||National||Centre says Bharat Biotech ready to share Covaxin technology to ramp up production||The Centre on Thursday said that Bharat Biotech, the Hyderabad-based manufacturer of Covaxin, is willing to share the vaccine technology with other companies for scaling up the production of the homegrown shot against Covid-19, provided such companies have the required facilities to handle a live virus. "People say that Covaxin should be given to other companies for manufacturing. I am happy to say that the Covaxin manufacturing company (Bharat Biotech) has welcomed this when we discussed it with them. In this vaccine, a live virus is inactivated and this is done only in BSL3 labs. Not every company has this,” V K Paul, NITI Ayog member said in a press conference. “We give an open invitation to companies who want to do this. The companies that want to manufacture Covaxin, should do it together. The Centre will assist them so that the capacity is increased.” The bottleneck was the non-availability of biosafety level-3 laboratories in most of the vaccine manufacturing companies. “If the companies are willing to set up such a facility for local manufacture of covaxin, they are welcome. The government will support them,” he said. The indigenous vaccine is being manufactured by Bharat Biotech using a strain isolated and characterised by the National Institute of Virology, Pune, one of the constituent laboratories of the ICMR. Paul said Bharat Biotech had committed to increase its vaccine production from one crore to 10 crore on its own. Subsequently, the production would rise to upwards of 50 crore when manufacturing would begin at four other production units. The Centre has decided to invest more than Rs 130 crore to enhance Covaxin production capacities at four new sites - Bharat Biotech’s new unit in Bengaluru, Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation in Mumbai, Indian Immunologicals at Hyderabad and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited, Bulandshahr. The funds will come from the Department of Biotechnology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-bharat-biotech-ready-to-share-covaxin-technology-to-ramp-up-production-985605.html
13-05-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine crunch to continue till August-end||India’s ongoing vaccine crisis is likely to continue for at least another three months with the Union Health Ministry hoping for a turn-around on the supply front from August, top officials said on Thursday. The Centre was expecting availability of more than 200 crore doses of vaccine between August and December, which would include 75 crore doses of Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India and 55 crore doses of Covaxin produced by Bharat Biotech – the two vaccines currently being used, Vinod Paul, NITI Ayog member said at a press conference. Other vaccines likely in the Indian market in the second half of 2021, are Biological Evans Sub Unit vaccine (30 crore dose), Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine (5 crore), SII-Novavax vaccine (20 crore), Bharat Biotech’s nasal vaccine (10 crore), Genova mRNA vaccine (6 crore) and Sputnik V (15.6 crore), taking the total to 216 crore doses of various Covid-19 vaccine. Paul also for the first time released vaccine availability data up to July 2021, indicating access to about 51.6 crore doses, which is just enough to vaccinate only 25 crore people out of India’s estimated over 90 crore eligible adults. Over the last few days, several states have decided to scrap the vaccination for the 18-44 years group because of a paucity in the supply. The Centre has so far procured 35.6 crore doses of the vaccine while another 16 crore doses, being procured directly by the state governments and private hospitals, are in the pipeline. This, according to the officials, would be used to continue the vaccination till July end. Paul said Russia's Sputnik-V would be available in the market from next week. In an affidavit in the Supreme Court, the Centre had earlier claimed that Russia had committed to providing 6 million doses of ready-to-administer Sputnik V vaccine in May, 10 million in June and 20 million in July. Sputnik-V is also expected to increase its local production in India from 30 lakhs to 1.2 crore doses per month by July 2021. Paul said the central government had been engaged in talks with major foreign players like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson but they conveyed that they could look at the Indian requirement only in the third quarter of 2021. Considering a target population of 95 crore, Paul said there would be enough vaccines for all of them by next year, even though the government’s worry was spreading of the infection to the rural areas as the cities would be saturated with people receiving the shots by then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-crunch-to-continue-till-august-end-985616.html
13-05-2021||National||Modi govt now maintains silence over critical US reports on religious freedom||The Government on Thursday maintained silence on an official report by President Joe Biden’s administration in the United States, although it took note of allegations of discrimination against minorities in India and particularly referred to the campaign blaming the Tablighi Jamaat for the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. New Delhi also refrained from reacting to a recent report by the US Commission for International Religious Freedom, which reiterated its 2020 recommendation and asked the Biden administration to designate India as a ‘Country of Particular Concern’ in view of the “drastic downward turn” in religious freedom in the South Asian nation. Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government dismissed the critical remarks about the status of religious freedom in India in the earlier reports compiled by the USCIRF and the US State Department, it chose to keep mum this year. The US State Department’s “2020 Report on International Religious Freedom” was published on Wednesday. Anthony Blinken, the US Secretary of State, himself, released it in Washington D.C.' It noted that the government and media had initially attributed some of the spread of the Covid-19 in the country to a conference held in New Delhi in March 2020 by the Islamic Tablighi Jamaat organisation, after it had been reported that six of the attendees had been tested positive for the virus. The Ministry of Home Affairs of the Government of India had initially claimed a majority of the country’s early Covid-19 cases had been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event. Some members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had said that the conference attendees had spread Covid-19 “like terrorism,” which politicians and some media outlets had described as “Corona Jihad”, the US State Department noted. It had also mentioned that the courts across India had later dismissed numerous charges filed against Tablighi Jamaat members.   The report also referred to the riot in Delhi in February 2020, which was triggered by communal clashes between the groups supporting and protesting the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, introduced by the Modi government in December 2019. It also took note of reports of religiously motivated killings, assaults, riots, discrimination, vandalism, and actions restricting the right of individuals to practice and speak about their religious beliefs in India. The USCIRF – an “independent, bipartisan federal government entity” established by the US Congress – also issued its annual report on international religious freedom on April 21 last. It had noted the BJP-led government enacted the CAA, which provided a fast track to citizenship in India, only for non-Muslim migrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. It added that the CAA potentially exposed millions of Muslims to detention, deportation and statelessness when the government would complete its planned nationwide National Register of Citizens. Soon after the US State Department had issued its 2019 report on international religious freedom with critical remarks on India, the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi had dismissed it as an “internal document” of the American government, stressing that no foreign entity had any locus standi to pronounce on the state of the constitutionally protected rights of the citizens of India. New Delhi had also dismissed the USCIRF’s report last year, calling it “biased and prejudiced”. The Modi government, however, refrained from issuing any such statement reacting to the reports issued by the USCIRF and the US State Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-now-maintains-silence-over-critical-us-reports-on-religious-freedom-985620.html
13-05-2021||National||Explain how film stars, politicians are procuring Remdesivir: Bombay High Court to governments||The Bombay High Court has asked the Union and Maharashtra governments to explain how some film stars and politicians were able to procure and distribute the anti-viral drug Remdesivir despite its shortages. The order was passed during the hearing of PILs on the coronavirus situation on Wednesday but published on the HC website on Thursday evening. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said that as per previous orders of the Supreme Court and several high courts, Remdesivir was supposed to be allocated to states only by the Union government. Advocate Rajesh Inamdar, lawyer of one of the petitioners, said while hospitals were running out of key drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, some celebrities and politicians were easily procuring and distributing them in response to pleas on Twitter. The court said it did not want to come in the way of those helping Covid-19 patients, but it has to pass orders in accordance with law. If Remdesivir is being allocated by the central government, "then how the same can be privately available for distribution at the hands of such political and film personalities", the court asked in the order. "In our opinion, this would certainly amount to hoarding/illegal stocking of such drug," it said. Such a parallel system of distribution of anti-Covid drugs might cause "serious prejudice" to patients in urgent need, the high court further said. Some unscrupulous persons too may take advantage of this for profiteering, the court said. "Also, such personalities making the drug available privately, raises a grave question as to its equitable distribution in a system/regime which is set into motion for its allocation," the judges noted. The Maharashtra government and Centre must file reply affidavits explaining how Remdesivir was being "parallely distributed by political and film personalities", the court said. The replies are to be filed by May 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explain-how-film-stars-politicians-are-procuring-remdesivir-bombay-high-court-to-governments-985642.html
13-05-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi claims PM Modi missing along with Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen, medicines||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched an attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, alleging that he is missing along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic and what remains is the Central Vista Project and the PM's photos. He also said that the government of India has "abdicated" its duty towards citizens during the pandemic and people must come together for those in need. The former Congress chief has been attacking the prime minister over the government's handling of the coronavirus situation and has been critical of the Centre for the lack of oxygen, medicines and vaccines in the country amid a surge in the number of cases during the second Covid-19 wave. "The prime minister is also missing, along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines. All that remain are the Central Vista Project, GST (goods and services tax) on medicines and the prime minister's photos here and there," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. वैक्सीन, ऑक्सीजन और दवाओं के साथ PM भी ग़ायब हैं। बचे हैं तो बस सेंट्रल विस्टा, दवाओं पर GST और यहाँ-वहाँ PM के फ़ोटो। The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat, the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. Leaders of 12 opposition parties, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, on Wednesday had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking a free mass vaccination campaign against Covid-19, and a suspension of the ongoing Central Vista project and divert the money to aid the fight against coronavirus. "When a country faces a crisis, the government should ask itself if it is taking from the people or giving to them; if it is helpful or harmful. But the GoI has abdicated its duty so people must come together for those in need. India stands united," Rahul Gandhi said in another tweet. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hit out at the government over dead bodies floating in the Ganga. "What time has come in this New India that even dead bodies floating in rivers are not visible to the government. Shame...," he said in a tweet in Hindi, while citing a news report about bodies being buried in sand in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao. With a single-day rise of 3,62,727 cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 2,37,03,665 on Thursday, while the death toll due to the viral disease rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 more people succumbing to it, according to the health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-claims-pm-modi-missing-along-with-covid-19-vaccines-oxygen-medicines-985373.html
13-05-2021||National Politics||BJP ministers latch on to party sympathiser to counter Opposition's demand on Covid-19 vaccine||Union Ministers have latched on to comments by a BJP sympathiser to hit out at the “hollowness and hypocrisy of the opposition”, which issued a joint appeal to procure vaccines centrally and begin free vaccination. “A nice thread of tweets one must read, exposing the inherent contradictions, hypocrisy and hollowness of the opposition,” Information & Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said referring to a point-by-point rebuttal by Akhilesh Mishra, who heads a communications firm that works closely with the government. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Textiles Minister Smriti Irani also made similar references on Twitter to the tweets by Mishra. Mishra had claimed that the joint letter by 12 Opposition leaders to Prime Minister Narendra Modi contradicted the stands taken by the political parties earlier. He said Rahul Gandhi and several Congress leaders had asked the Centre to allow state governments greater say in the procurement of vaccines, including the open market sale of vaccines at marginally higher prices. “Problem with the joint letter by opposition politicians is that no one knows when to take these 'leaders' seriously? For they recommended one thing one day and do a complete U-turn the next day. So which suggestion to accept? And when,” said Mishra, who was associated with Modi’s 2014 Lok Sabha election campaign. On demands to stop work on the redevelopment of Central Vista, he said the project was ongoing and sanctioned before the pandemic. “But what about new assembly building in Chhattisgarh in middle of pandemic? Or MLA hostel in Maharashtra? That is fine,” Mishra asked. On the Opposition's demand for the distribution of free food grains to the poor, he said the government had already expanded the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya also referred to Mishra when it came to countering the letter by 12 Opposition leaders, including four chief ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-ministers-latch-on-to-party-sympathiser-to-counter-oppositions-demand-on-covid-19-vaccine-985394.html
13-05-2021||National Politics||Govt must be held accountable for 'failing' its people, says Akhilesh after bodies found floating in Ganga||After a number of bodies were seen floating in the Ganga in the past few days, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh must be held accountable for "failing" its people badly. According to Ballia residents, at least 52 bodies were seen floating at the Ujiyar, Kulhadia and Bharauli ghats in the Narahi area. However, the district authorities did not tell the exact number of bodies found there. "Bodies found floating in the Ganges are not a statistic, they're someone's father, mother, brother and sister. What has transpired shakes you to your core. There has to be accountability from the very government that has failed its people so badly," Yadav said in a tweet. In a separate tweet, he thanked the British Association of Physicians of India Origin (BAPIO) for providing ventilators and oxygen concentrators to India. "I want to thank the British Association of Physicians of India Origin, (BAPIO) for their donation of 122 ventilators and 95 oxygen concentrators. It is yet another reminder we are all in this together. Thank you for leading with your hearts BAPIO!", he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-must-be-held-accountable-for-failing-its-people-says-akhilesh-after-bodies-found-floating-in-ganga-985419.html
13-05-2021||National Politics||Two leaders quit Kamal Haasan's MNM; more to follow suit||Two prominent leaders, including a former bureaucrat known for his integrity, resigned from their primary membership of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) led by actor Kamal Haasan on Thursday, even as there were indications that many more will follow suit. Dr Santhosh Babu, who who took voluntary retirement from service after his run-in with the Tamil Nadu government over a tender issued for the ambitious BharatNet project, and Padma Priya, secretary of the environment wing, announced their resignations from MNM on Twitter. “Dear friends, Good afternoon! It’s with a heavy heart that I am informing you that I am resigning my post and membership from Makkal Needhi Maiam. My decision is due to personal reasons. I thank Kamal Sir and our team for their affection and friendship,” Santhosh Babu wrote on his verified Twitter page. Padma Priya said she has resigned from the post of MNM State Secretary (Environment Wing) and primary membership for personal reasons. “I sincerely thank Shri. Kamal Haasan & wish the party all success in the future,” she said. Sources told DH that high-profile resignations from MNM are likely to continue for the next few days. “The resignations are unlikely to stop. The problem in the party started when Kamal Haasan chose Coimbatore (South) and devoted all his energy on winning his seat. Many leaders became uncomfortable with his decision but kept quiet since they did not want to rock the boat at the time of elections,” a senior leader told DH on the condition of anonymity. Another district functionary said “too much” importance was given to Coimbatore (South) just because Kamal Haasan contested from there. “When a leader concentrates on just one seat, ignoring the remaining 233 seats, he ceases to be one. That is what happened in MNM. But many resignations would have been avoided if he had won the seat. That too didn't happen,” he said. The first leader quoted claimed many expected “honest answers” from Kamal Haasan on the defeat of the party, but he insulated himself from the blame and began criticising every other person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-leaders-quit-kamal-haasans-mnm-more-to-follow-suit-985594.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||'Use Central Vista money on Covid-19 vaccines': Opposition leaders write to PM||Twelve top Opposition leaders, including Congress, Trinamool Congress and DMK, on Wednesday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to procure Covid-19 vaccines centrally from domestic and global suppliers, invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic production and immediately start a free and universal vaccination across the country. Emphasising that the pandemic has "assumed unprecedented dimensions of a human catastrophe" in the country, the leaders, including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, demanded that the government stop the Central Vista construction and use that money for procuring oxygen and vaccines instead. The joint letter was also signed by former prime minister H D Deve Gowda (JD-S), NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPM General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray (Shiv Sena), West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee (Trinamool Congress), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin (DMK), Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren (JMM), National Congress patriarch Farooq Abdullah, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, CPI General Secretary D Raja and Bihar Opposition Leader Tejaswi Yadav (RJD). This is the second joint letter by Opposition leaders to Modi in 10 days. On May 2, the leaders had urged the Centre to focus all attention on ensuring uninterrupted oxygen supply to all hospitals and health centres across the country. "We have repeatedly in the past drawn your attention, independently and jointly, to the various measures that are absolutely imperative for the central government to undertake and implement. Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy," they said. The leaders also demanded that the government release all money held in the unaccounted private trust fund, PM-CARES, to buy more vaccines, oxygen and medical equipment. They also said that the jobless should be given at least Rs 6,000 per month, besides free distribution of foodgrain to the needy, saying that over one crore tonnes of foodgrain are currently rotting in central godowns. Referring to the farmers' protests, they demanded that the controversial agri laws be repealed, so that lakhs of "our annadatas (providers of food)" can continue to produce food to feed the people. "Though it has not been the practice of your office or government, we would appreciate a response to our suggestions in the interests of  India and our people," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/use-central-vista-money-on-covid-19-vaccines-opposition-leaders-write-to-pm-985268.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Government bans photography, videography of Central Vista project site||After facing severe criticism over the Central Vista redevelopment project, the Central Public Works Department has prohibited photography and video recording at the construction site near India Gate. Signboards have come up at the redevelopment site of Central Vista Avenue (Rajpath), which read: 'No photography', 'No video recording'. The board put up also bans the entry of public near the project site.  The CPWD, a construction arm of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has refused to comment on the 'No Photography' boards. The Opposition parties have been attacking the NDA government for the Central Vista Redevelopment project costing around Rs 23,000 crore and demanded that the project be stopped and instead pump the money to improve health infrastructure to aid the fight against Covid-19. The redevelopment project involves building a new Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping the 3-km Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new Prime Minister's residence and office, and a new Vice President Enclave. Works of the new Parliament building and Central Vista avenue have already begun while the Centre is planning to slow down the execution of the remaining projects. While environment activists are demanding an immediate halt of the project citing possible damage to green cover, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said there will be more green cover in the new design. The minister also attacked the Congress party for criticising the government over the project, saying it was the Opposition party that had mooted the proposal to build a new Parliament building when it was in power at the Centre in 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-bans-photography-videography-of-central-vista-project-site-985310.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||States fighting with one another for Covid-19 vaccines portrays bad image of India: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the fact that the states are left to competing and fighting with one another in the international market for Covid-19 vaccines portrays a "bad" image of India. The Centre should procure the vaccines on behalf of the states, he said in the backdrop of a shortage of the vaccine doses in Delhi and many other states. "Indian states left to compete/fight with each other in international market. UP fighting Maha, Maha fighting Orissa, Orissa fighting Delhi. Where is 'India'? Portrays such a bad image of India. India, as one country, shud procure vaccines on behalf of all Indian states (sic)," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo said in a tweet. In another tweet, he said India approaching the vaccine-manufacturing countries will have much more bargaining power rather than the states doing it individually. The Indian government has much more diplomatic space to negotiate with such countries, the chief minister added. His deputy Manish Sisodia had earlier said Delhi will float a global tender for vaccines while accusing the BJP-led Centre of forcing the states to do so. Around 100 vaccination centres have been closed down in Delhi as they ran out of their Covaxin stocks. Sisodia alleged on Wednesday that Bharat Biotech, which manufactures Covaxin, has refused to provide "additional" doses of the vaccine to Delhi under instructions from officials of the central government. The city government had placed orders for 67 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin each on April 26, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/states-fighting-with-one-another-for-covid-19-vaccines-portrays-bad-image-of-india-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-985370.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana to float global tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines||Global tenders would be floated by the Haryana government for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines to ensure that all those above 18 in the state are inoculated, Health Minister Anil Vij said on Thursday. During the past few weeks, Covid-19 cases in Haryana have witnessed a surge. The number of total active cases in the state, as on May 12, were 1,07,058. In a tweet, Vij said, “Haryana will float Global tenders to purchase Corona Vaccine for people of Haryana so that free vaccination could be provided to every 18+ citizens of the State at the earliest".  Haryana will float Global tenders to purchase Corona Vaccine for people of Haryana so that free vaccination could be provided to every 18+ citizens of the State at the earliest. States like Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Delhi have already opted for global tenders to meet their needs. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield, being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), are currently being used in India's inoculation drive against coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-to-float-global-tenders-to-procure-covid-19-vaccines-985377.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi court denies advance bail to Navneet Kalra in oxygen concentrators black marketing case||A Delhi court on Thursday rejected a plea for anticipatory bail made by high-profile businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the case of black marketing of oxygen concentrators during the Covid-19 pandemic.  Additional sessions judge, Saket court, Sandeep Garg declined advance bail to Kalra, who owned multiple restaurants and other businesses, at upscale, Khan Market here. The court said no case for any relief was made out as the possibility of the accused tampering with the evidence or intimidating the prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out. It allowed a plea by the Delhi Police that custodial interrogation of the accused was required to unearth the entire conspiracy hatched between him and a number of co-accused persons. The court said the allegations levelled against the accused are serious as he sold poor quality China-made oxygen concentrators at exorbitant prices with fraudulent representation that those were of premium class, manufactured with German collaboration. "The accused is reported to have collected advance payments from several needy persons for the supply of oxygen concentrators and he kept on postponing the delivery on the pretext of the shipment being held up. He kept on increasing the price and eventually, he neither supplied the product to several persons nor refunded their advance amounts," the court noted. The prosecutor opposed the bail plea by Kalra saying on May 5, co-accused Gaurav Suri, Satish Sethi, Hitesh Kumar and Vikrant were arrested. During their interrogation, they disclosed that they used to purchase oxygen concentrators and other Covid-19 treatment-related equipment from various means and sold them at exorbitant prices to needy persons.  As many as 387 oxygen concentrators, 112 boxes containing KN-95 Masks and 95 oximeters were recovered at the instance of accused persons here. On May 7, 96 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha Restaurant, Khan Market, New Delhi. Invoices in the name of Dayal Opticals for selling 250 Units of Oxygen concentrators were seized at the instance of accused Hitesh, he claimed. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing Kalra, had argued that his client had only carried out a legitimate transaction of import of the oxygen concentrators and customs authorities were aware of the transaction. “The GST was deposited with the government. Invoices were given and returns were filed," he claimed, adding Kalra was implicated in a false case on account of business and personal rivalry by a third party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-denies-advance-bail-to-navneet-kalra-in-oxygen-concentrators-black-marketing-case-985409.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis: Reduce our oxygen quota, Delhi tells Centre as cases decline||After a bitter war over oxygen supply earlier this month, the Delhi government on Thursday asked the Centre to reduce its oxygen quota due to declining number of Covid-19 cases and subsequent hospitalisation and instead give it to needy states. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said oxygen requirement in the national capital has fallen to 582 MT, as against the previous allocation of 700 MT. Despite the Supreme Court's instructions, he said 700 MT of oxygen were given to Delhi only once. "The Centre should provide the surplus oxygen from Delhi’s allocated quota to other states who need it," Sisodia said during a digital address. Taking into account the number of cases, hospitalisation and criticality, the Centre allocates oxygen to each state. Delhi had accused the Centre of not providing enough oxygen when people were scrambling to arrange oxygen cylinders for patients. Sisodia said the cases were at the peak during the last week of April and first week of May. On a daily basis, more than 80,000 tests were being conducted, out of which around 27,000 were testing positive. "Positivity rate had risen to 32% during that period. But now, the positivity rate has reduced to around 14%, and 10,400 new cases have been recorded in the last 24 hours. The oxygen demand was directly proportional to the increase in cases. During the peak time, Delhi needed 700 MT of oxygen daily," he said. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 10,849 Covid-19 cases out of the 73,675 tests conducted. Positivity rate was 14.24% and active cases stood at 77,717. However, deaths continued to be over the 300-mark -- there were 308 deaths reported in Thursday's bulletin. "During the peak period, we were getting regular SOS calls from hospitals. Now, we receive 1-2 SOS calls daily, which are fulfilled without any delay. The Delhi government is a responsible government; hence, it is requesting the Centre to reduce the daily oxygen allocation. This way, the other states in need of oxygen can get the surplus," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-reduce-our-oxygen-quota-delhi-tells-centre-as-cases-decline-985411.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||The missing Covid-19 deaths in Uttar Pradesh's Raebareli district||India is grappling with a surge in Covid-19 cases, as the second wave of the pandemic has ravaged the entire country. The Raebareli district in Uttar Pradesh has also felt the wrath of the coronavirus as it struggles to stop the outbreak. Many people showed symptoms of Covid-19 before dying, but those deaths did not find a place in official lists, the report cited. This is mostly likely why the Sultanpur Khera village in the district, which has a population of 3,000, reported only two deaths in April. Dinesh Singh, a bank employee, compiled a list of villagers who showed flu-like symptoms before dying: 17 is the total number. The families of 11 of them told the publication  that they showed symptoms such as fever, cough, and breathlessness before they died. Of them, 15 were not even tested for Covid-19 or taken to a hospital. The district administration took action last week only after villagers forced them take notice of the situation. The district administration cordoned off the village, and a large-scale testing drive took place. Anshika Dikshit, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Raebareli told IE that the whole village has been made a containment zone, and sanitisation is being done.   Virendra Singh, Chief Medical Officer, told the publication that official records show that only two people succumbed to Covid-19 in April, and the others might have died due to old age or chronic illness. “I don’t see Sultanpur Khera as an outbreak given that only two cases had positive reports." Keeping a tab on things, Dinesh Singh, like a vigilante, checks on those who test positive and scrolls through the state government website each day to see whether there are more Covid-19 positive cases in his village, However, he has spotted only a few in the official list. There is a catch. "No one is telling us if everyone else is negative, and there are no individual reports," he told IE. Television pictures have shown families weeping over the dead in rural hospitals in the UP or camping in wards to tend the sick.  Dead bodies are found floating in the Ganges, as crematoriums are overwhelmed, and there is not enough supply of wood for funeral pyres. Urban India is fighting a brave battle against the coronavirus. But far away from the spotlight, rural India is fighting an uneven battle largely on its own. Against a pandemic that has not spared any corner of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/the-missing-covid-19-deaths-in-uttar-pradeshs-raebareli-district-985422.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||14 doctors in UP resign over 'misbehaviour', 'mental harassment' by admin officers||Fourteen doctors working at community and primary health centres in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao have tendered their resignation alleging misbehaviour and mental harassment by administration officers. The doctors, however, assured that they will not let their Covid-19-related work be affected till talks are going on with the district magistrate and the chief medical officer over the resignations. The fourteen doctors, who are in-charge of CHCs and PHCs here, submitted their resignation letters at the CMO office on Wednesday evening. They also forwarded a copy of their resignation letters to the additional chief secretary (Health), director general (Health) and other senior officers. "We will not fight under the banner of Provincial Medical Services (PMS) association. This is our fight. The DM and CMO misbehave with us even after we have been working in limited resources in rural areas for the past year. Instead of cooperating, administration officers misbehave with us," Dr Sanjiv alleged. "Our work is being reviewed by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and block development officer (BDO) level officers," he added. The agitated doctors claimed that their salaries were also withheld several times. However, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Ashutosh Kumar refuted all the claims and said all the doctors have returned to their work. "We don't talk like that. We all will work together," Kumar said. Meanwhile, the doctors said they will decide on the future course of action after meeting the chief medical officer and the district magistrate in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-doctors-in-up-resign-over-misbehaviour-mental-harassment-by-admin-officers-985424.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh government to pay Rs 5,000 monthly pension to Covid-hit families||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced a Rs 5,000 per month pension and free education to children who have lost their parents or guardians due to Covid-19. Chouhan said the government would also provide interest-free loans to those who lost earning members of their families in a bid to help them start business. “We will provide education free of cost to the children who have lost their parents. They will be provided free ration even if they are not eligible for it,” the chief minister said. The announcement by Chouhan comes at a time when Congress has been demanding minimum income support for the poor as states have announced restrictions on movement to curb the spread of Covid-19. Chouhan said the Covid-19 pandemic has severely hit many families. Children have lost their parents, while aged people have been left alone as those taking care of them died due to the viral infection. “Our government will stand by such children and families and provide Rs 5,000 pension per month to them,” Chouhan said. “They are the children of the state and it will look after them,” the chief minister said. On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh reported 8,970 new cases of Covid-19 and 84 deaths, taking the tally of infections to 7,00,202 and the death toll to 6,679. The state has been battling shortages and black marketing of medicines with leaders of the ruling BJP complaining of sale of fake remdesivir injections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-government-to-pay-rs-5000-monthly-pension-to-covid-hit-families-985436.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Low-key Eid celebrations in Kashmir in view of Covid-19 restrictions||Eid-ul-Fitr celebrations in Kashmir were a low-key affair on Thursday as the faithful marked the culmination of the fasting month of Ramzan by offering the thanksgiving prayers in small congregations at local mosques by observing social distancing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. No Eid prayers were offered for the fourth consecutive time at the major mosques and shrines of Kashmir as police enforced a strict curfew in most parts of the valley, including Srinagar city, officials said. People offered the Eid prayers in small congregations at local mosques, mostly early in the morning, they added. At many places, the police asked the mosque management committees not to use loudspeakers and to conclude the prayers quickly. The valley continues to remain under a lockdown in the wake of a surge in the number of coronavirus cases. Curfew-like restrictions were imposed across the valley on Wednesday. Muslims offer special prayers as a mark of thanksgiving to the almighty at the end of the month-long Ramzan fasting. This is the fourth time in a row that Eid was celebrated in a subdued manner in Kashmir. Last year, Eid-ul-Azha prayers were low key in view of the pandemic, while Eid-ul-Fitr prayers could not be offered in May due to a Covid-induced lockdown. Before that, Eid-ul-Azha prayers in 2019 could not be offered in Kashmir as authorities had imposed a strict curfew in the wake of the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into Union territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/low-key-eid-celebrations-in-kashmir-in-view-of-covid-19-restrictions-985471.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||UP to spend up to Rs 100 crore to buy Covid-19 vaccines, in talks with Pfizer, Sputnik V||Uttar Pradesh will spend up to Rs 100 crore to buy Covid-19 shots and held early talks this week with companies such as Pfizer and the local distributor of Russia's Sputnik V, a state official said on Thursday. The move by Uttar Pradesh comes as many states curtail vaccinations due to severe shortages amid a record surge in coronavirus infections, with India recording more than 4,000 deaths for a second straight day as its health system fails to cope. Uttar Pradesh has also held pre-bid talks with Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Cadila Healthcare as part of a global tender to buy 40 million doses over the next few months, state spokesman Navneet Sehgal told Reuters. He said Johnson and Johnson could also confirm their participation in the tender by late Thursday via email. Sputnik V's local distributor, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, has also held talks. "Money is not an issue, we have a huge budget," said Sehgal. "We will spend up to Rs 100 crore." He however said funds would have to be diverted from other areas to buy the vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-to-spend-up-to-rs-100-crore-to-buy-covid-19-vaccines-in-talks-with-pfizer-sputnik-v-985477.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Monitoring of river banks in Uttar Pradesh to prevent dumping of bodies, Priyanka Gandhi seeks judicial probe||While denying large-scale burial of bodies on river banks in some Uttar Pradesh districts, state officials on Thursday said they were monitoring the banks to prevent dumping of bodies in the rivers. The decision to monitor the river banks comes after hundreds of corpses were found floating in the Ganga at Buxar district in Bihar and Ballia and Ghazipur districts in UP. ''It (dumping bodies in rivers) is not our tradition... the dead should be cremated in accordance with the rituals... they must not be buried on the river banks,'' Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said. Eyewitness accounts said hundreds of corpses had been buried in pits barely three to four feet deep in the sand. These bodies could be swept downstream in the rainy season, when the river is in spate and breaches its banks. The officials also rejected reports of a large number of deaths from coronavirus infection in the rural areas in the state. ''We do not have any such report,'' said a senior health official here on Thursday. Reports of deaths, however, continued to pour in from villages in the state. The worst-hit are the districts of Gorakhpur, Deoria, Raebareli, Varanasi, Sultanpur, Meerut and some others. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a judicial probe into the deaths in the rural areas and the dumping of bodies in the rivers. ''The state government is busy in image building... it is hiding the data on deaths... a judicial probe must be conducted into the reports,'' Priyanka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monitoring-of-river-banks-in-uttar-pradesh-to-prevent-dumping-of-bodies-priyanka-gandhi-seeks-judicial-probe-985495.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh suspends work on new assembly building; Central Vista's turn now, says Congress||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday announced the suspension of construction work on the new state assembly building, prompting Congress to renew its demand to stop the Central Vista development project. “Our citizens are our priority. The foundation stone for various projects such as the new state assembly building, Raj Bhawan, Chief Minister’s Residence, official residences for ministers and officers, and new circuit houses was laid before the Covid-19 outbreak,” Baghel said. “In the time of crisis, construction work on all these sites is suspended,” he added. Citing Baghel’s announcement, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to follow suit and stop the Central Vista project. “Dear PM Narendra Modi, this is how a responsive and responsible government works in a democracy. Chhattisgarh Government is prioritising lives of its people above everything else and redoubling its efforts to fight Covid-19. When will you learn and stop this Central Vista madness?” Ramesh said. As Congress mounted pressure on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for suspension of the Central Vista re-development project, the BJP had hit back at the opposition citing the ongoing construction of the new assembly building. The foundation stone of the new assembly building was laid in the presence of Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi on August 30, 2020. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also attacked Modi today, alleging that he is also missing along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic. वैक्सीन, ऑक्सीजन और दवाओं के साथ PM भी ग़ायब हैं। बचे हैं तो बस सेंट्रल विस्टा, दवाओं पर GST और यहाँ-वहाँ PM के फ़ोटो। “The Prime Minister is also missing, along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines. All that remain are the Central Vista project, GST on medicines and the Prime Minister's photos here and there,” Rahul said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-suspends-work-on-new-assembly-building-central-vistas-turn-now-says-congress-985496.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi school sets up walk-in 'oxygen cafes' for Covid patients||A prominent private school in Delhi has set up walk-in 'oxygen cafes' where coronavirus patients can sit for a few hours, get oxygen and go back home only after their condition improves, the dean of the institute, which also has a Covid care centre, said on Thursday. However, if the doctors find the symptoms of the patient to be severe, they are then referred to the Covid care centre on the top floor, he said. A Covid care centre was opened at Mount Carmel School recently by converting its auditorium and classrooms into a 100-bed facility where patients with mild symptoms can be admitted. The centre has been named 'The Vijay Williams Covid Care Centre' as a tribute to the founder of the school and Williams' father, who lost his battle to coronavirus earlier this month. "They (patients) feel positive. They sit, get oxygen for a few hours as doctors monitor them and as soon as their oxygen levels improve, they leave. This makes them much more relaxed," said Williams. He said four classrooms of the school have been converted into 'oxygen cafes' and oxygen concentrators and cylinders are kept there. "There are lots of patients who need oxygen right away. They walk in, the doctors assess them, they receive the initial burst of oxygen, which helps alleviate mild symptoms. "If the doctors find the symptoms to be severe, the patients are sent to the Covid care centre on the top floor, where they are monitored 24X7," he said. Williams said they are in talks with all minority Christian schools to set up facilities for Covid patients. "Many of the schools are looking at it. Lots people from their administration are coming to our school to see. Some of them are trying to send volunteers who can work with us for a few days. We are encouraging all schools. Anybody can send volunteers, so that they can gain some expertise," he said. The oxygen plant are also likely to be set up inside the school premises over the weekend. Williams said they are hoping that it can be "up and running" by either Monday or Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-school-sets-up-walk-in-oxygen-cafes-for-covid-patients-985506.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Out of Covaxin, Delhi govt urges Serum Institute to 'come to rescue' and provide Covishield||After Bharat Biotech said it cannot supply more doses of Covaxin to Delhi, the city government wrote to the Serum Institute of India (SII) asking it to "come to its rescue", saying it has limited stock of Covishield for 18 to 44 years which will finish in one week. To this, the SII said they are doing their best to meet countrywide vaccine requirements, official sources said. In a letter to the SII, Director of Family Welfare, Delhi Government, Dr Monika Rana said, "We rely on your support for provision of sufficient quantities of vaccine in a time-bound manner." "Delhi has a limited stock of Covishield for 18 to 44 years which will finish in one week and vaccination centres will have to be closed due to non-availability of vaccines," she said. "In order to prevent this, you are requested to come to our rescue and provide for more vaccine immediately," the letter read. Delhi is facing an unprecedented crisis and timely vaccination of all the eligible beneficiaries will help control the pandemic, Dr Rana said. As per official sources, in reply to her letter, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India said, "We fully understand your concern and assure you once again of our best efforts to meet the Delhi and countrywide vaccine requirements during the Covid-19 pandemic." "Under the leadership of our CEO, Adar C Poonawalla, the company has been working tirelessly to produce Covishield and is committed to further ramping up the production to its maximum rated capacity in coming two-three months to meet the Covid-19 vaccine needs of our country," Singh said in his letter. "We are working to our best possible potential 24X7 to fulfil the Government of India, state governments, Union territories and private hospitals' vaccine requirements countrywide and are following Government of India's directions in this regard," he said. On Tuesday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over vaccine shortage, saying the Centre should share the vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other capable pharmaceutical companies to scale up production in the country. On Wednesday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech has refused to provide "additional" vaccine doses to the Delhi government, a development that is likely to severely hamper the inoculation drive for people in the 18-44 age group. The Delhi government had ordered 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin on April 26, the deputy chief minister had said. AAP leader Atishi had also said Delhi received 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine on May 11, but it has completely run out of Covaxin. All centres administering Covaxin will be shut after Wednesday evening, she had said. There are 4.18 lakh Covishield doses left for people in the 18-44 age group. These can last up to nine days, according to government data. A total of 41.64 lakh doses were administered to beneficiaries across all categories in Delhi till Wednesday morning since the inoculation drive started on January 16. Delhi has so far received 8.17 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines for the 18-44 years category, and over 43 lakh doses for 45-plus, and healthcare and frontline workers. Healthcare workers, frontline staff and those aged above 45 are being given jabs at 470 centres, whereas beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group are being inoculated at 394 centres. According to the Centre's Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, states and private hospitals have to procure vaccines to immunise people in the age group of 18 to 44 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/out-of-covaxin-delhi-govt-urges-serum-institute-to-come-to-rescue-and-provide-covishield-985514.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand looks at sugar mills to increase oxygen production||Uttarakhand minister Swami Yatishwaranand has asked officials to rope in sugar mills to start producing oxygen to augment the supply of the life-saving gas in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. Two sugar mills in Hardiwar have already agreed to the proposal, the minister for sugarcane development and sugar industry said. In a letter to ministry secretary Chandresh Kumar, Yatishwaranand cited the example of Osmanabad in Maharashtra where an oxygen plant is being run at a sugar factory and asked him to start work in that direction in Uttarakhand too. The minister said he had spoken to the management of the Dharashiv Sugar Mill in Osmanabad and also collected information about a dozen sugar mills that are running oxygen plants in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. Quoting Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane Minister Suresh Rana, Yatishwaranand said oxygen plants can be set up easily in sugar mills producing ethanol. Two sugar mills in Haridwar district, Laksar Sugar Mill and Uttam Sugar Mill, that produce ethanol have already agreed to producing medical grade oxygen, Yatishwaranand said, adding that the additional production of oxygen will help a lot in the current Covid-19 situation. Uttarakhand is grappling with the second wave of Covid-19 at every level, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat had said on Wednesday while flagging off trucks carrying 80 metric tonnes of oxygen sent by the Centre to different places in Kumaon and Garhwal divisions of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-looks-at-sugar-mills-to-increase-oxygen-production-985576.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Bengaluru doctor in custody wants to serve inmates in Tihar Jail during Covid-19||Sabeel Ahmed, the brother of Glasgow airport suicide attacker Kafeel Ahmed, now wants to use his medical expertise to help Covid-19 patients in Tihar jail where he is held on allegations of attempting to establish Al-Qaeda in the Indian Sub-continent (AQIS). The 39-year-old doctor, who hails from Bengaluru, has approached a Delhi court requesting it to issue directions to the jail superintendent for allowing him to assist the jail administration for medical purposes. The plea said he is a qualified MBBS doctor with seven years of experience in management and treatment of critical cases. "His experience and expertise being a medical professional would be helpful for dealing with the surge in Covid cases and treatment of inmates in Central Jail, Tihar," the plea added. Kafeel, who was an aeronautical engineer, and another person Bilal Abdullah had attacked the Glasgow airport in 2007. They had first planted car bombs in London on June 29, 2007 and the next day, attempted an attack in Glasgow airport when Kafeel tried to ram a vehicle into it. He was injured in the incident and died on August 2 in 2007. Sabeel was sentenced to an 18-month jail term for his involvement in the Glasgow terror attack case on charges of not providing information in advance about Kafeel's plans to target the airport. While he moved to Saudi Arabia to work as a doctor in 2010, he was charged by the NIA in 2015 for his alleged role in recruitment to Lashkar-e-Taiba. He was deported to India and arrested in August last year.   According to the NIA, the LeT and HuJI had hatched a conspiracy to indulge in subversive activities like target killings of important personalities of Hindu community in Bengaluru and Hubballi. He was arrested in Saudi Arabia on charges of collecting donations for a school. He was in Saudi prison between February 2016 and August 2020 before he was deported to India. Besides the NIA case, Delhi Police has also named him in connection with trying to set up the terror outfit AQIS. He was also arrested in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bengaluru-doctor-in-custody-wants-to-serve-inmates-in-tihar-jail-during-covid-19-985599.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Centre files review petition against Supreme Court order on OBCs||The Modi government has filed a plea in the Supreme Court seeking review of its May 5 judgment depriving states of their power to declare OBCs for the purpose of reservation in jobs and education and conferring the President with the sole power to identify a community as backward. While quashing the Maratha quota, a five-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan upheld the validity of the 102nd Amendment, giving constitutional rights to National Commission for Backward Classes, and declared that after this, states do not have the power to prepare lists for socially and educationally backward classes. The Union government is aggrieved with the interpretation of the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Act, which granted constitutional status to the NCBC. After the judgement on the Maratha quota, Maharashtra's MVA government headed by Uddhav Thackeray last Saturday appointed a committee under two retired High Court judges to review the judgement and explore a way forward in the quota issue. The issue led to a political row between the ruling MVA alliance and the Opposition BJP in Maharashtra with the latter alleging that the Supreme Court quashed the quota because of lack of coordination of the ruling alliance in representing the state's side in the apex court. While Thackeray alleged that the law (enacted when the BJP was ruling the state) giving reservation to Marathas was not full proof, former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis reminded him that Shiv Sena was then part of the NDA government in the state when the law was enacted and had also taken credit for the same. Centre's review petition comes in the backdrop of embers of protest that continue in the state. Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM), an umbrella body of all Maratha organizations on Wednesday held an agitation against the state government as well as the Centre to press for its demand for reservation for the community. The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in a brief statement on Thursday informed that the government was filing the review petition on the Supreme Court judgement pertaining to the Constitution's 102nd Amendment Act, 2018. "The Constitution bench of the Supreme Court had pronounced the judgement in the matter of a writ petition of last year Shiv Sangram V/s Union of India and other various Civil Appeals involving interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution 102nd Amendment Act,2018. As provided in the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, a Review Petition for review of the judgement of the Supreme Court has been filed by the Union of India on May 13, " the ministry said. While striking down the Maharashtra Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, for having breached the 50 per cent cap fixed by a nine-judge bench in 1992, the Supreme Court's five-judge Constitution bench had said that the law violated right to equality. In its judgement, the court had also ruled out any possibility of reconsidering the 1992 judgement in the Indra Sawhney (Mandal Commission) case, which fixed a 50 per cent ceiling on the reservation in jobs and education. It had rejected a contention by several states, including Karnataka, to revisit the 1992 judgement due to subsequent developments and change in social dynamics in all these years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-files-review-petition-against-supreme-court-order-on-obcs-985614.html
13-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi government allows walk-in Covid-19 vaccination for people above 45 years||Amid a shortage of vaccines in the national capital, the Delhi government in Thursday decided to allow walk-in Covid-19 vaccination for people aged 45 years and above, and shift vaccination centres from hospitals to schools for this age group. The decision was taken after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia chaired a review meeting on the ongoing vaccination drive in the city. "Now citizens aged 45 years and above will be able to walk-in to get vaccine jabs without hassle of online registration," said Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister of the Delhi government for Covid-19 management. Presenting the daily vaccination bulletin of the Delhi government, ruling AAP MLA Atishi warned about running out of vaccine stocks for beneficiaries including those in the 45 years and above age group. "For the healthcare and frontline workers, and those above 45 years, Covaxin stock left only for three days and Covishield stock for two days," she said at a briefing. The first vaccine shots will be "ineffective" if those above 45 years don't get their second dose due to unavailability of vaccines, she said and appealed to the Centre to rush supplies at the earliest. Sisodia said after receipt of adequate vaccine supplies "we will administer 1.5 lakh doses to those aged 45 years and above and 1.5 lakh doses to 18-45 years age group cumulatively." He also appealed to the Centre to redirect adequate doses of vaccines as Delhi government wants to vaccinate three lakh people daily in the city. "After reviewing challenges of citizens with regard to internet accessibility and issues in registering online slots, we have made a decision to allow registration and walk-in vaccination at all vaccination centres of Delhi, for individuals above 45 years of age," he said. Sisodia said the Delhi government is planning to quickly scale up vaccination centres across the city, ensuring that they have all the required material to vaccinate a large number of people in a short amount of time.  These centres will be open six days a week barring Sundays, he stated. The Deputy CM said out of 57 lakh citizens above 45 years of age, 22 lakh have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-allows-walk-in-covid-19-vaccination-for-people-above-45-years-985640.html
13-05-2021||Opinion||What's the road ahead for the farmers' protest?||The farmers' protest has entered 168th day on the borders of Delhi. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Western Uttar Pradesh are sitting on the borders of Delhi. Farmers moved to these protesting sites on November 26th, 2020, and have established concrete and non-concrete structures on the borders to keep the protests going. A lot has happened in these six months. From braving the brute force on their way to Delhi’s borders or the harsh winters, farmers have persisted in their demands of the repeal of the three laws and enactment of the MSP (minimum support price) regime in agriculture.  What have farmers achieved in these six months? The argument that all the meetings between the Centre and the unions have failed does not give us the whole picture of the achievements of the protest. The farmers' protest has brought the agrarian crisis to the forefront. It is a widely accepted fact on all sides of the political spectrum that agriculture in India is facing a crisis and the crisis has not been looked into. The farmers' protest has created awareness about basic terms like MSP, mandis, PDS, food security, etc. Most farmers did not even know about the existence of the MSP regime before the farmers' protest, which bolsters the argument that knowingly or unknowingly farmers have managed to shift the attention to important aspects. Farmers across the country are now demanding MSP and fair prices for their crops. The farmers' protest has thus created a wave of awareness that will not let eyewash policies float for long.  Farmer mobilisations have not happened on this scale post the 1980s. There have been stray movements but none on the scale of this movement. The reasons lie in the unions that lead farmers across the country. The farmers' protest has for the first time witnessed all the major unions come together under one roof to advocate a common cause. The unions may differ in their ideologies but have selflessly been standing up for the causes of farmers. This development, if looked at from Punjab’s point of view is important in the context of the elections in the state in 2022.  The farmers protest has shifted the narrative from ‘Sikh politics’ to ‘agriculture’ for the first time in Punjab’s politics. In Punjab, there is a long pattern where the two main parties have used the bandwagon of ‘peaceful Punjab’ or ‘drug-free Punjab’ as their election war cries. This time, however, the parties are hard at work to woo the state's major vote base, the peasantry. Captain Amarinder Singh, the Punjab chief minister, for example, has allocated Rs 200 crore for diversification in Punjab’s agriculture. The Akalis meanwhile are making sure they highlight every procurement problem from the shortage of bardana (gunny bags) to the sluggish lifting by the Food Corporation of India. The farmers' protest has resulted in putting farmers issues on the table for 2022. In the words of farmer union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, “If we can come to Delhi, we can very well move to Patiala as well.”  The farmers' protest has influenced politics not just in Punjab but in other states as well. Punjab saw the ousting of the BJP and a decrease in seats of the Shiromani Akali Dal in the civic polls. Similarly, tremors were felt in Haryana as well with a no-confidence motion against the ML Khattar government. Irrespective of the result of the motion, the sentiment on the ground in Haryana has changed for Khattar’s ally in the government, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP). Haryana’s politics has become more interesting with the Khaps standing in solidarity with the farmers since day one. In West Bengal, even though farmers rallies did not affect the vote shares but will be considered significant given that the BJP, seen now as an enemy of farmers, was unable to win the elections. A major achievement of the farmers' protest is the ‘rise of movements’ or ‘legitimisation of dissent’. Many people who talk and follow the protests globally acknowledge that dissent under Narendra Modi governments I and II fell significantly. Dissent was demonised and criminalised with the help of the law and order machinery acting at the behest of the government. The fact that none of the protests from 2014 onwards could survive the delaying tactics of the government makes the farmers protest the tallest protest of the last two decades. The protest has not only inspired many other smaller groups, like tribals but has also restored belief in democracy’s most important pillar, ‘protest’. A slightly less talked but important aspect of the farmers' protests for the Sikh community has been the coming together of the community for a common cause. The Sikh diaspora and Indian Sikhs have had differences of opinion on how things shape or work in India. But the massive support by the Sikh diaspora has made things between the two groups better and fluid. This can be seen in the emergence of better panthic resolutions and moves. Several Sikh scholars think that this coming together of thinkers under one Nishan Sahib may see changes in how the prime Sikh body, the SGPC, works and operates.  What's the road ahead? The estimated number of farmers sitting on Delhi's borders as of this day is not more than 10,000 people. The farmers, however, are still focused on the repeal of the laws. There has been attrition and the causes are none that are portrayed by media. This is strategic attrition done as a cooling-off period. The farmers' protest sites are still up and running. The period when the government is dealing with the Covid situation and is called out daily for major failures is probably the time that farmers would like to cool off. Farmer leaders have maintained that there is no going back and that they can sit until 2024 as well.  Farmers are getting vaccinated on the borders. More than 2,200 farmers have taken the jab as on this day. The medical facilities are emerging on the sites. It is important to mention here that farmers are looking forward to the talks with the government. It is probably the best time for the Narendra Modi government to repeal the laws and enact new ones in the post-pandemic stage. For now, one thing is clear that we are not going home without the repeal of the laws. (The writer describes himself as a blogger, writer, political analyst (Kashmir relations), music lover and an engineer at heart)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/whats-the-road-ahead-for-the-farmers-protest-985323.html
13-05-2021||Opinion||Computer chips are the new toilet paper||By Shira Ovide Most people need toilet paper and computer chips every day, and yet we rarely think about either of them. That changed during the coronavirus pandemic when first bathroom rolls and then chips became scarce. Computer chips aren’t so disposable, but they are equally essential as electronic brains for products like smartphones, cars, airplanes and most modern appliances. Chip shortages have stalled new car manufacturing, made rental cars harder to find and complicated business even for the dog washing industry. I spoke to Don Clark, who has written about computer chips for years, about the importance of chips, why the US government is obsessed with making more of them in America, and how a new chip mania is a revenge for the nerds. What are computer chips used for? Computer chips are like tiny brains or memory receptacles. This makes them important for pretty much everything in modern life. The obvious places are electronics like computers, smartphones, video game consoles and voice-activated speakers. But chips are also in products that are used to track milk production of dairy cows and to make sure produce in trucks stays at an appropriate temperature. A modern car can have several thousand chips, including for the ignition, brakes and entertainment system. This year, the production of $50,000 cars is being held up because of a lack of $1 computer chips. Right, how did chips lead to a freeze in car manufacturing? Last year, when the pandemic first hit, automakers estimated that many people wouldn’t want to buy cars, and they cut orders for computer chips. When it turned out that car sales increased, the companies tried to order more chips on the fly. But the chip manufacturers had already moved on. They had shifted production to fill orders for products like phones and game consoles. Are chip shortages unusual? No, but shortages are usually confined to one particular type of chip. What’s unusual about this year is there’s not enough of many different kinds of computer chips, because of a combination of some disruptions related to the pandemic and overwhelming demand for more and more chips for everything. To give just one example, each new smartphone with a 5G internet connection has 100 little components in it called filters that connect to all the different frequencies. That’s 100 computer chips for just a single function. Q: When will the shortages improve? Companies are trying to crank out more chips, but it’s difficult to react quickly. Chip companies are also trying to stop customers, including car companies, from ordering double the number of chips they really need just to be sure they get some. But shortages will probably last until 2022 and could get worse before they get better. That’s partly because many scarce chips come from older factories that are hard to upgrade. Congress and President Joe Biden seem very likely to back billions of taxpayer dollars to make more computer chips in the United States. Why? Shortages of products like personal protective equipment made in China have gotten the public and policymakers to discuss the downsides of having essential products made outside the United States. Many advanced computer chips are made in Taiwan, and that makes the Pentagon in particular nervous about not being able to get essential computer chips if relations between Taiwan and China get worse. And the US government wants to be more self reliant in the case of emergencies, like earthquakes, in Taiwan. Another issue is global competitiveness. Countries including Ireland, Taiwan and Israel give boatloads of government incentives to factories that produce chips. Intel, the big American computer chip company, doesn’t really need US taxpayers’ money. But it wants to ensure that the company isn’t doing vastly worse by making its chips in the United States. Forgive me, but the computer chip industry is very nerdy. How do people in the industry feel about being such a hot topic? Yes, this has been the boring old industry of tech, like steel making. That’s changing, partly because of the attention on chip shortages but that’s not the only reason. I wrote an article Friday about the amount of investments in new computer chip companies — about eight times the dollars invested in 2016. Young people who might have formed software startups a few years ago are now choosing to start chip companies. There is a lot of interest and excitement in chips now, and the people in the industry feel that it’s nice to be seen as really important.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/computer-chips-are-the-new-toilet-paper-985331.html
13-05-2021||Opinion||How safe are CT, X-Rays as first-line tools to screen for Covid-19?||Recently, Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences New Delhi, warned against CT scans in mild Covid cases linking CT scan radiation to cancer risk. He pointed out that one CT scan is equivalent to 300 to 400 chest X-Rays and frequent CT scans in younger age groups increases the risk of cancer in later life. This caused some anxiety among patients who have undergone CT scans and who require CT scans. Thus, it is worthwhile putting the radiation risk in proper perspective. In the early days of Covid pandemic, several hospitals across the world did not have a perfected laboratory test to diagnose Covid-19. So they resorted to the use of imaging tests, usually CT scan or chest X-Ray. While patients with Covid-19 can show an abnormality on either a chest X-Ray or CT scan, many other lung problems and respiratory infections can look similar. Also the absence of an abnormality on either a chest X-Ray or CT scan does not necessarily exclude Covid-19. It is for this reason, most experts advise against the use of an imaging test alone to diagnose or rule out Covid-19. However lab testing for Covid-19 has increased greatly since the outbreak of the pandemic. Hence, even the American College of Radiology has recommended against CTs and X-Rays as a first-line tool to screen for Covid-19 citing three major reasons. It states that unlike the swab tests which can diagnose Covid-19 accurately, imaging findings are not specific enough to confirm Covid-19. Also, a significant percentage of patients with Covid-19 have normal chest CTs or X-Rays. For them, a normal imaging result could falsely convince them that they are healthy. If such persons do not isolate themselves, they can spread the virus to others. Also, using CT scan is a huge challenge for the facility as Covid-19 is highly contagious. CT scanners are large, complex and expensive equipment. To decontaminate the equipment and the room for every potential Covid-19 patient is a huge effort. This would also mean shortage of CT scanners for non-Covid patients. Radiation risk A CT scan is a combination of multiple X-Rays and a computer process to create a picture of the body (any part) that provides more details than the regular X-Ray. Its detrimental radiation effect is also known to be stochastic or probabilistic in nature and can cause cancer. The radiation risk has been assessed by the International Commission of Radiological Protection (ICRP) based on the data of past human exposure to radiation including the one from survivors of atomic bombings at Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  What is the risk of cancer due to CT scan? One may get a dose of about 20 mSv in a lung CT scan. Incidentally, this is the number prescribed as annual limit for the radiation workers by the regulatory bodies all over the world. Radiation is only one of several agents, like tobacco, environmental chemical pollutants, certain types of foods etc that can cause cancer. Also, the risk probability is so low that even if the person gets cancer, there is no way one can attribute it to the exposure from CT scan. Therefore, however low the radiation risks are, application of radiation for any purpose is governed by three fundamental principles on which ICRP regulations are formulated. Justification of the practice: Use CT scan only if needed. Optimisation: Exposure given should be as low as possible. CT scan machine parameters settings such as tube current, scan time etc should be such as to achieve the desired quality of the image with minimum exposure. Limit the risk: Exposure should not exceed the guidance values recommended for the practice. Covid management Nevertheless, CT scans do have a role to play in the management of the pandemic. In cases with no lab tests performed earlier but with severe symptoms, doctors resort to CT scan for immediate diagnosis of Covid-19 as lab test results take more than 24 hours and any delay can cost the patient dearly. Also, CT scans for patients with severe symptoms help in assessing the seriousness of the disease and to determine the treatment plan. Therefore to ensure the radiation generating equipment like X-Ray machines and CT scanners in India are used in a safe manner, their users are licensed by the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board. The Board ensures only equipment meeting the radiological safety requirements are purchased and the operators of these equipment are qualified by accredited bodies. As part of the licensing requirement, each institution using radiation generating equipment has a full-time Radiological Safety Officer (RSO) approved by the Board. Duties of the RSO include periodic tests for quality assurance of the equipment, monitoring the radiation exposures of the patient and the operating staff and submission of periodic safety reports to the Board, among other things. (The writer is Former Director, Radiological Safety of Atomic Energy Regulatory Board)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-safe-are-ct-x-rays-as-first-line-tools-to-screen-for-covid-19-985344.html
13-05-2021||Panorama||Here's how to identify and what to do when you get Mucormycosis||There has been a significant rise in fungal infections in Covid-19 patients. Mucormycosis is a serious infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes. It most commonly affects the sinuses and lungs. This fungus usually resides in the nasal mucosa and then germinates to spreads from the nose into the eyes and brain in diabetic and immune-compromised patients. Rhinocerebral Mucormycosis is an infection in the sinuses that can spread to the brain. It is common in people with uncontrolled diabetes and in people who have had renal transplant. These fungal spores have seen the environment and on inhalation, in people with the weaker immune system, cause infection in the sinuses, lungs and in the eyes leading to loss of vision Transmission generally occurs through inhalation, inoculation or ingestion of the spores. It can spread through bandages, linen, water leaks, poor air filtration, non-sterile instruments and open wounds. In recent times, there has been a significant rise in the cases of Mucormycosis in Covid-19 and post-Covid-19 patients. The probable causes would be increased usage of steroids in the treatment, inadequate monitoring of blood sugar level, altered innate immunity, immune dysregulation, invasion of the vessels and formation of clots. Given a large number of Covid-19 cases across the country, Mucormycosis is something to be taken seriously and be aware of – both for patients and caregivers.  Common symptoms in initial stages: Sinus headache Facial pain Stuffy nose Blood nasal discharge Blurring of vision, double vision Dental pain or loosening of teeth, in the initial stages. Common symptoms in later stages: Facial swelling Facial skin colouration Ptosis (closure of eyelids) Proptosis (swelling of the eyeballs) Restricted eye movements Palatal blackish discolouration  Brownish discharge from the nose  Recognising the symptoms early is the surest way to diagnose and treat the disease. Investigations needed These are the investigations to be conducted: Complete blood count Blood sugar test Renal function test Deep nasal swab - KOH staining to detect the fungus Nasal endoscopy and biopsy,  MRI of the brain  CT scan of the nose and PNS helps in further assessment of the disease. Medical treatment would involve control of blood sugar, anti-fungal medications – injection of liposomal amphotericin B and surgical debridement. Prevention of Mucormycosis in high-risk Covid-19 patients would include: Avoid areas with a lot of dust for patients. The fungus spores exist in dust and old construction material.  Ensure the patient always wears a good mask. Take extreme contact and droplet precautions, and maintain strict hand hygiene. Spores spread through droplets from coughs and can infect anybody with low immunity.  Ensure strict control of blood sugar. Covid-19 and steroid used as treatment push up the sugar level in the body. This elevated sugar level is food for the fungus to grow.   Do not use steroids for home isolation patients. Especially when you cannot monitor blood sugar levels. Maintain nasal hygiene of patients with saline washes daily. This clears out dust particles and fungus spores. Maintain hygiene constantly of the equipment used for oxygenation - nasal prongs, nasal canula, masks for ventilation. Equipment not used for long will have dust particles along with fungus spores.  Linen can carry fungus spores too and therefore should we cleaned thoroughly daily. Watch for early symptoms and report to an ENT surgeon  If symptoms are ignored in the early stages or diagnosed, the consequences can be very serious. In advanced stages the fungus can affect the sinus bones leading to their removal, if it enters the eye the eyeball will have to be removed, and further, if it affects the brain, it will be fatal. (The writer is an ENT surgeon)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/heres-how-to-identify-and-what-to-do-when-you-get-mucormycosis-985288.html
13-05-2021||Panorama||Sense and sentiment||I recently got a call from a neighbour, asking if I wanted some movies. She found her DVDs obsolete but remembered that I had an old-fashioned player. Later that day, I received a treasure trove of films. There were quite a few that my husband and I had missed and several we would enjoy watching again. When I thanked our summer Santa, she told me that she gives away things that she no longer needs. Then and there, I decided that I would refill the container as soon as I had emptied her carton. It was my turn to let go of objects, lying untouched, that might benefit others. What had long stood in my way were the emotions evoked by several items. There was, for instance, a certain gadget. In March 1996, I had a severe bout of typhoid. I had always been careless about the water I drank, and my unpleasant illness resulted from that folly. My father, who stayed with us, hastened to get a water purifier. He hoped that in future, it would protect us against water-borne diseases. We used that appliance for twenty-five years. It required regular servicing but stood the test of time. A month ago, I went in for a more advanced model and carefully away from the former. The latter was inseparable from memories of my father, who passed away shortly after he bought it. I vividly recall him supervising its installation and offering me a glass of water as I lay, hot and feverish, against my pillows. Eagerly examining the DVDs, I knew what I had to do. The water purifier was in working condition and would definitely be helpful to someone I had in mind. I immediately had it taken down from the loft and prepared to part with it. I believe that my late father would have been pleased. Nostalgia had not dulled my reasoning, and sentiment had sense as its seasoning!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/sense-and-sentiment-985289.html
13-05-2021||Panorama||Why Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao fired his health minister||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision to drop Health Minister Eatala Rajender from his cabinet came at a time when the state was breaking previous records in daily new Covid-19 cases, registering upwards of 8,000 cases. While ambulances with gasping patients hurried towards hospitals, the frightened public queued up at the inoculation centres where vaccines are in short supply. The expulsion might seem to be a result of the health minister’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation in the state. Except that it had nothing to do with it. Eatala was divested of his health and family welfare portfolio on May 1 and dropped from the cabinet of KCR, as the chief minister is popularly known, on May 2 following charges of land-grabbing by the minister and his associates. The two decisions were taken within 48 hours of the chief minister ordering two probes — one by the Medak district administration and the other by vigilance officials — to find out the truth in the allegations of land encroachments at Achampet in Masaipet mandal of Medak district. The investigation is based on the complaints of a few farmers from the weaker sections in Masaipet that the minister’s men had, over the past few months, illegally captured their government-assigned lands. The land is said to have been used to establish a poultry industry – Jamuna Hatcheries, named after the minister’s wife. The complaint said that about 100 acres belonging to the poor SC, ST and backward caste farmers were grabbed and that sheds were built for setting up Jamuna Hatcheries without any permissions. A swift probe by the Medak collector has reported that 66 acres of government-assigned lands were encroached upon. The visible haste with which the probe was carried and a 42-page report submitted within 24 hours of the inquiry order has even surprised the Telangana High Court, which heard the Eatala family’s petition challenging the land inspections without serving notices. The court wondered if the collector surveyed the lands, sitting in his car and if the government had extended a similar quick response to other such complaints. In any case, the minister’s banishment based on land-grabbing charges corroborates with the various allegations of rampant land-grabbing and other forms of corruption by ruling party leaders. Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay and Congress MP Revanth Reddy have demanded that KCR take action against other TRS ministers and legislators facing similar accusations. However, analysts say that Eatala’s fate did not have much to do with the land-grabbing allegations and point at the soured relations between the CM and the former minister. Responding to the developments, Eatala himself said that the allegations and actions are part of a well-planned conspiracy against him. “This is preconceived action, rather than one based on a complaint or proper investigation. I am a man of self-respect and the public is enraged over my character assassination like this. A price has to be paid in the future...” Eatala said. A leader from the backward and numerically significant Mudiraj community, Eatala in his youth had represented leftist ideology. Almost since the Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s inauguration in 2001, Eatala has been with KCR, becoming his trusted lieutenant. But differences between them were evident since the last few years, and there were doubts about Eatala’s inclusion in KCR’s second-term cabinet after the December 2018 elections. Though Eatala was eventually allotted a berth, he was allocated health instead of the finance portfolio he had held before, which was seen as a demotion. Eatala’s earlier reported remarks that “no one owns the TRS party” and that “the minister post was not any alms”, had created a furore in the party, where no one comments on the leadership. Now, by dropping Eatala, analysts say KCR has finally decided to completely sideline him. “Just that I could not adjust with your highhandedness, you are using the system to target me. From brother, I have become a bogey for you,” said Eatala in remarks aimed at KCR, announcing that he would decide on his course of action after deliberations in his Huzurabad assembly constituency. Eatala also denied charges that he was involved in anti-party activities or was mulling forming a new party. Eatala is now gathering support, meeting with Congress and BJP leaders and, notably, former TRS legislators such as Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, who had parted ways with KCR. Though no TRS leader has come out in his support till now, political observers say that Eatala’s ouster substantiates talk of a strife brewing in the TRS and could encourage a few more ministers and leaders to exit “the KCR family-ruled party” sooner or later. “I might be alone today, but Telangana people will stand with me,” Eatala said while expressing his readiness to resign as TRS MLA, adding further that “no minister or legislator feels respected in the party.” The TRS leadership is watchful of Eatala’s moves and has reportedly deployed leaders to ensure that party cadres are not influenced by him, especially in Huzurabad, where by-polls look imminent. Interestingly, Eatala is the second health minister in Telangana to be shunted out by KCR. Dr T Rajaiah, who was the deputy chief minister with health portfolio in the first TRS term, was sacked in January 2015 following adverse reports about his functioning, allegations of corruption and inept handling of the swine flu situation in the state that had then claimed 22 lives. Dr Laxma Reddy, who was given health after Rajaiah’s exit, was denied a ministerial berth in KCR’s second term. Political observers and opposition parties are presenting the Eatala episode “as yet another example of mistreatment of colleagues who fall out of favour with KCR.” Meanwhile, KCR has kept the ‘jinxed’ health portfolio with himself, delegating the daily monitoring of the Covid-19 situation to top officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-telangana-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao-fired-his-health-minister-985295.html
13-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Feathered friends of Nagarahole||“What do you think is the difference between birding and bird-watching?” asked our young naturalist guide at the opening session of our birding workshop. “Well…,” he added with a broad smile, “Bird watching happens on Brigade Road, and serious birding happens in the natural habitats of the winged variety!” Just a day into the workshop, aptly named Baanaadi, and this bunch of enthusiastic young naturalists had already pepped up our excitement and the things to come in the next couple of days. Sitting in the heart of the Nagarahole jungle amid these keen birders, absorbing the sheer amount of natural history surrounding birds felt a tad overwhelming at first. However, the more time we spent with them, the more we learned about observing the nuances. We began to connect with these marvellous creations that can hide in plain sight and soon we were drawn into the chirpy world of birding. Walking along the narrow path leading to the lake, we noticed birdlife in almost every patch of scrub and every piece of wood. Where a novice would probably spot just an egret or a heron in that mass of vegetation and marsh, we were pointed to plovers, shrikes, ibises, storks, whistling ducks and several other species of water birds, all surprisingly in plain view. The added thrill of watching them at such close quarters through powerful field binoculars felt like sitting right inside the birds’ homes incognito! At daybreak, the otherwise quiet and brooding Nagarahole jungle transformed into a thriving, screeching bird haven. The delight in listening to spectacular birdcalls from almost everywhere could only match the group's enthusiasm in identifying those birds from our field guides. Impromptu pitstops to understand hornbill mating behaviour from our naturalist or to examine a fallen feather or peer into giant spider webs added to the sheer variety and charm of our field trips. To glimpse into the world of birds in their surroundings can be therapeutic, meditative and, at times, deeply mystifying. Birding, we learnt, is an enjoyable route to building sensitivity, wellbeing and mindfulness into our daily lives. As much as it can offer the joys of communion with fellow birders, it also, without doubt, offers the pleasures of solitude in measures no less.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/feathered-friends-of-nagarahole-985287.html
13-05-2021||Second Edit||Key RBI steps to ease stress||The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) announcement of a number of measures to ease the financial stress in the economy and to support its most needy segments was timely. The economy showed signs of revival early this year after it was in dire straits through most of last year. But the second wave of the pandemic which is sweeping across the country may have put paid to the hopes of a steady revival. Estimates for the economy are being lowered and the need for supportive measures is increasing. However, the scope and available resources for support are shrinking, and that is why the RBI’s steps are important. The measures are designed to support the sectors which are most impacted by the pandemic, and there is a special focus on the health sector. Small borrowers in the informal sector, micro enterprises and self-employed persons  who are likely to be badly hit by the localised lockdowns will also be benefited by the measures.   An on-tap liquidity window has been provided to the banks which can borrow Rs 50,000 crore at the repo rate for lending to the healthcare sector. This will benefit vaccine manufacturers, suppliers of medical devices, oxygen and ventilators and hospitals, among others. These loans will also be classified as priority sector lending. Credit to small businesses and retail borrowers will be incentivised. Banks will be offered 40 basis points higher than the reverse repo rate for surplus liquidity up to the size of the Covid book. This will help increase funding for the health sector at a lower cost. There are quite a few other measures which together form an aid and incentivisation package covering most players in the financial sector and beneficiaries in various  sectors. The overdraft limits of state governments have also been eased, giving them greater access to funds to meet their higher expenditure needs. The number of days states can be in overdraft has been increased to give them greater room to manage their borrowings.  While the RBI has done well to take these measures, its assessment of the impact of the pandemic does not seem to be very realistic. It thinks that the decline in aggregate demand caused by the second wave is moderate. This may be based on the present situation, which many fear may worsen in the coming weeks. It may have to come up with more measures, much as it announced its rescue packages in tranches last year. The government has not  announced any measures of its own except the decision to provide some food grains to the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna for two months. It should do more than that before it is too late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/key-rbi-steps-to-ease-stress-985294.html
13-05-2021||Second Edit||Gouri Amma, a rare role model||K R Gouri Amma, the Kerala politician who passed away on Tuesday at the age of 102, was the rare role model for women who aspire for public life and to make a mark in it. But it is wrong to use the standards which are usually used to judge woman politicians in evaluating the contributions she made to social and political life and to administration and government in Kerala. She was a match for the best male politicians and outshone many of them, though it would be rightly felt that she did not get her full due in public life. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), which projected her as the chief ministerial candidate in the 1987 state assembly campaign, did not keep its promise after the election and thus missed a historic opportunity to have a woman at the helm of its government.  Gouri Amma was a legislator for 46 years, minister for 16 years and was one of the Communist party’s most popular faces during most part of her life. She had to fight many disadvantages and prejudices from the early part of her life. It was difficult for a woman from a backward caste to acquire education and to choose a professional, much less political, life. She was the first woman lawyer from her community and was attracted to Communism which fired the imagination of many in the state in the 1940s. Her home district, Alappuzha, had also seen some of the uprisings launched by the Communist party. She had to suffer custodial torture and violence during the period.  After being elected to the state assembly in 1957, she became the revenue minister and piloted the land reforms bill which dealt a blow to the feudal tenancy laws and land relations in the state. She may be considered the pioneer of land reforms in the country. As a minister in the party's government in 1990, she also facilitated the setting up of the country’s first technology park in Thiruvananthapuram.  Though she was married to a prominent Communist leader, T V Thomas, the marital relations came under strain when she opted for the CPM and her husband remained in the CPI after the party split in 1964. Her relations with the CPM also hit the rocks in 1994 and she was expelled from the party. She formed her own political party and worked with the Congress-led UDF but in later years moved away from the UDF too. Women politicians have to fight and strive much more than men, and even then, the best is not often enough to take them to the top spot. Gouri Amma showed what a woman politician could achieve and what she could not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/gouri-amma-a-rare-role-model-985645.html
13-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis: Higher fatalities among women, youth in Tamil Nadu during second wave||In Tamil Nadu, the fatality rate among women in the second wave of Covid-19 has increased to 33.5 per cent, from 27 per cent in the first wave. However, there has been no change in the distribution of cases by gender in the second wave, with women and men accounting for 40 per cent and 60 per cent, respectively. The percentage of women testing positive for Covid-19 in both waves have remained the same, but the death rate has increased drastically in the second wave. The elderly above 60 years of age have reported a decline in the number of deaths, from 61 per cent to 56.3 per cent. The positive cases in this age group have gone up to 14.4 per cent in the second wave from 13.2 per cent in the first one. Like most of the country, there has been a steep increase in the number of deaths reported daily by Tamil Nadu. The state has reported 1,200 deaths in the past week. Between July and September last year, 7,200 deaths were reported in total across 12 weeks. The fatality rate is now at 1.03 per cent as compared to 1.62 per cent between July and September 2020 — the peak period in the first wave. “People are not staying indoors and, therefore, there is more exposure for people of all age groups, including children, leading to more infections,” V Ramasubramanian, senior consultant, infectious diseases, Apollo Hospitals, told the publication. Those in the age group of 21-60 years have shown a sharp increase from 38.7 per cent to 43.6 per cent in positive cases. The youth between the age group of 21-40 years has an increased fatality rate of 6.9 per cent from 4.9 per cent in the first wave. V. Ramasubramanian said a major reason for the youth getting more infected as compared to last year is due to negligence and the perception that this disease only affects the elderly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-higher-fatalities-among-women-youth-in-tamil-nadu-during-second-wave-985357.html
13-05-2021||South||Boiler blast kills four in Tamil Nadu chemical factory||Four workers including a woman were killed and 10 injured on Thursday due to release of Ammonia after a boiler exploded in a chemcial plant in Cuddalore, the government said. Chief Minister M K Stalin ordered a solatium of Rs 3 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. He has also directed an assistance of Rs one lakh to each of the injured. "Ammonia gas got released following boiler explosion," a government release said adding it led to the death of four people and 10 were injured. At the time of mishap, police said workers were engaged in their usual work this morning at the plant that produces chemical active ingredients and intermediates for crop protection. The explosion led to diffusion of gas in the plant premises leading to asphyxiation of three men and a woman and the mishap caused injuries to 10 others, they said. "They did not sustain burn injuries. Death was due to asphyxiation (due to gas release)," Cuddalore District Police Superintendent, Sree Abhinav told reporters. A case is registered and a probe is on. Labour Minister C V Ganesan said an enquiry would be ordered into the mishap. The injured were rushed to the Cuddalore Government Hospital and were being treated. The Minister visited the health facility and interacted with them and he said an enquiry would be ordered into the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/boiler-blast-kills-four-in-tamil-nadu-chemical-factory-985429.html
13-05-2021||South||Covid-19 claiming lives of more middle-aged persons in Kerala||As the daily Covid-19 deaths in Kerala continues to escalate, more middle-aged people are succumbing to the virus. This has triggered a major concern as many families in the state have lost the breadwinners to Covid-19. Kerala witnessed the highest daily Covid-19 deaths of 95 on Wednesday, taking the total deaths to 6,053. While the average death of those below the age of 60 was 25 per cent all these while, on Wednesday, it crossed 27 per cent. The average death of persons below the age of 60 was 24 per cent in December 2020. Health experts cite that comorbidities and changes in the variants of the virus are the major reasons why more youngsters were now succumbing to Covid-19. Most of those below the age of 60 who succumbed to Covid-19 were found to be suffering from some or the other ailments.  Kerala Health Department Nodal officer Dr Amar Fettle said that the virus was undergoing mutation and traces of new variants were being spotted. Hence, even those who got vaccinated were being urged to follow the Covid-19 protocol. A large section of middle-aged persons, who were so far not much serious about social distancing norms as well as getting vaccinated, were now eagerly awaiting for their turn to get vaccinated, a Health Department official said. The state could however heave a sigh of relief that the death rate in the state is still comparatively low at 0.3 per cent. Of the 6,053 Covid-19 deaths reported in Kerala till Wednesday, 4,541 were 60 plus. Among 1,512 were below the age of 60, while 1,277 were in the 41-59 age group. Meanwhile, a youth succumbed to Covid-19 at Thrissur district in Kerala soon after posting a video complaining about the lack of adequate medical care. Nakulam, a native of Vadanapally in Thrissur, died at Thrissur Medical College hospital on Tuesday. Soon after his death, a video of Nakulam complaining of lack of proper care went viral on social media. Nakulam himself was believed to have posted the video just before his death. He was undergoing treatment for kidney ailments over the last ten years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-claiming-lives-of-more-middle-aged-persons-in-kerala-985564.html
13-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu resolves to intensify lockdown rules||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin chaired a meeting on Thursday with political parties that have representation in the state and resolved to “intensify” the 14-day lockdown. Health Minister Ma Subramanian said a decision was taken to form a committee comprising MLAs from all parties to suggest ideas to control Covid-19. The meeting also decided to intensify the lockdown that is in force till May 24. The meeting attended by representatives from DMK, AIADMK, Congress, BJP, VCK, and Left parties passed five resolutions including banning all political meetings and extending cooperation to the government in enforcing the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-resolves-to-intensify-lockdown-rules-985581.html
13-05-2021||South||Sterlite Copper dispatches 5 tonnes of oxygen from Thoothukudi plant||Two weeks after the Supreme Court order, Vedanta on Thursday dispatched 4.8 tonnes of liquid oxygen for Covid-19 patients from its oxygen plants inside the Sterlite Copper factory in Thoothukudi. The first tanker with medical-grade oxygen left the premises at 7.10 am to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, around 50 km from Thoothukudi. “We have released around 5 tonnes of liquid oxygen produced at Sterlite factory here today. The first consignment has been sent to Tirunelveli with adequate police protection. The plant will produce 5 tonnes every day for a few days after which the quantity will be increased,” Thoothukudi district collector K Senthil Raj said. Resumption of oxygen production at Sterlite Copper will come as a good news to hospitals in the southern districts which are facing shortage of oxygen to be given to Covid-19 patients. Vedanta was allowed access to the plant, which was shut down in 2018, last week after which the process to produce oxygen began. Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper had told the Supreme Court that it has the capacity to produce 1,000 tonnes of oxygen a day. The Tamil Nadu government convened an all-party meeting in which it was decided to allow Sterlite Copper to reopen its plant and produce oxygen for four months. The company said it will be dispatching two oxygen tankers on a daily basis to begin with, and gradually scale this up as its expands production. “The oxygen supplied is of 98.6 % purity and has received the necessary medical-grade certifications. We are now working with experts to resolve the logistics involved in transporting the oxygen produced in our facility to required parts of India, and are coordinating with the authorized nodal agencies in this regard,” the company said in a statement. Sterlite Copper's oxygen plant was reactivated at the earliest through the collaborative efforts of our suppliers and partners, the company's CEO Pankaj Kumar said. Sterlite Copper was closed down by the Tamil Nadu government in 2018 following months of protests by locals and activists which was overturned by the National Green Tribunal the same year. The state government approached the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the NGT order. The apex court stayed the order of the NGT and allowed Sterlite Copper to approach the Madras High Court, which upheld the government order. The case is now in the Supreme Court with Sterlite Copper challenging the Madras High Court verdict. The company's plea to access the plant for maintenance purposes has not been entertained by the court so far.'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sterlite-copper-dispatches-5-tonnes-of-oxygen-from-thoothukudi-plant-985588.html
13-05-2021||South||Ambulances with patients wait outside Chennai hospitals||R Babu, 36, arrived at one of the designated Covid-19 hospitals run by the Tamil Nadu government in Chennai in an ambulance at 3 am on Thursday with his father who tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Seven hours later, at 11 am, Babu was still waiting for authorities at the Government Omandurar Covid Hospital to allot a bed for his father. The 36-year-old, who was tending to his father, was not lucky enough to get an oxygen bed at a make-shift camp set up by CREDAI at the Omandurar Hospital. “I was given Out Patient slip and I was told to wait. It has been over seven hours and I still don't know how long I have to wait. Meanwhile, my father is on oxygen support in the ambulance,” he told DH. Babu was not alone. At least 10 ambulances with Covid-19 patients were parked at various locations in the hospital premises. This is the case not just in the aforementioned hospital but across all medical facilities in the state capital as the medical infrastructure is under severe stress due to rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. Dozens of ambulances wait outside the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) and Stanley Medical College Hospital (SMCH) with patients inside the vehicles. Sitting next to her husband who is on oxygen support at the waiting hall at SMCH, 42-year-old Pushpa said it took over eight hours for her to get her husband to the hospital premises from the ambulance that brought them from a suburb. “We are being called one by one. Since my husband's oxygen levels are low, he has been put on oxygen support. I don't know how long we have to wait for him to get a bed in the hospital. Hopefully, he is given a bed in few hours,” she said. Though the government had augmented beds during the first wave of Covid-19 and is still adding them in hundreds, the waiting time for a bed at government hospitals that did well in the past one year is increasing each passing hour. ICU beds in both private and government hospitals in Chennai, and Coimbatore, are full, while the vacant oxygen beds are almost nil. The situation is no better in other cities like Salem, Madurai, and Tirunelveli where hospitals are overflowing. “Every hospital in Chennai is overflowing, and their parking areas are flooded with ambulance vans. The government should augment more beds at existing hospitals, and create more such facilities at colleges and other places were they have enough space. Moreover, the government should focus on primary health care centres where people are screened initially,” Venkatesh, a volunteer involved in Covid-19 efforts, told DH. Officials said the government was working to reduce the waiting time by augmenting beds in almost all facilities run by it. They said private hospitals have also been asked to increase the number of Covid-19 beds. The new DMK government which assumed office on May 7 has announced it will add 12,500 oxygen beds in the next few days, while deciding to float a global tender for procuring vaccines for those between 18-44 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ambulances-with-patients-wait-outside-chennai-hospitals-985589.html
13-05-2021||South||IMD issues red alert in eight districts in Kerala||The Indian Meteorological Department has sounded a red alert at eight districts in Kerala for Friday and Saturday in view of a low pressure formation over the Arabian sea which may develop into a cyclone. Coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha witnessed rough seas on Thursday and many families were shifted to relief camps. Many parts of the state also received heavy rains over the last two days. Red alert was sounded at South Kerala districts Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta on Friday and at North Kerala districts Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasargod on Saturday. Fishing activities along the Kerala coast has been banned. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that all disaster management agencies have been kept ready. He urged the people to adhere to the advisories of the authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/imd-issues-red-alert-in-eight-districts-in-kerala-985591.html
13-05-2021||South||Centre increases Oxygen allocation to Kerala following state's repeated pleas||The Centre has increased the oxygen allocation to Kerala by 135 MT considering the state's repeated pleas. According to a communication from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to the Kerala government, the total allocation to the state will be increased from 223 MT to 358 MT. A one time allocation of 100 MT from SAIL was also sanctioned. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday stating that present oxygen stock in Kerala was not enough to meet even demand for 24 hours. He urged that oxygen allocation to the state should be increased by 450 MT and 300 MT medical oxygen should be supplied immediately especially since a rough weather alert was also prevailing in the state. Kerala's oxygen demand for Covid care is projected to reach 450 MT by next week. Kerala revenue minister E Chandrasekharan, who is an MLA from Kasargod, said that the cut in supply from Mangaluru had led to oxygen scarcity in Kasargod. The district was now depending on oxygen from other parts of Kerala. Over 150 oxygen cylinder were pooled through an oxygen cylinder challenge initiated by the district administration. Meanwhile, 39,955 more fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Thursday taking the total active cases to 4.38 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-increases-oxygen-allocation-to-kerala-following-states-repeated-pleas-985592.html
13-05-2021||South||Covid-19 cases plateau in Telangana but decline in tests raise eyebrows||The Covid-19 case numbers handed out daily by the state's Health Department infer that Telangana is insulated from the second wave's severity. The new positive cases have not crossed the 5000 mark in the last few days in Telangana, a time period when its neighbours - Maharashtra and Karnataka - have been reporting a near 10-fold figure. Even its Telugu twin, Andhra Pradesh, is recording over 20,000 new cases daily. The active cases in Telangana stood at 56,917 as of Thursday, compared to Andhra Pradesh's 2.01 lakh. The K Chandrasekhar Rao government has also claimed that Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan “has expressed satisfaction over the decrease in the coronavirus intensity in Telangana.” However, skeptical about the Covid-19 extent as revealed from the low testing in the state, public health experts are advocating the necessity to keep monitoring the virus spread with ramped-up testing and surveillance. Telangana's low testing has been a concern since last year and the TRS administration was reprimanded several times by the Telangana High Court on this aspect. Though the Health Department has augmented the testing capacity to up to 1.3 lakh samples in April, it has dropped to nearly half lately. While a record high 8,126 cases were reported on April 24, when 1.08 lakh samples were tested, the new positives were 4,693 only out of 71,221 samples examined on Thursday. “Since Covid-19 information is in the government domain, it is difficult to verify the claims in the absence of raw data,” Dr GVS Murthy, director of Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad told DH. The theory put forward by the KCR government to explain the rush at the hospitals, high demand for oxygen, Remdesivir, medicines, and the overall variance in the reported and on-ground Covid-19 case numbers is “Hyderabad becoming a health hub.” “People from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Maharashtra who had tested positive in their respective states are coming to Hyderabad for treatment. They have outnumbered our Telangana patients, which explains the mad rush at hospitals and case numbers discrepancy,” Telangana Finance Minister Harish Rao said. Harish was deputed by CM Rao for the virtual review with Vardhan on Wednesday, in place of Eatala Rajender, who was dropped from the Cabinet amidst the pandemic on land-grabbing charges. Stating that the patients' exodus has become “an unbearable burden,” Harish urged the Centre to enhance the oxygen quota from 450 to 600 MT and Remdesivir to 20,000 vials daily. Telangana also wants two lakh Covid-19 testing kits per day. The TRS government is claiming “curtailment measures” like night curfew and oxygen bed augmentation from 9,213 to 20,738, ICU beds from 3,264 to 11,274 since the first wave as the reasons for the lower Covid-19 cases and deaths. “An advantage Telangana had this time, is the far less number of people migrating back from states like Maharashtra, while outward migration was reported. Qualitative observations show that the pressure on hospitals has eased somewhat in the past one week in the state,” says Dr Murthy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-plateau-in-telangana-but-decline-in-tests-raise-eyebrows-985604.html
13-05-2021||South||Covid-19: EC postpones council polls in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||The Election Commission on Thursday decided to postpone the biennial poll to fill nine vacancies in the legislative councils of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The terms of office of three members of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council and six members of Telangana Legislative Council will end on May 31 and June 3 respectively. As per the provisions of Section 16 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the seats of State Legislative Council, which are going to fall vacant are required to be filled up by holding biennial elections before the expiration of the term of sitting members. The EC on Thursday decided that due to the second wave of the Covid-19 in the country, it would not be appropriate to hold these elections till the pandemic situation significantly improves and conditions become conducive for polls, a spokesperson of the commission stated. The poll panel stated that it would take a decision on holding the elections at an appropriate time in the future after taking inputs from the concerned states and assessing the pandemic situation from mandated authorities like National Disaster Management Authority and the State Disaster Management Authorities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-ec-postpones-council-polls-in-telangana-andhra-pradesh-985618.html
13-05-2021||South||TTD to set up German hangers for Covid-19 patients care||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has planned to build 22 German hangers in various districts of Andhra Pradesh to shelter the Covid-19 positive patients needing oxygen support. The sheds, based on German technology, would be built at a cost of Rs 3.52 crore, at a time when the state is witnessing a surge in positive cases. Each shed would have a 30-bed capacity. Andhra Pradesh has over 2.01 lakh active cases, with 22,399 new cases reported on Thursday. The Tirupati temple board officials said that such a hanger was earlier successfully set up in the pilgrim city at Sri Padmavati Covid-19 hospital. Following requests for similar oxygen bed facilities, TTD Executive Officer Dr KS Jawahar Reddy on Thursday sanctioned the amount from the SV Sarva Shreya Nidhi. Four sheds would come up in Visakhapatnam district, three each in Anantapur, Guntur, Kakinada, and Krishna, two each in Prakasam and Kurnool. Two more sheds would be in other locations. Respective district collectors will be provided the required funds as per the cost estimates made by the TTD for each shed. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister Office has said that the Andhra Pradesh government is also planning to erect the German sheds outside the Covid-19 hospitals to cater to the increasing cases. Darshan date modification Amid a surge in the pandemic and various restrictions on public movement, the TTD has allowed the devotees holding the online special Srivari Darshan tickets from April 21 to May 31 to change their visiting dates according to their convenience. The option is allowed once and for a date within December 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-to-set-up-german-hangers-for-covid-19-patients-care-985623.html
13-05-2021||State||Relax Ayushman Bharat norms for Covid-19 patients, H D Kumaraswamy tells Centre||The Centre should relax the norms of Ayushman Bharat scheme to allow Covid-19 patients to benefit from it, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said Wednesday. There were several shortcomings under the scheme that prevented Covid-19 victims from receiving free treatment at private hospitals. Though BPL families can avail free treatment for up to Rs five lakh for serious diseases, APL families will receive 30 per cent discount in medical expenses of up to Rs 5 lakh under the scheme, he said. “If beneficiaries of the Ayushman Bharat are not given free treatment for Covid-19, what is the use of the scheme?” Kumaraswamy said, demanding the Union government to relax norms under the scheme to help patients affected by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/relax-ayushman-bharat-norms-for-covid-19-patients-h-d-kumaraswamy-tells-centre-985273.html
13-05-2021||State||Now, Karnataka government to help set up mobile meat stalls||Amid the pandemic, there is some good news for people who depend on sheep for a livelihood.  The government has decided to implement a scheme in which mobile meat stalls will be provided to the sheep and wool producers’ cooperative societies. These mobile stalls can be used by vendors to sell meat and other related products.   The scheme will be implemented through the Karnataka Sheep & Wool Development Corporation Ltd under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana – Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sectors Rejuvenation (RKVY-RAFTAAR) scheme.  According to the Animal Husbandry department, 200 fully-equipped mobile meat stalls will be provided, one for every sheep and wool producers’ cooperative society that will be selected based on an eligibility criteria.  Each stall will cost Rs 11 lakh, of which the government will pay Rs 5.5 lakh and the other Rs 5.5 lakh will have to be borrowed as a loan from any financial institution. The stall will come with cooking-range stainless steel, four brass burners with separate grill and over chambers operating on gas, a thermostatically-controlled vitreous enamelled over chamber, spring-loaded tempered glass for safety, a deep freezer, meat mixer and so on.  In the wake of the lockdown last year, the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) had partnered with the Karnataka Sheep & Wool Development Corporation to introduce mobile meat shops, calling it ‘Meat on Wheels’.  In 2019, the ICAR-National Research Centre on Meat in Hyderabad inked a memorandum of understanding with the Corporation for the implementation of the mobile meat stall scheme for SC/ST beneficiaries.  The scheme is now open for beneficiaries across social and caste groups.  Recently, the State Level Bankers’ Committee took stock of the scheme. Officials say 116 applications have been received along with sanction letters by the financial institutions.  Officials hope that the current Covid-induced lockdown will not come in the way as the government has allowed pushcarts to operate between 6 am and 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-karnataka-government-to-help-set-up-mobile-meat-stalls-985286.html
13-05-2021||State||Covid-19 vaccine from IISc better than others, claims K Sudhakar||The Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) is promising as the results show a better neutralising effect than the existing vaccines, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Thursday. The Minister held discussions with IISc Director professor Govindan Rangarajan and sought the institute's support in battling the pandemic, an official press release said. During the interaction, the Director apprised the Minister of various researches being carried out at IISc, including designing a more efficient oxygen concentrator and also a vaccine for Covid-19 which can be stored at room temperature of upto 30 degrees Celsius. Professor Rangarajan told the Minister the vaccine being developed by IISc is promising as the results show a better neutralising effect than the existing vaccines, the release said. This vaccine, which is yet to begin human trials, could be a big breakthrough in the nation's battle against the pandemic, it said, adding that from a public health point of view this is a huge advantage as it enables the government scale up distribution of vaccine faster and easier. IISc has also developed an oxygen concentrator of 10 LPM (litre per minute) capacity which is being tested for its clinical validation at Bangalore Medical College. Professor Rangarajan said the oxygen output is about 90 per cent and hence more efficient than the Chinese concentrators the output of which is about 40-50 per cent. The Director sought the Minister's support to expedite clinical validation and also in obtaining regulatory approval from Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(CDSCO) for the IISc vaccine, the release said. Sudhakar assured him of support and said he would take the matter up immediately with Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) Vice-Chancellor and the Union Ministers concerned. The Minister sought IISc's help in developing an audit mechanism and finding ways for optimal utilisation of oxygen and minimise wastage at both refilling/bottling units and at hospitals. To this, professor Rangarajan said all technical and engineering support would be extended to the institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccine-from-iisc-better-than-others-claims-k-sudhakar-985492.html
13-05-2021||State||Chamarajanagar tragedy: Panel report cites tampering with records||With the three-member committee finding suspected tampering with the records in connection with the Chamarajanagar hospital tragedy in which 24 patients died due to lack of oxygen, the High Court on Thursday directed that the records will continue to be in the custody of the Chief Secretary. The committee of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), headed by retired judge of the High Court Justice A N Venugopala Gowda, in its report pointed out incidents of possible tampering with the records. One of the incidents of tampering with the record was noticed by the committee during the examination of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) register. The liquid oxygen tank with a capacity of 6 kilolitres was installed at the hospital premises some time ago. However, the first filling of LMO had taken place only on April 29, 2021. The report stated that on May 1, this LMO tank was filled for the second time after being commissioned on April 29, but was exhausted in less than 30 hours. Though 40 jumbo cylinders were made available by district hospital, Mysuru, the cylinders reached Chamarajanagar only at 6 am on May 3. “The examination of LMO register maintained from 29.04.2021 and two oxygen consumption registers maintained by the Bio-Medical Engineer, prima facie reveals that there has been manipulation by tampering of the registers. In the LMO register page No. 3 and 4 are missing,” the report said. The committee has also recommended that the hard discs of CCTVs/DVR be retained in the safe custody of the chief secretary. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said that the direction to the chief secretary, issued last week to seize all records and to keep them in his custody, will continue to operate. The bench clarified that the commission of inquiry, constituted by the state government, can get access to the documents.  The committee report had also observed discrepancies in the preparation of the case sheets of the deceased. The entries in the case sheets, 28 made by one particular doctor and one case sheet by another doctor, appeared to have been made in one go, the report said. Some factual details were not entered in the case sheets with reference to even the time and date of death, while a number of printed forms were blank, without the particulars of the patient but contained only the signature of the Medical Officer, the report said. Compensation Meanwhile, the court reminded the government that as per the decisions of the Supreme Court, the families of the deceased will have to be compensated since it was due to the negligence of the state and its agency ofinstrumentality. The court put the government on notice that it can order compensation for violation of fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution in case the state fails to award compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chamarajanagar-tragedy-panel-report-cites-tampering-with-records-985559.html
13-05-2021||State||Covid vaccine second dose: Centre assures HC to bridge supply gap||The union government on Thursday assured the High Court that it will make every endeavour to bridge the gap for administering the second dose of vaccine in the state. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar directed the central government to place on record the decision taken regarding allocation of quota of vaccine. During the hearing, the court asked the state and the union governments how they intend to bridge the huge supply gap of second dose of the vaccine, which is already overdue. Representing the Centre from Delhi, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati brought to the notice of the court three communications sent to all the states and union territories, dated April 16, April 29 and May 6.  She submitted that in these letters, the union government had asked the state governments to prioritise the administration of second dose. The latest communication had asked the state governments to utilise the vaccines in the ratio of 70:30, in favour of the beneficiaries of the second dose. The court observed that it will be a national waste of first dose if people who are due to take second dose are made to take the first dose afresh. The bench noted that as per the figures submitted by the state government, even if the state receives more than 40 lakh doses in the second quarter of May, it will not be able to cater to the needs of all those who have already taken the first dose. The court said that for the time being, it will restrain from passing mandatory direction for release of vaccines to the state on the assurance given by the union government. The Centre submitted that a decision on the allocation of vaccines in the second fortnight of May will be taken on Friday (May 14). The bench directed the state government to immediately furnish the district-wise data of persons to whom the second dose is already overdue and also the data of people whose second dose will likely to be overdue in the near future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-vaccine-second-dose-centre-assures-hc-to-bridge-supply-gap-985584.html
13-05-2021||State||Karnataka reports 35,297 fresh Covid cases, 344 deaths||Karnataka reported 35,297 new cases of Covid-19 and 344 deaths on Thursday, taking the total number of infections to 20,88,488 and the toll to 20,712. The day also saw 34,057 patients getting discharged after recovery. Of the 35,297 fresh cases reported on Thursday, 15,191 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Sixteen districts have reported five or less fatalities due to Covid-19, Health Minister K Sudhakar tweeted. As on May 13, cumulatively 20,88,488 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 20,712 deaths and 14,74,678 discharges. Total number of active cases in the state stood at 5,93,078. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 27.64 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.97 per cent. Among 344 deaths reported on Thursday, 161 are from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru (15), Ballari and Uttara Kannada (14), Bengaluru Rural (13), Mandya and Tumakuru (11) and Hassan and Shivamogga (10). Ballari recorded 1,865 new cases, Tumakuru 1,798, Mysuru 1,260, and Mandya 1,153.  As per the Co-WIN dashboard, 1,12,02,904 have been vaccinated in Karnataka, so far, including 84,689 on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-35297-fresh-covid-cases-344-deaths-985587.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Schools, parents want SSLC exams put off, education department in no mood to budge||The department of public instruction has decided to go ahead with the schedule for the SSLC examinations, despite pressure from parents, school managements, and other stakeholders to postpone them.  Sources from the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) told DH, “it has been decided in the meeting on Wednesday to go ahead with the schedule.” “As of now, there will not be any change in the time-table,” said an official source. The examinations will be held between June 21 and July 5.  However, the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka has urged Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar to postpone the exams at least by a month or two. In a letter to the minister, the association said, “The SSLC examination dates have not been deferred despite the devastation caused by the second wave of Covid-19. Revision activities and other means of preparation for SSLC has suffered as most schools are facing shortage of working teachers and due to an increase in Covid positive cases and the fear factor. The school managements, teachers, parents and students are in confusion. Postponement for another month will help buy time for micro-planning and a successful exam.”  D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the association, told DH, “The students will always have a choice of taking the public exam a little later in the interest of safety. They should be permitted to take supplementary exam, considering it as fresh attempt on account of the extraordinary situation.” Even the parents have urged the government to postpone or even cancel the exams. “Children are under tremendous pressure as other boards have cancelled the exams. We request the government to consider this in the interest of students,” said Gayetri Kumar, a parent. “Our children are deprived of getting seats at good colleges as the students of other boards were promoted at school level by suspending board exams. This happened in 2020 too,” said another parent.  Department officials said there was a discussion to consider promoting students based on the previous assessments. But as the assessment was not done properly due to non-availability of offline classes, the suggestion was not considered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/schools-parents-want-sslc-exams-put-off-education-department-in-no-mood-to-budge-985261.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chamarajanagar tragedy due to lack of oxygen: Karnataka HC-appointed panel||The three-member committee appointed by the Karnataka High Court to probe the Chamarajanagar hospital tragedy stated in its report that all the 24 deaths on the intervening night of May 2-3 occurred due to lack of oxygen. The report stated that between 11 pm on May 2 and early hours on May 3, there was absolutely no oxygen at the district hospital, attached to Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS). The committee, headed by retired high court judge Justice A N Venugopala Gowda and comprising another retired judge of the high court K N Keshavanarayana and retired IPS officer S T Ramesh, has recommended that the families of the deceased be granted suitable compensation since deaths occurred due to gross negligence of the authorities. The report analysed the Death Audit, held by a committee consisting of district surgeon and four others, on the 24 persons who died on May 2 and 3. In this Death Audit Report, the hospital committee has concluded that only three persons died on account of lack of oxygen, while seven died on account of Hypoxic Brain Injury and 14 due to Covid–19. “However, the fact remains that all those persons were in-patients in the hospital and they were in need of oxygen during the crucial time when there was no oxygen stock available in the hospital. The entry in the case sheets ‘FiO2’ indicates that there was deprivation of oxygen to them also during that period which resulted in damage to the brain cells of a large number of them and for others damage to their vital organs which might have led to their deaths subsequently,” the report said. The report stated that it was the responsibility of the district administration and the hospital authorities. The authorities had to arrange for the refilling of the cylinders from plants at Mysuru and transported them back to the hospital. “Had the hospital administration been vigilant, it could have had enough stock of oxygen by timely refilling of cylinders since it has more than one supplier,” the report said. “With the bottling plant at a distance of about 70 km, not having sufficient storage of filled oxygen cylinders at Chamarajanagar is an act of callousness and has led to loss of dozens of precious lives,” the report said. The three-member committee has perused trunks of documents relating to the supply of oxygen and stated that a meeting was held by Chamarajanagar DC Dr M R Ravi on May 2. However, there is “not even a whisper about the shortage of oxygen stock at the hospital by any of the agencies at Mysuru with whom MoUs have been entered into”.   Clean chit to Mysuru DC The three-member committee came down heavily on the Chamarajanagar DC for not exhibiting dynamism and leadership qualities. The report stated that there was no reference to any alleged hindrance caused by Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri. “No material is forthcoming from the records in support of the allegation. Accordingly, it is evident that the Mysuru DC has not come in the way of refilling agencies at Mysuru from refilling the oxygen cylinders of any other districts including Chamarajanagar,” the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chamarajanagar-tragedy-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-karnataka-hc-appointed-panel-985264.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC asks State, BBMP to immediately take over IAF, Railway beds||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the state government and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to immediately take over the facilities offered by the South Western Railway (SWR) and the Indian Air Force (IAF) to treat Covid-19 patients. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the direction after observing that the authorities have not taken over the facilities even though it was offered on May 4, 2021. During the hearing, the government submitted that there are 45,754 oxygen-supported beds, 5,305 ICU beds and 4,109 beds with ventilators available across the state. This is against the requirement projected by the central government that stands at 66,333 oxygen-supported beds, 13,969 ICU beds and 8,382 ventilator beds. The bench directed the state government to immediately make use of the beds created by the SWR in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi. The court was informed by the BBMP that the availability of beds in Bengaluru city continues to be critical. The bench directed the BBMP to immediately take over the beds set up at Jalahalli, along with medical and paramedical staff. "We direct the chief commissioner BBMP to take immediate steps to take over the air force facility within 24 hours from now and ensure that the facility is made operational at the earliest," the court said. Observing that there was delay in making use of the facilities offered by SWR and IAF, the court asked both the state government and the BBMP to file an explanation for not taking over the facilities. The court also directed the government to place on record a detailed chart showing availability of beds and the estimated requirement of beds in each district. Meanwhile, the court directed the government to prepare and submit within two weeks a vision statement dealing with the state of preparedness for tackling a possible third wave of Covid-19. The court said it is high time that the state government started preparations, by projecting the requirement of beds, oxygen, drugs and medical personnel among other things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-asks-state-bbmp-to-immediately-take-over-iaf-railway-beds-985274.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 death toll crosses 20,000-mark||Karnataka’s death toll due to Covid-19 touched 20,368 with 517 fatalities on Wednesday, while 39,998 fresh cases took the infection count to 20,53,191. Bengaluru Urban district reported 16,286 infections and 275 fatalities, which is highest in the state. Tumakuru district registered 2,360 infections, followed by Ballari (1,823) Mysuru (1,773) and Hassan (1,572).  The department said 26 deaths took place in Shivamogga and 23 in Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-20000-mark-985280.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 640% increase in patients with double mutant virus in 15 days||The cases of the infectious double mutant variant B.1.617 have increased by 640 per cent in 15 days in Karnataka - from 20 on April 27 to 148 cases on May 12. This has been declared as a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation because of its increased transmissibility. The mutant is already present in 46 countries across the world. Currently, around 700 samples pending from Karnataka are waiting to be sequenced at NIMHANS, which is still waiting for reagents to come as there is a surge in global demand for them. “We have been asked to sequence 5 per cent Covid samples by INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Sequencing Consortia). Every week, the lab is sequencing 150 to 200 samples,” said Dr V Ravi, nodal officer for genetic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka. Some districts have received instructions from the Health department to send at least 30 samples per month for sequencing, with priority for international travellers, domestic travellers, and clusters. Top officials in the BBMP and the state health department did not respond to DH’s queries on the district-wise breakup of these 148 Covid patients with the mutant virus.  Chamarajanagar District Surveillance Officer Dr Nagaraju, said, “We have received guidelines from the state last week to send 15 samples each, on the 15th and the 30th of every month. The priority is for those with international travel history followed by interstate and inter-district travel history, especially those from Bengaluru.” Mysuru District Surveillance Officer Dr Shivaprasad also confirmed receiving such guidelines from the state. Shivamogga district epidemiologist Dr Irfan Ahmed told DH, “So far, we have sent samples of six international travellers for genetic sequencing and one of a primary contact. This was before January 8. After January 8, only one tested positive for South Africa strain. He recovered and was discharged. None of his contacts had the strain,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-640-increase-in-patients-with-double-mutant-virus-in-15-days-985282.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government mulls local production of Covid-19 vaccine||Karnataka is mulling over the possibility of having Covid-19 vaccine manufactured in a state-run facility in Bengaluru. The state government has sought details on equipment and manufacturing capabilities of the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals (IAHVB) in Hebbal, which currently produces vaccines for KFD (Monkey fever) and five other animal-related diseases. Estimates suggest that the facility can produce up to 30 crore vaccine doses per year. It fulfills the basic requirements for the production of Covishield and Sputnik vaccines. According to sources, the Covid-19 Task Force is pushing for this idea given the severe shortage of vaccine doses. The IAHVB has emerged as a potential candidate. IAHVB Director S M Byregowda confirmed that they had submitted details to the Task Force on their capabilities. “We can produce Covishield or Sputnik. But, we will need more information on manufacturing methodology or whether any specialised equipment is required,” he said. Though firms were unlikely to share the exact manufacturing process, government can also propose the manufacturers to set up a facility at IAHVB and produce vaccines, Byregowda said. The institute cannot produce Covaxin as it requires negative pressure labs with Bio Safety Level III, which they currently are not equipped with. According to a highly-placed source, the government is even considering reaching out to the Russian Embassy for local manufacturing of the Sputnik vaccine. IAHVB produces vaccines for PPR (a disease afflicting goats and sheep), rabies, sheep pox, swine fever and blue tongue disease. The only vaccine produced at the facility for humans is the one for KFD. Meanwhile, Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said that the Centre would provide financial support of Rs 65 crore for Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech’s production facility in Bengaluru. “The production capacity of Covaxin will be doubled by May-June 2021 and then increased nearly six to seven fold by July-Aug 2021,” Sudhakar said, adding that the unit was expected to produce nearly 10 crore doses by September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-mulls-local-production-of-covid-19-vaccine-985284.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Are Kannadigas orphans?' HD Kumaraswamy, Tejasvi Surya spar over oxygen supply to Karnataka for Covid crisis||Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy on Thursday charged that the Modi administration was “biased” against Karnataka on supplying oxygen, which led to an immediate counter-attack from the BJP that accused the JD(S) leader of citing “wrong” facts. “The Centre which is showing serious bias against Karnataka should understand clearly that it is functioning under a federal structure. Those running the government under federal structure should give equal priority to all the states,” Kumaraswamy said, wondering if Kannadigas had become “orphans” in the federal structure. The JD(S) leader asked the Centre to shun “arrogance that comes from the belief that it is most powerful” and take steps to fulfil Karnataka’s requirements. “Dear Kumaranna, before tweeting a long thread you should have got facts right. Total allocation to Karnataka is 1015 MT + 60 MT of special allocation. That’s totally 1075 MT. The 120 MT that you mention is from only the one Oxy Express train that came to Bengaluru on May 11th,” Surya said. According to Surya, the Modi administration ensured that all high-burden states got “equitable” attention. “Karnataka saw a massive jump of allocation from 300 MT on April 15 to 1015 MT allocation on May 11. As our cases increased, the Modi government immediately increased our oxygen allocation, too,” Surya pointed out. The BJP Yuva Morcha national president urged Kumaraswamy to delete his tweet. “It’s not right to misguide people of our state with wrong information during a pandemic.” BJP national general secretary CT Ravi also attacked Kumaraswamy. “As a responsible former CM, you need to consider facts and tweet," he tweeted. Later, the JD(S) retorted that Kumaraswamy’s tweet was based on statistics put out by the Press Information Bureau. “The Bangalore South MP has asked Kumaraswamy to delete the tweets of him questioning the discrimination against Kannadigas. If false tweets are to be deleted, then the MP should delete his Twitter account itself,” the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/are-kannadigas-orphans-hd-kumaraswamy-tejasvi-surya-spar-over-oxygen-supply-to-karnataka-for-covid-crisis-985392.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM, ministers to donate salary for Covid-19||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and 32 other ministers in his Cabinet will forego their salary for one year, which will be donated to the Covid-19 relief fund. The Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) has issued this order based on Yediyurappa’s direction. The donation is with effect from May 1. The salary money will be used for relief measures and other efforts to combat the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has wreaked havoc. Last year, too, Yediyurappa donated a year’s salary towards containment and management of Covid-19. His monthly salary is Rs 50,000. All emoluments drawn by a chief minister are the same for Cabinet-rank ministers, according to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Besides salary, the CM and Cabinet ministers get a sumptuary allowance of Rs 3 lakh, house rent of Rs 1 lakh, fuel allowance for up to 1,000 litres, conveyance allowance of Rs 30 per km, Rs 10 lakh for purchase of furniture, vehicle facility with a limit of Rs 21 lakh, free telephone connection at home and office, daily tour and dearness allowance of Rs 2,000 within the state and Rs 2,500 for outside among other things. Yediyurappa is under pressure to announce a special economic package to help those who have lost livelihoods because of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-ministers-to-donate-salary-for-covid-19-985408.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Announce financial package for those affected by Covid-19 lockdown: Congress to Karnataka govt||Karnataka Congress on Thursday urged the state government to announce a financial package and come to the rescue of those, whose livelihood is affected by the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The principal opposition party in the state, also demanded that the Centre should completely bear the expenses of the vaccination and the state government has to put pressure in this regard. "Our demand is that Rs 10,000 should be given to every family (BPL), fertiliser price should be reduced, compensation should be paid to vegetable and flower growers who have incurred losses. Financial package should be given to those artisans and others who are affected by the lockdown," state Congress president D K Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, a financial package has to be given, bankers meeting should be called and interests should be waived. "If not, suicides will increase and they (government) will be responsible for it...hospital bills have to be waived," he added. Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Karnataka government has imposed a complete lockdown in the state from May 10 to May 24. Shivakumar urged the state government to put pressure on the centre to bear the cost of the vaccines and administer it to people free of cost. "Why should the state's money be spent on it? State should spend on what it has to do. The Central government should bear the entire cost of the vaccine, this is the policy world wide," he said. Citing polio vaccination as an example, he said "the centre has to take the responsibility of vaccination and not the state... I don't know why they are pushing it on the state. None of these people (in the state govt) have the courage to speak. Twenty-five BJP MPs are there from the state, god save them, are they raising their voice for the sake of people?" Hitting out at the state government for its handling of the vaccination drive, the KPCC chief said, the state government has completely failed at all levels. "They are unable to run things, there is complete lack of planning...," he added. Karnataka on Wednesday had decided to temporarily suspend vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group from May 14 till further orders, and to utilise the complete supply of vaccines provided by the centre for vaccination of persons above 45 years of age and for vaccinating beneficiaries who were due for a second dose. Shivakumar said the state government should take up the moral responsibility for the Chamarajanagar hospital tragedy, pointing out that the three-member committee appointed by the Karnataka High Court to probe the incident has stated in its report that all the 24 deaths on the intervening night of May 2-3 occurred due to lack of oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/announce-financial-package-for-those-affected-by-covid-19-lockdown-congress-to-karnataka-govt-985420.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka postpones SSLC board exams due to Covid-19||The Karnataka government has postponed the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) 10th standard examination that was scheduled to begin on June 21. Considering the spike in Covid 19 cases and severity of the second wave across the state, the department of public instruction has decided to postpone the exams and the revised dates will be announced ahead of the schedule, according to an official release by the state primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-postpones-sslc-board-exams-due-to-covid-19-985456.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre mulling waiver of Covaxin patent rights: Sadananda Gowda||A proposal to suspend intellectual property (IP) protection under the Patents Act for Covaxin, the home-made Covid-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech, is under "serious consideration", Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said Thursday. Gowda, the minister for chemicals and fertilizers, said a committee had been set up to look at the patent waiver for Covaxin after the United States recently backed a move to suspend IP rights for Covid-19 vaccines and other key medicines. The waiver will allow other companies to manufacture the vaccine without mandatory licensing from the firm that holds the patent. "This is under very serious consideration at the Central government level. A committee with representatives from Niti Aayog, Indian Council of Medical Research, and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is discussing the proposal," Gowda said. Gowda said that the discussion to waive protection under Patent Act for Covaxin started after the government realised that the supply of vaccines was not adequate, especially after the inoculation drive opened for people in the 18-44 age group. Despite the possible waiver of patent rights, it would take a few months to ramp up vaccine production as it cannot be done overnight. "The government is also mulling the use all available facilities to produce vaccines," Gowda said, adding that ensuring the quality of vaccines and securing patent protection waiver were the challenges. "The government cannot set up facilities overnight. Apart from the technology required to manufacture, availability of raw materials is also an issue," he said. Global tenders To a question on many states deciding to float global tenders to procure vaccines, Gowda said that only two states - Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra - had put this in motion. "Karnataka has not floated a tender, but has submitted a request to the Centre for the same," he said. Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have "gone a step forward", Gowda said, adding that commenting on the decision taken by the two non-BJP-ruled states would create political confusion. "Therefore, we have to take these decisions lightly and view them in a legal manner. We have no intention to politicize the issue like other parties," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-mulling-waiver-of-covaxin-patent-rights-sadananda-gowda-985473.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Celebrated sculptor and Rajyotsava awardee Kanaka Murthy succumbs to Covid-19||Renowned sculptor Kanaka Murthy died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru, her family sources said on Thursday. Kanaka Murthy, 79, had developed Covid-19 symptoms a few days ago and was under home quarantine. However, her condition worsened and she was rushed to the hospital where she breathed her last. She is survived by her husband Narayana Murthy and daughter Sumathi, the sources said. Murthy, born to Brahmin parents from Gadag, carved a niche for herself in a field dominated by men. A visit to a temple in Mysuru made her choose a career in sculpting and thus, hammer and chisel became her friends forever. Mourning her death, Kannada Development Authority Chairman T S Nagabharana said Kanaka Murthy had to face opposition for taking sculpting as a career but her commitment to her passion led her to her Guru, Vadiraj, who shaped her as a renowned sculptor. The statues of Kannada litterateur Kuvempu near Lalbagh in Bengaluru, Wright Brothers outside Visvesvaraya Museum in the city, Gangubai Hangal, Bhimsen Joshi and K M Munshi stand testimony to her great work and finesse, he added.  Kanaka has won several awards, including the Karnataka Jakanachari Award and the Rajyotsava Award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/celebrated-sculptor-and-rajyotsava-awardee-kanaka-murthy-succumbs-to-covid-19-985483.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Home isolation kits to reach Covid-19-infected within 1 hour after test result: Karnataka Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan||Aimed at providing medical kits to those under home isolation, five lakh kits will be procured, and measures will be taken to see that they reach the doorstep of the infected within 1 hour of getting the Covid-19 test result, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Thursday. He said authorities had been directed to ensure the systematic delivery of home isolation medical kits starting from May 15. "In most cases by the time the results arrive, the pandemic will be in the inflammation stage. So, at this time what is mainly needed is anti-inflammatory treatment. Hence this medical kit will mainly have antibiotics, anti-virals, vitamin tablets that are prescribed for anti-inflammation," Narayan, who heads the state's Covid Task Force, said. In addition, this will also have steroid tablets which could be used in the later stage if the symptoms are not mitigated, he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Those who have Covid-19 symptoms need not wait to start taking the anti-inflammatory medicines till the result arrives, he said, adding that it is advisable to begin taking the drugs as soon as the symptoms are seen. Stating that people who have cough, cold, vomiting, diarrhea should not be misled by taking them lightly and decide it as a common health problem, the Deputy CM said in this changed situation, most of these cases are turning out to be Covid-19 positive. So, people should be alert and mentally prepared to fight the pandemic with the help of anti-inflammatory medicines, he suggested. According to him, the allocation of oxygen made for the state is sufficient for the existing number of oxygenated beds. "But, when the number of beds is going to be increased we will be in need of additional oxygen, and to meet this possible higher demand, action will be taken to procure oxygen," Narayan said. Opposition parties should not indulge in blame game and make false accusations against the Prime Minister with regard to Covid-19 management, the Deputy CM said. India has handled it far better than even developed countries like the US, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/home-isolation-kits-to-reach-covid-19-infected-within-1-hour-after-test-result-karnataka-deputy-cm-ashwath-narayan-985511.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka picks Dr Devi Shetty for third Covid-19 wave team||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced Thursday that cardiac surgeon and Narayana Health chief Dr Devi Shetty will head a new task force that will be set up to prepare for the “probable” third wave of Covid-19. Yediyurappa also announced the appointment of vaccine scientist Gagandeep Kang as an adviser on Karnataka’s vaccination strategy. Kang is currently a professor of microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. He said this at a news conference that was an attempt to showcase the government’s efforts to combat the pandemic amid criticism. He was joined by his deputy C N Ashwath Narayan, Health Minister K Sudhakar, Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali. “Action is being taken to increase the oxygen generation capacity in the state, which will help us be prepared for a potential third wave,” he said. “We are setting up 127 oxygen generation units in medical college hospitals, district hospitals and taluk hospitals,” he said. Of them 62 are being set up using the state’s funds, 28 are allocated by the Centre, 24 by the NHAI, 11 under CSR and two by foreign countries. To further reduce the stress on oxygen supply, the government will procure 10,000 oxygen cylinders, he said. Karnataka’s oxygen allocation has gone up from 965 MT to 1,015 MT. “We’re lifting the entire allocation given to us from within the state and making efforts to bring as much as possible from the other states,” Yediyurappa said. The CM pointed out that things were beginning to look better on the Covid-19 front. “I’m not saying things weren’t bad. But things are getting better. More beds and oxygen are becoming available. We’re doing everything to bring the situation under control,” he said, adding that the current lockdown had shown results. “We imposed restrictions on April 24 and more stringent measures were taken from May 10. As a result, Covid-19 cases are coming under control,” he said. “From the peak of 50,112 cases on May 5, the cases came down to 39,900 yesterday. In Bengaluru, on May 5, 23,106 cases were reported. It has come down to 16,286. Even in Bidar and Kalaburgi, which saw an early peak, the number of cases and positivity are coming down faster,” he said. On vaccination, Yediyurappa said he was confident that Karnataka would receive more doses in a week’s time. “It’s necessary to complete the second dose as early as possible to give full protection to those who have taken the first. So, we’ve decided to utilize the entire stock available with us for the second dose,” he said. There are 19 lakh people due for the second dose. Yediyurappa defended the Modi administration and rejected charges that it had shortchanged Karnataka. “We’re in constant touch with the Centre and they are cooperating 100%.” With the Opposition Congress demanding a special package to those whose livelihoods have been impacted due to the lockdown, Yediyurappa said the government would examine this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-picks-dr-devi-shetty-for-third-covid-19-wave-team-985540.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka now has the highest active Covid-19 cases in India||Karnataka has emerged as the state with the maximum number of active cases of Covid-19 in the country, toppling Maharashtra to the second position. According to the health ministry data, Karnataka has 5,92,202 active cases of Covid-19 as on Thursday, as against Maharashtra which has 5,48,507 cases. Kerala, with 4,33,143 active cases ranks third across the country, followed by Rajasthan (2,09,110) and Uttar Pradesh (2,06,615). On Tuesday, Maharashtra had 5,93,150 active cases of the infectious diseases, while Karnataka was second with 5,71,026 active cases. According to the ministry, the daily new cases have been on a decline in Maharashtra since April 29 when the state had reported 63,652 new cases in a single day. The plateauing of daily new cases appears to have begun in Karnataka around May 10. Karnataka continues to have a high test positivity rate of 32.9%, which translates into every third person undergoing a Covid-19 test reporting being infected with the disease. Goa has the highest test positivity rate at 48.1%, followed by Puducherry (42.5%), West Bengal (34.3%) and Karnataka. According to the ministry, Tumakuru ranks in the group of districts that have been showing continued increase in Covid-19 cases. Tumakuru reported 16,877 cases between May 5 and 11, as against 11,777 between April 28 and May 4, and 8,516 between April 21 and 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-now-has-the-highest-active-covid-19-cases-in-india-985555.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||C T Ravi's 'Sarvajna' remark on SC judges triggers row||BJP national general secretary CT Ravi courted controversy Thursday after he said Supreme Court judges were not 'sarvajna', a term he slyly used to say they were not all that knowledgeable. "Oxygen supply is based on directions by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). Supreme Court judges are not sarvajnas. Therefore, they do not know how much of oxygen is manufactured and how it should be distributed," he said. Ravi was responding to a question on the top court's intervention on the issue of supplying oxygen to Karnataka. After deliberations on oxygen supply, the SC upheld the TAC recommendation on oxygen distribution, Ravi added. Sarvajna in Sanskrit means all-knowing. Sarvajna is also the name of a revered 16th century philosopher. Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar accused Ravi of casting aspersions on judges and condemned his statement. "Trying to cast aspersions on judges, when they are upholding the rights of our citizens, is one of the reasons why our country is witnessing such devastation during this pandemic," Shivakumar said in a tweet. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) also condemned the remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/c-t-ravis-sarvajna-remark-on-sc-judges-triggers-row-985602.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to develop its own vaccination portal||Karnataka will come up with its own version of the CoWIN portal, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Thursday. "The CoWIN application was found to have certain limitations on where one chooses to be vaccinated, leading to chaos across (vaccination) centers. To manage the vaccination process better, we are coming up with a technology solution soon, post which we will relaunch the vaccine programme for the 18-44 age group," he said. Apparently, the CoWIN portal is prone to glitches due to high traffic and errors in the registration process and OTP generation. Also, the state's portal is likely to limit people from one locality to book slots in another locality. Aside from appointing microbiologist Gagandeep Kang as its adviser for vaccination, the BS Yediyurappa administration has named Additional Chief Secretary Vandita Sharma as the nodal officer to oversee the inoculation drive in the state.  According to Health Minister K Sudhakar, there are 19 lakh people aged above 45 years due for their second dose. “In the same 45+ category, there are 63 lakh people who have to take their first dose,” he said. “We have given the first dose to 36 lakh people above 60 years and 11 lakh second dose in the same category. “In the 44-59 category, 37.53 lakh have taken the first dose and 5.5 lakh the second dose,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-develop-its-own-vaccination-portal-985603.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Final rites of Covid-19 victims to be performed free of cost: Karnataka Minister||Amid reports of bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims floating in the Ganga, the Karnataka government on Thursday announced putting in place a system to ensure that the final rites are performed free of cost. "We have been seeing news about bodies floating in the Ganga river but in our state we have ensured that no such incidents happen. Bodies should be cremated with honour and no one should face hardship (of extortion and bribe for final rites)," Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters. He said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had directed him to ensure that bodies of Covid patients are treated with honour and cremated. "We had come across reports that a lot of extortion was happening by ambulance drivers and private vehicles who were demanding up to Rs 16,000. Keeping this in mind, we have set up a helpline (Phone number-- 8495998495) which became operational from yesterday (Wednesday)," the Minister said. He said there will be 19 people in the helpline facility who will work round-the-clock. Soon after calling the number, people will get all the aid without spending anything right from the ambulance to the cremation, Ashoka told reporters. "There will be no room for any extortion. We have plugged all the loopholes where the family members of the deceased were facing hardship and paved the way for respectful final journey," the Minister claimed. He said a check of private medical colleges, private nursing homes and hospitals was done to see whether the government quota of hospital beds were utilised properly. It led to the discovery that many hospitals gave wrong information about the total beds and oxygenated beds, he said. "We got an extra 2,216 beds this week for people. This will help more patients to get medical aid in the hospitals," Ashoka said. The Karnataka government has reserved 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals and nursing homes for Covid-19 patients in view of rising infections in the state, especially in Bengaluru. The hospitals will have to admit the patients under government quota. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued notices to the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, after receiving complaints about several bodies found floating in the Ganga river in the two states. It said it received a complaint dated May 11, 2021, based on several media reports, wherein apprehensions were expressed that these bodies floating in the Ganga were of Covid-19 victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/final-rites-of-covid-19-victims-to-be-performed-free-of-cost-karnataka-minister-985619.html
13-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Oxygen to be allotted to districts based on active Covid-19 cases, demand: Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the distribution of the 120 tonne liquid medical oxygen (LMO) received on Tuesday will be based on the number of active cases in the districts and their demand. As of May 11, apart from Bengaluru (3,62,696 active cases), other districts with the highest number of active cases in the state include Ballari (15,633), Bangalore Rural (13,374), Dakshina Kannada (12,628), Hassan (16,371), Kalaburagi (15,175), Mysuru (15,148) and Tumakuru (22,234). When asked about the State's distribution plan for oxygen received via such relief trains, newly appointed State Nodal Officer for Oxygen Distribution Munish Moudgil told DH, that 120 metric tonnes of oxygen was brought by Praxair as additional quantity, and they are being given via their supply channels. While Ballari district health officer Dr HL Janardhan said all 30-35 kilolitres of its requirement are being met every day, Gadag DHO Dr Satish B reported a demand-supply gap of 4 kilolitres. "We need 15 kilolitres of oxygen but we are getting only 11 kilolitres," said Dr Satish. On the other side, Yadgir Deputy Commissioner Ragapriya R said there is a gap of 6 kilolitre between their requirement of 10 kilolitre and supply of four kilolitres. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R Girish said as against 20 kilolitres, his district was getting only 15 kilolitres. Binoy Nambiar, nodal officer for oxygen management for Dakshina Kannada district maintained that even if the demand supply boxes are ticked off in terms of numbers, it does not take away from the everyday struggle that the administration undertakes to procure that amount of oxygen.   He explained, "We need 22 kilolitres everyday out of which six kilolitres are produced within the district. We have to procure 16 kilolitres from outside the district. In six of our medical colleges, because they have liquid oxygen silos, we are able to store whatever air water company supplies every day, especially at Wenlock hospital. Apart from this, the three refillers that we have are supplied by Praxair from Ballari, and Malabar used to supply the other two. But since he used to procure it from Palakkad, and now the Kerala government has to supply it to Maharashtra, we're not getting it. So now we're reliant on Inox, Bhuruka and Praxair. Whoever has tankers to spare for the day, we raise an indent with them." Vijayapura Deputy Commissioner P Sunil Kumar, said, "Apart from the 15 kilolitre of LMO, we get four kilolitres from electrical oxygen generator plants. In all, we have a requirement of 19 kilolitres. It is an everyday struggle. Everyday, we send our personnel to the generator plant and ensure production is on par with the demand. Any delay in the tankers from Ballari or Dharwad, or any breakdown in the plant, we will suffer a shortage as we're dependent on them 24/7. These are our day-after-day challenges. Hospitals are definitely not happy with our supply. We have asked hospitals not to ramp up beds till we get additional allotment of oxygen."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/oxygen-to-be-allotted-to-districts-based-on-active-covid-19-cases-demand-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-985641.html
13-05-2021||West||Mumbai issues global bid to acquire 1 crore Covid-19 vaccines||In a major decision, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday issued a global bid to acquire 1 crore vaccines The bids were issued after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray cleared a proposal. "The BMC has issued global bid today to acquire 1 crore Covid-19 vaccines to inoculate the citizens of Mumbai at the earliest possible on a massive scale in its decisive fight against the virus," BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said. According to him, the BMC has resolved to make every possible effort in future also to acquire sufficient quantity of Covid-19 vaccines to vaccinate all eligible citizens of Mumbai on war footing in the next 60-90 days. On Tuesday, Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray met Chahal and Additional Commissiner Suresh Kakani to discuss the procurement of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-issues-global-bid-to-acquire-1-crore-covid-19-vaccines-985266.html
13-05-2021||West||Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spread||The Maharashtra health department has decided to create a separate database of cases of mucormycosis, primarily being found in Covid-19 patients, to assess its actual spread and how to tackle it, officials said. Two Covid-19 patients recently died of this rare but serious fungal infection in neighbouring Thane, while there has been a surge in such cases in Mumbai and Pune, they said. As per doctors, mucormycosis, also known as the black fungus, is mostly found among Covid-19 patients who have diabetes. Its symptoms include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said there could be over 2,000 mucormycosis patients in the state as of now and with more and more Covid-19 cases coming up, "their number would increase for sure". On Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said as many as 111 patients, all Covid-19 survivors, were undergoing treatment for mucormycosis in hospitals here. According to state health services director Dr Archana Patil, earlier there was no regular health management of mucormycosis, though it was detected in a few pockets. However, the Maharashtra health authorities have now decided make a detailed report of such cases in the state, and guidelines regarding it will soon be issued to all the districts, Patil said on Wednesday. "Once such data is compiled on a real-time basis, we will have some idea about the actual spread of the fungal infection and how to respond to it. We can also allocate medicines and provide necessary guidance as per its prevalence," the official said. According to health experts, cases of mucormycosis are rising in the state mainly among Covid-19 patients. The immune system of such patients is weak which makes them more susceptible to this fungal infection, they said. "There were some cases of this fungal infection in private hospitals last year during the first wave of Covid-19. But, some of those hospitals did not inform the state government or the ICMR about it," a state health official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-compile-database-of-mucormycosis-to-assess-its-spread-985363.html
13-05-2021||West||Three held for raping teenage girl in Maharashtra's Thane||Police have arrested three persons for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl in Maharashtra's Thane city, an official said on Thursday. The accused, all around 20 years of age, had allegedly been raping the teenager since the last six months in the Vartak area of the city, he said. The victim lodged a police complaint on Wednesday following which the accused were arrested and booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official from Vartak Nagar police station said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-held-for-raping-teenage-girl-in-maharashtras-thane-985367.html
13-05-2021||West||Maharashtra extends Covid-19 restrictions till June 1||With Covid-19 cases still rising in many districts of Maharashtra, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Thursday extended the lockdown-like restrictions for another fortnight. The curbs will now remain in effect till 7 am, June 1. Suburban train services will continue to run only for people engaged in essential services and other pre-notified categories. At the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday, ministers belonging to all the three parties – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress and their allies – felt the need for an extension of the lockdown arrangements.  In a month’s time, the situation in Mumbai, the larger Mumbai Metropolitan region comprising Thane, Palghar and Raigad and the adjoining districts of Pune and Nashik – there has been some improvement in the situation. Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte issued the notification on Thursday, extending the lockdown arrangements from 7 am of May 15 to 7 am of June 1. The government also made it compulsory for any person entering Maharashtra by any mode of transport to carry a negative RT-PCR test report, which needs to be issued  from up to a maximum of 48 hrs before he/she enters the state. The government has also directed the local Disaster Management Authorities (DMA) to keep special vigil over rural markets and APMCs and ensure Covid Appropriate Behaviour. However, if the rules are not being followed, they can decide on shutting or imposing further restrictions on a case to case basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-june-1-985371.html
13-05-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 lockdown extended: All you need to know||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the lockdown-like restrictions in the state till June 1 to break the chain of Covid-19. Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte in an order said the curbs will remain in force till 7 am on June 1. As per the order, additional restrictions include mandatory negative RT-PCR test report for any person entering the state by any mode of transport. The test report will have to be issued within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state. All restrictions enforced as per earlier orders for people arriving from places of "sensitive origin" will be applicable to anyone arriving from any part of the country into the state, the order said. In the case of cargo carriers, not more than two people will be allowed to travel in those vehicles. If the carriers are originating from outside Maharashtra, they will be allowed with a negative RT-PCR test report issued within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state and will be valid for seven days, the order said. The lockdown-like curbs were earlier imposed in the state on April 5. The curbs were further tightened on April 15 with Section 144 of the CrPc, banning assembly of five or more people, imposed in the entire state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-lockdown-extended-all-you-need-to-know-985382.html
13-05-2021||West||Covid-19 crisis: NCP demands clarification over use of Moderna vaccine by French embassy||In a development that has the potential to snowball into a major political issue, the Sharad Pawar-led NCP on Thursday claimed that the French embassy in India has procured the Moderna vaccine and it is being administered to its nationals in Navi Mumbai. NCP chief spokesperson and state’s Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik sought a clarification on the same from the Centre. According to Malik, the Indian government has permitted use of three vaccines in India -- Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India; Covaxin, being rolled out by Bharat Biotech; and Sputnik V, which is being imported from Russia. “I have received information that the French Embassy in India has procured the Moderna vaccine and is inoculating their citizens and relatives at the Apollo Hospitals, Navi Mumbai,” Malik said. “The question that arises is how can a non-permitted vaccine be allowed to be administered? If they can get it, why can't the Indian government get it for our citizens too?” he asked. In a tweet, Malik asked the central government and Union Health Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan to clarify. He also tagged Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Pravin Darekar said Malik has made no details available. “As per my information, every embassy has made provisions of Covid-19 vaccines for its own staff here. However, the Maharashtra government is not taking care of its own people in the state, and instead wasting time in pointing fingers at such non-issues,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-crisis-ncp-demands-clarification-over-use-of-moderna-vaccine-by-french-embassy-985440.html
13-05-2021||West||IMD issues cyclonic storm warning, predicts heavy rainfall in south Konkan, Goa||The IMD on Thursday issued a warning and said that a low pressure area formed over the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16, which may bring heavy rainfall at some places in Goa and south Konkan region. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, "A low pressure area has formed over the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area today. It is very likely to become well marked over Lakshadweep area by Friday morning." It will concentrate into a depression over the same region by Saturday morning and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours, it said in the warning report. It is very likely to intensify further and move north-northwestwards Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan coasts, it said. It is likely to reach near Gujarat coast around May 18 evening, the IMD added. Due to this, south Konkan and Goa region would receive light to moderate rainfall at many places on Saturday and its intensity would increase further and it would receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places on Sunday and Monday, it said. According to the department, 64.5 mm to 115.5 mm rainfall in 24 hours is considered as heavy, while precipitation between 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm in 24 hours is termed as very heavy rainfall. Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts form the south Konkan region of Maharashtra. Similarly, Gujarat coast would receive rainfall from May 17 onwards. The intensity is expected to escalate during the subsequent days with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places over Saurashtra and Kutch on May 18 and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Kutch and adjoining southwest Rajasthan on May 19. As the region is going to be affected by cyclone storm, the rains would be accompanied with gusty winds with a speed ranging from 50 kilometre per hours to 80 kmph in next 5-6 days. On Wednesday, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had held a meeting and asked the officials of coastal districts in the state to remain alert and take necessary safety measures in view of the IMD's prediction about formation of a cyclone in the Arabian sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imd-issues-cyclonic-storm-warning-predicts-heavy-rainfall-in-south-konkan-goa-985470.html
13-05-2021||West||Covid-19 crisis: Samarth becomes support system for senior citizens||The Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown has impacted one and all, but it has had the most significant impact on the elderly. At a time when senior citizens are staying away from their sons and daughters, Samarth is showing a way and an effective model to take care of them. During the pandemic, the organisation is taking care of 400 families spread across 40 Indian cities, including metros and Tier-2 cities. “Elderly people have special needs and, during the lockdown, they have their own problems… we are trying to help these families,” said Asheesh Gupta, Founder & Chief Care Officer, Samarth. “Our 150-plus strong brigade of care managers has been in touch with our customers in India, as well as those living across 20 countries to help their parents/elders living in India. On an average, they are receiving 25-30 requests every day during the pandemic from people staying abroad who need a comprehensive support system in India for their parents,” said Gupta, a graduate of IIT Kanpur and IIM Calcutta. “We have a very nominal fee… its evolution as a one-stop comprehensive national organisation serving the full range of needs of the elderly is nothing short of extraordinary. From support, advice, care, services, research, innovation, advocacy, and rights, it encapsulates every aspect of the elderly ecosystem to achieve its goal of enhancing the quality of life of seniors in India,” he said. Gupta said the caregivers visit the elderly at regular intervals and take care of their needs. Samarth has identified 70-odd needs for the elderly staying alone. “We take care of them as their sons and daughters would do,” he said. “With a holistic care subsystem being provided to the members, Samarth has enabled the elderly with the required assistance and turned them more resilient. It is noticed that the families under Samarth's care have significantly fewer cases of Covid-19 than the average elderly in India,” said Gupta. The Samarth care programme provides augmented support to the elders by arranging supplies of essentials such as medicines, provisions, cash, check-in calls to ensure support as well as avoiding isolation, tracking of vitals, home isolation support, hospitalisation support, oxygen cylinders, concentrators among others. “While elders typically are not well versed with technology, we have enabled them to use mobile-based communication and technologies and online entertainment,” he said, pointing out that they are also facilitating teleconsultation with doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-crisis-samarth-becomes-support-system-for-senior-citizens-985480.html
13-05-2021||West||Covid-19: Gujarat cities breathe but villages choke||The long queues of ambulances have disappeared and the chaos outside hospitals for beds and oxygen in cities have thinned over the past one week as official figures of a daily caseload of coronavirus and fatalities show a downward trend. In the rural parts of the state, patients lying on cots with glucose dripping have found a roof in Covid care centres with bare minimum facilities. However, with dismal testing in rural areas, the scale of virus spread is anybody's guess. On April 30, the state reported its highest daily count of positive cases with 14,605 and 180 deaths, the same figures on May 12 were 11,017 and 102 respectively. Along with a dip in the daily cases and fatalities, the number of testing has also gone down sharply. On April 23, the state had conducted a total of 1.89 lakh tests which fell to 1.60 lakh on April 30 and 1.43 lakh on May 12 evening. As of Thursday, the number of active cases in the state stood at 1.27 lakh, of which 804 were on ventilators, while 8,131 patients had succumbed to the virus. "Overall, the situation has stabilised and cases are dwindling. There are various indicators suggesting this trend such as calls to 108 (ambulance service) 104 (helpline service) dropping, consumption of oxygen stabilising, bed vacancies increasing from on an average 96 to 97% occupancies. We are now focussing on rural areas where suspected cases are required to be isolated and treated," principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi told DH. Until a week ago, the Vijay Rupani government was pleading with the central government for increasing the oxygen allocation from 975 metric ton to 1,190 metric tonne which, despite repeated attempts, was not increased. Due to a decrease in the cases, the demand for oxygen is said to have been stabilised and bed occupancies have also come down. What is worrying the state government is rising cases in rural areas such as Amreli, Dahod, Panchmahals, Kheda, Mahisagar among others. The test positivity rate in these districts was recorded at nearly 10% which is worrying the health officials. Officials said a few weeks ago, the rate was hovering over 20% in many districts which have come down. When asked about the lack of testing facilities in the villages, Ravi said, "What treatment do we get in cases of positive results - we isolate, give paracetamol in mild cases or get hospitalised in case of emergency. That's why we are now focussing on testing but finding the suspected cases and putting them in isolation centres to break the chain." On Thursday, the government announced that under "Maru Gam, Corona Mukt Gam (my village, Covid-free village)" over 15,000 care centres have been set up in 14,000 gram panchayats to isolate suspected cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-cities-breathe-but-villages-choke-985488.html
13-05-2021||West||15 more Covid-19 patients die at top Goa hospital, Bombay High Court informed||Fifteen more Covid-19 patients died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours of Thursday, the state government told the Bombay High Court, two days after 26 coronavirus patients had succumbed at the same facility here. The Goa bench of the HC said state authorities told it some of the casualties may have taken place due to "logistical issues" related to connecting oxygen cylinders to the manifold (group of large gas cylinders) that resulted in interruption and drop in pressure in supply lines of oxygen to patients. The HC observed that despite its order on providing medical oxygen to Covid-19 patients at the GMCH, there were 15 deaths during the early hours of 2 am and 6 am in the government-run facility on Thursday. The bench was hearing a bunch of petitions on recent death of Covid-19 patients at the GMCH allegedly due to lack of medical oxygen. The HC said the Centre should ensure that the allotted quota of medical oxygen is made available at the earliest to Goa, which is reporting a very high test positivity rate. The bench, consisting of Justices Nitin W Sambre and M S Sonak, said despite their May 12 order, the court sadly recorded that even today (Thursday), it is reported that there were almost 40 Covid-19-related casualties in the GMCH." Out of these, around 15 took place between the dark hours of 2 am and 6 am, the court observed. On Wednesday, the HC had said the availability of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients at the GMCH was grim, and asked the state government to take corrective steps. From May 2, 2021 onwards, this is the position of casualties in the GMCH, the bench said referring to the deaths during the dark hours. The Judges said out of these, several casualties have taken place between the dark hours of 2 am and 6 am. Now today, again, we are assured by the learned Advocate General Davidas Pangam as well as the Health Secretary that there is no dearth as such of oxygen. "They have pointed out that the Central Government has now increased the (medical oxygen) quota for Goa, having regard to the overwhelming number of Covid-19 victims in the state of Goa, the court said. Advocate General Pangam and the health secretary have assured the court that they are continuously following up the matter with the Central government, the judges said. On our query as to why the deaths have taken place last night, we were explained that there were logistical issues involved in maneuvering the tractor which carries the trolleys of oxygen and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold, the court ruled. We were explained that during this process there was some interruption, which resulted in fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. "It was pointed out that it is basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place, it said. The Judges said we are quite pained that such logistical issues should give rise to such serious consequences to the Covid victims." The court asked the government to remove any deficiencies regarding supply of oxygen to patients. "We expect the State Administration to find out ways and means to overcome these logistical issues, so that, precious life is not lost on account of any deficiencies in the matter of supply of oxygen to patients, the court ruled. On May 11, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane had said 26 Covid-19 patients died at the GMCH in the early hours of Tuesday and sought an investigation by the HC to find out the exact cause. He said these fatalities occurred between 2 am and 6 am 'which is a fact', but remained evasive about the cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/15-more-covid-19-patients-die-at-top-goa-hospital-bombay-high-court-informed-985528.html
13-05-2021||West||High Court, Amit Shah firefight to get Goa's Covid-19 efforts back on track||Goa witnessed two separate rounds of firefighting, one judicial and the other political, to put the state's Covid-19 management apparatus, especially the shortage of oxygen, back on track. The first round of firefighting was directed by the Bombay High Court, which urged the Central government to ensure Goa got its allotted quota of oxygen and also directed the state government to ensure that no lives are lost due to oxygen shortage in the state's apex hospital, the Goa Medical College, henceforth. Nearly 50 Covid-19 patients died over the past three days at the medical college, due to lack of oxygen. In its order, the High Court, which is hearing a string of public interest litigations seeking to streamline Covid-19 management efforts in the state, said "state administration (should) find out ways and means to overcome these logistical issues, so that, precious life is not lost on account of any deficiencies in the matter of supply of oxygen to the patients". "We also direct the Central government to ensure that the allotted quota is made available to the state at the earliest," the court also said. The High Court also directed the state health secretary to file a status report by Friday evening. The other effort at firefighting the crisis was one with political overtones. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has had to intervene and resolve the ongoing stand-off between Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, whose public squabbles, according to the Opposition, are hampering Goa's fight against the pandemic and leading to a high mortality rate. State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade while confirming that Shah spoke to both Rane and Sawant in his presence, added that there were no overt differences between the two top politicians. "There was no intervention from me. I was sitting with them unofficially as a party president. It was just a misunderstanding. It was an internal issue. We got a phone (with Shah) at the time, who had called for some other reason," Tanavade said. Party sources said Shah told both Sawant and Rane to bury the hatchet and direct their energies towards combating Covid-19. Sawant and Rane have been at loggerheads for the past several months over a larger share of control of the government's Covid management mechanism. The tussle between the two peaked after 26 patients died due to oxygen shortage in the state's top hospital. While Sawant, who recently took control of matters related to oxygen management in the state, claimed that poor management of available oxygen led to the tragedy at the medical college, Rane insisted that the deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage. BJP legislators have also demanded the resignation of Rane over mismanagement. But Tanavade has ruled out any reallocation of portfolios for now, despite demands made by BJP MLAs like Atanasio Monserrate and Antonio Fernandes. "There is no question of any cabinet reshuffle at this stage," Tanavade said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/high-court-amit-shah-firefight-to-get-goas-covid-19-efforts-back-on-track-985533.html
13-05-2021||West||Maharashtra Cyber cops bust racket of water-filled Remdesivir, Tocilizumab injections||In a major operation, the Maharashtra Cyber Police have busted a racket that was selling fake Remdesivir and Tocilizumab drugs filled with plain water. The two drugs are important for the treatment of critical Covid-19 cases. The Maharashtra Cyber Police received complaints of the fake drugs being sold online. In a complaint, a leading pharmaceutical company stated that a few mobile numbers were posted on various WhatsApp groups as well as other social media platforms, offering to deliver the drugs on advance payment of 50 per cent amount through online transactions, and rest on delivery. “The investigation team of Maharashtra Cyber Police immediately started the probe. In the preliminary investigation, it was found that many of the needy citizens had paid the entire money in advance,” officials said. When those who paid money followed up on the contact numbers provided for the medicine delivery they were given replies like “vaccine shall be made available in a few hours”, “it is on its way” and so on and the calls were disconnected and later switched off. “Further, it was also found that many of the citizens had received water and fake medicines in the bottles labelled as medicines with the complainant company’s name and logo on the medicines,” the officials said. The Maharashtra Cyber Police have registered an FIR against various unknown persons for indulging in the fraud and playing with the lives of innocent citizens during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cyber-cops-bust-racket-of-water-filled-remdesivir-tocilizumab-injections-985551.html
13-05-2021||West||iSERA Biological develop curative drug for Covid-19||In a significant development that broadens the scope of India's fight against Covid-19, Sangli-based iSERA Biological Pvt Ltd has developed a “curative drug” to treat patients affected by the deadly viral infection. The anti-Covid serum has been developed on the body of horses and the company has now applied for clinical trials. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India is “mentoring” the  “development of the drug” by iSERA Biological, as a partner in R&D of this new therapeutic anti-serum, while Pune-based Premium Serum and Vaccines would further prepare it for final use. The iSERA Biological management has applied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for clinical trials. Following this, the iSERA team had an online meeting with the Drugs Controller General of India. According to iSERA Biological’s Director Dhairyasheel Yadav, it is a curative drug to treat patients and not a prophylactic medication. “After the pandemic broke out several companies across the world started the research…one company from Argentina has already started using it in patients,” Yadav told DH over phone from Sangli. "Considering the fact that India is badly hit by the pandemic, the drug after successful trials would be beneficial," he said, claiming that the "antisera" was "absolutely safe". The iSERA Biological is located in Shirala, Sangli district of Maharashtra and is engaged in anti-snake venom serum, anti-rabies serum, anti-diphtheria serum and anti-tetanus serums. “We have been closely working together since the last few months and successfully passed various stages up to its clinical trials. We are on the right path to develop one of the safest and most effective Antidotes in the next few days which will be available to serve mankind. This will certainly help in not only reducing cost of hospitalization and fear but substantially help our affected economy to normalize,” said iSERA Biological Director Pratap Deshmukh in a statement posted on the company's website. Shiv Sena MP from Hatkanangale, Dhairyasheel Mane, confirmed the development. “This is a major breakthrough in the fight against Covid-19 subject to the clinical trials…according to the company, it can treat all strains of Covid-19,” Mane told DH over the phone from Kolhapur. According to him, nearly 3 lakh vials are ready. “Vaccination is being carried out all over the world to prevent Coronavirus. That is a preventive strategy, however, this drug claims to be a cure of Covid-19,” he said, adding that it is a curative drug for the treatment of serious patients. Mane has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan. “As a people’s representative, I am trying to fast-track the project,” he said. Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan, who is an MLA from Karad, visited the Shirala facility recently. “iSERA has created an Equine-based hyperimmune plasma facility. They are now going for clinical trials for a Covid-19 curative drug. My best wishes for their success,” said Chavan, a technocrat-politician.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/isera-biological-develop-curative-drug-for-covid-19-985579.html
