14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Third wave: Uncertainty hangs over 2021-22 academic year||The commencement of next academic year is likely to be delayed and the offline classes are expected to delayed at least by six months. Though the state government has announced the reopening of schools for 2021-22 academic year from July 15, the third wave as warned by health fraternity is expected to hit the state in October 2021 and is likely to hamper the efforts to start offline classes before January 2022. Non availability of vaccine for under 18 age-group is also a major concern, prompting the health experts to suggest for postponement of offline classes, even for grades above 10.  Following the warning by health experts that children would be vulnerable to infection in the third wave, the academicians have urged the state government to make necessary preparations to conduct classes with alternative mode to ensure continued learning. Dr V P Niranjanaradhya senior academician said, "There is no preparation for continued learning of government schoolchildren, in case of delayed commencement of offline classes for 2021-22 academic year. Now, what is the alternative before the government to reach such kids?" "The education department should prepare a road map to reach every child through alternative mode of teaching, whether it is online or other mode, it should reach every children and the learning should continue. The department of public instruction should prepare a calendar of events and ensure a level playing field for the private school and government school kids," added Niranjanaradhya. However, the private schools have already made preparations to start the academic year with online classes. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said, "There is no surprise, half of the 2021-22 academic year will be managed through online classes and we private schools have prepared ourselves to commence academic year from July 15 onward." When contacted the officials of the state department of primary and secondary education said that they will seek advise from the Technical Advisory Committee for Covid 19 on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/third-wave-uncertainty-hangs-over-2021-22-academic-year-985651.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Covid care centres needed in rural Karnataka'||As rural Karnataka continues to see a surge in Covid cases, finding a space for quarantine has become a challenge in villages. Since a large number of households in rural areas have a single toilet, home isolation is not effective, according to panchayat members and officials, who speak of the need for creating Covid care centres (CCCs) either at the gram panchayat-level or in hoblis.  Recently, a family of five tested Covid positive in a village in Alur taluk, Hassan. All five were isolated in their tiny home. While the husband passed away, the wife and three children remained isolated in the cramped space, risking their health, narrated a gram panchayat official here. "Their house is small for five people and they have a single toilet. Home isolation is not effective in such cases," the official explained. This is just but one instance. Several panchayat members and officials that DH reached out to, had a similar view and stressed the need for setting up CCCs to contain cases in rural areas. At present, the state has CCCs at taluk centres. The government is ready to establish CCCs at hoblis but there are no takers for the existing centre in taluks, lamented Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who is among the ministers in-charge of Covid infrastructure in state. "Only a fraction of the beds in taluks are occupied," he said. The hesitancy in making use of CCCs at taluks is owing to a combination of factors, including lack of transport and a general fear psychosis about hospitals. "People don't want to travel till the taluk centre when they are sick. Many do not have vehicles to go themselves admitted. So they go with the easier option of home isolation," said another panchayat member in a village in Yelandur, Chamarajanagar. There is also an overarching perception that people who are going to hospitals for Covid treatment are not making it back. This has resulted in fear even to access the CCCs, panchayat members said.   Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge, a former minister, opined that the government must actively encourage people to make use of CCCs. "During the first wave, most of the CCCs were full. However, the government changed protocol for quarantine and now a large section of people prefer home isolation," he said, adding that clean toilets and sanitization will incentivize people to use CCCs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-care-centres-needed-in-rural-karnataka-985653.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Low pressure in Arabian Sea, heavy rain forecast for state||Cyclonic conditions developing over the Arabian Sea are likely to bring widespread rainfall in coastal districts, Malnad and many parts of south interior Karnataka over the next three to four days according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). "A low-pressure area has been formed over South-east Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep region on Thursday morning and it may intensify into a cyclonic storm over East-central Arabian Sea by Saturday morning, the IMD forecast said. KSNDMC scientist Sunil Gavaskar told DH, "According to the forecast the cyclone is likely to move away from the mainland and not make landfall anywhere in Karnataka. But the impact will be there on us between May 14 and May 16," he explained. The IMD has issued orange alert for Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada for Friday. Red alert has been issued for coastal districts, Malnad, south interior Karnataka and central districts for May 15 and 16 (Sunday & Monday) and an orange alert for the said districts on May 17. Meanwhile, the state received a widespread summer showers on Thursday. A daily wager was struck dead by lightning in Ripponpet taluk, Shivamogga district. The deceased has been identified as H L Umesh (47), a native of Aadigadde. The compound wall of a government school collapsed due to sustained wet weather at Hebbale in Kushalnagar taluk, Kodagu. Many parts of Shivamogga and Kodagu experienced thundershowers, coupled with heightened thunder activity, on Thursday evening. With heavy rain forecast, the Kodagu district administration has asked the people in vulnerable places to move to safer locations. Old Mysuru region also witnessed good spell of rain on Thursday. A family had a narrow escape after a portion of their house collapsed at Garakahalli in Srirangapatna taluk in the early hours of Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/low-pressure-in-arabian-sea-heavy-rain-forecast-for-state-985654.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA turns good samaritan, saves lives of 20 patients||Chief Minister's Political Secretary & MLA M P Renukacharya turned a good samaritan by bringing 24 jumbo cylinders from Southern Gas Agency in Harihar on May 12 midnight, and thus saved the lives of 20 Covid patients who are undergoing treatment at the government general hospital in Honnali town. Averting a Chamarajnagar-like tragedy, the MLA travelled with the tahsildar and police to Harihar, which is at a distance of 40 km from Honnali, and brought the cylinders. Hospital medical officer Chandrappa phoned the MLA around 12:00 midnight on May 12, and told that they were facing a shortage of oxygen, and patients may die if oxygen is not brought in two to three hours. The MLA went to the hospital immediately and saw the conditions of patients by wearing personal protective equipment. He called the deputy commissioner from the hospital and asked him to arrange for oxygen cylinders. Later, he went to Southern Gas Agency in Harihar along with Tahsildar Basana Gouda Kotur, and Circle Police Inspector Devaraj with empty cylinders and got them refilled and returned to the hospital at around 2:30 am. The patients who were in need of oxygen got it in time and survived. The hospital staff stated that the MLA broke down after seeing the death of a Covid patient in his presence in the hospital. He instilled confidence in the remaining patients, and left the hospital to bring oxygen cylinders. The MLA also conquered the hearts of the people by breaking the lock of the vaccination centre at Ambedkar Bhavan, and thus helped people to get vaccine who had been standing in queue for hours together. Though the people were waiting in a queue to get the vaccine, the centre was not opened as the key was lost. After learning about this, the MLA broke the lock with the help of an iron rod, and opened the room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-turns-good-samaritan-saves-lives-of-20-patients-985667.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Koppal, DK districts record low mortality in 2nd wave||In spite of witnessing 50 per cent surge in positive cases from March 10 to May 8, Koppal and Dakshina Kannada districts, saw abnormally low mortality rates. The onset of second wave in India was around March 10, when Karnataka had 9.56 lakh Covid cases. Koppal saw only seven deaths (case fatality rate 0.1 per cent) and Dakshina Kannada saw 39 cases (case fatality rate 0.2 per cent) during this period. Koppal witnessed an increase of 7,323 Covid cases and Dakshina Kannada by 18,550 cases during this period. The case fatality rate in rest of Karnataka in the second wave is 0.6 per cent. As of Wednesday across the state, the case fatality rate was 1.29 per cent. While Koppal district health officer Dr Lingaraju T said data wasn't sent to the state health department and the number of deaths was much higher, Dakshina Kannada Covid nodal officer Dr Ashok H said case fatality rate was a function of positivity, and since the district has had a positivity rate of 30.56 per cent, case fatality rate seems low. When DH compared the district bulletins of Koppal and the state bulletin, it found that the latter showed zero deaths on all days from March 10 to May 8 except on April 18 (2 deaths), May 2 (5 deaths). On May 11, it reported three deaths whereas on May 12, it reported 12 deaths. This totaled to 22 deaths. In contrast, in just 13 days, the district bulletins showed 94 deaths. Koppal Deputy Commissioner Suralkar Vikas Kishor, when questioned about just seven deaths reflecting in the state bulletin for almost two months, said, "We are trying to set right the figure. We have a problem with updating data since we are not getting complete information about the death of patients. It will be set right in a day or two." However, he did not answer how the deaths reflected in the district bulletins if there was incomplete information about dead patients. Dr Vasanth Kumar, Assistant Deputy Director from the health department who is in-charge of the daily state bulletins, said, "We get death data from the districts or from hospitals via our tele-ICU team. We can only collate whatever is sent to us."  Dr Ashok H said, "We've seen 62 deaths so far from March 10 including five on May 13. Since the cases seen in the same period are 25,102, the case fatality rate works out to be 0.23 per cent. If the positive cases come down, then with the same number of deaths we will have a higher case fatality rate."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/koppal-dk-districts-record-low-mortality-in-2nd-wave-985669.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Karnataka government turns to neglected home-grown innovations||For months, Indian Institute of Science (IISc) researchers involved in oxygen technology development and a room-temperature vaccine had wallowed for lack of government interest. Now, as Karnataka flounders in the second wave, they have been given a lifeline. During a video call with the IISc Director, Professor Govindan Rangarajan, on Thursday, the Minister of Health Dr K Sudhakar inquired about the status of several Covid-19-related projects that had been started last year and offered support. Among these is an indigenous oxygen concentrator that can continuously supply up to 10 litres per minute of 93- 95 per cent oxygen concentration. According to Professor Rangarajan, this is more efficient compared to the Chinese concentrators whose output is about 40-50%. However, while the innovation was completed last year, the scientists found few takers for the device.  Professor Praveen C Ramamurthy of IISc’s Department of Material Engineering explained that the concentrator had been tested to run continuously for up to six months in lab conditions without dropping the oxygen percentage. Development of the innovation was completed in August 2020. But plans to manufacture and deploy the concentrator went nowhere. In the four weeks before the Health Minister made his announcement, the researchers were attempting to drum up interest from all spheres to no avail. “Over the last two weeks, there has been substantial interest. Fifty-nine companies all over India have expressed interest in taking the innovation forward,” Professor Ramamurthy said. On Thursday, Professor Rangarajan sought Dr Sudhakar’s support to expedite the process of clinical validation and also help in obtaining regulatory approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for its emergency use. Professor Ramamurthy described the development as “wonderful”. He added, “If the government gets involved, it will substantially smoothen the supply chain management.” Warm Vaccine Interest The second wave has also triggered the health minister’s interest in the “warm” or a heat-stable vaccine being developed at IISc. The project stalled by November for lack of interest. Professor Raghavan Varadarajan of IISc’s Molecular Biophysics Unit specified that the vaccine could be stored at a temperature of 100 degrees Celsius for 90 minutes or at 70 degrees Celsius for 16 hours and at 37 degrees Celsius for a month. Such a vaccine would make the task of transporting the vaccine to isolated towns and villages much easier without overly relying on cold chain storage. The vaccine is also unique in that it only uses a specific part of the receptor-binding domain, instead of the entire spike protein. Dr Varadrajan told DH that funds were required to take the vaccine forward into safety and toxicity studies in rats along with process development and GMP manufacture of a clinical trial batch before they are tested in humans.  He had previously said that such studies can cost about Rs 10 crore.  “We require about 6-9 months to finish human trials. But permission for trials has to be given followed toxicity trials,” added Dr Gautham Nadig of Mynvax, which is developing the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-karnataka-government-turns-to-neglected-home-grown-innovations-985670.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||RVD urges Defence Ministry to set up hospitals in K'taka||In the wake of rising Covid cases in Karnataka, senior Congress leader RV Deshpande has sought the defence ministry to set up hospitals in the state. In a letter to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Deshpande has pointed out that the DRDO has constructed 500-bed hospitals in Lucknow, Delhi, Bihar, Haryana. A similar effort would benefit Karnataka at a time when the state is under pressure of increasing cases and crumbling health infrastructure, the senior leader said in his letter. The DRDO has built these hospitals in a short span with ICU beds, ventilators and all other necessary infrastructure. These hospitals are being managed by Army medical personnel, he stated, seeking the Defence Ministry to sanction a 1,000-bed hospital near Bengaluru and another 500-bed hospital in Belagavi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rvd-urges-defence-ministry-to-set-up-hospitals-in-ktaka-985671.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen to be allotted to dist based on active cases, demand||Suraksha P Bengaluru, DHNS: Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the distribution of the 120 tonne liquid medical oxygen (LMO) received by the state will be based on the number of active cases in the districts and their demand. As of May 11, apart from Bengaluru (3,62,696 active cases) other districts with the highest number of active cases in the state include Ballari (15,633), Bengaluru Rural (13,374), Dakshina Kannada (12,628), Hassan (16,371), Kalaburagi (15,175), Mysuru (15,148) and Tumakuru (22,234). While Ballari District Health Officer Dr HL Janardhan said all 30-35 kilolitres of its requirement are being met every day, Gadag DHO Dr Satish B reported a demand-supply gap of 4 kilolitres. Yadgir Deputy Commissioner Ragapriya R said there was a gap of 6 kilolitre between their requirement of 10 kilolitre and supply of four kilolitres. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R Girish said as against 20 kilolitres, his district was getting only 15 kilolitres. Binoy Nambiar, nodal officer for oxygen management for Dakshina Kannada district, said: "We need 22 kilolitres everyday out of which six kilolitres are produced within the district. We have to procure 16 kilolitres from outside the district. Apart from this, the three refillers that we have are supplied by Praxair from Ballari, and Malabar used to supply to other two. But since we used to procure it from Palakkad, and now the Kerala government has to supply to Maharashtra, we're not getting it. So now we're reliant on Inox, Bhuruka and Praxair. Whoever has tankers to spare for the day, we raise an indent with them." Vijayapura Deputy Commissioner P Sunil Kumar, said, "Apart from the 15 kilolitre of LMO, we get four kilolitres from electrical oxygen generator plants. In all, we have a requirement of 19 kilolitres. It is an everyday struggle. Everyday, we send our personnel to the generator plant and ensure production is on par with a the demand." He said that any delay in the tankers from Ballari or Dharwad or any breakdown in the plant we will result in shortage as they were dependent on them 24/7.  When asked about the state's distribution plan for oxygen received via such relief trains, newly appointed State Nodal Officer for Oxygen Distribution Munish Moudgil told DH, "That (120 metric tonnes of oxygen) was brought by Praxair as additional quantity, and they are giving via their supply channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-to-be-allotted-to-dist-based-on-active-cases-demand-985673.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Corporates come forward to augment beds||Bengaluru: The state government has appointed Harsha P S, Commissioner of Information and Public Relations, as the nodal officer for setting up 500 ICU beds in each zone of Bengaluru.  Speaking to DH, Harsha said a number of corporates have come forward to assist the government in the process and the team is leveraging the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds towards augmenting beds. “Texas Instruments has come forward to set up a modular ICU unit with 86 critical care beds which would be set up at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases,” he said. Other companies have promised to fund 69 ICU beds which would be set up at Leprosy Hospital, Epidemic disease hospital, and Jayanagar General Hospital, he added. Asked how the locations were being identified, Harsha said the team has planned to convert general beds in government hospitals and government medical colleges into oxygenated and ICU beds. This, he opined, would reduce the turnaround time and also prevent the need to employ extra manpower as the existing staff can be used along with the final-year medical students. However, not all the facilities will be similar. The kind of facility will largely depend on the CSR partner, he said. He also pointed out that along with the CSR funds, the government was receiving donations in the form of medical equipment which would be used by the team to convert the beds to ICU ones.    The team is communicating with a number of corporates, constantly to utilise the available CSR funds towards bed augmentation. "Collaborating  with all of them to increase scale and speed is our main challenge,” Harsha explained. "The team is working on a war footing. We will set up as many beds as as quickly as possible,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/corporates-come-forward-to-augment-beds-985674.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||BBMP gets 836 oxygen Concentrators In 10 days||Ten days after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) appealed to the public requesting support in the form of medical equipment to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, as many as 836 oxygen concentrators have been received by the corporation from various organisations.  "We have received a good response till now. Many more proposals are being processed,” said Joint Commissioner (SWM) Sarfaraz Khan, the officer-in-charge. The 836 oxygen concentrators have been distributed across the Covid Care Centres (CCC) and the maternity hospitals which have been converted into triaging centres.    ACT Grants, a movement by India’s startup ecosystem to fight societal problems at scale, is a major contributor which has donated 616 concentrators to date. The other contributors included KIAF, Give India Foundation, Forward Foundation, and Lalamove India.  According to a senior BBMP official, several corporate companies and NGOs have proposed to set up fully functional Covid Care Centres for the public. "These proposals are being evaluated and a couple of them will be approved soon. We have advised them to make sure that the CCCs set up follow the guidelines issued,” he said. However, apart from the oxygen concentrators, the BBMP had requested other medical equipment including ventilators, ICU monitors, ECG machines, big nebulizers, and BIPAP machines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bbmp-gets-836-oxygen-concentrators-in-10-days-985675.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pandemic: Patient appeals IT giants to chip in||Daniel KT, a citizen from Bengaluru currently being treated for Covid-19 at a hospital has released a video from the hospital bed appealing to all the administrators, decision-makers and the Chief Justice of India. The video by Daniel titled 'I want to Live', which has gone viral on the social media platform, appeals to take measures to control the rising cases in the country and to also help those affected get better medical care. Daniel, who is on oxygen support is seen wearing an oxygen mask with a message that reads, "Share this till it reaches the Chief Justice of India." Daniel first appeals to the bureaucrats of the Indian Administrative Service to take charge of the administration as they were the finest and trained administrators in the country. Stating that the police force had already overwhelmed, Daniel has appealed to work towards creating more green corridors for ambulances to ensure quick transportation of patients to hospitals. Commenting on Bengaluru, Daniel says, IT giants must come forward to help the government in this Covid fight with their technological prowess. He has also appealed to Chief Minister Yediyurappa and Opposition leader Siddaramaiah to put aside their differences and make collective efforts to protect the people of Karnataka. "I want to live and I want Karnataka to stay alive. Please do something," Daniel appealed in his video. Speaking to DH, Daniel said, "There is a huge problem in the country currently and the administration must show itself now. IAS officers should be posted at medical facilities to collect information and implement relief measures better," he stressed. Concluding his video on a positive note, Daniel confidently says that he will defeat the virus with the help of the excellent care he is getting and also thanked the medical fraternity and frontline workers for their relentless service all through this pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pandemic-patient-appeals-it-giants-to-chip-in-985677.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ventilators to be used to reduce oxygen demand||To reduce the increasing demand for oxygen, ventilators will be used instead of High Flow Nasal Oxygen (HFNO), Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar has said. Speaking to the media here after chairing a video conference with district health officers, district surgeons, deans and directors of medical colleges and super speciality hospitals in all districts, the minister said that patients with moderate symptoms need about 20-60 litres of oxygen per minute. "So, we have to find ways to reduce dependence on oxygen and hence we are trying to utilise non-invasive ventilators as an alternative which is more effective. This will reduce the oxygen demand by 80% and all patients on HFNO will be be shifted to ventilator beds," explained the minister. As a result of continuous efforts to ramp up health infrastructure in the past six to eight months, 50 oxygenated beds have been set up in every taluk hospital. "We also have about six ventilators in each taluk hospital. However due to lack of specialist manpower, oxygen is being used in spite of availability of ventilators," he added. "To address this issue we are recruiting anaesthetists and doctors on contract basis. All Covid hospitals have been asked to install CCTV cameras within a week. This will help remote monitoring and also ensure efficient use of beds," the minister said. "Fatality rate is high in some districts and we are finding out reasons for this. Early detection and treatment is the key to recovery and prevent causalities. The positivity rate in the state is 33.09% and our aim is to bring it down to 5%," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ventilators-to-be-used-to-reduce-oxygen-demand-985678.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Black fungus infection detected in Mysuru||Mysuru District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said there are two patients with the fungal infection ‘mucormycosis’ (black fungus) in Mysuru and they are being treated at the Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC & RI). Speaking to media persons during the celebration of Basava Jayanthi on Friday, the minister said there is no cause for worry. “The patients, who were treated for Covid-19, were in the intensive care unit (ICU) for a fortnight. Now, they have been diagnosed to be infected with black fungus. The doctors are treating them and have kept a close watch on them. They will be fine soon,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/black-fungus-infection-detected-in-mysuru-985759.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||70-year-old Covid patient hangs self in hospital ward||A 70-year-old Covid-19 patient died by suicide in the special ward for the virus patients at the district hospital here, police said on Friday. CCTV footage, which went viral, showed the man taking the extreme step after everyone else in the ward went to sleep, the police said. The man from the Lamani tribe from Ranebennuru had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 3 and was admitted to a local hospital, a senior police officer said. On developing complications, he was shifted to Haveri District Hospital on May 5, the officer said. This morning, he was found hanging near the door of the ward, he said. "There were no complications as such. He was given proper treatment and care. He must have been frustrated," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/70-year-old-covid-patient-hangs-self-in-hospital-ward-985910.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Foot-and-mouth disease reported in Sr'patna||Cattle suffering from Foot-and-mouth disease has been reported from Ganjam village, Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. A few cattle at Kemmannugundi and Kurad Beedhi have contracted the disease and there is a possibility of it spreading to the other cattle in the village. The cattle have mouth lesions, start drooling and is not able to consume fodder. The disease has spread to pregnant cows and even calves. Besides, the cattle were also found to be affected by Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD) and swelling in the legs. According to a veterinarian of Animal Husbandry Department, the diseases have been spread from the cattle that has been brought from Bagalkot and Bijapur districts. The farmers should get their cattle vaccinated for Foot and Mouth disease once in six months. But, they could not get their cattle vaccinated due to the Covid pandemic. The vaccination will begin and the LSD will come under control, said veterinarian Dr Shivalingaiah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/foot-and-mouth-disease-reported-in-srpatna-985944.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 patient attacked as he refuses to leave village||A Covid patient was allegedly threatened to leave the village and assaulted when he refused, has been reported at Karapura village in H D Kote taluk, Mysuru district. The police have registered a case against Dasegowda and Balarama at Beechanahalli Police Station in the taluk. The accused are at large, according to police sub-inspector Jayaprakash. It is alleged that Dasegowda and Balarama had forced the patient to leave the village and had pelted stones causing injuries. The affected patient, over phone said, “They came to know that I tested positive for Covid on Friday afternoon. I was waiting for the ambulance, when they pelted stones asking me to leave the village immediately. When my parents tried to protect me, they attacked them also. I have suffered injuries on my legs, hands and head.” He has been shifted to a Covid Care Centre in H D Kote taluk. Taluk Health Officer Dr T Ravikumar said that the patient was admitted to the centre and also treated for injuries. Gram Panchayat PDO Swamy said that protection has been given to the patient’s house, who were also attacked by the neighbours. Arrangements have been made to provide food kit to the family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-patient-attacked-as-he-refuses-to-leave-village-985946.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Private scanning centres fined for violation||Deputy Commissioner R Girish said the four private scanning centres in Hassan district, have been imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 each, for violating the government norms and charging more from the Covid patients. Speaking to reporters here, on Friday, he said, “The scanning centres were given 24-hours time to appear in person, produce documents to prove they are not guilty.” As they failed to appear or give a reply in writing, the report submitted by the tahsildar and taluk health officer of Channarayapatna has been considered and the four private scanning centres have been imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 each, under Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act. Besides, the centres have been made to pay one and a half times of the excess money that was collected from the patients. It has been directed to return the excess amount to the patients and the remaining amount remitted to the Healthcare Committee. They have been issued warning that the centres would be closed if such incidents recur, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-scanning-centres-fined-for-violation-985947.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||AHV criticises BJP leaders’ remarks on judges||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath criticised his own party leaders, over their recent comments on judges, who have been issuing instructions to the governments on managing the Covid crisis. Speaking to media persons here, on Friday, he said, “Every citizen is bound by law and it is not proper to criticise the systems that we have accepted and adopted, in a democracy.” He was referring to the recent comments by BJP general secretary C T Ravi and Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on the judiciary and judges. “Sadananda Gowda is a Union Cabinet Minister. If he asks, ‘Tomorrow if the Court tells us to vaccinate people and if sufficient doses are not manufactured, should we hang ourselves?’, it implies that the Union government should hang itself. Ravi said, ‘The judges are not omniscient’. Both have committed contempt of court,” said Vishwanath, whose journey was from the Congress, via the JD(S), to the BJP. He said, “The honour of Mysuru was safeguarded by the judicial inquiry into the death of 24 persons in Chamarajanagar district hospital, due to unavailability of oxygen. If it was an inquiry by an officer, the truth, that Mysuru is not responsible for the lapse, would not have been unearthed.” “The neighbouring Andhra Pradesh government has issued a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the families of those who died due to shortage of oxygen. The High Court Committee has directed the government to issue a compensation on Tuesday itself. But, so far, there is no progress on this front. The Jaganmohan Reddy government should serve as a model for the B S Yediyurappa government,” Vishwanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ahv-criticises-bjp-leaders-remarks-on-judges-985948.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||These companies do their mite during Covid crisis||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is crippling the healthcare system, hi-tech companies are giving back to the nation, with the mission to help and heal the healthcare system. While the Mysuru district administration is taking aggressive steps, to address all issues to contain the Covid pandemic, several companies in Mysuru, under the Covid Taskforce, formed by the Mysuru chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), are extending help during the second wave of Covid, as part of the corporate social responsibility (CSR). Members of CII-Mysuru, such as Automotive Axles, Infosys, NR Group, Mypol, Kaynes Technologies, Triton Valves, Schevaran Laboratories, rProcess, Cyient DLM, Unilog, ITC Limited, Bacardi, Jubilant, Excelsoft, Triveni Engineering, AT&S, India Gears, Plansee India, Kalpatharu, H&V Advanced Materials, Invensoft and Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works have come forward to support generously for the cause. Also, Young Indians, an arm of CII is actively setting up blood donation camps and sending volunteers to the war room. At Excelsoft, they have an internal track, which has a team of Covid Marshals, available 24x7 to help the employees, their families, friends or neighbours. They help to get beds at hospitals, ambulance facility, arranging for scan, providing medicines and oxygen cylinders. Besides, the organisation has been interacting with the government authorities, the deputy commissioner, corporation and police commissioners to understand the requirement at the government and district hospitals. Excelsoft has supplied ventilators to the KR Hospital and 10 rapid oxygenators of seven litre capacity have been procured. Besides, orders have been placed for 40 oxygenators of 10 litre capacity, to be donated to the government hospitals. There are plans to source two oxygen plants (liquid oxygen based) to be installed at the government hospitals. It had donated N95 masks, PPE kits, sanitisers, essential medication and others during the first wave. A substantial amount has been donated to the Covid Relief Fund. K G Mathew, principal of Excel Public School, said that Sudhanva Dhananjaya, CEO and MD of Excelsoft, also Secretary of the school, has assured that Team Excelsoft is ready to help the colleagues and their families to wade through the Covid crisis. Besides, he has ensured that the company is doing a substantial amount of community service, during these challenging times. This gesture of the company should inspire many others to volunteer to do their best to the community, he said. CII-Mysuru has initiated a series of funding and donation activities like procurement of ambulances, ventilators, oxygen generating plants, oxygen concentrators, cylinders, beds, cots and medicines. According to Pavan Ranga, chairman, CII-Mysuru, “It is very important for all of us to join hands and support the government in this battle. We request every citizen to do their bit and follow the government’s directives. The government requires not only medical infrastructure, but also more people for activities like counselling, war room management and paramedical assistance.” Agarwal Samaj Mysuru, which started ‘Agarwal Hands’, has responded to the Covid crisis and has been supplying firewood to graveyards for timely cremation. They have also been supplying medicine kits to different Covid centres. Besides, corporator Lokesh Piya distributed food kits to transgenders, who are facing difficulties during the Covid crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/these-companies-do-their-mite-during-covid-crisis-985949.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MP moots five-day lockdown in Hassan dist||MP Prajwal Revanna opined that the rising number of Covid cases can be controlled only if a five-day total lockdown is enforced in Hassan district. Speaking at an awareness programme here, on Friday, he said, "District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah, who had readily agreed for a three-day total lockdown, during a meeting recently, took a U-turn and cancelled the order, by evening, for the reasons best known to him." "Hassan is one of the districts which are reporting thousands of positive cases every day. Home isolation in rural areas is not yielding results. Residential schools and hostels in each taluk can be converted into Covid Care Centres to check the spread. The state government has failed miserably in tackling the pandemic," he opined. Last year, Covid positive patients, their primary and secondary contacts were immediately traced and isolated, which helped in controlling the spread and preventing deaths. But this year, the namesake lockdown is claiming several lives across the state. Around 15 people are succumbing to the infection in Hassan district every day, he said. "The government should be well-prepared to face at least the third wave and I am ready to extend cooperation to the district administration," Prajwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mp-moots-five-day-lockdown-in-hassan-dist-985950.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Eid, Basava Jayanti, a simple affair in Mysuru this year||Mysuru city and the region celebrated Eid-ul-Fitr (Ramzan), Basava Jayanti and Akshaya Tritiya on Friday in a simple manner, due to the Covid lockdown in force. As the state government has banned gatherings for mass prayers at mosques, Muslim community people conducted prayers at their respective houses and celebrated the festival with family members, following social distancing and by wearing masks. The mosques in the city wore a deserted look, as they were not open for prayers on the day. This is the second Ramzan, following last year, under the Covid crisis. As shops and markets were closed, as per the lockdown guidelines, there was no hectic buying for Ramzan this year also. Shops selling ready-made garments, footwear and fancy items do good business every year. But, business is affected badly for the second consecutive year. Basava Jayanti, the birth anniversary of social reformer Basavanna, the 12th-century saint and the founder of the Lingayat tradition, was also a simple affair. However, celebrations were held by garlanding of the statues and portraits of Basavanna. Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, who offered floral tributes to the statue of Basaveshwara in Mysuru, remembered the social reformer’s principle, ‘Work is Worship’ and called upon the people to follow his principles and offer selfless service, during the Covid crisis. Commenting on the recent attacks on medical staff, Somashekar said that they have been working tirelessly, to contain the spread of Covid. “The doctors, nurses and medical staff are working round-the-clock, offering selfless service, as said by Basavanna. This is the right time to pay tributes to their services and to honour them,” he said. MLA S A Ramadass, MLC A H Vishwanath, MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev and Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri were present. More than 700 jewellery shops in Mysuru city, that used to do roaring business on Akshaya Tritiya day, were closed due to the lockdown. The shops in other districts were also closed, due to lockdown. Heavy crowd used to throng jewellery marts on the day, to buy their share of gold and silver, as it is believed that buying precious metals during Akshaya Tritiya brings prosperity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eid-basava-jayanti-a-simple-affair-in-mysuru-this-year-985953.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Attack on KR hospital doctors condemned, action sought||The doctors of Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital and other hospitals in Mysuru, condemned the attack on the doctors and other staff in KR Hospital on Thursday night. They warned of abstaining from work if action is not taken against the offenders. A patient, aged 55 years from Ghousia Nagar was brought to KR Hospital on Wednesday, in a serious condition, with respiratory problem. The doctors asked the patient’s relatives to shift him to a different hospital, as there was no ICU bed or ventilator bed, available. However, the patient’s relatives declined to shift him. Thus, the doctors were treating the patients, by managing available resources. The patient succumbed to the infection on Friday night. The relatives were enraged by this and assaulted two doctors, two nurses and an ambulance driver. So, the hospital staff demanded action against the offenders and also protection against such attacks in future. It has to be recalled that doctors and other hospital staff were assaulted in the taluk government hospital in Gundlupet, Chamarajanagar district on Thursday. The relatives of a Covid patient, who succumbed to Covid, attacked the hospital staff and pelted stones at the building. They also used oxygen cylinders, to smash the doors and windows. Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the people should not attack doctors and hospital staff. “I have directed the officials concerned to take action against the offenders. I have directed the police commissioner to beef-up security at KR Hospital. The government has decided to appoint an additional dean to the Mysuru Medical College and Research Centre, the custodian of KR Hospital. The pressure on the present dean is more, due to the prevailing Covid crisis. Steps will be taken to avoid any untoward incident in hospitals,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/attack-on-kr-hospital-doctors-condemned-action-sought-985955.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hombale Films to donate funds for 50 ICU beds, oxygen units||Vijay Kiraganduru, film maker and managing director of Hombale Films of ‘KGF’ fame, has offered to donate funds for 50 ICU beds and two oxygen units with 50 MLP capacity in his native Mandya district. In an e-mail to the Deputy Commissioner, Vijay has requested the DC to accept the financial assistance. The mail read, with Covid cases on the rise, it is not possible for the government alone to provide all support for the treatment of patients. “The society should extend help and save the patients. Around Rs 2 crore will be offered for the medical facility,” the mail reads. Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi said that the funds will be utilised for Covid management. Kiraganduru village of Mandya taluk, is the native of Vijay. He established Hombale Films and is involved in production of several high budget films.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hombale-films-to-donate-funds-for-50-icu-beds-oxygen-units-985956.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Customers relieved as lockdown is relaxed in Kodagu||People purchased essential items in the town between 6 am and 7 am. As the rules were relaxed to permit the movement of vehicles, people heaved a sigh of relief. However, in order to felicitate smooth traffic, police personnel placed barricades at Ponnampet Circle, Bypass Road, Palibetta Road curve and near Umamaheshwar Temple. Grocery vendors said that allowing of vehicles to the market helped people a lot and there was good business as well. RMC premises, Bypass Road and playground of the Government Primary School, were identified for the sale of vegetables. People who purchased food grains from the fair price shops, carried items in auto rickshaws. However, there were long queues in front of the fair price shops since morning. Ration card holders Mahesh, Pemmaiah and Gangamma have urged to discontinue the bio-metric system. The card holders are required to provide their thumb impression to avail ration. But as the machine is used by many people, it is not safe, they said. In Suntikoppa too, people formed beelines in front of the fair price shops. Many people waited in queue from 6 am at the fair price shop on the Suntikoppa Main Road. Pump House resident Geetha said that the fair price shop owner has asked the people to come early. But the shopkeeper himself turned up late. The people were tired waiting. The ration items are usually not given on time and we are asked to come some other day. This has resulted in long queues, she said. As there were no auto rickshaws after 10 am, women and elderly persons were seen carrying the ration items towards their homes with much difficulty. Mysuru SP visits check post Superintendent of Police, Mysuru, C B Rishyanth paid a visit to the check post in Kodagu-Mysuru border at Kushalnagar on Thursday and carried out an inspection. He said farmers in the bordering areas such as Koppa, are issued with passes to transport their agricultural produce to Mysuru. The farmers may cross the check post by showing their land record. “Also, there are no restrictions on goods vehicles. However, the check post personnel have been asked to keep an eye on all private vehicles. It will be seen to it that the medical personnel do not face any inconvenience in the district border.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/customers-relieved-as-lockdown-is-relaxed-in-kodagu-986038.html
14-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||'DK received 30 ventilators under PM Cares Fund'||State president of BJP and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel urged Congress to stop playing petty politics and encourage people to take precautionary steps to contain the spread of Covid-19. Speaking to media persons at Circuit House on Friday, Kateel said that BJP’s help centre set up to face second wave of Covid-19 had received 2,000 phone calls. The helpline had provided 100 ambulance services and 70 people were admitted to hospitals. As many as 433 medical kits were distributed, ICU and ventilator services were arranged for 42 patients and 34 Covid-19 victims were given a dignified cremation. “As many as 1,15,662 persons had received first dose of vaccination and 39,548 people had received second dose in the district in above 60 years category. As many as 1,14,287 have received the first dose of vaccination and 12,419 had received second dose of vaccination in the age bracket of 45 years to 59 years. 1,802 people have received the first dose of vaccination in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years,” he said. The district received 30 ventilators under PM Cares Fund, 24 ventilators from donors and 32 ventilators from government. The ventilators have been increased from 12 to 86. From the MPLAD fund, Rs 2.5 crore was sanctioned to district administration. I urged chief minister to allot 100 ventilators and 40 ventilators have been sanctioned, he said. Kateel said when government announced vaccination for below 45 years, the opposition had criticised resulting in needless confusion among people. “Instead of politicising the situation, the Opposition should cooperate to tackle the situation,” he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dk-received-30-ventilators-under-pm-cares-fund-986053.html
14-05-2021||National||How India can survive the novel coronavirus||By Shahid Jameel As of Tuesday, India had over 23 million reported cases of Covid-19 and more than 2,54,000 deaths. The real numbers may be much higher, as the country reported an average of more than 3,80,000 new cases per day in the past week. As a virologist, I have closely followed the outbreak and vaccine development over the past year. I also chair the Scientific Advisory Group for the Indian SARS-CoV2 Consortium on Genomics, set up by the Indian government in January as a grouping of national laboratories that use genetic sequencing to track the emergence and circulation of viral variants. My observations are that more infectious variants have been spreading, and to mitigate future waves, India should vaccinate with far more than the two million daily doses now. In India, the virus was mutating around the new year to become more infectious, more transmissible and better able to evade pre-existing immunity. Sequencing data now tells us that two variants that fueled the second wave are B.1.617, first found in India in December, which spread through mass events; and B.1.1.7, first identified in Britain, which arrived in India with international travellers starting in January. The B.1.617 variant has now become the most widespread in India. On Monday, the World Health Organization designated B.1.617 a variant of concern. When tested in hamsters, which are reasonable models for human infection and disease, B.1.617 produced higher amounts of virus and more lung lesions compared with the parent B.1 virus. Global data shows the B.1.617 variant to be diversifying into three sub-lineages. In a preliminary report posted on Sunday, British and Indian scientists found the B.1.617.2 variant in vaccine breakthrough infections in a Delhi hospital. On Monday, American researchers reported the B.1.617.1 variant to be neutralized with reduced efficiency by serums from recovered Covid-19 patients and those vaccinated with the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. Indian researchers reported similar findings in a preliminary report on April 23. With these variants circulating through India’s still mostly unvaccinated population, public health officials here are trying to determine when the second wave might peak, how big it will be and when it will end. The estimates vary widely. The Supermodel Group, preferred by the Indian government, estimated cases to have peaked at about 3,80,000 cases per day in the first week of May. The simulation model by the Indian Scientists Response to Covid-19, a voluntary group of scientists, predicts that daily cases will reach a peak sometime in mid-May, but it forecasts a much higher peak, about 50,0000 to 60,0000 daily cases. The Cov-Ind-19 Study Group at the University of Michigan predicts a peak by mid-May with about 8,00,000 to one million daily cases. All models predict India’s second wave to last until July or August, ending with about 35 million confirmed cases and possibly 500 million estimated infections. That would still leave millions of susceptible people in India. The timing and scale of the third wave would depend on the proportion of vaccinated people, whether newer variants emerge and whether India can avoid additional superspreader events, like large weddings and religious festivals. What worries me is that we may not even be able to measure the peak cases accurately. Data show that testing is increasing at a far slower rate than cases. In this scenario, numbers will reach a plateau — not because case numbers have stopped rising but because testing capacity will be tapped out. The national average test positivity rate is over 22 percent, but several states have rates that are, alarmingly, even higher — including Goa at 46.3 percent and Uttarakhand, which hosted the Kumbh festival, at 36.5 percent. “India will have a manufactured peak of about 500,000 daily cases by mid-May,” argued Rijo M. John, a health economist. Vaccines remain one of the most effective public health tools, and vaccination with speed is shown to significantly reduce the spread of the novel coronavirus. India started its vaccination drive in mid-January with a sensible plan to vaccinate 300 million people in phases — health care workers, frontline workers and then people above 60 years of age or above 45 years with comorbidities. And as a leading supplier of vaccines worldwide — India supplies about 40 percent of all the world’s vaccines — two Indian companies, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, were well-positioned to execute. But by mid-March only 15 million doses had been delivered, covering a mere 1 percent of India’s population. The vaccination drive was hobbled by messages from Indian leadership that the country had conquered the virus and by news from Europe associating fatal blood clots with the AstraZeneca vaccine, which remains the mainstay of India’s vaccination rollout. When the second wave arrived, only 33 million people, about 2.4 percent of the population, had received one dose and seven million people had received both doses. On May 1, vaccination opened for everyone older than 18 years, but many states have reported shortages and the pace of vaccination has slowed down. Local supplies are expected to stabilize by July, but their low penetration cannot reverse the current wave of infection and death in India. Covid-19 vaccines mitigate disease, but they may not prevent infection, especially when transmission rates are as high as they are now. Though good data is lacking, variant viruses with evasion potential may also have a role in “breakthrough” infections in vaccinated people. The immediate need is to reduce spread by increased testing and isolation of people who test positive. Several Indian states are under lockdown. This would “flatten the curve,” allowing health care facilities and supplies to regroup. Rapidly enhancing the health care infrastructure will also save lives. India should increase available hospital beds by setting up temporary facilities, mobilize retired doctors and nurses, and strengthen the supply chain for critical medicines and oxygen. At the same time, India cannot allow the pace of vaccinations to slow. It must vaccinate at scale now, aiming to deliver 7.5 million to 10 million doses every day. This will require enhancing vaccine supplies and doubling delivery points. There are only about 50,000 sites where Indians can get vaccines right now; we need many more. Since only 3 percent of these delivery points are in the private sector, this is where capacity can be added. All of these measures have wide support among my fellow scientists in India. But they are facing stubborn resistance to evidence-based policymaking. On April 30, over 800 Indian scientists appealed to the prime minister, demanding access to the data that could help them further study, predict and curb this virus. Decision-making based on data is yet another casualty, as the pandemic in India has spun out of control. The human cost we are enduring will leave a permanent scar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-india-can-survive-the-novel-coronavirus-985646.html
14-05-2021||National||Elgar Parishad accused Hany Babu suffering from Covid-19, family says||Delhi University assistant professor Hany Babu, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, tested positive for coronavirus infection on Thursday, his family said. Babu was taken to government-run JJ Hospital here on Wednesday night from prison, the family said in a statement. "About 7.30 pm (on Thursday), when Hany's mother arrived at the hospital to meet her son, she was informed by a nurse that Hany has tested Covid Positive. We are yet to receive any official information," it said. He should be shifted from JJ Hospital to a multi-speciality hospital where he can be treated for Covid-19 as well his eye infection, it added. Earlier, his family had said that Babu, lodged at Taloja Prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, was suffering from acute eye infection and should get proper treatment. Babu was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in July 2020. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon- Bhima war memorial. Pune Police claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. Later, the case was taken over by the NIA. Several other activists including Sudha Bharadwaj and Varavara Rao were arrested in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-parishad-accused-hany-babu-suffering-from-covid-19-family-says-985662.html
14-05-2021||National||Centre says it'll provide assistance to all companies willing to manufacture vaccines||Amid a political war of words between the Centre and the Delhi government over the availability of sufficient vaccines to inoculate all adults in the national capital, the central government on Thursday said it will provide all possible assistance to all companies willing to manufacture the vaccine to ramp up the supply. It, however, flagged the non-availability of a sophisticated laboratory with most vaccine makers that is necessary to produce the indigenously developed Covaxin jab. The Centre also rejected Delhi government's claim that Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech has refused to provide "additional" vaccine doses to the Delhi government, saying the national capital has received over 15 lakh doses of the vaccine and its role is to facilitate the states. On Tuesday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had alleged the Covaxin manufacturer in a letter said it cannot provide the Delhi government vaccines due to unavailability, under instruction of government officials concerned. "It means that the central government is controlling supply of the vaccine," Sisodia, who is a senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, had said. Addressing a briefing of the Union Health Ministry, Niti Aayog Member (Health), V K Paul said Government of India's role is to facilitate. "We refute (the charge) that there is any pressure on anybody not to supply to any particular state," he said, adding that such charges affect the morale of vaccine manufacturers. "It is because of them that we are in the position of not asking others (countries for vaccines)," Paul said. He said Bharat Biotech is also ramping up its capacity and has already roped in three public sector undertakings. Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the Centre should share the vaccine formula of Covaxin and Covishield with other capable pharmaceutical companies to scale up production in the country. On increasing production of Covaxin, Paul said Bharat Biotech has already welcomed the move of ramping up production of doses by involving other players. "They also reached out and under this initiative, our PSUs have been connected to this process," he said. Last month, the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), under Mission COVID Suraksha, spelt out a plan to ramp up production of Covaxin and double it by May-June by roping in three public sector companies (PSUs). The PSUs are Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Mumbai, a PSU under the Maharashtra government; Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL), Hyderabad, a facility under National Dairy Development Board; and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited, Bulandshahr, a PSU of the Department of Biotechnology, to increase the capacity of vaccine production. "The current production capacity of indigenously developed Covaxin will be doubled by May-June 2021 and then increased nearly 6-7 fold by July-August 2021, i.e. increasing the production from 1 crore vaccine doses in April 2021 to 6-7 crore vaccine dose/month in July–August. It is expected to reach nearly 10 crore doses per month by September 2021," the DBT had said. Reacting to this, Kejriwal on Thursday tweeted, "A very welcome step by central government. It will help in ramping up production." "I also urge the Centre to directly procure vaccines from foreign companies rather than each state bidding against each other in international market," he tweeted. Giving details about Covaxin, Paul said that it is made by inactivating a live virus. "This happens only in the BSL3 (Biosafety Laboratory-3) laboratory which is very sophisticated. Such laboratories are mostly not there in other companies. It is not something that every company has. Those companies who want to do this, we give an open invitation and we have already reached out from our side to make it together," he said. "Still our request is, those who want to make this vaccine, the government will provide full assistance to ramp up the capacity," Paul said. During the briefing, Paul said that 75,000 Covaxin doses have been given to Delhi in May. "In January-May, 13,91,000 Covaxin doses were received by Delhi. The state has procured 1 lakh doses, while private (institutions) have got 20,000 doses," he said. According to the vaccine bulletin issued by the Delhi government, the Centre has provided 13,91,000 doses of vaccine to the Delhi government and it has procured 1,50,000 doses from Bharat Biotech. So far, it has received 43,20,490 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. Following the allegations levelled by the Delhi government, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal had denied that the Centre had any role to play in the purchase of vaccines by states. Bharat Biotech on Wednesday had said it is quite disheartening to listen to some states complaining about the company's intentions regarding supply of Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-itll-provide-assistance-to-all-companies-willing-to-manufacture-vaccines-985690.html
14-05-2021||National||DH Toon | GOI's site for Florence Nightingale statue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had expressed gratitude for the nursing staff, who were at the forefront in the fight against the Covid-19. International Nurses Day is observed to mark the birth anniversary of the founder of modern nursing Florence Nightingale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-gois-site-for-florence-nightingale-statue-985698.html
14-05-2021||National||Indian-Americans have been pillar of support in fight against Covid-19: Ambassador Sandhu||Indian-Americans have been a pillar of support for India in its fight against Covid-19, Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu said here. Sandhu, India’s Ambassador to the US, held a virtual interaction with some of the prominent Indian-American leaders from across the country on Thursday, during which he appreciated their overwhelming support. “Interacted with Indian American community leaders across the US this afternoon. Diaspora in the US has been a strong pillar of support in our fight against the pandemic. Appreciate their efforts,” Sandhu said in a tweet later. The outpour of assistance demonstrates the strength of the India-US partnership, he noted, and briefed the representatives about India’s immediate requirements in the fight against the pandemic. The Ambassador assured that the embassy and the consulates remain fully committed in facilitating and channelising the community’s offers of assistance. Several leaders of the community spoke during the interaction, outlining their efforts to contribute to the ongoing efforts in all possible manner. Indian-American organisations have raised millions of dollars for Covid-19 assistance to India — the American India Foundation has raised $25 million, Sewa International USA $17 million and Indiaspora $ 2.5 million, among others. The Dallas-based US India Chamber of Commerce on Thursday shipped 115 ventilators and 800 oxygen concentrators. It has so far raised $1.2 million. "The situation in India is catastrophic, however, India and the people of India are resilient and will see better days with the support of all of us," the chamber's founding president, Ashok Mago, said at the virtual meeting with Sandhu. Tennessee-based eminent Indian-American cardiologist Dr Indranil Basu Rau has helped send 250 co-ventilators to India. The next batch of 660 more such ventilators is getting ready to be shipped, he said. Sewa International has spent more than $6 million in the last 15 days to procure lifesaving equipment such as oxygen concentrators, ventilators, BiPap, and CPAP machines as part of its 'Help India Defeat Covid-19' campaign. "We got a phenomenal response from all Americans to our 'Help India Defeat Covid-19 campaign'. Many corporations, hospitals, and community organisations are calling us to offer help. Sewa volunteers are working hard to connect the dots," Sewa International president Arun Kankani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-americans-have-been-pillar-of-support-in-fight-against-covid-19-ambassador-sandhu-985701.html
14-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 14||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections in India was at 3,43,144 on Friday. This takes the country's total caseload to 24,036,067 according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. India’s ongoing vaccine crisis is likely to continue for at least another three months with the Union Health Ministry hoping for a turn-around on the supply front from August, top officials said on Thursday. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 24,036,067 as of May 14, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  262,317  as of May 14, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged:  2,00,79,599 Total Vaccination: 17,92,98,584 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-14-985704.html
14-05-2021||National||4,000 single-day Covid deaths for third day in a row; 3.43 lakh new infections||With 4,000 single-day coronavirus deaths, India's daily fatalities were 4,000 and above for the third day in a row on Friday. The country reported 3,43,144 new Covid-19 cases. Over 3.44 lakh people recuperated from the disease in the last 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data showed. India's active cases are now above 37 lakh. So far, the nation has seen over 2.40 crore infections since the beginning of the pandemic and over 2 crore people have recovered from the diseease so far. The active cases have reduced to 37,04,893 comprising 15.41 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.50 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.     The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,00,79,599, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR,  31,13,24,100 samples have been tested up to May 13 with 18,75,515 samples being tested on Thursday. The 4,000 new fatalities include 850 from Maharashtra, 344 from Karnataka, 308 from Delhi, 297 from Tamil Nadu, 277 from Uttar Pradesh, 186 from Punjab, 195 from Chhattisgarh, 163 from Haryana, 159 from Rajasthan, 129 from West Bengal, 122 from Uttarakhand, 109 from Gujarat and 108 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,62,317 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 78,857 from Maharashtra, 20,712 from Karnataka, 20,618 from Delhi, 16,768 from Tamil Nadu, 16,646  from Uttar Pradesh, 12,857 from West Bengal, 11,297 from Punjab and 11,289, from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4000-single-day-covid-deaths-for-third-day-in-a-row-343-lakh-new-infections-985709.html
14-05-2021||National||First Australian Covid-19 repatriation flight from India to arrive May 15||The first repatriation flight for Australians from Covid-ravaged India will arrive in the Northern Territory on Saturday after the lifting of a two-week travel ban, officials said. The flight will carry up to 150 citizens and permanent residents who will be required to spend two weeks in quarantine at a converted mining camp in remote Howard Springs, a Northern Territory health department spokeswoman said on Friday. Canberra banned all travellers from India, including its own citizens, from entering Australia for two weeks until May 15 and said offenders could face jail, drawing criticism from some lawmakers, expatriates and the Indian diaspora. The government aims to more than double capacity at Howard Springs, 25 kms (16 miles) southeast of Darwin, to 2,000 passengers every two weeks from June. There are about 9,000 Australian citizens and permanent residents in India seeking flights home. Two further Royal Australian Air Force repatriation flights to the Northern Territory are scheduled this month, and authorities plan to repatriate about 1,000 people by the end of June. Vulnerable people will be given priority. India has reported more than 300,000 daily cases for the last three weeks, overwhelming its health system. Australia closed its international borders in March 2020 to all but citizens and permanent residents. Most returning travellers, except those from New Zealand, have had to quarantine in hotels for two weeks at their own expense. This system has largely helped Australia keep its Covid-19 numbers relatively low, with just over 29,950 cases and 910 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-australian-covid-19-repatriation-flight-from-india-to-arrive-may-15-985710.html
14-05-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices at record high, increased for the eighth time this month||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday touched record high levels across the country after rates were increased for the fourth time this week. Petrol price was hiked by 29 paise per litre and diesel by 34 paise a litre, according to a price notification by state-owned fuel retailers. The increase propelled rates in Delhi to climb to an all-time high of Rs 92.34 a litre for petrol and Rs 82.95 per litre for diesel. Rates had already crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and with the latest increase, prices in Mumbai too were inching towards that level. A litre of petrol in Mumbai now comes for Rs 98.65 and diesel is priced at Rs 90.11 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh. This was the fourth increase in prices this week and eighth hike since May 4, when the state-owned oil firms ended an 18-hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan had the costliest petrol and diesel in the country at Rs 103.27 per litre and Rs 95.70 a litre respectively. In eight increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 1.95 per litre and diesel by Rs 2.22. Since March last year when the government raised excise duty on fuel to an all-time high, petrol price has increased by a record Rs 22.75 per litre (after accounting for a handful of occasions when rates fell) and diesel by Rs 20.66. Oil companies, who have in recent months resorted to unexplained freeze in rate revision, had hit a pause button after cutting prices marginally on April 15. This coincided with electioneering hitting a peak to elect new governments in five states including West Bengal. No sooner had voting ended, oil companies indicated an impending increase in retail prices in view of firming trends in international oil markets. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 on diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-at-record-high-increased-for-the-eighth-time-this-month-985717.html
14-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Here's all you need to know about India’s new vaccine by Biological E||India is all set to welcome its second indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company, Biological E, has got approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to start phase three trials of their vaccine. The company expects to start producing 75-80 million doses every month from August 2021. The vaccines will be made available at a very affordable price. What is this new vaccine? Biological E is collaborating with Baylor College of Medicine, Texas, in making this vaccine. This vaccine uses recombinant-protein technology, in which a harmless agent is sent to the human body to stimulate an immune response in cells. It is a two-dose vaccine that has to be taken 28 days apart. What were Phase 1 and Phase 2 trial results? Phase one and two trials were conducted on 360 healthy individuals between 18 and 65 years of age. The trials helped in evaluating the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine. The company is receiving support from The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) in all three trials of this vaccine. When will the vaccine be ready? Currently, the company is preparing for the phase three trial of this vaccine. They are set to test it on 1,268 healthy candidates within the age group of 18-80 years in 15 different centres across the country. It will help in understanding the efficacy rate of the vaccine. Datla has also mentioned that they would like to apply for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the drug based on government advice. How is this vaccine priced? Dr Maria Elena Bottazi, associate dean, National School of Tropical Medicine (NSTM) at Texas-based Baylor College of Medicine, which is collaborating with Biological E on this vaccine, said this vaccine has a hepatitis B vaccine-like model and uses traditional technology for production. She also said it is cheap to produce at only about $1.5 (Rs 110 approx) per dose. Datla also reiterated that this vaccine is going to be affordable. India has been rolling out Covaxin and Covishield vaccines at Rs 1,200-Rs 1500 and Rs 700-Rs 900, respectively. However, with the country facing a massive vaccine crunch, the central government has given emergency approval to Russia’s Sputnik V, priced at $10 per shot globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-heres-all-you-need-to-know-about-india-s-new-vaccine-by-biological-e-985719.html
14-05-2021||National||PM Modi extends greetings on Akshaya Tritiya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted people on the auspicious occasion of Akshaya Tritiya. "May this festival associated with fulfilling auspicious works strengthen our resolve to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic," he tweeted. Modi also greeted people on the occasion of Lord Parshuram's birth anniversary. सभी देशवासियों को अक्षय तृतीया की मंगलकामनाएं। शुभ कार्यों की सिद्धि से जुड़ा यह पावन पर्व कोरोना महामारी पर विजय के हमारे संकल्प को साकार करने की शक्ति प्रदान करे।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-akshaya-tritiya-985724.html
14-05-2021||National||Imported Sputnik V doses to cost Rs 995.40, Dr Reddy's administers first jab in Hyderabad||The very first dose of the Sputnik V vaccine was administered in the country on Friday, as part of a pilot launch in Hyderabad. Dr Reddy's Laboratories, manager of the Russian made Covid-19 vaccine in India, has announced that the imported doses are priced at an MRP of Rs 948 + 5 % GST -- totalling to about Rs 995 per dose, “with the possibility of a lower price point when local supply begins.” The pharma major said that it is “working closely with its six manufacturing partners in India to fulfil the regulatory requirements and to ensure a smooth and timely supply of the vaccines.” Hetero, Virchow, Panacea, Gland, Stellis, Shilpa are the six production sites in India identified earlier, where the Sputnik V production is expected to commence in the second half of 2021. The two dose vaccine, found to be displaying 91.6 per cent efficacy against Covid-19 infection as per an article in The Lancet, was approved for emergency use in India by the Drugs Controller General of India in April, amid the massive surge in the second wave cases and shortage of Covishied and Covaxin vaccines. The Hyderabad based company is in an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund to supply 250 million imported doses in India. As per the deal in September 2020, DRL also undertook the Phase-2 and 3 trials of Sputnik-V in India, on 1600 volunteers. The first dose now is part of the first consignment of 1.5 lakh Sputnik V doses received by DRL on May 1. The consignment received the regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli on Thursday. “As part of a limited pilot, the soft launch of the vaccine has commenced and the first dose of the vaccine was administered in Hyderabad on Friday. Further consignments of the imported doses are expected over the coming months,” DRL said in a statement. Dr Reddy’s said it “will work closely with the government and private sector in India to ensure the widest possible reach of the Sputnik V vaccine as part of the national inoculation effort.” “With the rising cases in India, vaccination is the most effective tool in our battle against Covid-19. Contributing to the vaccination drive in India is our biggest priority right now to help Indians be healthy and safe,” said G V Prasad, Co-Chairman and Managing Director.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imported-sputnik-v-doses-to-cost-rs-99540-dr-reddys-administers-first-jab-in-hyderabad-985733.html
14-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Govt use of country-specific variant names betrays 'Indian variant' outrage||Despite its calls to clamp down on the use of the term “Indian variant” for the highly infectious B.1.617 variant of the Covid-19 virus, first discovered in the country, the Government of India has itself peppered press releases linking variants with the names of other countries of origin. A review of press releases from earlier this year shows that the government’s Press Information Bureau (PIB) had repeatedly referred to other “variants of concern” as the UK, South Africa and Brazil variants. The government’s displeasure with media houses may rely on naming conventions established by the World Health Organisation (WHO) that aim at fending off social stigmatisation and racial targeting, but the public press releases underline its own inconsistencies in adhering to the guidelines before the B.1.617 was widely referred to as the “Indian variant” in domestic and international media. The WHO, in a recent risk assessment, chalked the massive second wave in the country up to several contributing factors, including fast-spreading new variants and large religious and political mass gatherings, for which the government has come under fire domestically as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-govt-use-of-country-specific-variant-names-betrays-indian-variant-outrage-985742.html
14-05-2021||National||Vaccine lottery: States grapple with how to share Covid-19 jabs||Arjun Kumar was wary about getting a Covid-19 vaccine until India's deadly second wave reached villages near his home in the eastern state of Odisha. Now, like thousands of others scrambling to book a vaccine appointment across the country, his chances of finding one hinge on who different state governments think should be given first priority on limited supplies. "Initially I wasn't planning to take the vaccination because people said you could die or get a fever. But now there is death all around, I'm scared," Kumar, 30, a teacher, said by phone from his home in Nadarpur village. Alarmed by television coverage of the nationwide crisis and reports about deaths closer to home, Kumar has tried in vain to book a vaccine appointment repeatedly over the last two weeks, both in person and using an online registration system. "Getting this vaccine seems like a matter of chance," said Kumar, who became eligible for the jab on May 1, when India opened vaccination for all adults. India recorded more than 4,000 Covid-19 deaths for a second straight day on Thursday, bringing the total close to 250,000, as a surge in cases overwhelms hospitals in the country of 1.35 billion people. Cases have exceeded 22 million, though health experts say actual numbers could be five to 10 times higher, fueling calls for swifter progress on the vaccine roll-out. India is a major producer of Covid-19 vaccines, but by Monday it had fully vaccinated only 34.8 million people - about 2.5% of the population, government data shows. About 130 million have had at least a first dose, offering some protection. Everyone aged 45 or over is eligible for a free vaccine dose from federal government supplies, with state governments responsible for allocating their own stocks to people aged from 18 to 44. But as supplies lag far behind soaring demand, state authorities are having to make difficult decisions on how to distribute the few doses they have available. The federal government's health ministry said on Thursday it was "consistently and proactively working to secure and enhance the availability of vaccines", adding that a new national strategy would ensure wider availability across the country. 'Poorest of the poor' In some states, allocation policies are proving controversial. In the state of Chhattisgarh, authorities faced a legal challenge for opting to give top priority to "the poorest of the poor" on the grounds they were the most vulnerable, with limited access to health services or benefits such as sick pay. "In view of the limited supply of vaccines, this was done to ensure equity and social justice," Priyanka Shukla, director of the National Health Mission in Chhattisgarh, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. After frontline health workers, next in line were low-income and marginalised groups including indigenous groups, single and widowed women, the homeless and former bonded labourers. But a court rejected the state government's argument last week following a challenge by a group of residents, and people living above the poverty line will now also be eligible in the first phase. India announced in April that vaccine makers authorised by the federal government would be able to directly sell 50% of their stock to state administrations and private hospitals in an effort to boost the vaccination drive across the country. But data collected from the health departments of five states and collated by the Thomson Reuters Foundation showed that the supply of vaccines was not meeting even half of the demand from health departments. In Maharashtra, one of the states worst affected by the second wave, of the 120 million doses needed to cover the 18 to 44 age group, only about 1.1 million have been received. Officials in the state, which is home to the financial hub of Mumbai, are considering importing vaccines from overseas to plug the gap. Several other states have made similar announcements. In Chhattisgarh and the northeastern state of Assam, only a small fraction of the millions of required doses have arrived. In contrast to Chhattisgarh's move to prioritise the poor along with essential workers, Assam's government has given top priority to frontline public sector workers including health sector employees and police, as well as people with chronic diseases or disabilities. Health officials in the states said they were awaiting additional stocks and would determine targets for priority groups and vaccination rates according to available supplies. "Exact (delivery) dates are not known. Everything depends on the availability," said Bijay Panigrahi, in-charge of the immunisation drive in Odisha, which has also received only a small number of the doses it needs. 'Not Fair' The shortages and disparities in state immunisation policies have triggered demands from rights campaigners for authorities to ensure vulnerable groups get fair access. "Prioritising the marginalised is essential because they inherently have poor health, poor documentation and poor access," said Edwin, who uses one name and is the trustee of the charity Human Rights Advocacy and Research Foundation (HRF). Migrant workers are among those at risk of discrimination as some states give priority to their own residents, he said. Online registration could also lead to inequalities in vaccine access around the country and between different groups, campaigners said. Many poor Indians do not have biometric identification cards that are often required to access public services, including vaccination registration - allowing those who do to jump the vaccine queue. In some instances, residents from the cities of Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad have booked slots in rural health centres, driving out into the countryside to get their shots, according to local media reports. "It's not fair because the stocks are meant for villagers," said Sandeep Jathar, a rural development official from Mulshi village in Maharashtra, which has seen an influx of residents from Pune at rural health centres. He said local officials were helping villagers register online to ensure they were not pushed to the back of the line. "It's like stealing a shot meant for someone else, but since slots are allotted online, there's not much we can do. Also, everyone is scared and it doesn't seem right to deny anyone a vaccine."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-lottery-states-grapple-with-how-to-share-covid-19-jabs-985743.html
14-05-2021||National||Indus App Bazaar curates apps to keep people informed, prepared during pandemic, lockdown ||At a time when India faces multiple issues in wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Indus App Bazaar has curated a special category that helps out people during the pandemic. Indus App Bazaar is a home-grown app-content-discovery platform that helps smartphone users consume apps and content in the language of their choice, and has curated ‘Covid-19 Resources’ to equip people with the right information around solutions to tackle the ongoing pandemic. The category includes apps like 1 mg, Practo, BigBasket, Country Delight, Bajaj Finserv Health, and Paytm, to name a few. “India is grappling with Covid-19 and we wanted to make the discovery of use apps extremely easy. This curation has been done with the needs of Indians who are staying at home. This is especially useful for Indians who require assistance to go digital,” said Suniva Rawat, AVP, Marketing, Indus App Bazaar Indus App Bazaar has also localised several government apps. “We have apps available in 12 languages,” she said. “During the pandemic, people constantly lookout for solutions around health, finance, and essentials – the three key elements for sustenance. These are trying times for everyone, we believe that humanity can serve as one of the greatest tools to weather this crisis. The availability of curated apps underlines the brand’s commitment to supporting people and helping them sail through the black swan event using the power of apps,” Rawat said. Founded by three IITians, Rakesh Deshmukh, Akash Dongre, and Sudhir Bangarambandi in 2015, the company operates a full-fledged Android app store, known as Indus App Bazaar, which aims to cater to the next billion users with personalisation, simplification, and localisation. "We are informing people about the initiatives that are taken by various Apps like Truly Madly for plasma donor match, Zomato for priority deliveries and Paytm for donation drive," she said. Besides, she pointed out that Indus App Bazaar has onboarded and localised official government Apps like Aarogya Setu, Co-Win and those of various state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indus-app-bazaar-curates-apps-to-keep-people-informed-prepared-during-pandemic-lockdown-985764.html
14-05-2021||National||No decision yet on pending class 12 board exams, says CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Friday that it has not taken any decision yet on class 12 board exams even as a section of students and parents have been demanding cancellation of exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. "It is clarified that no such decision (cancellation of exams) has been taken regarding class 12 board examination, as being speculated. Any decision taken in this matter will be officially communicated to the public," a senior CBSE official said. The official was responding to a question about possibility of cancellation of class 12 board exams following demands by section of students and parents who have expressed concern over the Covid-19 pandemic situation. The board had on April 14 announced cancellation of class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The exams, which are usually conducted in February-March every year were scheduled to be held from May 4. "The class 12 exams have been postponed and a review of the situation will be done after June 1. Students will be given at least a 15-day notice before the exams are conducted," a board official had then said. The CBSE had earlier this month announced the marking policy for class 10 board exams. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of Covid-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes were again suspended because of the rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme. With 3.43 lakh people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 2,40,46,809, while the death toll rose to 2,62,317 with 4,000 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-decision-yet-on-pending-class-12-board-exams-says-cbse-985765.html
14-05-2021||National||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray meets Chief Justice Dipankar Datta at Bombay HC||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday paid a visit to Chief Justice Dipankar Datta at the Bombay High Court, officials said. According to officials, it was a courtesy visit and Thackeray and the Chief Justice meet each other once every two or three months. The meeting lasted for around an hour, they said. Chief Justice Datta will be hearing matters pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic throughout the summer vacation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-meets-chief-justice-dipankar-datta-at-bombay-hc-985775.html
14-05-2021||National||13 more Covid-19 patients die at top Goa hospital; toll reaches 75 in four days||The spectre of death loomed large for the fourth day in a row in the Covid wards of Goa's premier government hospital, the Goa Medical College, with 15 patients succumbing due to oxygen shortage in the early hours of Friday. The death toll at the apex health facility over the last four days has now reached 75, with nearly all the patients dying between 2 am and 6 am due to the inability of the health administration to provide them with an uninterrupted oxygen supply during the early hours. The Opposition on Friday demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, even as Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari conducted a virtual review of the Covid situation in the state. "The candid admission that there is a deficit of oxygen supply by the BJP government in Goa shows that it is irresponsible, insensitive and run by an incompetent and defective Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Viswajit Rane. It is tragic that so many innocent lives were lost just because of a tussle between CM and HM over corruption at a time of monumental health crisis," state Congress president Girish Chodankar said. Chodankar was referring to the running feud between Rane and Sawant over control of Goa's Covid management apparatus, in which Union Home Minister Amit Shah had to intervene telephonically on Thursday, to sort out differences between the top two Ministers. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat also demanded that the kin of the deceased should be compensated by the Goa government, which he said was responsible for the shoddy treatment. "With @BJP4Goa Government clearly admitting of Deaths in GMC due to gross negligence, @goacm must own the responsibility & immediately announce substantial compensation to the families of those patients who were murdered by Government apathy & blunder. @INCGoa #OxygenCrisis," he tweeted. The deaths have occurred, despite the severe admonition of the state government by the Bombay High Court, which has made attempts to supervise and streamline oxygen management at the top hospital. In wake of the deaths, the Goa government has appointed a committee headed by Director of the Indian Institute of Technology-Goa Dr BK Mishra to suggest measures for initiating correctives to the oxygen management systems at the premier institute. Another Opposition MLA Vijai Sardesai said that if the Bombay High Court has to intervene to set issues like oxygen supply right, then the Goa government has simply failed in its duties. "There is a complete collapse of governance. In spite of HC intervention, deaths are happening at this dark hour. More than the government, the HC should rule Goa, because the government is doing nothing other than photo ops and filing cases against those who expose them," Sardesai claimed. Amid the increasing death count, Goa Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari also conducted a virtual meeting with the Chief Minister and Health Minister and updated himself about the steps taken by the government to manage the Covid situation. "Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari today reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Goa during his meeting with Goa Chief Minister Dr Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajeet Rane held online. The Governor enquired about vaccination planning, oxygen supply, awareness, testing, involvement of university students and volunteers and other relevant issues," the Governor's House tweeted. So far, 1,998 persons have died in Goa due to Covid-19 related complications since last year. Friday's cumulative Covid death count in Goa's hospitals stands at 61.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-more-covid-19-patients-die-at-top-goa-hospital-toll-reaches-75-in-four-days-985776.html
14-05-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi asks govt to make vaccine purchase, distribution centralised||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at the government's vaccine policy, saying it is compounding problems and demanded that the vaccine purchase should be centralised and distribution decentralised. "GOI's vaccine policy is compounding the problem. Vaccine purchase should be centralised and distribution decentralised.India cannot afford this," he said on Twitter. GOI’s vaccine policy is compounding the problem. Vaccine purchase should be centralised and distribution decentralised. India cannot afford this. Congress has been demanding free vaccination for all and has criticised the government's vaccine policy, saying it is discriminatory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-asks-govt-to-make-vaccine-purchase-distribution-centralised-985780.html
14-05-2021||National||Kejriwal, Sisodia condole demise of former AAP MLA Jarnail Singh||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia on Friday condoled the demise of former AAP MLA Jarnail Singh. "Deeply saddened by the untimely demise of former Delhi MLA Sh Jarnail Singh ji. May God bless his soul. He will always be fondly remembered for his contributions to society," Kejriwal said in a tweet. Sisodia remembered Singh as someone who fought for justice for the victims of 1984 anti-Sikh riots. "The news about the demise of Jarnail Singh, a former colleague in Delhi Assembly is extremely sad. A voice which fought for justice for the victims of 1984 genocide has left us," he said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-sisodia-condole-demise-of-former-aap-mla-jarnail-singh-985782.html
14-05-2021||National||Shallow graves and bodies in the river: Covid-19 hits India's villages||Coronavirus is raging in India's hinterland, where in some places bodies are being buried in shallow graves or given up to rivers and the sick have little hope other than herbal remedies and amateur doctors. Kidwai Ahmad, from Sadullahpur village in Uttar Pradesh, a huge northern state, said the situation is "disastrous" with people dying all around his neighbourhood. "There is so much poverty all around that people can't even afford decent cremations. They often tie big stones to the bodies and throw them in the river," he told AFP by phone. "Others don't even bother with that and just throw the bodies in as they are. It has become common practice here," he added. "Some are just burying their dead in shallow graves and not even waiting to see if crows or dogs feed on them." In the past month no medical team has visited the village. The sick are staying at home taking "herbal concoctions", Ahmad said. Clinics, if people can travel to them, are low on beds, medicines and oxygen. "People have been left to die," he added. "This is the India which is hidden from everyone." More than 100 corpses that have washed up on the banks of the river Ganges in recent days suggest the situation is equally dire elsewhere in the country. In the district of Unnao, also in Uttar Pradesh, dozens of people have been buried in shallow sandy graves by the river. Authorities announced on Friday they would dispatch patrols to the riverside to stop people disposing of their dead. Locals say there is not enough wood for funeral pyres meaning they are forced to leave bodies in the river, but officials dispute there is a shortage. The Uttar Pradesh government also insists it has a "relentless and aggressive campaign to trace, test and treat Covid patients". But Vinod Pandey, 45, a government official recovering from Covid in Bhadohi district, said the local health infrastructure was "a shambles". He said that while his village had only seen two or three deaths, in a neighbouring settlement a dozen had perished and "everyone in the village seems to be unwell". Ajay Singh Yadav, 40, said that in his village at least a dozen people had died but Covid was being treated "like a regular viral infection". "There's no doctor available at the health facility and it is largely the medicine shop attendants who are managing the disease in villages," Yadav told AFP. "People come and report their symptoms and these boys at the pharmacies hand out the medicines to them as per their understanding of the symptoms." Yadav blamed the spread on recent local council elections in Uttar Pradesh when millions of people were called upon to vote even as cases surged. "Even if you didn't want to step out of your home, you couldn't avoid candidates knocking at your door," he said. In the neighbouring state of Bihar, Guddu Khan experienced a fever, cough and body aches for almost a week and was treated by a "jhola chhaap" ("amateur") doctor who lacked even basic equipment. He is one of the many hundreds of thousands of informal, unregistered and unqualified health practitioners across the country that Indians rely on in rural areas. According to Khan's relative Arman Khan, "hundreds of people in dozens of villages in the neighbourhood are visiting (the amateur doctor) with all the symptoms of Covid". Khan, in his 40s, was not formally diagnosed with the virus due to a lack of testing facilities and was eventually taken to a hospital where he is in a critical condition. In the village of Nachap, nearly a dozen people have died with Covid-like symptoms. But since they were not tested they were not added to India's official death toll, which is widely seen as a gross underestimate at about 2,60,000. "We are living in fear," another villager, Umesh Yadav, told AFP by phone. Across a dozen villages in the same area, more than 100 people have died after suffering from a fever, cough, weakness and breathlessness in the last 25 days. Anant Bhan, a Bhopal-based senior researcher in health and bioethics, said that even when medical teams visit villages, people are reluctant to get tested for the virus. "We need to ramp up testing, have an information campaign and engage communities with frontline healthcare officers... to engage and give communities the right information."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shallow-graves-and-bodies-in-the-river-covid-19-hits-indias-villages-985797.html
14-05-2021||National||Centre to give 1.92 cr Covid-19 vaccines to states, UTs by May-end: Health Ministry||A total of 1.92 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines--Covishield and Covaxin--will be supplied to states/UTs free of cost from May 16 to May 31, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The delivery schedule for the allocation will be shared in advance. States/UTs have been requested to direct the officials concerned to ensure rational and judicious utilisation of allocated doses and minimise vaccine wastage, it said. The 1.92 crore doses include 1.62 crore Covishield doses and 29.49 lakh Covaxin doses. "The basic objective behind informing the states and UTs in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from Government of India for 15 days is to ensure that they prepare effective plans for judicious and optimum utilisation of these free vaccine doses which are meant for the age group of 45 and above, and for healthcare and frontline workers," the ministry said. In the previous fortnight, that is 1 May-May 15, 2021, a total quantum of more than 1.7 crore vaccine doses has been made available by the Centre to states/UTs, free of charge. In addition, more than 4.39 crore doses were made available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals in the month of May, the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country is nearly 18 crore (17.93 crore as per the 7 am provisional report on Friday). The Covid-19 vaccination drive has successfully completed 118 days wherein 17.93 crore doses have been administered to identified beneficiaries through collaborative efforts of all states and UTs. India is the fastest country globally to reach the 17 crore target in 114 days. The US took 115 days and China took 119 days to administer the same amount of doses. The 'Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy' is being implemented from May 1 2021 wherein 50 per cent of the available doses are earmarked for supply to states and UTs, as free of cost supply from Government of India channel, while the remaining 50 per cent is available for direct procurement from the vaccine manufacturers by states and UTs and private hospitals. The allocation of Centre’s supplies to states/UTs is decided on the consumption pattern and beneficiary load for second doses during the upcoming fortnight, the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-give-192-cr-covid-19-vaccines-to-states-uts-by-may-end-health-ministry-985800.html
14-05-2021||National||With over 2 crore people recovering from Covid-19 so far, recoveries outnumber daily cases||India's daily Covid-19 recoveries have outnumbered the daily new cases, taking the total recoveries to over two crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. This is the third time in the last four days that recoveries have outnumbered daily cases. India's cumulative recoveries have surpassed 2 crore (2,00,79,599) with 3,44,776 patients recuperating in a day.  "It outnumbers India's daily new Covid-19 cases for the third time in the last four days," the ministry said, adding ten states account for 71.16 per cent of the new recoveries. A total of 3,43,144 new coronavirus infections were registered in a day.  Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 42,582. It is followed by Kerala with 39,955 while Karnataka reported 35,297 new cases. The cumulative tests conducted in the country for detection of Covid-19 stands over 31 crore, and the cumulative positivity rate has also marginally increased to 7.72 per cent. However, the daily positivity rate slightly declined to 20.08 per cent, the ministry said. India's total active caseload has decreased to 37,04,893  and now comprises 15.41 per cent of the country's total cases. A net decline of 5,632 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent, the ministry said. A total of 4,000 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 72.70 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (850). Karnataka follows with 344 daily deaths. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country is nearing 18 crore, the ministry said. A total of 17,92,98,584 vaccine doses have been administered through 26,02,435 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am.  These include 96,18,127  healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,04,549 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,43,22,390 FLWs who have received the first dose, 81,16,153 FLWs who have received the second dose and 39,26,334 beneficiaries in the 18-45 years age group who have taken the first dose. Besides, 5,66,09,783  and 85,39,763 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,42,42,792 and 1,73,18,693 beneficiaries of more than 60 years old have taken the first and second dose. The ministry said 4,40,706 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 39,26,334 across 32 states and UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive.  More than 20 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of  24 hours. As on Day-118 of the vaccination drive (May 13), 20,27,162 vaccine doses were given. Across 18,624 sessions, 10,34,304 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 9,92,858 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine. The Centre also said that cumulatively, 9,294 oxygen concentrators; 11,835 oxygen cylinders; 19 oxygen generation plants; 6,439 ventilators/Bi PAP and nearly 4.22 L Remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-over-2-crore-people-recovering-from-covid-19-so-far-recoveries-outnumber-daily-cases-985802.html
14-05-2021||National||Large number of Covid cases being reported from rural areas: LS Speaker Om Birla||In the first Covid-19 wave mostly urban areas were affected, but this time a large number of cases are being reported from rural areas and some villages have registered over 25 per cent positivity rate, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday. He also called for establishing a healthcare network at the village level so that a person suffering from coronavirus can be provided adequate medical care near his house. "It is a catastrophic situation that asks us to stay alert and cautious as the slightest of carelessness is likely to result into a cause of great trouble," Birla told people of his Kota-Bundi constituency in Rajasthan during an interaction through video conferencing. The speaker called upon the people of rural areas to constitute a three to five-member 'Corona warrior squad' at the ward level to run awareness campaigns to prevent the spread of the infection and also help Covid-19 patients with medicines and medical assistance. "Mostly urban areas were affected by the first wave of Covid-19 infection but it is a matter of concern that a large number of Covid-19 patients are being reported from rural areas this time, and some villages have even registered more than 25 per cent infection rate," Birla said. He also said that collective efforts are required to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and break the transmission chain of the virus. During the video conference, people of rural areas in Bundi district apprised Birla about the unavailability of Covid-19 testing facilities and the delay of four days in getting test reports. He assured the people that he would speak to the state government on the issue and try getting rapid antigen testing done to ensure timely delivery of reports. In Bundi district, Manbharbai Gurjar, nearly 90 years old, as Uleda sarpanch has been regularly visiting areas under her jurisdiction to ensure sanitisation and that people follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. She has been engaged in Covid-19 prevention activities in Uleda, Seeta, Seenti, Khunetiya and Gopalpura villages for the last three days, and this has motivated locals and staff, Uleda panchayat assistant Sangeeta Sharma said. Gram Panchyat Uleda with a population of around 1,545 in 225 houses reported two Covid positive cases a fortnight ago and after treatment, their report is now negative, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), Uleda, Renu Nama said. However, a few people are suffering from mild cold and cough and they have been provided with the government's Covid-19 kit, she said. The burden of patients, after urban areas, has constantly been on the rise in hospitals in semi-urban and rural areas and the situation is regularly turning critical, Bundi district Congress vice president Charmesh Sharma said. He said a large number of nurses and doctors are also falling prey to the infection. The state government is converting community-level hospitals into Covid Care centres but the rising number of patients in the rural area is still a challenge, said Sharma, who has been visiting district and community level hospitals to check preparedness, said. Inspector-General of Police (Kota range) Ravidutt Goar also visited villages in the Hindoli area of Bundi district on Thursday and took stock of compliance of Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/large-number-of-covid-cases-being-reported-from-rural-areas-ls-speaker-om-birla-985807.html
14-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Six more vaccines to hit Indian markets soon||Over 200 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be available in India between August and December. While Covishield and Covaxin manufacturers have ramped up production, more options are coming into the vaccine market in India to help inoculate the entire country as soon as possible. Sputnik V vaccine ZyCoV-D The company is expecting to produce 24 crore doses in a year. Bio E Sub vaccine The company is expecting to start producing 75-80 million doses every month starting from August at a very affordable price. Novavax Covovax is a protein-based Covid-19 vaccine with an efficacy rate of 89 per cent. It is expected to be launched in September. BB Nasal vaccine The vaccine is in its first and second trial phases and expects to deliver 10 crore doses by December 2021. Gennova mRNA vaccine Like the Pzifer and Moderna vaccines, Pune's Gennova Biopharmaceuticals is also developing a messenger RNA vaccine against the Covid-19 virus. The company is working on this in collaboration with HDT Biotech Corporation, Seattle, USA. The vaccine can be stored at 2-8 degree celsius temperature, unlike Pzifer and Moderna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-six-more-vaccines-to-hit-indian-markets-soon-985811.html
14-05-2021||National||Caste panchayat asks woman to lick spit for second marriage||A 35-year-old woman, who married for a second time post-divorce, was ordered by a 'caste panchayat' of her community to lick spit as punishment in Maharashtra's Akola district, an official said on Friday. The caste panchayat also ordered the woman to pay Rs 1 lakh to it for her act, he said. Showing courage, the woman defied both the diktats and lodged a police complaint. The shocking incident took place last month, but came to light when a case was registered against the unofficial village council, he said. On a complaint of the victim, who stays in Jalgaon district, an FIR under sections 5 and 6 of the Maharashtra Protection of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016, has been registered against ten members of the caste panchayat, the official said. The FIR was registered on Thursday evening at Jalgaon's Chopda city police station, under whose jurisdiction the woman resides, and later the case was transferred for investigation to the Pinjar police station in Akola where the incident took place, he said. According to the complaint, the incident took place on April 9 at Wadgaon village in Akola, where the caste panchayat was called to take a decision on the second marriage of the victim, he said. The victim belongs to the 'Nath Jogi' community, whose caste panchayat did not accept her second marriage, the official said. The victim got married for the second time in 2019 after taking divorce from her first husband in 2015, the official said. Her first marriage took place in 2011, he said. At the caste panchayat meeting, members discussed the woman's second marriage and called her sister and other relatives, and delivered their "verdict" on the issue (the victim was not present at the meet), the official said. According to the verdict, members of the caste panchayat were to spit on banana leaves and the victim was to lick it as a punishment, the official said. Besides, the caste panchayat sought payment of Rs 1 lakh from the victim, he said. After fulfilling these demands by the panchayat, the victim was told she can "return" to her community, the official said, quoting from the complaint. The decision of the caste panchayat was conveyed to the victim by her relatives. Shocked by the decision, the victim approached the Chopda city police station and lodged the complaint against members of the panchayat, said Pravin Munde, Superintendent of Police, Jalgaon. As the incident took place in Akola, the case has been transferred there for further investigation, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caste-panchayat-asks-woman-to-lick-spit-for-second-marriage-985816.html
14-05-2021||National||Coronavirus pandemic rapidly spreading in rural areas: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the coronavirus pandemic is rapidly spreading in rural areas, as he urged citizens to take precautions, wear masks and maintain social distance to check spread disease that has claimed at least 2.6 lakh lives. The government, he said, is working on "war footing" to control the second wave of infections and is setting up new hospitals and oxygen generating plants while augmenting supplies of medicines and vaccines. He asked states to crack down on black marketing of medicines and other essential items. "I want to warn you about corona. This pandemic is spreading fast in rural villages. Every government is taking efforts to stop this. Awareness about this among rural people and cooperation of the panchayat institutes are equally important "You have never disappointed the nation. We hope this time too, to protect yourself and family from Covid, all necessary precautions are taken. Wearing mask properly and regularly is important," Modi said. The PM was speaking at the release of the 8th installment of financial benefit under the PM-KISAN scheme via video conference here. Modi urged farmers to be aware of this invisible enemy and take precautions and timely medication. He asked people to wear masks, maintain social distancing and undergo testing if there are any symptoms. The PM asked farmers not to take Covid symptoms like cold and fever lightly. "Get the test done, isolate yourself and start the medication on time." After vaccination too, people should not forget to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour, he added. Facing the world's worst health crisis, India reported more than 3 lakh daily infections for 22 consecutive days. With 3,43,144 new infections over the last 24 hours, the tally of total cases crossed 2.4 crore. With 4,000 fresh deaths, the toll now stands at 2,62,317, since the pandemic first struck India more than a year ago. A bulk of new infections is said to be coming from rural areas. On its part, the Prime Minister said, the government is working on a "war footing" to control the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi expressed confidence that the country will win the battle against coronovirus, which he described as an "invisible enemy" and "multi-coloured" in nature. "After 100 years, such a terrible pandemic is testing the world at every step. In front of us, we have an invisible enemy, which is in multiform. We have lost close ones to this enemy, the coronavirus," Modi said. He emphathised with the pain of the countrymen who have lost dear ones recently in the Covid battle. "The pain that many people have gone through, I have felt the same pain. I am feeling the same." "We are fighting with all our might... We are overcoming obstacles in resources in the fight against the second wave of corona," he said. Every government department, armed forces and scientists are working day and night to fight against Covid-19, he said. "India is not a country to lose courage. Neither India, nor Indians will lose courage. We will fight and we will win," Modi emphasised. Modi stressed that vaccines are a great defence against coronavirus and said so far 18 crore doses have been given in the country. Both the centre and states are making continuous efforts to get all vaccinated at a rapid pace, he said, and urged people to get vaccinated when their turn comes. Highlighting steps taken to boost essential medicines and oxygen supplies across the country, the Prime Minister said that Covid hospitals and oxygen plants using the latest technology are being set up in different parts of the country. "Special rails are engaged in supplying oxygen to different parts of the country. Oxygen tankers and drivers are working without pause. Be it doctors, nursing staff, sanitation workers, lab technicians, ambulance drivers, sample collectors -- all are working 24 hours to save each individual," he added. Modi further said the government and pharma sector have boosted production of essential medicines and even importing from abroad. On hoarding and black marketing of essential medicines, the Prime Minister said in the current tough time, some people are engaged in hoarding and black marketing of medicines and essential items. "I urge states to take strict action against such people. This is against humanity," he said. On the vaccination programme, Modi said this vaccine will give us a protective cover against coronavirus, reducing the risk of serious illness. "The centre and all the state governments together, are making continuous efforts to enable more and more countrymen to get vaccinated at a rapid pace," he said. Further, Modi said free vaccination is being done in government hospitals across the country. "So, whenever your turn comes, do get vaccinated." Modi also said that the government has started free foodgrain distribution to 80 crore poor beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for two months -- May and June. "I urge states to ensure there is no problem in distribution of free grains to the poor," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-rapidly-spreading-in-rural-areas-pm-modi-985819.html
14-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Here's all you need to know about Amphotericin B, the drug used to treat 'black fungus'||However, Amphotericin B injections, used in treating the infection, is hardly available in the country. What is Amphotericin B? Amphotericin B is an anti-fungal medication that is used to treat serious or life-threatening fungal infections. It works towards slowing the growth of the fungi that caused the infection. Since it has some serious side-effects, it is not advised to use for less serious fungal infections in patients with a normal immune system. How is Amphotericin B used in treating Mucormycosis in Covid-19 patients? Since many testing positive for Covid-19 are getting infected by Mucormycosis, the demand for Amphotericin B injections has increased suddenly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-heres-all-you-need-to-know-about-amphotericin-b-the-drug-used-to-treat-black-fungus-985822.html
14-05-2021||National||Over 9 crore farmers get Rs 20,667 crore financial benefits under PM Kisan||Over 9.5 crore farmers from across the country, including 7.03 lakh from West Bengal, on Friday, received Rs 20,667 crore payout under the PM Kisan initiative of the centre. Prime Minister Narendra Modi released the eighth instalment of financial benefits that include beneficiaries from West Bengal for the first time after the state government buried the hatchet with the Centre. “Farmers from West Bengal have started receiving their benefits under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan). As the Centre receives the list of farmers from the state government the number of beneficiaries from the state will increase,” Modi said addressing the farmers after transferring the financial benefits to their bank accounts. The PM Kisan initiative had been a bone of contention between the Centre and the West Bengal government and had become a political issue during the recently concluded Assembly election. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had refused to share the list of farmers with the Centre insisting that any transfer funds to their bank accounts should be routed through the state government. The Centre had disagreed with the state government, contending that PM Kisan was a central government initiative. Modi said that around Rs 1.35 lakh crore has been transferred to the bank accounts of farmers under the PM Kisan and Rs 60,000 crore during the Covid-19 pandemic. Under the PM Kisan scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal 4-monthly instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-9-crore-farmers-get-rs-20667-crore-financial-benefits-under-pm-kisan-985825.html
14-05-2021||National||Bharat Biotech unit to make Pune plant functional by August-end||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin would now be produced in Pune by the vaccine maker's associate Biovet Pvt Ltd, with the backing of the Maharashtra government. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is the Guardian Minister of Pune district, is overseeing the progress. Earlier this week, Pune’s Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao and Pune District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh visited Manjari Khurd in Haveli tehsil and inspected the site spread in around 11.5 hectares. “It would take three months to start production of vaccines in this facility,” Pawar told reporters in Pune on Friday. He has asked Rao to request the management to give preference to Maharashtra during vaccine supply after its commitment to the Centre. It may be recalled that last week a division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Justice KK Tated and Justice Nitin Borkar, while hearing an interim application by Karnataka-headquartered Biovet, asked the Maharashtra government to hand over the vaccine manufacturing facility. According to reports, the Manjari unit was first being used by Intervet India Pvt Ltd, a subsidiary of Merck & Co, after land was granted to it in 1973 to manufacture vaccines for Foot and Mouth Disease. However, later Intervet exited the plant operations and entered into an agreement with Biovet for the transfer of the land and manufacturing unit. When Biovet sought transfer of land, the Maharashtra Forest Department claimed ownership of the land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-unit-to-make-pune-plant-functional-by-august-end-985832.html
14-05-2021||National||National platform to determine impact of Covid-19 vaccines to be established soon||A national tracking platform will be established soon to determine the impact of the jabs against Covid-19 and the breakthrough infections that are likely to occur among those with complete and partial immunisation, official sources said. The recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) to establish such a platform has been accepted by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 and the Union Health Ministry, they said. "The Covid-19 Working Group which is part of NTAGI has strongly recommended to urgently establish a national vaccine tracking platform to determine the impact of the Covid vaccine(s) and the breakthrough infections that are likely to occur among those with complete and partial immunisation," said Dr N K Arora, the INCLEN Trust chairperson who heads the Covid-19 Working Group. The vaccine tracker will be particularly important to monitor the impact of increasing the dosing schedule of Covishield, he said, as the government on Thursday accepted the working group's recommendation to extend the gap between the two doses of the Covishield vaccine from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks. The current data harmonisation work of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other agencies can be leveraged to set up this facility for review of ground realities on real-time basis, the NTAGI has recommended. The government panel has also recommended that pregnant women may be offered the choice to take any of the Covid-19 vaccines and that lactating women can be inoculated any time after delivery. The NTAGI has also stated that those having laboratory test proven SARS-CoV-2 illness should defer Covid-19 vaccination for six months after recovery, the sources said. According to the health ministry's current protocol, vaccine is to be taken four to eight weeks after recovery from Covid-19 infection and pregnant and lactating women are not to be administered the shots. The NTAGI recommended that all pregnant women visiting for antenatal care (ANC) may be informed about risks and benefits associated with Covishield and Covaxin. Based on the information provided, a pregnant woman may be offered the choice to take any of the vaccines. An educational tool comprising information on risk of Covid-19 infection during pregnancy, benefits associated with the vaccination and rare complications associated with vaccines like thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (with Covishield) may be developed. In case of individuals who have received the first dose and before completion of the dosing schedule if they test positive for Covid-19, they should wait for 4-8 weeks after clinical recovery from the illness. Also, Covid-19 patients who have been given anti-SARS-CoV-2 monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma may defer vaccination for three months from the day of discharge from hospital, the recommendations stated. Individuals having any other serious illness requiring hospitalisation or ICU care should also wait for 4-8 weeks before getting the vaccine, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-platform-to-determine-impact-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-be-established-soon-985834.html
14-05-2021||National||Anushka Sharma, Virat Kohli raise over Rs 11 crore for Covid-19 relief, thank fans for support||Actor-producer Anushka Sharma and her cricketer husband Virat Kohli have raised over Rs 11 crore via their fundraising campaign to support Covid-19 relief work in india. The couple, on May 7, announced they have partnered with fundraising platform Ketto for the initiative #InThisTogether, to raise money to help the country in the fight against the second wave of the pandemic. Sharma, 33 and Kohli, 32, made a donation of Rs two crore for the seven-day-long fundraising campaign. The couple took to Instagram on Friday to thank their fans for their support and revealed the total funds raised stands at Rs 11,39,11,820. The amount will be donated to Act Grants, which will work towards providing oxygen, medical manpower, vaccination awareness and tele-medicine facilities all through the pandemic. Sharma said she is amazed and humbled by the spirit of solidarity shown by people. "We are proud to announce that we have raised more than our initial target and it will go a long way to save lives. Thank you for your overwhelming support in helping the people of India. This wouldn’t be possible without you. Jai Hind,” she wrote. Expressing gratitude, Kohli said he is overwhelmed with the massive support the initiative has received. “Words fall short to express how overwhelmed we feel to have exceeded our target not once, but twice, thanks to each one of you. To everyone who has donated, shared, and helped in any way, I want to say a big thank you. We are in this together, and we will overcome this together,” he wrote. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday, 3,43,144 people tested positive for coronavirus in a day, taking India's Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,40,46,809, while the death toll rose to 2,62,317 with 4,000 daily fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anushka-sharma-virat-kohli-raise-over-rs-11-crore-for-covid-19-relief-thank-fans-for-support-985839.html
14-05-2021||National||India’s Covid crisis pushes up cost of living — and dying||Ashok Khondare, a 39-year-old vegetable seller in Pune, had already borrowed money to pay for his sister's treatment when she died in a private hospital two weeks after contacting Covid-19. While trying to overcome the tragedy, he also had to deal with money problems that increased with his sister's death. The only available hearse driver charged Rs 5,000 for a 6-km (four-mile) journey to the nearest crematorium – five times the going rate. When Khondare reached there, there was a long queue of dead bodies and waits of more than a day. He agreed to pay another Rs 7,000 to jump the queue. "I had been experiencing a terrible situation for a fortnight," he said. "I couldn't sleep or eat properly. I wanted to end this as early as possible and didn't mind paying an irrational amount." India’s second wave of coronavirus has not only created shortages of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds, but also of wood for funeral pyres, hearses and crematorium slots, forcing people like Khondare to pay exorbitant amounts to perform the last rites of loved ones. India is reporting by far the highest number of new daily cases globally, and over 4,000 deaths per day – figures that are almost certainly under-reported, according to experts. The Hindus cremate their dead, and the huge numbers of deaths are creating backlogs at cremation grounds and shortages of manpower and raw materials. "There is huge demand for firewood used for funeral pyres at crematoria, but supplies are not sufficient," said Rohit Pardeshi, a firewood merchant in Satara, Maharashtra. Due to a local lockdown designed to curb the pandemic, there is a shortage of people to cut trees and those workers who are available are asking for higher wages. "This has created a shortage of firewood and lifted prices," Pardeshi said. Retail prices for firewood are up by at least 30 per cent, and have more than doubled in some areas, said a second firewood seller in the same city. In Uttar Pradesh, 24-year-old Mukul Chaudhary faced similar problems after his mother died in Lucknow. The ambulance driver who dropped his mother off at the hospital for Rs 5,000 charged even more to take her body to the crematorium. "We had to beg him not to overcharge us further," Chaudhary said. Firewood for the cremation cost double the normal rate, while the priest who performed the last rites charged the family Rs 5,000 – two to five times the usual amount. Rohit Jangam, a priest in Satara, said many priests there were refusing to enter crematoriums out of fear, and those who were willing were charging higher prices. "It is too risky to perform the last rites of those died because of coronavirus," he said. "If someone asks, I do, but I charge more since I am taking the risk." He declined to disclose how much more he was charging. Oxygen racket For Covid patients who manage to survive, black marketing of medical supplies is rampant, with desperate relatives paying huge sums in what is still a low-income country. In New Delhi, oxygen cylinders have changed hands for as much as Rs 70,000, according to interviews with relatives – twenty times the usual price and many times the monthly salary of the average Indian. Police there have made more than 100 arrests in cases connected with overcharging, including for drugs, ambulance services and hospital beds. Arveena Sharma, a 28-year-old lawyer from Noida has helped more than a dozen Covid patients who are friends and relatives get oxygen and medical supplies in the last month. Almost all of them have overpaid significantly. "They're like vultures," she said of those selling black market drugs. "You are standing in front of me with something which might save me and you’re looking at my pocket."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-crisis-pushes-up-cost-of-living-and-dying-985849.html
14-05-2021||National||Four cases of black fungus infection reported in Madhya Pradesh||Four cases of Mucormycosis, a rare but dangerous fungal infection now affecting coronavirus patients, have been reported in Damoh district of Madhya Pradesh in the last two days, a health official said on Friday. Four patients with complaints of black fungus infection approached us. These are confirmed cases of black fungus, Dr Rakesh Rai, an ophthalmologist with the district hospital, said. These patients have been sent to Nagpur, Jabalpur, Bhopal and Indore for treatment, he said. District chief medical and health officer Dr Sangeeta Trivedi said that Amphotericin B 50 mg injection is needed to treat the black fungus injection, which is not available in Damoh right now. "Therefore, these four patients have been sent outside the district for treatment," she added. According to doctors, Mucormycosis is mostly found among Covid-19 patients who have diabetes. Its symptoms include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision. A number of cases of fungal infection among Covid-19 patients have also been reported in neighbouring Maharashtra and Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-cases-of-black-fungus-infection-reported-in-madhya-pradesh-985852.html
14-05-2021||National||Don't allow hospitals to retain bodies for not settling bills, ensure decent cremation: NHRC||Hospitals should be "explicitly prohibited" from "deliberately retaining" dead bodies for non-payment of bills, ensure timely and decent burial, disallow mass burial or cremation of Covid-19 victims and curbing arbitrary hike of ambulance charges are among a slew of measures suggested by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in a latest advisory on handling dead people. The advisory on 'Upholding the Dignity and Protecting the Rights of the Dead' was issued on Friday, as the country still does not have a specific law for protecting the rights of the dead though courts have specifically given directions in this regard. It also comes against the backdrop of the recent incident in which bodies, presumably of Covid-19 victims, were found floating in River Ganges in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Keeping the huge number of deaths and long queues at crematoria during the pandemic, the NHRC has said that the government should set up temporary facilities for cremation while staff should be sensitised about its handling. Religious rituals that do not require touching of the dead body could be allowed such as reading from religious scripts and sprinkling holy water. Use of electric crematoriums should be encouraged to avoid the health hazards emerging from the emission of smoke from burning pyres in large numbers, it said. Amid reports of piling up of dead bodies during the transportation and at other places, the advisory asked the governments to ensure that such incidents do not occur. Mass burial or cremation should also "not be allowed to take place as it is in violation of the right to dignity of the dead". With several cases of hospitals not releasing dead bodies on account of not settling the bills, the NHRC said the governments should "explicitly" prohibit from "deliberately retaining" any dead body on this count and hospitals must hand over the body to the family of the deceased or to the civic body if it is an unclaimed body in a dignified way. It also wanted an amendment in the law so that the will of the deceased regarding the organ donation is given prime importance irrespective of the opinion of the legal heir. The NHRC emphasised that the government should take care of staff at crematoria, burial grounds and mortuaries who work round the clock during the pandemic, saying they should be paid "fair wages to compensate their hard work" and that they should be "vaccinated on priority" keeping in view the risk they are exposed to.  The governments to ensure that a dead body is properly preserved and handled irrespective of religion, region, caste and gender. Any form of physical exploitation of dead bodies violates the basic right of the deceased, who also has the right to a decent and timely burial or cremation. The will, if any, left by the dead must be respected and honoured while the State should also ensure that the deceased gets justice if she is a victim of crime. The deceased person should not be defamed by any kind of statement or visible representation, made or published intending to harm her reputation, the advisory said. On mortuaries, the NHRC said that regular mopping and cleaning should be undertaken so that the dead bodies are preserved in a "proper, clean environment". "The facility should maintain confidentiality of clinical records and must have a mechanism for guarding information related to the deceased, especially for cases that are stigmatized and socially criticised, such as that of HIV and suicidal cases," it said. Media, including social media, must avoid explicit photographs or videos of dead bodies from being shown to the common public and must use masking techniques wherever the dead body is shown, so as to ensure that the right to privacy and dignity of the deceased person is not compromised, it said. "Personal remarks or comments which are derogatory in nature, hampering the dignity of a dead person, should not be published," the NHRC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-allow-hospitals-to-retain-bodies-for-not-settling-bills-ensure-decent-cremation-nhrc-985861.html
14-05-2021||National||Mamata accuses Centre of 'dilly-dallying' over PM Kisan amount transfer to Bengal farmers||As farmers in West Bengal received the first instalment of funds under the PM Kisan scheme on Friday, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hit out at the Centre, accusing it of dilly-dallying over the transfer of funds to beneficiaries in the state. In an open letter to farmers, Banerjee also said the decision to extend the benefits of the scheme to eligible farmers in Bengal was a result of her government's "continuous fight". "In 2018, the West Bengal government had started the Krishak Bandhu scheme that went on to become a model for the entire country. "After this in 2019, the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi was launched. Comparatively, the state's programme is better because it offers more benefits to farmers... we are planning to add incentives to our scheme in the near future," she said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released the eighth instalment of over Rs 20,000 crore to more than 9.5 crore farmer beneficiaries under the scheme via video conferencing. Under the programme launched in 2019, the central government is providing Rs 6,000 in three equal instalments to 14 crore farmers annually. The amount is transferred into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode. Banerjee had on May 6 written to Modi, urging him to call upon the Union agriculture ministry to release the funds to farmers of the state. "You all were supposed to get Rs 18,000, but have received a very small amount. Even this sum would not have been transferred had we not fought for it. We will continue this fight till you get the entire allocation," the CM asserted. Around 7.55 lakh farmers of the 41 lakh who had registered for the scheme till early May were found to be eligible to receive the funds, sources said. The state government had earlier raised objections over the mode of payment, among other issues, of the central scheme. The Krishak Bandhu scheme provides farmers with one or more acres of landholding an annual amount of Rs 5,000 (minimum Rs 2,000 per annum assistance on pro-rata basis).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-accuses-centre-of-dilly-dallying-over-pm-kisan-amount-transfer-to-bengal-farmers-985867.html
14-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Centre to give 1.92 cr Covid-19 vaccines to states, UTs by May-end||In your evening news brief, Centre to give 1.92 cr Covid-19 vaccines to states, UTs by May-end; Imported Sputnik V doses to cost Rs 995.40, and Youth Congress president Srinivas BV questioned by police.  Here is the top news of May 14, 2021: A total of 1.92 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines--Covishield and Covaxin--will be supplied to states/UTs free of cost from May 16 to May 31, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The delivery schedule for the allocation will be shared in advance. States/UTs have been requested to direct the officials concerned to ensure rational and judicious utilisation of allocated doses and minimise vaccine wastage, it said The 1.92 crore doses include 1.62 crore Covishield doses and 29.49 lakh Covaxin doses.   Dr Reddy's on Friday announced that imported doses of Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V would cost Rs 948 plus 5 per cent GST (Rs 995.40). It held a soft launch of the Covid-19 vaccine in Hyderabad and administered the first jab on Friday. The first consignment of imported doses of the Sputnik V vaccine landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on May 13, 2021, it added.   Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president Srinivas BV on Friday said the Delhi Police's Crime Branch questioned him about the assistance being provided by him to people during the Covid-19 pandemic. "Police called me this morning and came to my office around 11.45 am. They questioned that how you are doing it," he said. However, the Delhi Police said the questioning has been done following a Delhi High Court order.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-to-give-192-cr-covid-19-vaccines-to-states-uts-by-may-end-985868.html
14-05-2021||National||PIL in SC for judicial probe into recovery of bodies from Ganga||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for setting up a Special Investigation Team to supervise the probe into the death of over 100 people whose corpses were found floating in the river Ganga in Buxar of Bihar and Ghazipur and Unnao districts of Uttar Pradesh, as the country battles the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.  The petition was filed by two lawyers Pradeep Yadav and Vishal Thakre, who also sought to direct state authorities to conduct a postmortem of the dead bodies, accusing them of "inhuman" lapses. The petitioners contended that the recovery of the decomposed bodies from Ganga raised a serious concern. The river is a source of water for many areas and if the bodies were of Covid-19 patients, then it might lead to a spread of the infection in villages in both Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.   "The act of the states is inhuman as they failed to provide facilities for decent burial/cremation of dead bodies and to keep a check on pollution of the holy river, Ganga by such indecent act either of individual or of authorities," the petition said.  They also claimed states till now have not taken any single effective step towards the purification of water, which was a violation of Article 21 of the Constitution.  They also alleged that the present case showed the failure of the state in keeping a check of crematorium which charged exorbitant prices on people for the cremation of bodies during the pandemic. The petitioners cited the Pt Parmanand Katara case, wherein the top court had held that the right to dignity and fair treatment under Article 21 of the Constitution was not only available to a man during his life but also to his body after his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-for-judicial-probe-into-recovery-of-bodies-from-ganga-985869.html
14-05-2021||National||Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala extended till May 23||The Kerala government has extended the lockdown in the state till May 23. Triple lockdown will be imposed in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Malappuram districts where the Covid-19 spread is very severe. In view of the allegations of black marketing and overpricing of many health care products, the state also fixed maximum retail prices for a series of products ranging from masks to oximeter. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the effects of the lockdown already in place from May 8 to 16 were yet to be known. Experts said that this month was very crucial in curbing the second wave of Covid-19 and hence, the lockdown was being extended, he said. Maximum retail prices were fixed for various health care products by invoking the Kerala Essential Articles Control Act, 1986. Some of the rates fixed by the state government include PPE kit: Rs 273, N95 mask: Rs 22, triple-layer mask: Rs 3.90, face shield: Rs 21, disposable apron: Rs 12, surgical gown: Rs 65, gloves: Rs 5.75, hand sanitiser 500 ml: Rs 192, hand sanitiser 200 ml: Rs 98, hand sanitiser 100 ml: Rs 55, sterile gloves one pair: Rs 15, NRB mask: Rs 80, oxygen mask: Rs 54, flow metre with a humidifier: Rs 1,520 and fingertip pulse oximeter: Rs 1,500. The state government had recently fixed rates for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals, following widespread allegations of private hospitals charging exorbitant rates. As the Covid-19 surge continues, the state also changed the testing strategies and discharge protocols. The practice of reconfirmation using an RT-PCR test on those testing Covid-19 positive in antigen test would be done away with. Patients who remain asymptomatic after treatment would be discharged without conducting tests. The Chief Minister also said that vaccination to those in the 18-45 age group in the state will begin from May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-in-kerala-extended-till-may-23-985870.html
14-05-2021||National||Never imagined getting hospital bed would be so difficult: Hanuma Vihari talks about own Covid-19 help team||Crushing the pain barrier to save a Test match is by no measure a small feat but for Hanuma Vihari, the biggest satisfaction these days comes from being able to arrange a hospital bed or oxygen cylinders for desperate Covid-19 patients through a network of friends. The surge in fatalities and cases during the pandemic's second has created an unprecedented health crisis where social media has become an important tool to seek and give emergency help. A lot of Indian cricketers have been doing their bit, ranging from making financial donations to helping people procure essential medical care. Vihari, while being in the UK for his county stint, has used his Twitter handle to amplify appeals for help. He has also created a team of 100 volunteers, comprising friends and followers from across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. Just like Congress leader BV Srinivas in New Delhi, Vihari's friends and followers have reached people with plasma, oxygen cylinders and arranged food and hospital beds for patients. "I don't want to glorify myself. I am doing it with the intention of helping people at the ground level, who actually need every help possible in these difficult times. It is just the start," the 27-year-old told PTI in an exclusive interview. Vihari left for England in early April to play in the English county for Warwickshire and is expected to join the Indian team directly in the UK when they arrive on June 3. Vihari, like every Indian, has been shocked by the obstacles that Covid-19 patients and their families have encountered on a daily basis. The difficulties have included finding something as basic as hospital beds, oxygen supplies and essential medicines. "With the second wave being so strong, getting a bed became a difficulty and that is something which is unthinkable. So, I decided to use my followers as my volunteers and help as many people as I can," Vihari, who has more than 110,000 followers, said. "My goal is to actually mainly reach out to those people who are not able to afford or arrange for plasma, beds and essential medicine. But this is not enough. I would like to do more service in the future," said the man, who has 624 runs in 11 Tests. For Vihari, when the distress calls and messages for help started pouring in, he wanted to create a network of help givers and he found that support from common people, his own family and Andhra teammates like Prithviraj Yarra. "I built my own team. It's all about good intentions and people do get inspired and come out to help me. "I have around 100 people on a WhatsApp group as volunteers and it's their hard work that we have been able to help a few people. Yes, I am a cricketer, well known but I am able to help because of their untiring efforts to reach the distressed," said Vihari. He started on Twitter but his team has now spread across various platforms to help and when he is not facing a Stuart Broad or Olly Stone in the biting cold English weather, he personally ensures that he and his friends vet all the appeals for help. "I started as one and now we have many friends in different platforms through my following on social media. I send them requests I get and they do the search. I chip in if any recommendations are required or to post on social media," Vihari said. "Even my wife, sister and few of my Andhra teammates are part of my volunteer team. It's so heartening to see their support," Vihari said. I can do anything for team, even open if asked to do it again Talking about India's upcoming tour of England, Vihari said that if he is asked to open at some point during the five-Test series, he is not averse to the idea. "I will do anything the team asks of me," said the man who batted for three and half hours with a torn hamstring to save the Sydney Test against Australia earlier this year. "I batted top of the order most of my career so I'm familiar to the challenge," added Vihari. He had opened for India in the 2018-19 Test series in Australia. Vihari knows very well that Washington Sundar grabbed his chances during his injury-forced absence but he is keen on focussing on his own game. "I am happy that he (Washington) did well but I would like to focus on my own game and try to control the controllables," said the soft-spoken man. But what about rolling his arms over more to give that balance to the side, he replied: "I am working on my off-breaks." Vihari was contracted to play three games for Warwickshire and his best show has been scores of 32 and 52 against Essex at Edgbaston, with Alastair Cook in the opposition ranks. "It's been challenging as it's early part of the season but I have gained good experience. Getting used to the climate and pitches here is the idea. Hope it helps during the WTC final against New Zealand and the series against England," he said. Having enjoyed a successful A tour of UK back in 2018 followed by a half-century on Test debut at the Oval, Vihari loves playing in England and the challenges that one faces while countering seam and swing. "It's a good place to play cricket. So I would enjoy the challenge," he said. Vihari is still in Birmingham where he is doing his daily routines and one thing that he is getting used to is the cold and damp conditions of early English summer. "It is tough in this cold but again it's a different experience. Yes, I am still training in Birmingham," he signed off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/never-imagined-getting-hospital-bed-would-be-so-difficult-hanuma-vihari-talks-about-own-covid-19-help-team-985871.html
14-05-2021||National||Sputnik V to be available for customers in India by mid-June after stock ramp-up, says Dr Reddy's||Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine, launched in Hyderabad today, will be available for customers in India by mid-June after stock ramp-up, Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd said. Soft launched Sputnik V in Hyderabad today to start testing of cold chain logistics with 2-dose regime. Next consignments are expected in coming weeks. It will be available for customers in India by mid-June after stock ramp-up: Dr Reddy's Labs It said on Friday it expects to get 36 million doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine in the next couple of months under its contract with Russia's sovereign wealth fund. India's catastrophic second wave of the pandemic has led to a huge demand for vaccines, which in turn has left the country, the world's biggest vaccine producer, low on stocks. "We are in discussions with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to import the vaccine towards the end of May," a senior Dr Reddy's executive said at a post-earnings press conference. "Our total commitment contracted from RDIF is 250 million doses, of which the initial 15%-20% is expected through imports," the executive, M V Ramana, added. The company expects to use the doses to vaccinate 125 million people in the next 8-12 months. As of Friday, India had vaccinated just over 2.9% of its population of about 1.35 billion, according to government data. Sputnik V is a two-dose shot that has been found to be 91.6% effective in preventing people from developing Covid-19, a higher efficacy rate than the two vaccines currently approved in India. Earlier in the day, Dr Reddy's said the first dose of Sputnik V was administered in Hyderabad as part of a limited pilot. The vaccine will be priced at Rs 995 rupees per dose. The company is also working with six local manufacturing partners to scale up production, with doses for commercial use expected from July. The drugmaker on Friday reported a 27.6% drop in fourth-quarter consolidated net profit, compared with a year earlier. Revenue, however, rose 6.7%. (With Reuters inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sputnik-v-to-be-available-for-customers-in-india-by-mid-june-after-stock-ramp-up-says-dr-reddys-985875.html
14-05-2021||National||Bengal BJP’s failure to match Mamata’s stature led to defeat: RSS mouthpiece||The RSS has attributed BJP’s defeat in the West Bengal Assembly elections to the saffron party's inability to match the popularity of Trinamool Congress' (TMC) Mamata Banerjee and to the induction of a large number of leaders from the TMC without proper evaluation. In the latest edition of its mouthpiece Organiser, the RSS stated that Mamata was “far superior in stature” to any state BJP leader. It also argued that the BJP’s inability to announce a Chief Ministerial candidate played a key role in the party’s failure to secure power in Bengal. The article titled ‘Bengal Election Saga: A lot to Learn and Unlearn” stated that the popularity of Mamata in Bengal was such that even grassroots level BJP cadres had “high regards” for her as a politician. The article cited BJP’s inability to resonate with the “Bengali identity” as one of the key reasons behind its disappointing performance. It stated that the saffron party’s “poll pitch and strategy” failed to resonate with the Bengali masses. It stated that the local BJP leadership did not have any “mass following” and despite his popularity among the “Hindu rural segment”, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh had “minimal impact” on the urban population in Bengal. “Also, the two tall leaders Narendra Modi and Amit Shah could not convert their popularity into votes being of non-Bengali origin,” stated the article. The RSS mouthpiece came down heavily on the BJP’s strategy of inducting a number of leaders from the TMC, its main adversary in Bengal. An article titled ‘Bad Experiments in Bengal” stated that “welcoming members of the adversary party, Trinamool” cost the BJP dearly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-bjp-s-failure-to-match-mamata-s-stature-led-to-defeat-rss-mouthpiece-985877.html
14-05-2021||National||Prithvi Shaw stopped for travelling without pass, gets it in an hour||India batsman Prithvi Shaw was stopped while on his way to Goa in the Sindhudurg district of Maharashtra for travelling without an E-Pass, a police official said on Friday. The incident took place at Amboli on Wednesday morning when the young cricketer was heading for Goa in his car, said the official. He was allowed to leave after obtaining a pass. Shaw, who returned to Mumbai, his hometown, after the Indian Premier League (IPL) matches were postponed in view of the Covid-19 situation, was going to Goa for vacation, he said. The Maharashtra government has made it mandatory to obtain a pass for travelling in its efforts to contain the second wave of the pandemic. Shaw had applied for an E-Pass but set out for Goa before it was issued. He only had a token issued against the application, the official said. After the police stopped him in Amboli, he applied for the pass online afresh and got it in an hour. He was then allowed to proceed, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prithvi-shaw-stopped-for-travelling-without-pass-gets-it-in-an-hour-985883.html
14-05-2021||National||Bharat Biotech dispatches Covaxin to Gujarat, Assam||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has dispatched Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to various states like Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha. The Hyderabad-based vaccine major, which has come under fire from the Delhi government over supply-related issues, said it has also dispatched Covaxin lots to Kerala and Uttarakhand. "Covaxin goes to Gandhinagar, Guwahati, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru & Bhuvneshwar. thank all our employees @ BHarat bio who worked thru the holy month of Ramzan..." Bharat Biotech Co-Founder and Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said in a tweet. Earlier in a late night tweet on Thursday, she tweeted informing supply of the much in demand vaccine to Kerala and Uttarakhand. "Covaxin sent to Kerala & Uttarakhand. Thanq for the concern, many offered to help. Our work is highly stringent, realtime & technical,no work from home! All Our employees will be taken care of, won't deter us from our mission! Let's be thankful,helpful & hopeful always," she tweeted. Ella however did not provide details on the quantum of supplies. On May 12, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that Bharat Biotech has informed the state government that it cannot provide 'additional' Covaxin doses to the national capital. Responding to the criticism, Ella in a tweet said that It was quite disheartening to listen to some states complaining about the company's intentions regarding supply of Covaxin. She said that the company had already dispatched Covaxin lots to 18 states on May 10||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-dispatches-covaxin-to-gujarat-assam-985884.html
14-05-2021||National||Suppliers striving to match Centre’s order for Remdesivir, ventilators: RTI||Amid the grim Covid-19 situation in the country, the Union government has ordered the procurement of 46,386 ventilators and 53.70 lakh vials of Remdesivir. Out of the order, various manufacturers till Wednesday have supplied over 38.05 lakh injections and 43,979 ventilators to various states, Union territories and the Central government’s facilities, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said. Out of 43,979 ventilators supplied to various anti-Covid facilities, 38,958 have been installed, the ministry said in reply to a plea under the Right to Information Act. Out of the Remdesivir injections, allotted or ordered to be procured for various states, Maharashtra has been allotted 11.57 lakh injections and has secured a supply of merely 7.99 lakh, the reply said. After Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh has procured over 3.63 lakh doses of the injection against an allotment of 4.95 lakh doses, while Gujarat has been supplied 3.54 lakh injections against an allotment of 4.19 lakh doses. The Union ministry has given its response in reply to a plea by RTI activist Sujeet Swami. Karnataka for which an order for procurement of 5.75 lakh injections had been placed has procured 3.26 lakh vials, the reply to RTI plea revealed. Similarly, an order for the supply of 2.20 lakh injections had been placed for the national capital Delhi which has secured over 1.81 lakh of its doses, the reply added. Some other states which have got significant supplies of the injection are Madhya Pradesh (2.14 lakh vials against an order of 2.60 lakh injections), Rajasthan (1.57 lakh vials against an order of 2.48 lakh), Bihar (92,000 against an order of 1.5 lakh vials), West Bengal (one lakh vilas against an order of 1.60 lakh) and Punjab (60,000 against an order of 85,000). Among various states, Telangana is the only state which has secured more vials of Remdesivir than what it had ordered for – 1.98 lakh against an order of 1.45 lakh vials. The RTI reply further revealed that two union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep, which have been allocated 2,000 vials of injections each, are yet to procure even a single vial of the injection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suppliers-striving-to-match-centre-s-order-for-remdesivir-ventilators-rti-985896.html
14-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Coronavirus ravages hinterland with shallow graves, bodies in the river||More than 100 corpses that have washed up on the banks of the river Ganges in recent days suggest the situation is dire. On Friday, more bodies were found floating in the Yamuna river in Auraiya and Hamirpur districts in Uttar Pradesh. A few bodies were also found floating in the Ramganga river in Bareilly and Gomti river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-coronavirus-ravages-hinterland-with-shallow-graves-bodies-in-the-river-985905.html
14-05-2021||National||Mahindra & Mahindra to cover Covid-19 vaccination cost of dealership employees||Homegrown utility vehicles and farm equipment major Mahindra & Mahindra will be covering the Covid-19 vaccination expenses of all of its dealership employees numbering around 80,000, while also providing one year medical insurance of Rs 1 lakh for treatment. In case of the demise of a dealership employee due to the pandemic, a sum of Rs 5 lakh will be provided to the family of the deceased with the company and its dealer contributing an equal sum of Rs 2.5 lakh each. In a letter to its dealers, the company said to encourage vaccination of each and every employee of the dealerships, it will "reimburse the vaccination expenses of all dealer manpower subject to a maximum of Rs 1,500 per person, for both the doses". This will be applicable till March 31, 2022. Besides, M&M said it will also "provide one year of medical insurance of Rs 1 lakh for Covid treatment for the dealer employees. This would include home quarantine assistance up to Rs 10,000" and it will be a one-time expense for the next year. The letter further said, "In case of an unfortunate incident of the demise of an associate due to Covid, the organization will pay a sum of Rs 2.5 lakh to the deceased employee’s family. An equal amount shall be contributed by the dealer to render financial help to the family. This will be applicable from 1st February 2021 to 31st August 2021." Reacting to the step taken up by the company, M&M Chairman Anand Mahindra tweeted, "We have to walk the talk if we say that our dealer partners are part of our family..." Stating that in the last two months, many of the company's associates have gone through overwhelming hardships, M&M said, "We have always considered our partners and their employees as our extended family and given the utmost importance to their health, wellbeing, and safety. Given the current conditions, we would like to extend support in whatever we can, to ensure we rise against Covid-19."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahindra-mahindra-to-cover-covid-19-vaccination-cost-of-dealership-employees-985908.html
14-05-2021||National||Experts raise doubts about Sputnik V’s data as jabs roll out in India||A group of international experts has raised serious concerns over the efficacy data from Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine trials even as the vaccine’s rollout kicked off in India. The researchers zeroed in on issues that include not enough transparency, lack of clarity on protocols followed, methodology and a mismatch in interim data from the vaccine’s stage three trials, which they say could ultimately impact its efficacy. The researchers said much of the information was opaque or inaccessible, preventing them from independently verifying the data coming out of the trials. They implored the researchers who developed the vaccine to give them access to the data used to generate their statistics. The concerns over trial data come as Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, the company manufacturing the doses in India, has administered its first dose in the country and set a price tag of Rs 995.4 per shot. Russian researchers from the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology responded to the doubts raised by the international group of experts on the same platform, saying that the fact that they had been registered in 51 countries proved that their vaccine was safe to use and complied with regulatory requirements. “…to date, the safety and immunogenicity of the Sputnik V vaccine has been confirmed in multiple studies,” the Russian researchers wrote. The researchers answered many of the red flags raised while brushing aside numerical inconsistencies as “simple typing errors that were formally corrected”. They also claimed preliminary tests conducted by researchers in Argentina supported their data and proved the vaccine was safe and effective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-raise-doubts-about-sputnik-v-s-data-as-jabs-roll-out-in-india-985909.html
14-05-2021||National||Arresting Covid-19 becoming tough every passing day for Punjab||Punjab government's challenge to tackle the burgeoning number of Covid-19 cases is likely to become an even more arduous task with a sudden spike in positivity rate being reported from the state's countryside. Punjab registering the highest death ratio at 2.38 per cent, the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and deaths in Punjab's rural areas and even in neighbouring Haryana’s hinterland, is being attributed, among other factors to the unrelenting farmer protests and rallies where covid appropriate protocols are arguably being thrown to the winds. As if the shortage of oxygen supply, ICU beds in hospitals and scarcity of vaccines wasn’t enough, the state health department is also grappling with the problem of “faulty” ventilators being provided by the Centre under the PM-Cares fund. These have assumed critical proportions with the government raising the red flag and lockdowns increasingly becoming a norm. Villages in Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s home turf Patiala underline the rising crisis in rural areas. Between April 1 and May 11, nearly 106 deaths have been reported in villages there. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “testing is being ramped up in villages to arrest the crisis.” Against a supply of nearly 300 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen per day, Punjab is currently getting just about 230 MT per day leaving much to be desired when it comes to critical care. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said the government is doing all in its preview to streamline oxygen supply. Reports suggest that out of 320 ventilators supplied by the Centre, 237 are allegedly non-functional. Of the 109 ventilators at the government medical college in Amritsar, only 12 are functional. The blame game on ventilators has begun. While the state says 90 per cent of the ventilators are “faulty,” the Centre now maintains that the infrastructure to run the equipment was faulty not the ventilators.   Inoculation centres have been running dry for want of vaccines, especially for the 18-44 year age group. Health Secretary Hussan Lal said, “Of the 30 lakh Covishield doses ordered by the state government, the Serum Institute of India had so far confirmed 4.29 lakh doses of which only 1 lakh doses had been received.” Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh: “We are augmenting vaccine supplies. Punjab has decided to join the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines” Leader of Opposition (LoP) in Punjab Assembly Harpal Cheema (AAP): "Call a special Assembly session to formulate a strategy to deal with the pandemic” SAD president Sukhbir Badal: “The state government should cap charges of private hospitals, set up mini covid centres, accelerate vaccination drives and waive off power bills for six months”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arresting-covid-19-becoming-tough-every-passing-day-for-punjab-985911.html
14-05-2021||National||Sheikh Hasina subtly reminds Himanta Biswa Sarma of ethnic, linguistic, religious diversity of Assam||Even as she congratulated Himanta Biswa Sarma for taking over as the new Chief Minister of Assam, Bangladesh’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina tacitly took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s leader, who called Muslim migrants from the neighbouring nation as a threat to the identity of the state in north-eastern India. Hasina subtly reminded Himanta of the ethnic, linguistic and religious diversity of Assam, where the issue illegal migration from Bangladesh to India was a major poll-plank for the BJP during the recently-concluded assembly polls in the state. “We believe under your visionary leadership the multi-ethnic, multi-linguistic and multi-faith people of Assam will progress towards a more vibrant society and greater development,” Hasina wrote to Sarma, who took over as the new Chief Minister of Assam last Monday, succeeding his party colleague Sarbananda Sonowal. Sarma and the other BJP leaders harped on the issue of illegal migrants from Bangladesh to India ahead of the polls in Assam. He even called ‘Miyas’ – the Bengali-speaking Muslims often indiscriminately branded as migrants from the neighbouring country – as a threat to the identity of Assam. He also compared the ‘fight’ between Assamese or the indigenous people of Assam and the immigrant Muslims with the conflict between Israel and Palestine and proclaimed that it would continue. Hasina’s Awami League government in Dhaka has been contesting the narrative of continued illegal migration from Bangladesh to India. She and her ministers often cited the economic prosperity in Bangladesh to counter the allegation that impoverished people from the neighbouring country were sneaking into India in pursuit of livelihood. In her letter to the new Chief Minister of Assam, Hasina also invited the state in the landlocked north-eastern region of India to reap benefits of the socio-economic development of Bangladesh. “With Bangladesh poised to graduate into a middle-income country, we invite Assam to reap benefits from our socio-economic development and growth trajectory,” she wrote to Sarma, adding that her government remained steadfast in strengthening connectivity between Bangladesh and north-eastern region of India. “Further, given our locational advantage as a connectivity hub between South and South-East Asia, we (Government of Bangladesh) remain supportive of India’s Act-East policy.” Hasina’s Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen earlier this month lauded Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for upholding Bengal’s long-cherished values – principle of religious harmony and brotherhood. Momen’s congratulatory letter to Banerjee apparently came with a subtle dig for the BJP, which the Trinamool Congress defeated in the just-concluded assembly elections in West Bengal. Banerjee and her Trinamool Congress had accused the BJP of pursuing a communal and divisive campaign to win the elections and come to power in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah led the BJP’s poll-campaign in West Bengal. Shah’s remark on infiltration from Bangladesh to India during electioneering in West Bengal irked Hasina’s Government in Dhaka. He told a news portal of West Bengal that poor people from Bangladesh infiltrated into India as they found not enough food for them in their own country. His comment, however, triggered sharp reaction from Momen. “I would say his (Shah’s) knowledge about Bangladesh is very limited,” said the Foreign Minister of Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sheikh-hasina-subtly-reminds-himanta-biswa-sarma-of-ethnic-linguistic-religious-diversity-of-assam-985919.html
14-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Finmin asks states to vaccinate staff of banks, insurance cos on priority basis||The finance ministry on Friday asked state governments to accord priority to employees of banks and insurance companies for Covid-19 vaccination, saying they are exposed to high risks during these difficult times. Department of Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda, in a letter addressed to chief secretaries of states and union territories, said states should consider a special dispensation for vaccination of staff of banks, insurance companies, business correspondents, payment systems and other financial services providers on priority. Tagging the letter, Panda in a tweet said, "Kudos to our Bankers, Insurers, Payment Service Providers, Bank Mitras for ensuring uninterrupted delivery of banking and financial services to people in need during these challenging times." He also mentioned that many of these employees have succumbed to Covid-19. "All state/UT governments are requested to instruct local authorities to provide them necessary help and support in ensuring delivery of banking and financial services. Vaccinating them on priority will mitigate their high exposure to risk in delivery of public service," he said. Raising the issues of some instances of manhandling by state law enforcement authorities during local lockdowns, the letter also asked state administration to ensure easy movement of officials for discharge of duty.  "Likewise, offices of banks and branches have occasionally been ordered to shut down by state law enforcement authorities even during permitted banking hours, accompanied by threats. While bank employees are already braving risks to their health and need to be assured about their safety, these incidents end up demoralising them...and disruption in services," it said. This becomes impediment to account holders access to funds in their hours of needs, disbursement of DBT payments, extension of credit to mitigate disruption to business, etc which should otherwise be uninterrupted and seamless, it said. Panda also asked the chief secretaries to instruct district administration and local authorities to cooperate with bank and financial services employees, provide adequate security to them and not impede their functioning or movement. Welcoming the move, All India Bank Employees Association general secretary C H Vekatachlam said priority Vaccination is very important.  Vekatachlam demanded that the Department of Financial Services can also give some minimum uniform guidelines on working of banks. It is to be noted that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs on Management of Covid-19 pandemic and related issues, in its 229th report, appreciated the efforts and pain taken by the banking sector for providing uninterrupted service during the Covid-19 outbreak and consequent lockdown. The Committee placed on record the good work done by them and has also recognised them as Covid warriors. Last month, the Department of Financial Services requested the health and home ministries for issuing instructions for enabling Covid-19 vaccination of employees of banks and those involved in the banking activities. Out of total strength of 13.5 lakh employees in the banking sector, about 600 deaths due to Covid-19 were recorded last year, as per the Indian Banks' Association (IBA) data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-finmin-asks-states-to-vaccinate-staff-of-banks-insurance-cos-on-priority-basis-985922.html
14-05-2021||National||Hovering at 37 lakh, active Covid-19 cases plateau across India||Active Covid-19 cases across the country have been hovering around the 37 lakh mark for the past one week, an early indication of plateauing of the second wave. The number of active cases across the country was 37,23,446 on May 8, rose slightly to 37,36,48 the next day, and hit a high of 37,45,237 on May 10. Active cases declined to 37,15,221 on May 11, further dipped to 37,04,099 on May 12 and registered a slight increase to 37,04,893 on Friday. The number of patients recovering from Covid-19 too has been in the range of 3.5 lakh every day for the past six days. Highest recoveries in a single day – 3,86,444 – were reported on May 9. Though the number has dipped slightly over the next few days, India had reported more recoveries than fresh cases on Friday. On May 14, India reported 3,44,776 recoveries and had reported 3,43,144 fresh cases of Covid-19. “The second wave peaked by last weekend – May 6-7 – but that does not bring immediate good news. Daily numbers will be over three lakhs for days and then over two lakhs for days and over one lakh for days and then will drop to about 20,000 by June end. So, the epidemic is continuing,” T Jacob John, eminent virologist of Christian Medical College, Vellore, told DH. India’s cumulative recoveries crossed the two crore mark on Friday. Maharashtra (54,535) and Karnataka (34,057) reported the maximum recoveries in the 24 hours ending Friday 8:00 am.  Daily cases have declined in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh – states that were driving the all India numbers a couple of weeks back. Of these four states, Uttar Pradesh, which had the potential to surpass the daily new cases record set by Maharashtra, has shown a sharp decline as it reported 17,745 cases on Friday as against the 37,944 reported on April 25. Kerala, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu have been reporting a high number of cases and emerged as new areas of concern in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hovering-at-37-lakh-active-covid-19-cases-plateau-across-india-985932.html
14-05-2021||National||Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole demands probe into phone-tapping||A new political controversy erupted in Maharashtra with state Congress President Nana Patole demanding a high-level probe into the alleged phone-tapping on him by the erstwhile BJP-led government headed by Devendra Fadnavis. A private Marathi news channel report claimed that his phone was being tapped during 2016-2017. Patole urged the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to conduct a high-level probe into the matter. “As per the TV reports, my number was falsely given as belonging to some Amjad Khan, ostensibly to link me with some drugs trafficking… Besides, the phones of several senior leaders of Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Shiv Sena and even BJP, plus IAS and IPS officers were also being tapped similarly,” Patole said. Patole, a former Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Speaker, said that this is a reprehensible and despicable act in an attempt to link him with drug trafficking. “The phone was tapped by showing fake names and addresses. Who tapped these phones and who gave them permission? What was the purpose of tapping the phone? It is a crime to keep an eye on a person by tapping the phone and it is a violation of individual freedom and the government should investigate it,” he said. Nana or Nana Bhau, as he is popularly known, hails from the Kunbi Maratha community. In fact, a three-term Congress MLA, he resigned in 2014 and joined BJP to contest the Lok Sabha polls from Bhandara-Gondiya and defeated Praful Patel, the lieutenant of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. But in 2017, he raised a banner of revolt against Prime Minister Narendra Modi – the first one to do so - and resigned his seat to re-join Congress. He lost the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 from Nagpur against BJP stalwart Nitin Gadkari but won the Sakoli seat and entered the Vidhan Sabha again to become the Speaker, but this year he resigned to take over as MPCC chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-congress-president-nana-patole-demands-probe-into-phone-tapping-985933.html
14-05-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks disclosure of clinical trials data for Covid-19 vaccines||A plea in the Supreme Court has sought disclosure of data in Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial and data recording and reporting adverse events after the administration of the jab. The petition filed by Dr Jacob Puliyel, a former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, also asked the court to declare the vaccination mandate as unconstitutional. The plea filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan sought direction to the government to make public the segregated data of the clinical trials for the vaccines that are being administered to the people under the Emergency Use Authorisation granted by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). It asked the court to direct the government to disclose the post-vaccination data regarding adverse effects, on people who got infected with Covid, those who needed hospitalisation and those who died after such infection post-vaccination. The petitioner also asked to direct the government to widely publicise the data collection of such adverse events through the advertisement of toll-free telephone numbers where such complaints can be registered. “In India, the manner in which the vaccines have been licensed vitiates and even precludes the possibility that the vaccines can be evaluated objectively in the future. Under these circumstances the petitioner is forced to appeal to this court for public disclosure of trial data and post-vaccination data, as required by international medical norms,” it added. It said authorities should carefully monitor vaccine recipients and publicly record all adverse events.  “In other countries, this type of observation has helped identify the occurrence of blood clots and strokes in vaccine recipients, plea further said, adding that many countries stopped administering the vaccine till they evaluated this occurrence and countries like Denmark have completely banned the use of the Astra Zeneca vaccine (branded as Covishield in India),” the plea stated. India, with its huge population and numbers vaccinated, should have reported these adverse events first. But due to poor follow-up, poor Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) evaluation and suppression of data, these events have not been put in the public domain, endangering many more to suffer the same fate, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-disclosure-of-clinical-trials-data-for-covid-19-vaccines-985936.html
14-05-2021||National||Provide tap water connection on priority basis: Centre tells states||The Union Jal Shakti Ministry has asked the states to provide tap water connections on priority to the remaining few households in those villages with over 90 per cent coverage of such supply. According to the Ministry, there are around 21,000 villages in the country where remaining 10 per cent households are yet to be provided with tap water supply. The National Jal Jeevan Mission (NJJM), Department of Drinking Water & Sanitation (DDWS), Ministry of Jal Shakti issued an advisory to states/UTs to provide tap water connections on priority to the remaining few households in those villages with more than 90 per cent coverage of household tap water connections," the ministry said. It was emphasised that these households can be easily covered by taking up retrofitting/augmentation work of the existing drinking water supply systems and thus, may be prioritised without any further delay and ensure its 100 per cent coverage by the end of this month. This issue will also be reviewed regularly, the ministry said. States have been urged for the provision of potable tap water to "all households" in a village under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) based on the principle of equity and inclusiveness. Under the JJM, every rural household is to be provided with tap water supply in adequate quantity of prescribed quality on regular and long-term basis and ensuring that "no one is left out" with a target of 2024. In less than two years of the mission and despite challenges faced due to the Covid-19 pandemic, more than 4.17 crore households have been given tap water connections, the ministry said. Sixty-one districts, 731 blocks, more than 89,000 villages have become "Har Ghar Jal" i.e. 100 per cent households in these areas are provided tap water supply. As a result, more than 7.41 crore (38.6 per cent) rural households in the country are getting potable tap water in their homes, it added. The NDA Government launched Jal Jeevan Mission to provide potable tap water to every household by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-tap-water-connection-on-priority-basis-centre-tells-states-985943.html
14-05-2021||National||Rajasthan now has 4th highest active Covid cases, oxygen supply inadequate: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said that the state now has the fourth-highest active Covid-10 cases but oxygen supply is not adequate.  He said the situation is "extremely fragile" as there are also constraints in lifting 100 metric tonnes (MT) of allocated oxygen from Burnpur and Kalinganagar in the East and "this quota has not been adequately utilised by us despite best efforts". "Rajasthan has fourth highest active cases at 2.11 lakh, which is 5.72% of the total active cases of the country. The present oxygen allocation is 435 MT," Gehlot tweeted.  The chief minister has urged to revise the allotment of oxygen from Jamnagar and Hazira immediately as active Covid-19 cases are going down in many states, and also allotment of more imported oxygen at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-now-has-4th-highest-active-covid-cases-oxygen-supply-inadequate-gehlot-985945.html
14-05-2021||National||Centre eases public procurement rules for Covid supplies||The government on Friday said it has temporarily done away with the mandatory local content requirement norms for public procurement of Covid supplies. The commerce and industry ministry said the exemption would be applicable till September 30. "The government has exempted the public procurement of supplies required for containment of Covid-19 global pandemic from the applicability of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017," the ministry said in a statement. The government issued Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order on June 15, 2017 to promote domestic production of goods and services and enhance income and employment in the country. The order aimed at incentivising production linked through local content requirements to encourage domestic manufacturers' participation in public procurement activities over entities merely importing to trade or assemble items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-eases-public-procurement-rules-for-covid-supplies-985951.html
14-05-2021||National||Congress raises 'Modi Mahal' to ground BJP amid Covid-19 crisis||'Modi Mahal' is the new catchphrase of Congress to corner the NDA government at the Centre and paint it as pro-rich after "suit boot ki sarkar" and "Chowkidar Chor Hai ' campaigns with different degrees of success in the last six years. Modi Mahal is the name given by the Congress to the proposed new Prime Minister's Residence being constructed as part of the Central Vista project against which the Opposition has launched a massive campaign counterpointing the estimated expenditure on the project vis-à-vis the need for vaccines and medicines amid the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The coinage of Modi Mahal seems to have got quite a traction on social media this time, coming at a time of a massive human tragedy in the country in the face of rising coronavirus cases. With the BJP being the ruling party at the Centre as well as in most states, it is the receiving end of anti-establishment sentiments. Congress has been quick to catch on to the sentiments. With "....many 'Modi Mahals' can and must wait! India and Indians first," Congress leader Jairam Ramesh set the tone first and then it has slowly found its place in most anti-government tweets of Congress. On Friday when Delhi police questioned youth Congress chief  B V Srinivas about the source of the relief material he was distributing, the party leaders and workers latched on to the 'Mahal' narrative. National Campaign in-charge of Youth Congress Srivatsa tweeted "Youth Congress will never be scared of the intimidation by Modi & Shah. Let Modi remain busy with Modi Mahal, we will continue to help people." Earlier also he said, "Modi has lots of tax money to spend on Vista, Modi Mahal and Z security to BJP MLAs" and questioned why the government does not pay the medical bills of the poor people". Those who give Oxygen & help people are targeted. Those who communalise the pandemic & ruin lives are promoted. Youth Congress will never be scared of the intimidation by Modi & Shah. Madhya Pradesh Congress state Secretary IT and social media department Kamlesh Shivhare said, "Instead of spending on emergency medical equipment, Modi is spending 20,000 Crore on Modi Mahal." With a hashtag #ModiMahal #7YearsIndiaInTears, Jammu and Kashmir Youth Congress spokesperson Upendra Dwivedi tweeted "Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ego is bigger than people's lives." Congress has repeatedly tried to create a binary of Congress for the poor and Modi for the rich, though with little success in the past. Rahul Gandhi's "suit boot ki sarkar" jibe almost stuck with the government in its first term after Congress latched on to the monogram pinstripe name suit of Modi with Rahul Gandhi saying that by wearing the "Rs 10 lakh suit", Modi has shown how much he cares for the poor. The suit price claim was fiercely contested by the BJP but the jibe continued. Months before Gandhi had tried to describe the Modi government as a "government of three, four corporates" after Modi tried to push through a new land bill in 2015 through ordinances. Realising the dent it could lead to the government's image and the protest building around it, the government not only withdrew the legislation but announced a number of pro-farmer measures and even changed the name of the seven-decade-old Agriculture Ministry to Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers' Welfare. Rahul Gandhi's "Chowkidar Chor Hai" against Modi accusing the government of corruption in Rafale deal, however, boomeranged in 2019 Lok Sabha polls with Modi turning it to his advantage launching a counter-campaign of "Main bhi Chowkidar" with BJP leaders and supporters adding it as prefix to their names on social media to express solidarity with Modi, who had earlier projected himself has "Chowkidar" (custodian) of the nation's wealth. Barring 2015 during the land bill months and the pandemic period now, it is the BJP, which has gained in the slogan war against Congress. Before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Modi, in election rallies, coined the "Majboot" (strong) versus "Majboor" (Helpless) government slogan, reminding people of the old days of uncertainty and instability of rag tag coalition governments. The divided Opposition as a whole and the demoralised Congress in 2019, could not counter the narrative, which had gone for a major change post the Pulwama triggered surgical strikes across the Indo-Pak border by the Modi government. This time the mood is something different. Clearly taken aback by Congress' aggressive stance on Corona and its campaign against Central Vista, BJP has launched a "narrative versus truth campaign" but the quick decision of the Congress to stop all construction work including of new Assembly in Chhattisgarh, has put the BJP in quandary on Central Vista issue as so far it was citing this to justify its on-going construction work.  As Congress went big with the campaign with CWC passing a resolution and a dozen Opposition leaders writing a joint letter seeking funds for oxygen and medicines and asking for halting Central Vista construction, BJP chief JP Nadda wrote a four page letter to Sonia Gandhi reminding her that the project was a UPA era demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-raises-modi-mahal-to-ground-bjp-amid-covid-19-crisis-985963.html
14-05-2021||National||Govt terms 'baseless, incorrect' media reports on 'Make in India' ventilators in Aurangabad||The Union Health Ministry on Friday dismissed as "baseless and incorrect, and not supported by full information on the matter" some media reports suggesting that 'Make in India' ventilators in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district were not functioning optimally. Ventilators were available in very limited numbers in government hospitals across the country at the beginning of the pandemic last year. Moreover, very limited manufacturing of ventilators was taking place in the country and most of the suppliers abroad were not in a position to make supplies of ventilators in large quantities to India. That is when the local manufacturers were encouraged to produce "Make in India" ventilators to address the huge projected demand of the country and orders placed on them.  The ventilator models went through rigorous screening, technical demonstration and clinical validation process in a very limited time available, through domain knowledge experts, and after their approval, these were put into supplies. There are a few states which received the ventilators but are yet to get these installed in their hospitals. The Union health secretary wrote to seven such states on April 11 which still have more than 50 ventilators lying uninstalled with them for the last 4-5 months, the ministry said.  They have been requested to get the installation expedited so that the ventilators can be put to optimal use. Ventilators manufactured by Jyoti CNC were supplied to Aurangabad Medical College. Jyoti CNC is one of the manufacturers of "Make in India" Ventilators. They have supplied ventilators centrally for Covid-19 management, as per the directions of Empowered Group-3, a statement said.  These ventilators were then made available to states as per their requests. This supplier is not funded under PM CARES fund. In Aurangabad Medical College, 150 ventilators were supplied by Jyoti CNC. The first tranche of 100 ventilators reached Aurangabad on April 19, 2021 and their installation was carried out as per the allocations received from the state authorities. Forty-five out of 100 in the first lot were installed in the medical college.  Installation and successful commissioning certificate in respect of all these ventilators was issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration, the ministry said. Out of these 45 installed ventilators, three were reinstalled in a private hospital (Cigma Hospital) by the state authorities. These were installed again by engineers of Jyoti CNC at the said private hospitals. The installation and commissioning certificate was issued by the hospital authorities also after their successful commissioning and demonstration, the statement said. Twenty ventilators out of the above 45 were reallocated to another private hospital (MGM Hospital) by the states authorities. No formal information was provided about this to Jyoti CNC, the statement said. Therefore, Jyoti CNC engineers had no part in the reinstallation of these ventilators. Therefore, the installation of these ventilators at the new location was done by the state authorities at their own responsibility. The ministry said 55 ventilators of the first tranche were diverted to other locations (four locations namely Civil Hospitals at Beed, Usmanabad, Parbhani and Hingoli).  Installation and commissioning certificates for 50 ventilators were issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration. Five ventilators are lying uninstalled at the Beed Civil Hospital waiting for directions from the hospital authorities, the statement said. The second tranche of 50 ventilators was sent to the Aurangabad Medical College and Hospital on April 23, 2021. Only two ventilators were installed in a private hospital by the authorities (Cigma Hospital). Installation and commissioning certificates for these two ventilators have also been issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration.  Directions are awaited by Jyoti CNC & HLL for further installations of 48 ventilators lying packed in Government Medical College, Aurangabad, the statement said. On April 23, (i.e. four days after successful installation of ventilators the hospital authorities at GMC Aurangabad, a complaint was received telephonically informing that eight ventilators were not functioning, the statement said. The engineers went to the site and found that flow sensor (proximal) had not been installed in three ventilators by the hospital. All eight were recalibrated by the service engineers of the vendor. One ventilator had an oxygen cell which was not functioning, the statement said. A fresh oxygen cell was reinstalled and this ventilator also made functional and commissioned subsequently, it said. Jyoti CNC received a call on May 10, 2021 informing that two ventilators have been used in ICU. Out of these, one on NIV (Non-Invasive (BiPAP) mode), is not being able to ensure saturation of the patient. The authorities said that this may be checked outside the ICU, the statement said. The same was examined by the team of service engineers and was found to be in functional condition and the team returned after satisfying the Hospital authorities. This was put back in operation on a patient on night of  May 12 on NIV mode, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-terms-baseless-incorrect-media-reports-on-make-in-india-ventilators-in-aurangabad-985975.html
14-05-2021||National||Congress urges India to proactively work towards ending hostilities between Israel,Hamas||The Congress on Friday urged India to proactively work towards cessation of hostilities between Israel and Hamas and restore peace with the intervention of the UN Security Council. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma also said that spiralling violence, coinciding with the holy festival of Eid, is distressing and a matter of grave concern for the world. "The Congress party urges for an immediate cessation of hostilities by both Israel and Hamas and calls for urgent intervention of the UN Security Council (UNSC) to restore peace. The issue is both moral and humanitarian. India as a member of the UNSC should proactively work to achieve this objective," he said. Sharma said People of Palestine have a right to live with dignity in a secure environment. That equally is the right of all the people of Israel, he said. Sharma said the Palestinian people's right to pray at the Al Asqa mosque without any restriction must always be respected and not violated. "The orchestrated incidents in Jerusalem were outrageous and triggered tensions and violence," the Congress leader said in a statement. The Congress said the escalation of conflict, air attacks on Gaza and the rocket attacks by the Hamas have resulted in tragic loss of innocent human lives, especially the children and elderly, and also injuries to many civilians.  The aggravated destruction of public property and Infrastructure has caused hardships and disruption, the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-urges-india-to-proactively-work-towards-ending-hostilities-between-israelhamas-985983.html
14-05-2021||National||5 Naxals surrender in Chhattisgarh, one tests Covid-19 positive||Five Naxals carrying cash rewards on their heads surrendered before authorities in Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh on Friday, and one of them has tested coronavirus positive, police said. The Naxal, who has tested positive for Covid-19, told the police that he suspected that he had contracted the infection and quit the Maoist movement to get better medical treatment. The cadres have been identified as Hunga (48), Joga alias Panta (22), Lingaram (32), Joga Kunjam (22) and Pandu (30), all residents of Kuwakonda area in the district, police sources said. According to police, all the surrendered Naxals, who were carrying cash rewards of Rs 10,000 each, were subjected to Covid-19 testing and Hunga was found infected. They quit the Naxal-movement as they were impressed by the 'Lon Varratu (return home) rehabilitation campaign of Dantewada police, police said. Hunga was a member of Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan (DAKMS), a front organisation of Maoists, while Joga was a member Chetna Natya Mandli (CNM), a cultural wing of the outlawed outfit, police said, adding that three others were jan militia members. In his statement, Hunga told the police that he along with senior cadres of the banned organisation had organised a rally and meeting to protest against new camp at Mankapal in Sukma district, which several villagers had attended. He said that after returning from the rally, he fell ill and fearing infection, he quit the Maoist movement for better medical treatment. The surrendered Naxals were allegedly involved in several crimes in the district, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-naxals-surrender-in-chhattisgarh-one-tests-covid-19-positive-985994.html
14-05-2021||National||Tractor drivers, 'key' to Goa's oxygen shortage deaths, have finally arrived!||Officials in charge of oxygen supply at the state's apex health institute, the Goa Medical College, heaved a sigh of relief on Friday evening. Five tractor trolley operators specially hired by the Goa government from Kolhapur in Maharashtra have finally arrived and are readying to drive oxygen trolleys from the manufacturing unit 20 kilometres away. Not doctors, not nurses, not cutting-edge medical equipment, the fate of hundreds of patients admitted to the medical college now rests in the hands of the five tractor trolley operators, who according to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant hold the key to rescue the patients on oxygen support at the premier hospital. 75 persons have died in the numerous Covid wards of the overloaded hospital over the last four days. The deaths have occurred in almost clockwork precision, between 2 am and 4 am, due to oxygen shortage. Sawant has claimed that while the state had adequate oxygen supply, the inability to deliver the oxygen to the hospital was responsible for the deaths. And that is where, according to the Chief Minister, tractor trolley drivers play a key role.  However, it is not something one can explain to caregivers like Christine Fernandes.  "The first few nights at the hospital have been frightening as the oxygen was turned off in the nights and patients were dying during this time," Christine Fernandes, whose sister Laura is admitted to Ward 113, said.  Videos of the chaos which plays out in the Covid wards have gone viral on social media. Patients lying cramped in bed, some on the floor on a mattress, others on a plank of cardboard, just about anywhere one can shrivel and lie.  Videos also show oxygen monitors beeping at night, past the midnight mark, like an ill-omen, a signature note of trauma ahead. 75 patients hooked onto the hospital's mechanised oxygen system have died between 2 am to 6 am after oxygen levels dipped dangerously.  But those like Christine who had arranged for an oxygen cylinder also faced trouble. "We had a cylinder, but there was no one to administer the oxygen to my patient," Christine said. Laura survived the night. Dozens of others have not been able to.  The tragedy caused by the scores of deaths has left a deep imprint on the psyche of Goa.  Even the Bombay High Court's Goa bench judges expressed pain at not being able to prevent the deaths, despite directing the state administration to take corrective steps virtually every day over the last three days. In its status report filed on Friday, the Goa government informed the Court about all the efforts being taken by the state administration to prevent any further deaths. And recruitment of tractor trolley drivers tops its list of tasks. "The government has arranged eight trained and experienced tractor drivers from the neighbouring Kolhapur District of Maharashtra along with two additional high-powered tractors for ferrying the oxygen trolleys between the plant and GMC," the status report submitted to the High Court bench late on Friday reads.  Five drivers have arrived, but three drivers were late in arriving, the report also states. Over the last few days in Goa, barring death, very little else appears to adhere to time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tractor-drivers-key-to-goas-oxygen-shortage-deaths-have-finally-arrived-985995.html
14-05-2021||National||Bhagat Singh's nephew passes away due to post-Covid complications||Freedom fighter Bhagat Singh's nephew, Abhay Singh Sandhu, passed away on Friday at a private hospital in Mohali due to post-Covid complications. Expressing condolences over the demise of Sandhu (63), Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the social activist, passed away at Fortis hospital, "where he failed to recover from post Covid-19 health-related complications". The hospital sources said that Sandhu passed away due to post-Covid complications. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also condoled Sandhu's demise. "Saddened to know about the demise of Abhay Singh Sandhu Ji, nephew of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Ji who passed away after a long illness," Amarinder Singh tweeted. "My heartfelt condolences to his family. We will bear the expenditure incurred on his treatment. May Waheguru grant him eternal peace," the chief minister said. In a condolence message, Balbir Sidhu recalled the remarkable role of Abhay Sandhu as a social activist. "Sandhu relentlessly worked to spread the ideology of Shaheed Bhagat Singh at world level," Sidhu said. Sandhu was the son Kulbir Singh, who was younger brother of Bhagat Singh. Sandhu had also lent his support to the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhagat-singhs-nephew-passes-away-due-to-post-covid-complications-986012.html
14-05-2021||National||India has administered over 18 crore Covid vaccines so far||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 18 crore, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 18,04,29,261 according to the 8 pm provisional report. The ministry said 3,25,071 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Thursday and cumulatively 42,55,362 across 32 states and union territories since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive. The total of 18,04,29,261 include 96,27,199 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,21,675 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,43,63,754 Frontline Workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 81,48,757 FLWs who have taken the second dose, and 42,55,362 individuals in the 18-44 years age group who have received the first dose.  Besides, 5,67,99,389 and 87,50,224 beneficiaries aged over 45 to 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose, respectively, while 5,43,15,317 and 1,75,47,584 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and second dose. As on day-119 of the vaccination drive (May 14), total 10,79,759 vaccine doses were given. A total of 6,16,781 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 4,62,978 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine according to the provisional report till 8 pm, the ministry said, adding that the final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-administered-over-18-crore-covid-vaccines-so-far-986024.html
14-05-2021||National Politics||India is facing an invisible enemy, Covid-19 vaccine is the best defence: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government was making all-out efforts to vaccinate people at a faster pace even as the immunisation drive against Covid-19 appeared to have hit roadblocks due to shortages. Addressing farmers from across the country through video conference, Modi described the war on Covid-19 as a fight against an “invisible enemy” who was capable of assuming different forms. “After 100 years, the pandemic is testing the world. We have an invisible enemy before us. We have lost many of our close ones to this enemy. Being your Pradhan Sevak, I can feel the pain many of you have endured,” the Prime Minister said. Modi’s remarks on the Covid-19 situation came amid opposition allegations that the Prime Minister and his key ministers were missing in the fight against the pandemic. Modi termed vaccination as the best defence against Covid-19 and urged the people to get the vaccine when their turn comes. “The Centre along with state governments is ensuring that the Covid vaccines reach citizens as quickly as possible,” he said. Over the past few days, several states had deferred vaccination sessions citing non-availability of vaccines and were exploring issuing global tenders to source the jabs. Modi cautioned about the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas and urged panchayati raj institutions to ensure proper sanitation and awareness about the disease in their respective villages. “India is not a nation that loses hope in tough times. I am sure that we will overcome this challenge with our strength & dedication,” the prime minister said, adding that efforts were being made on a war footing to ensure availability of medicines. He urged state governments to curb instances of black marketing and hoarding of medicines and medical equipment. India on Friday reported 3,43,144 new Covid-19 cases, 3,44,776 recoveries and 4,000 deaths, taking the total cases in the country to 2,40,46,809, the Union Health Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-is-facing-an-invisible-enemy-covid-19-vaccine-is-the-best-defence-pm-modi-985783.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Coronavirus is a living organism, has 'right to live,' says Trivendra Singh Rawat||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday said that coronavirus is a living organism which has a right to live. "Seen from a philosophical angle, coronavirus is also a living organism. It has the right to live like the rest of us. But we (humans) think ourselves to be the most intelligent and are out to eliminate it. So it is constantly mutating itself," he told a private news channel. However, he said man needs to outpace the virus to stay safe. Rawat was trolled on social media for his unusual observation on coronavirus as it went viral at a time when the entire country is battling a strong second wave of Covid-19. One Twitter user sarcastically said, "This virus organism should be given shelter in the Central Vista."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-is-a-living-organism-has-right-to-live-says-trivendra-singh-rawat-985720.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Blind Delhi parents lose only child to Covid-19; couple mourn death of 5-month-old 'Pari'||Nine-month-old Krishu, the only child to his blind parents, succumbed to Covid-19 at a Delhi government-run hospital, while his father, battled the deadly virus at another hospital. On Thursday evening, Jitender Singh 'Shunty', a former BJP MLA, buried Krishu in a corner of the Old Seemapuri cremation ground. This was the second time in two days that Singh was burying a child so young. The 59-year-old humanitarian, who has given dignified cremations to over 2,000 strangers during the second wave of Covid-19, buried five-month-old Pari on Wednesday evening, near the spot where Krishu now rests. A relative of Krishu told PTI that the boy was the only child to his parents who live in Dilshad Garden in East Delhi. "Both the parents are blind," he said, choking on his tears. Krishu's mother contracted the infection around 18 days ago and since she breastfed the child, he also became ill, the relative said. A few days ago, Krishu was admitted to the Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital, where he died in the early hours of Thursday. His father, Shashank Shekar, 26, is battling for his life in the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur. "He doesn't know he lost his beloved Krishu today. Please do not tell him. Now, I don't want to lose him too," the mother, Jyoti, said, as she broke down over the phone. Pari's father, Prahlad, 30, a resident of Nand Nagri in northeast Delhi, said his 'Laali' had been running high fever for some days. "We took her to a private clinic nearby. When her condition deteriorated, we rushed her to Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya in Geeta Colony, where doctors conducted an RT-PCR test, which came out positive," he said. The family was sent to the Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital where Pari was put on ventilator support on May 6. Her mother, Reema, would spend the entire day at the hospital burning incense sticks and praying continuously, the father said. "I spent every penny I had, but could not save her," Prahlad rued. Pari succumbed to the infection around 11.30 am. "This broke our heart. I had never imagined that I would have to bury such small children here. I won't be able to forget it easily," Singh, the ex-BJP MLA, said, adding that no parent should have to bury their child. Children so young don't not even know how to express to their parents what they feel, he said. Asked if he had to bury a child earlier too, Singh said, "Never before had I heard or seen anyone of this age dying due to Covid-19. This is the first I believe. The situation is really scary."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/blind-delhi-parents-lose-only-child-to-covid-19-couple-mourn-death-of-5-month-old-pari-985730.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis: Over 80% of the elderly suffering from anxiety over health, shows survey||Four in every five senior citizens have anxiety over their health as Covid-19 cases and subsequent casualties are rising in the country, according to a survey. Compiling data of conversations with around 5,000 people through its helpline and volunteers on the ground in the past one month, NGO Agewell Foundation claimed that 82.4% are complaining of health anxiety during the second wave of the pandemic. A large number — 70.2% — of the elderly were found suffering from sleeplessness or nightmares, while 63% have developed symptoms of depression due to loneliness and social isolation. Further, it said, 63.3% elderly also complained of stress during the pandemic, while 53% claimed that they were feeling weakness due to changed lifestyle, restrictions and other factors. More than half of them (52.2%) also complained of loss of appetite during the past month.   "In view of the current surge in Covid-19 cases across the country and a huge burden on the healthcare system, older people are afraid of the Covid-19 consequences during the course of disease. They seem much worried about getting a bed and proper treatment in hospitals if they, or any of their family members, is ever in need," the survey said. Himanshu Rath, Agewell Foundation founder, said there was overall rise of 50% in the number of senior citizens seeking counselling or help for psychological issues like depression, anxiety, sleeplessness, fear, stress, sense of loneliness and isolation among other things in the past one month. "Most older persons, despite having access to resources, are finding themselves helpless and vulnerable due to the fast-spreading coronavirus. It has devastated their peace of mind and life. They need urgent help in the form of counselling, useful tips and information, healthcare as well as emotional support," he added. The survey also said older people with mental health disorders are more vulnerable and prone to exacerbations during such a crisis. Due to poor health conditions and a fast-decreasing immune system in old age, the elderly are more prone to get infection, which leaves them neglected, even unattended in many cases, it said. It recommended a special door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination drive for those above 60 years and special training for public health practitioners, mental health providers, healthcare professionals and volunteers for providing better and effective care to older people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-over-80-of-the-elderly-suffering-from-anxiety-over-health-shows-survey-985737.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 cases in Delhi fall below 10k-mark, but tests also decline||The Covid-19 cases in Delhi fell below the 10,000-mark for the first time on Friday since April 11, aided apparently by a decline in tests by around 5,000 from the previous day. The Friday's medical bulletin said that the national capital had 8,506 cases in the past 24 hours as against 10,489 the previous day with a positivity rate of 12.40%, the lowest since April 11 when it was 9.43%. While the number of cases have come down, the number of tests also declined on Friday -- 68,575 as against 73,675 on Thursday, 78,035 on Wednesday and 70,276 on Tuesday. While Delhi been conducting over 80-90,000 tests daily till April 20, it has decreased over the past three weeks. The number of tests crossed 80,000 mark only twice while the last few days has seen the number of tests between 60-80,000. Since April 1, the highest number of tests were conducted on April 11 when 1,14,288 samples were tested. Another point of relief is that the number of deaths has fallen below 300-mark -- it was recorded at 289. Only twice since April 23, the toll had fallen below 300 mark -- the first being on May 9 when it was recorded at 273. During a digital address, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal highlighted that the positivity rate has come down further to 12.40%. "This means that a lesser number of people are falling ill in Delhi. The number of people admitted to the hospitals has also reduced. In the past 10 days, the number of patients in hospitals of Delhi has reduced by more than 3,000 patients. Which means that 3,000 beds have become empty," he said. He said it was "good news" that the number of daily cases fell below 10,000-mark and the capital could achieve it because of the contribution of people. "We imposed a very strict lockdown in Delhi, but the people of Delhi offered their complete support in the same. Everyone adhered to the lockdown completely...But the battle is not won yet. The battle is yet to finish. Even now 8,500 cases have come up. This has to be reduced to zero. We have to end Covid-19 entirely,” he said. While he said there is no problem being faced to get beds in hospitals, he observed that the ICU beds are still full. "This means the number of serious patients has not declined much. Around 1,200 new ICU beds have been prepared and are now ready to be utilized by today or tomorrow. This will bring great relief to the people of Delhi," he added. He also announced that the Delhi government will extend financial help to families which have lost their earning members to the pandemic. The government will also bear the cost of education and upbringing of children orphaned by the pandemic. "I know many children who have lost both their parents. I want to tell them that I am still there. Do not consider yourself an orphan. The government will take care of their studies and upbringing," he said. "I know elderly citizens who have lost their children. They depended on their earnings. I want to tell them that their son (Kejriwal) is alive. The government will help all such families who have lost their earning members," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-in-delhi-fall-below-10k-mark-but-tests-also-decline-985738.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Malerkotla to be Punjab's 23rd district||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday announced Malerkotla as the state's new district and noted that a long-pending demand of the people has been fulfilled. Malerkotla will be the 23rd district of the state. Addressing a state-level function virtually to greet the people on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr, the chief minister also announced a Rs 500 crore medical college for Malerkotla, a women's college, a new bus stand and a women police station. Malerkotla, a Muslim majority town, was till now part of Sangrur district and is located nearly 35 km from the district headquarters in Sangrur. While announcing the new district, the chief minister said, “I know this has been a long-pending demand.” He said at the time of the country's Independence Punjab had 13 districts. Singh said Malerkotla city, Amargarh and Ahmedgarh will also come under the limits of Malerkotla. In a tweet later, he said, “Happy to share that on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr, my Govt has announced Malerkotla as the newest district in the state. The 23rd district holds huge historical significance. Have ordered to immediately locate a suitable site for the district administrative complex.” According Malerkotla a district status was a pre-poll promise of the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/malerkotla-to-be-punjabs-23rd-district-985768.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi to financially aid families who lost earning members to Covid-19, says Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government will extend financial help to families which have lost their earning members to the coronavirus and also bear the cost of education and upbringing of children orphaned by the pandemic. He also said the number of fresh Covid-19 cases has come down to around 8,500 and the positivity rate has dipped to around 12 per cent. But the fight against the coronavirus has not ended and there is no room for leniency, the chief minister said in an online press conference. "I know many children who have lost both their parents. I want to tell them that I am still there. Do not consider yourself an orphan. The government will take care of their studies and upbringing," Kejriwal said. "I know elderly citizens who have lost their children. They depended on their earnings. I want to tell them that their son (Kejriwal) is alive. The government will help all such families who have lost their earning members," the chief minister said. Around 3,000 beds for coronavirus patients have become available in the last 10 days. However, ICU beds remain almost full, Kejriwal said. “We have been working in this direction. Around 1,200 more ICU beds are being prepared. More oxygen beds are being added and oxygen cylinders being procured," he said. "We have to take the number of cases to zero. We cannot be at ease... have to strictly follow the lockdown," the chief minister said. The national capital had reported 10,489 new cases and 308 more fatalities on Thursday while the positivity rate stood at 14.24 per cent, according to the health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-financially-aid-families-who-lost-earning-members-to-covid-19-says-arvind-kejriwal-985772.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||No interim protection from arrest to Kalra till May 18 in oxygen black marketing case: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to grant any interim protection from arrest to high-profile businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with alleged black marketing of oxygen concentrators.  Kalra, owner of the famous 'Khan Chacha' restaurant at the upscale Khan Market, approached the High Court after the dismissal of anticipatory bail by a Delhi court on Thursday.  "I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now," Justice Subramonium Prasad said. The court posted the matter for further hearing on May 18. The sessions court had denied relief noting the possibility of the accused tampering with the evidence or intimidating the prosecution witnesses. It said custodial interrogation was required to unearth the entire conspiracy.   Senior advocates Abhishek M Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa, representing Kalra, contended the High Court should grant interim protection. Police should not take any coercive action in the backdrop of the High Court hearing, they said.    Additional Solicitor General S V Raju contended that he had information in connection with shell companies, which he was required to place before the court. He also said heavens will not fall if the matter is taken up on May 18. Singhvi said the contention was an attempt to embarrass the court. Kalra’s arrest was not needed as under the Drug Price Control Order (DPCO) 2013, there was a provision to adjust the overcharged amount or refund it. No price was fixed for imported oxygen concentrators, he claimed. However, the court pointed out that many concentrators were seized from Kalra’s properties and price stickers, including blank ones, were found at the site. The court told Kalra’s counsel if it would be a violation of the DPCO 2013, is the main question.   The High Court also said that as per the trial court, Kalra was selling poor quality concentrators at an exorbitant price.  During a raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra -- Khan Chacha, Nega Ju and Town Hall. After lodging of an FIR on May 5, co-accused Gaurav Suri, Satish Sethi, Hitesh Kumar and Vikrant were arrested in the case related to selling of poor quality China-made oxygen concentrators at exorbitant prices with fraudulent representation that those were of premium class, manufactured with German collaboration. During the previous day's hearing, the high court had asked Kalra how he could hold on the concentrators or even sell them when he did not have a valid license to manufacture, store, import or sell the same. While the sessions court denied him anticipatory bail, a magisterial court on May 13 granted bail to an employee of upscale restaurant 'Town Hall', owned by Kalra, in connection with the case. Four employees of Matrix Cellular company, including its CEO and vice president, who were also arrested in the case are also out on bail. During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra -- Khan Chacha, Nega Ju and Town Hall -- and he is suspected to have left Delhi along with his family. The concentrators are crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 patients. Kalra had bought the concentrators from Matrix Cellular which had imported them. On May 5, a case was registered against Kalra under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR, also registered under Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, for black marketing of oxygen cylinders prescribes maximum punishment for seven years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-kalra-till-may-18-in-oxygen-black-marketing-case-delhi-hc-985774.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police questions Congress's B V Srinivas on Covid-19 material supply||Youth Congress president B V Srinivas, who is in the forefront of coordinating Covid-19 relief, was on Friday questioned by Delhi Police to know about his source of relief material like oxygen cylinders and medicines even as the Congress said if helping someone is a crime, they will do it "again and again". Delhi Police said they were conducting enquiries following a direction from the Delhi High Court on a petition filed by Dr Deepak Singh about politicians' involvement in "illegal distribution" of Covid-19 medicines and other material. The petition had named Priyanka Gandhi, Dilip Pandey and Srinivas among others. Earlier, AAP MLA Dilip Pandey and Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana among others were also approached seeking the source of relief material they had access to. Former BSP MP Shahid Siddique also faced questions from Delhi Police on Thursday after he was helped by Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi and former Delhi Congress MLA Mukesh Sharma with Remdesivir injections for his wife. Crime Branch officials met Srinivas, who has earned the praise of a lot of people for his work, at the Youth Congress headquarters in the national capital and asked him about the source of materials like oxygen cylinders and medicines, which Youth Congress cadres distributed to the needy. "This is the fallout of a petition filed in the High Court. The Crime Branch sought details of our work. I have given all details. We will not stop work. I am not scared," Srinivas told reporters. There were thousands of posts on social media tagging Srinivas seeking his help. A number of people, including several journalists, came out in support of Srinivas, supporting him. Referring to Siddique's incident, Priyanka tweeted, "if helping someone in need is now a crime, I will commit it again and again. To my mind it’s a far greater crime to silently watch and do nothing while people die desperately searching for medicine and gasping for air." With Congress targeting the Narendra Modi government over the incident and a section of social media coming out in support of Srinivas, BJP East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir accused the Opposition of indulging in “needless politicisation of due process”. He tweeted, “Delhi Police has asked for a reply from us and we have provided all details. I will keep serving Delhi and its people to the best of my abilities.”  Opposition should not indulge in needless politicisation of due process.Delhi Police has asked for a reply from us & we’ve provided all details. I will keep serving Delhi & its people to the best of my abilities always! "Had he been a part of the Sangh Parivar, they would have been putting his name forward for a Padma Award in recognition of his services during this pandemic," National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted on Srinivas.  As Srinivas was being questioned, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said no such action can stop a Congressman from serving the people. "Is it a crime to send a Remdesivir injection to a critically ill patient? Is it a crime to arrange hospitals and ventilators or provide food to ambulance drivers? It seems it is a crime under the Modi government. That is why police were sent to Srinivas. If the Modi government cannot give people the needed relief, you cannot stop Congressmen who are serving people," he said.  ऐसी घृणित बदले की कार्यवाही से न हम डरेंगे, न हमारा जज़्बा टूटेगा। सेवा का संकल्प और दृढ़ होगा। Siddiqui tweeted that he was asked about how he managed to get two injections of Remdesivir for his wife from Priyanka and Sharma. "On the day of Eid, an inspector from the Crime Branch came to inquire how I got 2 injections of Remdesivir from Priyanka Gandhi and Mukesh Sharma for my wife. They are wasting taxpayers' money inquiring how someone helped, not why people are dying because of the dearth of medicines and oxygen," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-questions-congresss-b-v-srinivas-on-covid-19-material-supply-985779.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||MP govt to give free treatment to journos, kin hit by Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced that the state government will provide free medical treatment to all media persons, whether they are accredited or not, and their family members, if they are infected with coronavirus. Earlier this week, Chouhan had also declared accredited journalists as frontline workers (Corona warriors). "We have seen that while performing their duties and in the process of disseminating news, many journalists got infected with Covid-19 and some of them even unfortunately died," the chief minister said in a media statement. "Today, we have decided that all journalists and media persons, whether they are accredited on non-accredited, working in print, electronic and digital media, and their family members if found infected with Covid-19, then the Madhya Pradesh government will take care of their treatment and will not leave them on their own," Chouhan said. It will help the journalists in performing their duties in an effective manner and also ensure their better treatment, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-to-give-free-treatment-to-journos-kin-hit-by-covid-19-985784.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court denies bail to accused claiming to be suffering from schizophrenia||A Delhi Court has refused to grant interim bail to a riot accused claiming to be suffering from 'paranoid schizophrenia', saying that the possibility that he is pretending to be suffering from a mental disorder to come out of the jail cannot be ruled out.  Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav was hearing the application filed by Mohd Salman seeking interim bail on the ground that he has been suffering from paranoid schizophrenia which requires great care and needs to be admitted to a higher medical centre for further evaluation.  The judge dismissed the application and stated, “The possibility cannot be ruled out that the applicant has been making conscious and persistent efforts to somehow come out of the jail by pretending to be suffering from mental disorder.” The court said it cannot lose sight of the fact that Salman is an accused in the three heinous cases of riots-cum-murder and the allegations against the applicant are quite serious. Notably, as per the medical report submitted by the Jail Superintendent on May 5, the accused was within normal limits, stable and being regularly sent to Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS). “It is relevant to note that the applicant would not have got such attention and treatment had he not been in jail,” the Judge said.  During the course of proceedings, Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad argued that there is no emergency and the applicant is being well looked after by the jail authorities.   The 27-year-old Salman is lodged in Delhi's Mandoli jail since last one year in connection with the murder of three persons during the riots in north-east Delhi. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-denies-bail-to-accused-claiming-to-be-suffering-from-schizophrenia-985840.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||'Shoulders for sale' as Covid-19 ravages villages in Uttar Pradesh, more bodies found floating in rivers||Lending shoulders to carry the dead on their last journey has traditionally been considered to be 'punya' (virtue) in the Indian culture and those who accompany the body are seen taking turns. Covid-19 has, however, shattered every tradition and exposed the hypocrisy surrounding the moral standards as is evident on cremation ghats along the banks of the Ganga in the ancient city of Varanasi. At a time when close relatives and even family members hesitate in accompanying those dying from Covid-19 on their last journey, people are forced to cough up astronomical amounts to carry the bier to the place where the body is to be cremated. ''It (the bank) is hardly 10-15 stairs down, but we had to pay Rs 4,000 to carry the bier,'' said a youth, who was the only person to have accompanied the body of his father, who had died from Covid-19. ''I managed to bring the body till the end of the road... from here, it's all the way down....I cannot do this alone,'' the youth, who refused to identify himself, said. Locals said there are many, who used to work as petty labourers and are now jobless, who are ready to lend their shoulders for money. ''These labourers earn substantial amounts... it is risky though... I had never seen that... in earlier times, many people volunteered to carry the dead,'' said Jai Shankar Nishad, a resident of Dashashwamedh area in Varanasi. He said the cremation ghats in Varanasi were simply overwhelmed by the sheer number of bodies. Meanwhile, after the Ganga, bodies were found floating in the Yamuna river in Auraiya and Hamirpur districts in Uttar Pradesh. A few bodies were also found floating in the Ramganga river in Bareilly and Gomti river. According to reports, many bodies that had been buried in four-five deep pits in the sands on the banks of the Ganga in Kanpur and Unnao, became visible following a rise in water levels. It was a horrific scene as corpses were at the mercy of strays. The UP government said stern action would be taken against those found dumping bodies in rivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shoulders-for-sale-as-covid-19-ravages-villages-in-uttar-pradesh-more-bodies-found-floating-in-rivers-985872.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Three history-sheeters dead in UP jail shootout||Three history-sheeters, including members allegedly associated with don-turned-politician Muhtar Ansari, were killed in a shootout inside the district jail in Chitrakoot, about 350 kilometres from here, on Friday. Merajuddin and Mukim alias Kala, members of Mukhtar's gang, and gangster Anshu Dixit exchanged several rounds of fire inside the jail on Friday morning. Both Merajuddin and Mukim were killed in the gun battle, according to police sources.   Ansari was currently lodged in Banda district jail, barely 75 kilometres from Chitrakoot. A police team, which later entered the jail premises, surrounded Dixit and asked him to surrender but he opened fire at the cops. ''Dixit was gunned down in retaliatory firing by the cops,'' a senior police official said in Chitrakoot. It was the second shootout in the jail after gangster Munna Bajarangi was shot dead by another criminal Sunil Rathi inside Baghpat district jail in the state three years ago. It was not immediately clear how Dixit and the other two gangsters managed to get dozens of rounds of ammunition and pistols in jail. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered an inquiry into the matter and sought a report from the director general of the prison, sources said. The family members of Ansari expressed apprehensions that the latter was not 'safe' inside the jail. ''If a shootout can take place inside the jail, then no one is safe in the state,'' said a member of Ansari's family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-history-sheeters-dead-in-up-jail-shootout-985906.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||No virtual meetings of Parliamentary panels right now, physical meetings after Covid-19 situation improves: Sources||The demand for virtual meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee has been once again declined by Rajya Sabha Secretariat citing lack of rules even as it pointed out that physical meetings could be considered shortly once the current Covid-19 situation improves, sources said on Friday. The Secretariat is learnt to have responded to a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu by Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge in which he demanded that Parliamentary panels be allowed to convene online to discuss the pandemic situation. The Secretariat's letter referred to a decision taken last year by Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to refer the issue of holding virtual meetings of committees to the Committee on Rules in both the Houses. Officials had earlier briefed both Naidu and Birla that a decision has to be taken by the Parliament to allow virtual meetings as the presiding officers cannot do it on their own. The Committees on Rules was to examine the existing provisions and confidentiality of the proceedings in a virtual meeting. "As physical meetings of the committees were being held regularly, following the (Covid-19) guidelines strictly, the matter rested there and the situation had not arisen for consideration of the matter by the Rules Committees in both the Houses. The meetings of the Committees can be considered shortly once the situation improves," sources quoted the letter as saying. The letter also said the issue of confidentiality can be resolved during the Session as any amendment to the rules can be approved by the Houses only after the matter is considered by the Rules Committees. In his reaction, Congress Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "I am not surprised. In spite of repeated requests for almost a year, virtual meetings of Standing Committees have been inexplicably disallowed. The Prime Minister has all his meetings virtually, but 30 odd MPs cannot. Nowhere in the world has Parliament run away from its duties like in India." "A wasteful new Parliament building is being constructed in the midst of a national catastrophe, and it is considered an “essential service”. But a simple rule cannot be changed to allow virtual meetings of Standing Committees," he added. Separately, he said, "I had asked the Chairman last year to resolve this bogus confidentiality issue." Ramesh, the Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change, has been demanding that the panel be allowed to be held online. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien also wrote to Naidu to allow Parliamentary Committee meetings to be held virtually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-virtual-meetings-of-parliamentary-panels-right-now-physical-meetings-after-covid-19-situation-improves-sources-985916.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Bihar government encourages people to install indoor plants for fresh oxygen||In an attempt to help those worried about oxygen scarcity amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Bihar government on Friday launched a campaign to encourage installation of oxygen-giving indoor plants. Department of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Bihar launched the campaign '#NatureCuresYou' to sensitise people about how nature can help beat coronavirus. "In these exceptional times, when there is an enormous scarcity of oxygen, knowledge about indoor oxygen-giving plants and other therapeutic spices and herbs will provide needful support to distressed people. "Through this campaign, the department intends to sensitize people about the infinite ways by which nature can help us beat this lethal infection," the department said in an official statement. Dipak Kumar Singh, Principal Secretary, Department of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Bihar, was quoted as saying, "Our goal is to improve people's health by making them aware about indoor plants which give us oxygen and about other plants, herbs, and spices, which have medicinal value, through #NatureCuresYou campaign." He said that such information will help people get cured of common ailments at home with easy, natural treatment. The department said that plants and nature have been the base of ancient Ayurvedic science and their use in the domestic treatment of common diseases continues to date.  "Thus, the campaign #NatureCuresYou is to highlight such effective methods of simple treatment, by which the common people can take care of their health, while being at home and minimal external intervention," it said. It suggested that people should keep at home plants of medicinal values such as Giloy, Kalimirch and Pippali (long pepper) which can boost immunity and help cure many common diseases. Snake Plant, Rubber plant, Areca Palm are some of the indoor oxygen-providing plants and they are instrumental in the creation of a healthy indoor environment, it said. "The pandemic has confined people to their homes, and therefore the need of a purified and oxygenated atmosphere has become a necessity. This campaign encourages people towards indoor and potted plants, which can be an invaluable source to purified fresh oxygen, at no extra cost," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-government-encourages-people-to-install-indoor-plants-for-fresh-oxygen-985939.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacial disaster death toll rises to 83||More than three months after the glacial disaster in Chamoli district of Uttarkhand, one more body was recovered on Friday from Tapovan tunnel taking the death toll in the tragedy to 83. Rescue teams recovered the body from the tunnel at NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project on Friday, Chamoli district disaster management officer N K Joshi said. The body has not been identified yet, he added. An avalanche on February 7 had caused large-scale damage to the project besides totally demolishing the Rishiganga hydel project at Raini village in the district. With the latest recovery, 83 bodies and 36 human body parts out of a total of 204 people missing have been recovered so far from different places hit by the disaster, Joshi said. 49 bodies have been identified while 121 people are still missing, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacial-disaster-death-toll-rises-to-83-985968.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh: Man carries Covid positive mother's body on shoulders to crematorium||A man carried the body of his mother, who died of Covid-19, on his shoulders from their home to a crematorium in a village in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district allegedly after failing to get help from the authorities. However, Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati told PTI that neither him nor the sub-divisional magistrate were informed about the incident.  Narrating the episode to reporters on Friday, the man said his mother, who had tested Covid positive, could not be hospitalised due to unavailability of bed and oxygen so he brought her back home in Bangwar village where she died on Thursday around 4:30 am. The man said that he informed village panchayat head Sooram Singh about the incident but no one from the village helped him carry the body to the kilometre-away crematorium. He further alleged that the panchayat chief also could not arrange any vehicle so he decided to take his mother's body on shoulders. Meanwhile, Singh told reporters that he and an Asha worker were arranging PPE kits for carrying the body to the crematorium but the man refused their help. Singh said he talked to two tractor-trolley owners but they refused to carry the body in their vehicles, fearing the spread of Covid infection.  The village panchayat chief also said that since he was sick himself, he could not visit the man's house but told villagers about the incident who went to the crematorium to arrange woods for the pyre. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Prajapati said the sub-divisional magistrate visited Bangwar village on Friday and came to know that a group of villagers had gone to the crematorium site for preparing the pyre. The district administration has already been cremating the bodies of Covid-19 patients who die in hospitals, he said, adding that now the administration would also cremate patients who die at home. Kangra Congress MLA Pawan Kumar Kajal told PTI that he came to know about the entire episode on Friday morning and if he would have known earlier, he would have helped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-man-carries-covid-positive-mothers-body-on-shoulders-to-crematorium-985987.html
14-05-2021||North and Central||Cases of black fungus found in few patients in Haryana, govt should form state-level committee: Selja||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Friday said few cases of black fungus disease have been found in a few patients recovering from COVID-19 in the state and demanded the government form a state-level committee of doctors to monitor such cases. Expressing deep concern about black fungus cases found in some patients, she demanded from the Haryana government that people should be made aware of this disease. “A state-level committee of doctors should be constituted to monitor the condition of such patients in all the districts of the state and also identify other patients who may be afflicted with it and start their treatment at the earliest. “Also, the Haryana government should bear the entire cost of treatment and medicines for the patients suffering from black fungus,” the Congress leader said in a statement here. Mucormycosis, a rare but dangerous fungal infection, has now been found to be affecting some coronavirus patients. Attacking the BJP-JJP government, she said Covid-19 is spreading rapidly in the state, “but the government does not appear to be serious in its prevention”. “Health services in the state have completely collapsed,” she alleged. Selja claimed that more than 40 cases of black fungus disease have been reported in Haryana in the last few days. According to reports, 12 people are undergoing treatment for this disease in Faridabad. In Gurgaon, 14 cases of this disease have been reported. Similar cases are coming from Karnal, Fatehabad and other districts, she claimed. "It is even more serious that the health department of the state does not have any district-wise data on how many black fungus patients have so far been found in Haryana,” Selja further claimed. She alleged that black marketing of medicines and oxygen cylinders amid the raging pandemic is going on in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cases-of-black-fungus-found-in-few-patients-in-haryana-govt-should-form-state-level-committee-selja-986023.html
14-05-2021||Opinion||Covid-19 crisis: Much-hailed 'BMC model' lacks empathy for doctors and nurses||At the same time that the 'BMC model' was being hailed across the country, two integral parts of that model gave way, casting a shadow over its glitter. In the span of just four days last week, first resident doctors and then nurses chose the last resort left to frustrated employees — they struck work or threatened to do so. One would imagine every health worker would be worth his or her weight in gold during this pandemic, especially with an overwhelming second wave. For patients especially, nurses and doctors are the only saviours. But obviously, the BMC doesn’t share that view. In fact, a Shiv Sena corporator, livid that her relative had been made to wait for admission last month, told doctors in a municipal hospital that she could make 10 doctors like them line up in front of her. A half-hearted apology followed when the doctors threatened to resign. The BMC may not share this corporator’s opinion of doctors (incidentally, she’s also in her second term as chairperson of the BMC’s Education Committee), but its administrators definitely share her approach of righting wrongs done by them only when those who’ve been wronged assert themselves. Last week, after 200 nurses at one of the BMC’s famous Jumbo Covid Centres went on a flash strike, the BMC tweeted that their issues had been resolved. Yes, they had got upset and there were some differences, but didn’t this happen at all workplaces, asked the tweet. "All it took was a patient listening and attending to their genuine needs. Our #CovidWarriors are back at work and we are #StrongerTogether." What was left unsaid was that it took the BMC an entire year to "patiently listen" to the "genuine need" for decent accommodation and nutritious food for nurses hired for the pandemic from the state’s interiors. Similarly, the BMC is aware of the demand for payment of arrears by resident doctors who form the backbone of Covid care in the BMC’s hospitals, and who, for the second consecutive year, have missed pursuing their areas of specialisation since they’ve been summoned for Covid duty. Yet, last week, these doctors were forced to display posters in their workplaces and conduct a social media campaign against the BMC because the latter slyly converted the initial "stipend" paid to them into an "advance" against the hiked stipend approved seven months ago. The BMC’s meanness should be juxtaposed with three facts: first, it has for decades, been the wealthiest municipal corporation in Asia, with an annual budget of over Rs 30,000 crore. In fact, as it became clear that vaccines were going to fall short, a two-term Sena MP and four-time head of the BMC’s Standing Committee (the Sena has ruled the BMC for 24 years), suggested that the Corporation break its fixed deposits amounting to a staggering Rs 79,000 crore, to buy vaccines for all Mumbaikars, which would cost not even 10% of that amount. Interestingly, among those who shouted him down was the leader of the Opposition in the BMC, a veteran Congress corporator. The second factor that makes the BMC’s tightfistedness unjustifiable is its expenditure on the environmentally destructive Coastal Road, which is ruining the city’s famous seafront to benefit car owners. Given the go-ahead by BJP governments at the Centre and state, the Sena government has ensured that work on it has not stopped during the pandemic. Its cost: Rs 12,700 crore. The BMC’s health budget for the last two years has been just one-third of that, only marginally higher this year despite last year’s pandemic. But will even this health budget be fully used? A September 2020 PRAJA White Paper on Mumbai’s health showed that from 2017-2019, even as municipal medical and paramedical vacancies rose to as much as 47%, the BMC allowed 18% of its revenue expenditure on health to lapse. A shocking 58% of its capital expenditure on health also remained unspent. Had these crores been used correctly, breathless Mumbaikars wouldn’t have been running around for ICU beds last year and briefly, this year. Shorn of statistics, what this means is that though the BMC should have used its crores on hiring permanent medical personnel at all levels through the year-long Covid crisis, it chose to hire these crucial workers on contract and then underpay them. It could at least have started construction of additional hospitals, but it chose to focus only on temporary facilities. When these are finally dismantled, where will the lakhs of Mumbaikars permanently damaged by Covid go? (The writer is a senior journalist.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-crisis-much-hailed-bmc-model-lacks-empathy-for-doctors-and-nurses-985728.html
14-05-2021||Opinion||Covid-19 crisis: Handling the second wave in rural areas||It appears in hindsight that the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic let us off relatively lightly, hotspots being largely urban areas in some parts of the country. With over 3.5 million cases, the second wave has overwhelmed hospitals and cremation services to tragic proportions, even in the most privileged cities. Several modelling results for the country as a whole tell us that the worst phase has already set in, shall increase for some more time to reach the peak in a week or two, and decline well into August-September. However, the aggregate national curve hides within it the staggered roll-out and peaks of the epidemic across different geographies. The urban areas where it started early are seeing declines (such as Mumbai and Delhi). Reported data from 243 districts in the Backward Region Grant Fund (BRGF) scheme show a four-fold rise in cases and deaths compared to the peak incidence last year, and this needs to be multiplied severalfold to reflect the reality on the ground. Bodies floating in rivers suspected to be Covid deaths reveal a horrific story of distress. Predictably, much of the second wave ahead will likely be concentrated in rural and peri-urban populations. Given the lack of supplies, any protective vaccine effect is, in any case, not possible for this second wave. Saving lives is presently the biggest public health challenge. The courts have stepped in, passing orders and advisories. The Supreme Court’s National Task Force has been mandated with fixing oxygen and medical supplies and the health system’s pandemic response. Its choice of eminent clinical specialists and hospital heads reveals dominance of the image that the saviours are only the high-end tertiary care hospitals. However, data shared by the union health minister shows that only “1.34 per cent of the active caseload is in ICU, 0.39 per cent of them are on ventilators, and 3.7 per cent of them are on oxygen support”. Besides ramping up these hospital services, how can pressure on them be decreased, and rational care be provided to reduce people’s suffering closer home? We attempt to set out broad contours of the systems required to get all-hands-on-deck for facing the present challenge of saving lives. An epidemiological and health systems approach, not merely a hospital-drugs-ICU centred one, is crucial. With rural cases accounting for almost half of the daily cases currently, large scale decentralised mobilisation of district health resources – public, private and voluntary – is the need of the hour. About 85 per cent of the cases have mild to moderate symptoms. Their needs entail basic information, monitoring and psychosocial support through telephonic or physical consultations, an issue requiring attention on a war footing. Despite the huge numbers, it is possible, through ensuring home and community level care for all, especially in slums and rural areas, with referral to appropriate institutions for isolation or hospitalisation as per need. Each district and block needs to be mandated to map and mobilise all its healthcare resources, public and otherwise, supplemented by training teachers and volunteer teams from civil society and community members. Resident welfare associations in cities are increasingly organizing private care at the community level, and such facilities need to be developed on an emergency scale for all. Medication and oxygen hubs at strategic points in blocks and districts can take care of the 15 per cent who move from mild to moderate. The five per cent who are severe cases can be moved to hospitals. This will mean ramping up all CHCs (community health centres), sub-district and district hospitals and upwards, setting up field hospitals where necessary, with adequate supplies of PPEs, oxygen and respiratory support. Secondly, popularising rational protocols and evidence-based guidelines can cut down much of the prevalent unnecessary use of medicines at all stages that can be counter-productive as well as financially draining. Clinical information gathered over the past year has provided much improved and simplified regimens. Thirdly, syndromic diagnosis and treatment of cases, with epidemiological/clinical evidence-based protocols, can be another game-changer. Testing, considered the backbone of a COVID response system, has to be recognised as an impossibility to cover the numbers at this stage. Given the low availability and challenges of accessing testing, with overwhelmed laboratories, and the false-negative results in at least 30 per cent of cases, the fetish about testing has to be given up. Most of the states have laboratories at district towns but nearly none at the sub-district level. For surveillance data and public health planning, positivity rates can provide the basis for making corrective estimates on their testing data. To operationalise these three measures, a judicious combination of central decision making and operation, as well as decentralisation to local levels, is required. Centralised decisions made in good faith have proved counterproductive without the encouragement to local administrations to interpret and practice rules with contextual flexibility and without fear of repercussion. The decision to restrict industrial use of oxygen resulted in stopping work in the one unit producing a majority of oxygen cylinders in the country when they were the one thing needed on an emergency scale! Oxygen supplies dropped off the agenda since last year despite the government’s task force itself flagging it, costing many lives. How it happened may have at least two explanations. One, that there was no industry push, as there was for vaccines or drugs and ventilators. Another, that the first world countries did not face it as an issue; thereby it did not become part of the global pandemic control discourse. We have to learn from this fiasco that we must examine our own health systems situation and find our own solutions, not get blinded by international or industry-led priorities. Transparency with Covid data and communicating all the limitations of available technology is another imperative as it will allow people to realistically understand what we are up against. A wider base of researchers can also delve into the data and come up with innovative solutions. Three sets of media reports indicate that early warning signals on key areas – epidemic forecasting, genomic surveillance and AEFI (adverse events following immunization) – did not receive the prompt attention and response that they deserved. The centre should focus on ensuring emergency finances for state-run healthcare, supplies and inter-state movement as also knowledge and research for strategic planning. Decentralized decision making, down to district and sub-district levels, has worked well in states, using a continuum of primary/secondary/tertiary level services, such as Kerala and Chhattisgarh. That provides the way to go for an all-out response. Building such systems will serve us well in the present and future crises as well as in normal times, thereby be the wisest investment right now. Ritu Priya is a medical doctor, Professor and former Chairperson, Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), as well as former Advisor- Public Health Planning at the National Health Systems Resource Centre, GoI. Rajib Dasgupta is a medical doctor, Professor and current Chairperson at the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, JNU. Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-crisis-handling-the-second-wave-in-rural-areas-985778.html
14-05-2021||Opinion||It is PM Modi's duty to tell the real risk of B.1.617 Covid-19 variant to the world||By Andy Mukherjee, If you haven’t heard of B.1.617 yet, chances are you soon will. This particular Covid-19 variant is at least partly behind the overwhelming second wave in India, the current global epicentre of the pandemic. The World Health Organization has now raised B.1.617 from a “variant of interest” to a “variant of concern.” Authorities like Public Health England are already treating it as the latter, meaning there’s something worrying about one or more of the criteria on which a virus is judged — including how fast it transmits, how many it kills, and whether it evades detection or makes vaccines less effective.   The stakes underlying these threat thresholds have risen beyond guessing the true extent of the unfolding disaster in India. Whether daily fatalities and new cases are, as officially reported, around 4,000 and 400,000, respectively, or closer to 25,000 deaths and between 2 million and 5 million infections, as Brown University School of Public Health’s Ashish Jha estimates, the rest of the world needs to help the country combat this menace. Out of pure self-interest. Of the many changes in the pathogen, the two of greatest concern affect a portion of the spike protein, called the receptor binding domain, that’s key to the virus getting into human cells. A new study has found that an entry driven by the B.1.617 spike protein was “partially resistant against neutralization by antibodies elicited upon infection or vaccination with the Comirnaty/BNT162b2 vaccine.” That’s the official name for the Pfizer-BioNTech shot. Although not in use in India, it’s one of the main lines of defence in developed countries. India, too, needs to do its part. Even as it struggles to provide hospital beds, oxygen and antivirals to its gasping citizens, New Delhi must step up genome surveillance to figure out — for itself and the rest of the world — what exactly is going on. Plans being laid for reopening and economic recovery everywhere could depend on it. The efficacy of vaccines in dealing with variants isn’t a new concern. Researchers have fretted about everything from B.1.1.7 in the UK and B.1.351 in South Africa to P.1 in Brazil and B.1.429 and B.1.232 in California. (Yes, the naming system is completely bonkers.) So far, the news has been mostly good. As Sam Fazeli, a pharmaceuticals analyst for Bloomberg Intelligence, recently noted, there is some evidence from nonhuman studies that booster shots will neutralise both the original virus and its altered version. As for reports of “breakthrough infections” in Israel, or vaccinated people being struck by the new variant, as Fazeli notes, we shouldn’t worry too much as long as symptoms are mild or nonexistent and hospitalisation isn’t required.  A small-scale study of 123 doctors, nurses and other medical staff at a specialised diabetes treatment centre in New Delhi discovered that of the 113 employees vaccinated (107 with the required two doses), 18 got infected with Covid-19, though only one person had to be hospitalised. The individual was later discharged, I learned from one of the researchers. It’s not known if this group was exposed to B.1.617. That’s just one more thing we don’t know amid the reigning chaos in India. People are scrambling to find a hospital bed or an oxygen cylinder. Or — if they’re well — a vaccine shot. Crematoriums are full, and scared villagers are dumping bodies into the river, just as their forefathers did during the 1918 Spanish Flu, a scene economic historian Chinmay Tumbe describes in his book, The Age of Pandemics. Simply allowing the coronavirus to run its course in a population of 1.4 billion would be morally reprehensible. It would also be dangerous: The longer it takes to tame India’s second wave, the higher the risk of a variant that does escape vaccine protection. One-sixth of humanity can’t be ignored without a massive hit to a global economy that's impatient to reopen. Ask Silicon Valley managers supervising large software projects for global corporations: Their engineering teams in India are in disarray. Or take last week’s Group of Seven meetings in London, billed as the first face-to-face powwow in two years. Two members of the Indian contingent, invited as guests, tested positive, leading to self-isolation for Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, the foreign minister. A PR disaster for the host, but also a reminder that it can’t be business as usual for the world until the Indian situation comes under control. Sure enough, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson now says he's "anxious" about B.1.617.2, a sub-lineage of the variant detected in India. Cases of this new strain have more than doubled to 1,313 from 520 over the past week, Public Health England said Thursday. For neighbouring Asian economies, the risk is far greater. Thailand has extended its ban on travellers from India to Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan. Australia was so alarmed it controversially refused entry for even its own citizens coming home from India. Hong Kong got spooked when 51 passengers on a single flight from New Delhi early last month tested positive — for 43% of them, the disease showed up two weeks into their mandatory hotel quarantine. The city decided to conduct genome sequencing to gauge the threat. More recently, a 29-year-old Indian engineer coming into Hong Kong from Dubai was charged by authorities for allegedly giving misleading information after 1,200 residents had to be quarantined because of the variant threat he represented. Singapore’s largest active cluster, at one of the city’s big hospitals, is being chalked up to B.1.617.2. This sub-lineage of the Indian variant is more infectious and “causing larger clusters than before,” the Straits Times reported Education Minister Lawrence Wong as saying. As countries help India with everything from vaccine stocks to oxygen, they should in return ask for honest reporting of cases and fatality data — and much greater genomic scrutiny of the emerging variants than is currently being conducted. In a country that takes pride in being the world’s pharmaceutical capital, local labs are more than capable. But they simply can’t assess the threat by sequencing a little more than 13,000 samples out of 23 million-plus cases. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration could have done many things differently to prevent overwhelming the country’s patchy health system. Where it can still catch up is in its duty to discover and tell the truth to its own people and the rest of the world. Especially about B.1.617.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/it-is-pm-modis-duty-to-tell-the-real-risk-of-b1617-covid-19-variant-to-the-world-985801.html
14-05-2021||Panorama||Taxman must make life easier for Covid-relief importers||The second wave of Covid-19 took many by surprise, including the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), although many others would say that the surprise was only because the authorities took the eye off the ball early this year, assuming prematurely that the pandemic had been consigned to history. The second wave has hit India so hard that beds in hospitals are hard to get, beds with oxygen are next to impossible, and there is a huge shortage of vaccines. The only option appears to be to source medical equipment and medicines from abroad. But the CBIC would levy both Customs Duty and Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST) on such imports, thereby making the landed cost higher -- not an ideal scenario when most of the nation desperately needs these lifesavers. After some back and forth, the CBIC responded. On April 20 and 24, it issued notifications exempting the import of Remdesivir, Beta Cyclodextrin, oxygen and vaccines from Customs Duty. However, the IGST levy remained. Finally, on May 3, CBIC issued a notification excluding such imports from IGST, too. Unfortunately, none of these notifications considered the urgency for importing these items -- there are terms and conditions to be met, forms to be filled, and reports to be given. The IGST exemption notification is not termed a notification but an ad-hoc exemption order. It confirms that there would be no IGST levied on all items covered under the earlier notifications. However, a few conditions should be met. The said goods should be imported free of cost for the purpose of Covid relief by a state government or any entity, relief agency or statutory body authorised in this regard by any state government. The goods should be received from abroad for free distribution in India for the purpose of Covid relief. Before clearance of the goods, the importer has to produce to the Deputy or Assistant Commissioner of Customs a certificate from a nodal authority, appointed by a state government, that the imported goods are meant for free distribution for Covid relief. The importer must also produce within a period of six months from the date of importation a statement containing details of goods distributed free of cost, duly certified by the said nodal authority of the state government. If all these conditions are met, the exemption is available till June 30 of next year. Questions These notifications raise many questions. Should an ad-hoc exemption order place any terms and conditions? Should there be an expiry date for an ad-hoc exemption order? Considering the position India is in now, many are volunteering their services also, why should the exemption be available only to goods and not to services? Why should there be a condition that the goods should be imported free of cost? From a cursory look at the terms and conditions, it would appear that the importer would be spending more time in the offices of the Customs Department than with the patient needing oxygen or the vaccine. Also, each of these notifications have different dates when the exemptions would expire. Customs Duty exemption for Remdesivir is available till October 31, while the exemption for oxygen and vaccines is on till July 31. The IGST exemption on all these is only till June 30. CBIC appears to have decided that after July, only Remdesivir would be required in India, for a further period of three months. Since no one knows when this wave will go and when another would come (there is already talk of a third wave), all of these notifications should have no sunset date -- they should just be there till the situation improves all around. Even in the present dispensation, if goods are imported free of cost, a nominal value is put for customs purposes. For instance, holding companies located abroad usually send gift hampers for the employees of their subsidiary companies in India. However, the present situation is very different. Many organisations in India would not mind paying for Remdesivir, oxygen equipment and vaccines for distribution to the needy in India. Restricting the exemption only to Covid-related stuff only if they are imported free of cost serves a limited purpose. The exemption should be extended to all genuine imports of Covid-related equipment and services, even if they are paid for. Apart from reducing the GST rate on Remdesivir and oxygen cylinders, CBIC has not done much else with regard to Covid. CBIC has been generous enough to provide exemptions and extensions for compliance-related duties of the taxpayer, such as filing of returns. However, a lot more can be done on rate-related mismatches under GST. At present, Remdesivir and oxygen cylinders attract a GST rate of 12% -- they were previously taxed at 28%. Since the end-user is going to be a patient who may or may not have a GST number, it would be best to exempt them from GST for some time. In case there is a GST number, the rate can be reduced to an easier 5% with no restrictions on availing input tax credit by the recipient. This may not be the right time for state governments to renew their battles with the central government on the issue of compensation, but this is bound to be brought up soon. The central government is seeing a boost in GST revenues but has made large allocations for Covid-related reliefs. State governments would be wanting the central government to draw a balance between its commitments to the citizens and the states. On all counts, the central government is going to be assessed on how it handles the Covid crisis. As of now, it still has a long way to go.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/taxman-must-make-life-easier-for-covid-relief-importers-985647.html
14-05-2021||Panorama||How proning can help Covid patients||The effectiveness of ‘proning’ for patients with Covid-19 and its impact on reducing mortality has gained a lot of attention over the past year. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) recently advised proning for self-care amongst patients who have tested positive for Covid, stating it to be highly beneficial. In the current scenario, when there is a shortage of hospital beds and drastically increased demand for oxygen concentrators and medication, it is seen that improvement in oxygen levels through proning may be very relevant to reduce the necessity of hospital admission. What is proning? Lying face down is known as proning. It is a medically accepted position to improve oxygenation. If a patient’s oxygen levels drop below 94 (when measured at home on an oximeter), the patient can lie on their tummy; this position improves ventilation and enables comfortable breathing. Significance of proning Physical position affects the distribution and volume of air in the lungs. It can directly affect the expansion of the lungs to permit the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood. In the last few years, prone positioning has been used increasingly in treating patients with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), and this is now considered a simple and safe method to improve oxygenation. It is a medically accepted process that involves turning a patient with precise, safe motions from their back onto their abdomen so that the individual is lying face down to improve breathing. Proning is required only when the patient experiences difficulty in breathing and the SpO2 decreases below 94. Regular monitoring of SpO2, along with other signs like temperature, blood pressure, and blood sugar, is important during home isolation. Moreover, missing out on hypoxia (compromised oxygen circulation) may lead to worsening of complications. Therefore, advice must be taken from the doctor on ways to effectively practice proning at home. How to do proning correctly One may prone for up to 16 hours a day, in multiple cycles, suitable to a patient’s comfort and ability. Pillows may be adjusted slightly to alter pressure areas and for comfort. Keep track of any pressure sores or injuries, especially around the bony prominence. If this done with the help of a caregiver: Place one pillow below the neck Place one or two pillows below the chest through the upper thighs Place two pillows below the shins For self-proning: You will need 4-5 pillows Regular alterations in lying position It is best not to spend more than 30 minutes in each position. After 30 minutes, lie on each side, then sit up before going back to proning What are the precautionary measures that need to be taken? Avoid proning if pregnant Avoid proning for an hour after meals Maintain proning for only as many times as easily tolerable Keep track of any pressure sores or injuries, especially around bony prominences Avoid proning if you have major cardiac conditions Avoid proning if you have an unstable spine, femur or pelvic fractures (The writer is an Infectious Disease Specialist from Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-proning-can-help-covid-patients-985649.html
14-05-2021||South||Heavy rains and sea incursion: Kerala on high vigil||In view of heavy rainfall warning, Kerala was put on high alert on Friday with the government opening relief camps and shifting people living in low-lying areas to safer places as rains were lashing several parts of the state since Thursday night. The shutters of the Aruvikkara dam here were opened Thursday night due to heavy inflow and continuous downpour resulted in the Karamana and Killi rivers in the state capital to overflow. Several people, living on the banks of these rivers, and low-lying areas were shifted to safer places and relief camps as a precautionary measure, authorities here said. Overnight rains led to waterlogging and uprooting of trees in many parts of the southern Kollam district. High waves and sea incursion damaged several houses in coastal hamlets of Kollam, Alappuzha and Ernakulam districts since Thursday night. Chellanam, a coastal village in Ernakulam, was one of the several places which suffered the wrath of rough sea since Thursday. Several houses were damaged as sea water seeped in due to high tidal waves, local people complained. Sea erosion was reported at Velinakode in Ponnani in Malappuram district and Kasaba in Kozhikode. According to Rekha Nambiar, Commandant, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), as a precautionary measure, nine teams of NDRF have been sent to Kerala. "In Wayanad and Idukki districts, which are prone to landslides, we have sent equipment which would be required in case of landslides," she said. She also said they were taking all precautions in view of Covid-19. "The personnel have been scanned and we have ensured that they do not have any comorbidity symptoms. While engaging in rescue operations, they will be taking all precautions," Nambiar told a TV channel. The Land Revenue Commissionerate here said a total of 87 people have been shifted to four relief camps opened in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki and Ernakulam districts so far. A total of 3,071 buildings have been identified to be converted into relief camps. It can accommodate at least 4,23,080 people at a time, sources added. Authorities, however, said in many places people seemed reluctant to move to relief camps in the wake of the Covid-19 situation. However, Disaster Management officials here said the camps were arranged in adherence to pandemic protocols. Those who are tested positive for the virus, those under quarantine and others would be accommodated separately and so there was no need to be panic to move to relief camps, they added. Though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on Thursday sounded a Red Alert in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta indicating the possibility of extremely heavy rains under the influence of a low pressure area over the Arabian Sea, it was withdrawn Friday morning. As per the latest IMD forecast, a yellow alert was issued in Thiruvananthapuram while an orange alert in Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. Authorities have banned fishing in the sea till the situation becomes normal. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has urged people living in landslide-prone areas and coastal areas to take all precautions. It has also directed authorities to take steps to open relief camps adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Various district administrations have opened control rooms at the district, taluk and panchayat levels to coordinate relief operations in view of heavy rains predicted by the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-and-sea-incursion-kerala-on-high-vigil-985827.html
14-05-2021||South||Covid-19 pandemic helps father and daughter in Kerala reunite after three decades||Amidst the distressing times of Covid-19, the pandemic has brought cheer to a 33-year old woman in Kerala as she reunited with her father after 33 years. Ajitha, a native of Palakkad in Kerala, came to know only about a year ago that her father Sivaji was alive and undergoing imprisonment at the Central Prison in Thiruvananthapuram in a murder case. Since then, she has been running from pillar to post for his release, but in vain. However, in view of the ongoing pandemic, Sivaji, who is now 65, was granted parole for three months. Sivaji's happiness knows no bounds as he never imagined he would be able to spend time with his daughter and her family, comprising Ajitha’s husband V K Renjith and three children.  Ajitha told DH that her father was feeling quite disturbed initially after coming out of prison and traveling to their native place. It was a different experience for him altogether as he was confined to prison walls for the last three decades. "But now, he is enjoying family life and we wish that he may be allowed remission by the authorities," she added. Sivaji, who was a Communist party worker hailing from Alappuzha district, was nabbed by the police in a political murder case, just nine days after Ajitha was born. Ajitha’s mother, who became mentally unstable due to the shock, ended her life a few years later and Ajitha was placed under the care of her mother’s family. “My mother’s family had many misunderstandings about my father, even though they agreed to my mother’s wish to marry him. Hence, my mother’s family did not entertain my queries about my father and, at some point, I was even made to believe that he is no more,” said Ajitha. About a year ago, Ajitha happened to notice some prison inmates in a television news channel and the story one of them shared sounded familiar. Ajitha, who is also a Communist party worker, enquired with prison authorities and finally found out that her father was alive and currently lodged in the Thiruvananthapuram prison. Though his life sentence in the murder case was over by 2006, he could not obtain release as he made four jail-break attempts. Ajitha, however, did not give up hope and approached the government; her requests are still pending. Finally, fortune smiled upon the family as Sivaji was among the scores of prisoners who were allowed parole in view of the pandemic. “I am now trying to regain the 33 years we lost. We hope the authorities would take a lenient view of our plight and allow remission to my father as he has already undergone enough jail term and is getting older,” said Ajitha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-pandemic-helps-father-and-daughter-in-kerala-reunite-after-three-decades-985835.html
14-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu receives first medical oxygen express train from West Bengal||Tamil Nadu on Friday received the first set of medical oxygen for Covid patients- about 80 metric tonnes- through an express train from West Bengal in the wee hours of Friday, officials said. Southern Railway officials said the train which arrived here from Durgapur on Friday was sent to Tamil Nadu to address the demand for medical oxygen amid the Covid-19 surge in the State. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said the first oxygen express reached Tamil Nadu for Covid-19 patients in Tamil Nadu. "The first #OxygenExpress has reached Chennai from Durgapur with medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients in Tamil Nadu", Goyal said and shared pictures of the train in his Twitter account on Friday. Tamil Nadu Medical and Family Welfare Minister M Subramanian, his cabinet colleague Sekar Babu, Health Department Secretary J Radhakrishnan and senior government officials formally received the oxygen express train at Tondiarpet Yard in the wee hours of Friday. Briefing reporters, Subramanian said Chief Minister M K Stalin was holding talks with the Centre on a daily basis to address the issues arising due to the Covid-19 surge in Tamil Nadu. "Under one such initiative is the oxygen express train which has arrived from West Bengal today. It has 80 metric tonne of medical oxygen and after unloading, it will be distributed to various districts in the state...," he said. To a query, the Minister said the 80 metric tonnes would be able to meet the demand for medical oxygen in Tamil Nadu "to an extent" and added some more oxygen express trains were expected to arrive to meet the demand in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-receives-first-medical-oxygen-express-train-from-west-bengal-985888.html
14-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu: Security guard donates one-month salary to Covid-19 relief fund; Stalin gifts book||59-year-old Thangadurai pedalled over 12 km to reach Fort St George, the seat of power of Tamil Nadu Government, to hand over his one month salary of Rs 10,101 to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) to M K Stalin. As his attempt to meet the Chief Minister failed, Thangadurai deposited the money to the government. But on Friday, Thangadurai was given an audience by Stalin, who called him to his office at the Secretariat. Appreciating Thangadurai's gesture of donating his salary to the CMPRF, Stalin gifted him a book written by his father late M Karunanidhi. Thangadurai, who hails from Mayiladuthurai in the Cauvery Delta region, works as a security guard in Valasaravakkam in Chennai. Stalin posted a video of him receiving Thangadurai at his office and gifting him with the book. “Chief Minister congratulated me for donating one month's salary to the public fund and gave me a book,” Thangadurai told reporters, showing the book. “People should wear masks, and follow instructions that are given by the government regularly. We need to be very careful,” he said. Stalin had on May 11 appealed to the people to donate generously to CMPRF for buying vaccines, medical equipment, and oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients. In the past few days, actors, industrialists, and entrepreneurs have made contributions to the fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-security-guard-donates-one-month-salary-to-covid-19-relief-fund-stalin-gifts-book-985895.html
14-05-2021||South||IMD issues red alert in five North Kerala districts||Heavy rains, winds and high tides lashed many parts of Kerala on Friday, causing extensive damage to houses, and flooding at low-lying areas. Hundreds of families were shifted to relief camps. While the Indian Meteorological Department sounded a red alert in three South Kerala districts on Friday, a red alert was sounded at five North Kerala districts, including Kasargod that borders Mangaluru, for Saturday as the low pressure formation over the Arabian sea is likely to intensify into Cyclone Tauktae. NDRF, Kerala Fire and Rescue Services, police and other agencies were kept ready to face any major disasters. Hundreds of families at calamity prone areas were shifted to safe locations. On Friday, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kochi, Thrissur and Malappuram suffered extensive damages in high tides and heavy rains. Many houses along the coastal areas were damaged and many houses in low lying areas were flooded. Residents were shifted to relief camps. Separate relief camps were opened for Covid and non-Covid persons. Trees uprooted at many parts of the state in the heavy winds. Fishing activities have been banned along the entire Kerala coast. The Coast Guard and other agencies were maintaining high vigil to prevent fishermen from venturing into sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/imd-issues-red-alert-in-five-north-kerala-districts-985899.html
14-05-2021||South||Body of Kerala woman killed in Palestinian rocket attack to be brought home on May 15||The body of Soumya Santhosh from Kerala, who was killed in a Palestinian rocket attack in Israel on May 11, will be brought here on Saturday. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said on Friday that the mortal remains were being repatriated from Israel to Kerala via New Delhi. "The mortal remains of Ms Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in rocket attacks from Gaza, are being repatriated today from Israel to Kerala through Delhi. They will reach her native place tomorrow," Muraleedharan, who is also from the southern state, said in a tweet. "I will personally be receiving the remains in Delhi. May her soul rest in peace," he tweeted. The mortal remains of Ms Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in rocket attacks from Gaza, are being repatriated today from Israel to Kerala through Delhi. They will reach her native place tomorrow. I will personally be receiving the remains in Delhi. May her soul rest in peace. Soumya, 30, hailing from Keerithodu in Idukki district, had been working as a housemaid in Israel for the last seven years. She was killed on Tuesday when the rocket fell on her residence in the city of Ashkelon while she was talking to her husband Santhosh, who is in Kerala, over video call, her family has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/body-of-kerala-woman-killed-in-palestinian-rocket-attack-to-be-brought-home-on-may-15-985900.html
14-05-2021||South||Monsoon to make early arrival over Kerala: IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31, a day earlier than its normal onset date, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. The normal onset date of the monsoon over Kerala is June 1. "This year, the onset of the southwest monsoon over Kerala is likely to be on 31st May with a model error of plus/minus 4 days," the IMD said. In the Indian monsoon region, initial monsoon rains are experienced over south Andaman Sea and the monsoon winds then advance north-westwards across the Bay of Bengal. According to the new normal dates of monsoon onset or progress, the southwest monsoon advances over the Andaman Sea around May 22. As a cyclone is expected to form over the Arabian Sea, the cross-equatorial south westerlies have temporarily strengthened over the Arabian Sea. The cross-equatorial flow is very likely to strengthen and deepen over the Bay of Bengal from May 20 and a sustained rainfall activity is likely over the south Bay of Bengal and Andaman Nicobar Islands from May 21. Hence, the monsoon advance over Andaman and Nicobar Islands is very likely around May 21. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said monsoon is expected to be normal this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/monsoon-to-make-early-arrival-over-kerala-imd-985901.html
14-05-2021||South||Covid-19 lockdown: Tighter restrictions in Tamil Nadu||With the daily Covid-19 case count crossing 31,000, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday tightened restrictions imposed during the complete lockdown. While a complete shut down will be observed on May 16 and May 23 (both Sundays), grocery and meat shops will be allowed only for four hours from 6 am to 10 am. The government also made e-registration compulsory for those travelling inside and outside the state from May 17. Tea shops, which were allowed to function for a few hours, will now be shut, while Dunzo and other e-commerce sites that deliver essentials will be allowed to function only till 10 am. Night curfew and Sunday lockdown will continue in the state, while roadside shops selling flowers, fruits, and vegetables are not allowed to function. E-commerce will be allowed from 2 pm to 6 pm. The restrictions come a day after an all-party meeting resolved to tighten restrictions imposed in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-tighter-restrictions-in-tamil-nadu-985938.html
14-05-2021||South||DMK MPs, MLAs will give a month's salary for CM Fund: MK Stalin||Amid surging Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, DMK president and Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday said his party MPs and MLAs would donate one month salary to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund. At a time when the State was severely affected by the second wave of coronavirus, "DMK MLAs and MPs will give their one month salary to the CMPRF," Stalin said in a statement. Already, the CM had appealed to the people, corporates and the Tamil diaspora to donate liberally to the CMPRF to help the government tackle the Covid-19 scenario. The state is facing both medical emergency and severe financial constraints in view of the pandemic, he had said. Companies, individuals, hospitals and trusts were among those who have been making contributions to the Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mps-mlas-will-give-a-months-salary-for-cm-fund-mk-stalin-985940.html
14-05-2021||South||Covid-19: HC stops KCR govt from stopping ambulances from neighboring states||The Telangana High Court has on Friday stayed a Telangana government-issued notice which effectively barricaded ambulances carrying Covid-19 patients from neighboring states from entering Hyderabad. The court has also ordered the K Chandrasekhar Rao government not to restrict such ambulance movement through any other means. The court directions provided a huge relief for scores of Covid-19 patients especially from Andhra Pradesh, who are seeking admissions in the private hospitals of Hyderabad in attempts to save their lives. Expressing displeasure over the restrictions imposed on the movement of emergency services, the high court bench headed by the chief justice Hima Kohli has reportedly asked the Telangana government, “who gave them the right to stop ambulances?” The court was hearing a petition filed by a retired IRS official Venkata Krishna Rao challenging the police action constraining the ambulances. In a controversial move, Telangana police from Monday morning onwards began stopping ambulances from Andhra Pradesh ferrying Covid-19 patients to Hyderabad, at the state border points near Kurnool, Kodad. District superintendents said they have “unwritten instructions” to prevent the patients lacking a reserve bed in Hyderabad from reaching the city. Responding on the matter, the court had on Tuesday directed the officials not to resort to such obstructions. However, Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar issued a memo on Tuesday with “guidelines” requiring patients from other states to have prior approval from a hospital, submitted in a prescribed format to a control room. Telangana government is defending the decision, claiming that the exodus of Covid-19 patients from AP, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh has overburdened Hyderabad health infrastructure and that patients coming from outside were consuming the state's allocation of oxygen and medicines. Dozens of patients, some in critical condition, were turned away in the past few days from the AP-Telangana borders. In some instances, patient attendants waiting at the border check posts complained that the control room call centre was unresponsive and that despite possessing a bed confirmation, they were denied entry into Telangana. The truncated state of AP lacks superior medical infrastructure in the private sector the likes of which is concentrated in Hyderabad, which went to Telangana in the 2014 bifurcation. Hence, the state's dependency on Hyderabad. The blockade has invited furious reactions from AP's political parties and the public, who are reminding that Hyderabad should have been the joint capital till 2024, according to the AP reorganization act. Appearing for the Andhra Pradesh government in the arguments, state's advocate general S Sriram stated that such a restriction on travel is unconstitutional under article 21 of the constitution of India. “Medical infrastructure in the country irrespective of the state it is located in is a national asset. To restrict access or to condition access on the basis of residence is clearly unconstitutional,” the AG said. Asking the central, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments to file responses on the necessity for seamless admission into hospitals during the pandemic, the court has posted the matter to June 17 for further hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-hc-stops-kcr-govt-from-stopping-ambulances-from-neighboring-states-985959.html
14-05-2021||South||Rebel YSRCP who sought Jagan's bail cancellation arrested by AP police; Sedition charges slapped||The Andhra Pradesh CID police have arrested Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, the YSRCP “rebel” MP who had last month petitioned the CBI court to cancel the bail of Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy. The arrest was made from the MP's Hyderabad residence on Friday evening. According to the AP government sources, Raju was arrested on the charges of “indulging in hate speeches against certain communities and promoting disaffection against the government.” Raju was booked under sections 124A (sedition), 153 A (promoting enmity between groups), and 505 read with 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Raju, also an industrialist, appears regularly on certain Telugu TV channels with what is seen as unfavourable commentary on various policies of Reddy's government and actions of YSRCP leaders. “A preliminary inquiry by the CID found that through his speeches on a regular basis, Raju was indulging in a systematic, schematic effort to cause tensions among the communities and attacking various government dignitaries in a way which will cause loss of faith in the government which they represent. Series of attempts have been made to this effect,” CMO sources said, adding that Raju's “hate speech against communities and social groups to foment social and public disorder was in conspiracy with a few media channels”. Raju began his political career with the YSRCP when the party was launched a decade ago. However, he moved on to the BJP and later, to the TDP. Just ahead of the last general elections, Raju rejoined the YSRCP and won from the Narasapuram Lok Sabha seat in April 2019. But relations between Raju and Jagan soured soon after. In June last year, averring threat to his life from his own party members, Raju wrote to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeking protection, alleging AP police's inaction on his complaints. The YSRCP parliamentarians led by their leader Vijayasai Reddy had then met the speaker seeking disqualification of Raju on the charges of anti-party activities. Jagan, arrested in the disproportionate assets case by the CBI in May 2012, has been out on bail since September 2013. Alleging that the CM is influencing the persons involved in the case, Raju is asking for the trial completion at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rebel-ysrcp-who-sought-jagans-bail-cancellation-arrested-by-ap-police-sedition-charges-slapped-985965.html
14-05-2021||State||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood lends helping hand to Covid patient in Chitradurga ||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood has lent a helping hand to a Covid patient who is undergoing treatment in a private hospital in the city by sending Remdesivir, a key drug in Covid-19 treatment. Vinay, who was tested positive for Covid -19, is undergoing treatment in Basappa hospital in the city. But he did not get Remdesivir in time and this triggered fear among his family members. Puja, Vinay's wife, tweeted that her husband needs the drug. Former Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh shared it on his Twitter account. Noticing this, Sonu Sood tweeted that "you will receive the drug. "  Puja told that she has not yet received the drug. But she exuded confidence that she would receive it soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bollywood-actor-sonu-sood-lends-helping-hand-to-covid-patient-in-chitradurga-985676.html
14-05-2021||State||Chamarajanagar tragedy: Mysuru DC demands apology||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri demanded an apology from "all those who tried to malign the image of Mysuru district, its administration and its people" over the Chamarajanagar tragedy. As many as 24 Covid patients lost their lives at the district hospital in Chamarajanagar on May allegedly due to oxygen shortage. Speaking to media persons here on Friday the deputy commissioner pointed at the findings in the report of the three-member committee appointed by the High Court to probe the tragedy. The report, submitted to the court stated that there was no reference to any alleged hindrance caused by Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri. "No material is forthcoming from the records in support of the allegation. Accordingly, it is evident that the DC of Mysuru has not come in the way of refilling agencies at Mysuru from refilling the oxygen cylinders of any other district, including Chamarajanagar,” the report said. It has to be recalled that Chamarajanagar District in-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar and Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi had blamed the Mysuru DC for the incident. They had alleged that Mysuru DC had instructed the gas re-fillers in Mysuru not to supply oxygen to other districts. "Ever since I took charge as DC of Mysuru seven months ago, there have been several baseless allegations by MLAs, former corporator and others, against me. They included personal attacks. But, I did not react to them. My work is my priority. It is not my job to react to such baseless and motivated allegations,” she said. “But, in the Chamarajanagar case, while blaming me, they have defamed Mysuru. However, we have overcome it and it is evident in the High Court committee report. Whoever tried to defame Mysuru should tender an apology to the people of Mysuru now,” Rohini Sindhuri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chamarajanagar-tragedy-mysuru-dc-demands-apology-985902.html
14-05-2021||State||Karnataka receives 731 MT oxygen daily as against demand of 1,200 MT||Since April 27, Karnataka has received an average 731 metric tonnes of liquid daily from seven manufacturers in the state, according to government data.  This, even as officials maintain that the state’s oxygen requirement is 1,200 tonnes daily for Covid-19 patients.  The government’s daily tally of liquid oxygen supplied to the state includes seven manufacturers: Bhoruka Gases Ltd in Whitefield (Bengaluru), Praxair India Pvt Ltd in Koppal and Ballari, Air Waters India Pvt Ltd in Ballari, Universal Air Products Pvt Ltd in Kunigal (Tumakuru), JSW Industrial Gases Pvt Ltd in Ballari and Bellary Oxygen Pvt Ltd in Ballari.  The highest supply to the state from these manufacturers was on May 10 at 893.88 tonnes, data show.  “What is being produced by manufacturers in Karnataka is 1,100 MT of oxygen,” Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who is in charge of oxygen supply management, told DH. “Of that, what we are procuring from them is 765 MT. The rest the manufacturers are supplying to other states as per the Centre’s mandate.”  Karnataka has petitioned the Centre to allow the state to use up all the oxygen produced within its boundary.  The state is also losing out on the oxygen it is supposed to get from Odisha. “It looks like 220 MT from only Odisha and we don’t get any of it at all,” said an officer involved in oxygen distribution, adding that there were no tankers. “The government is now purchasing eight tankers that will come in a week or two. Then, some part of it may get lifted,” the officer added.  “...the actual supplies are about 750-800 MT per day over the last few days,” Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said in his recent guidelines on medical oxygen. “Due to short medical oxygen supplies compared to the unrestricted demand, it is inevitable that supplies have to be managed within the available quantities.”  The guidelines explain the situation thus: “The oxygen supply quantities have not increased but the hospitals in the districts and BBMP are increasing their consumption beyond supplies by increasing oxygenated beds. This is the core reason for hospitals running out of oxygen.” Accordingly, district-wise allocation “may be” as per actual daily consumption of oxygen, the guidelines state. “It is seen that oxygen usage of different hospitals for the same category of patients vary widely. Similarly, the districts’ oxygen consumption vary widely. This shall be corrected over the coming days,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-receives-731-mt-oxygen-daily-as-against-demand-of-1200-mt-985997.html
14-05-2021||State||3 fatalities, 1,220 fresh Covid cases in Udupi||Three Covid-19 fatalities and 1,220 fresh cases were reported in the district on Friday. Following the fatalities, the death tally has risen to 254. Among the victims, two, including a woman, are from Udupi and one from Kundapura. Out of 1,220 cases, 540 are from Kundapura, 472 from Udupi and 205 are from Karkala. Three are from outside the district. As many as 1,201 patients are in home isolation while 19 were admitted to hospitals. Out of 1,220, 970 are asymptomatic and 250 are symptomatic. The district has 7,619 active cases with patients being treated in different hospitals and homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/3-fatalities-1220-fresh-covid-cases-in-udupi-986052.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||False-negatives compound Covid-19 ordeal for many in Bengaluru||Thousands of Covid-19 sufferers who have symptoms of the disease are testing negative on RT-PCR but go on to show trademark Covid-19 lung manifestations when subject to CT scans. Improperly collected swabs, premature testing, poor quality testing and even mutated viruses may be behind this dramatic increase in false-negative incidents, said Dr C N Manjunath, a committee member of the Covid Task Force. “The problem is serious as nearly 10% of all Covid-19 cases fall into this category and people can be quite ill,” he added. Among them was 58-year-old Kalavathi, a resident of Bengaluru. When she developed symptoms of Covid-19, her family expected a positive RT-PCR report. But it came back as negative. “A CT scan revealed lung congestion,” said her son Vijay. As Kalavathi’s family soon discovered, there were ramifications to testing Covid-positive only on CT scans. For one, as the patient had not tested positive under the RT-PCR regimen, no District ID patient number was assigned to her. She was officially a non-Covid patient. The lack of a BU number meant the patient could not be admitted to a hospital under the government quota. An indeterminate number of such sufferers are not being registered as Covid-19 patients, despite the passing of a recent circular meant to address this problem.  Dr Manjunath, who said he made the recommendation which resulted in the circular, explained that helplines must accept such patients as Covid-positives and allot a bed. “Once that is done, all the other protocols fall into place. The patient is registered on the ICMR portal as a confirmed case, treatment protocols are assigned, private hospitals have a point of reference to claim financial reimbursement from the government, etc,” he said. Dr Thrilok Chandra, Health Commissioner, added that SOPs had been tweaked to take a syndromic approach. He said helplines have to accept symptomatic patients even if they have a negative RT-PCR test result. However, sources on the ground said this is not happening. “The 108 and other helplines are refusing to accept them as Covid-19 cases,” explained Mohammed Ismail, a member of the civil Emergency Response Team (ERT), which is involved in offering bed booking assistance. “As per my knowledge not one CT scan-positive case has been given a government-quota bed to date,” he added. When Kalavathi died, her family also discovered that they had to wait for over 24 hours to cremate, as confirmed Covid-positive bodies had priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/false-negatives-compound-covid-19-ordeal-for-many-in-bengaluru-985661.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress pools in Rs 100 crore to procure vaccines||The Karnataka Congress on Friday announced that all its legislators and MPs would pool in Rs 100 crore from their local area development (LAD) funds to procure vaccines. “This is an unprecedented decision in Karnataka,” Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Leader Siddaramaiah said. “There are 95 MLAs and MLCs, one Lok Sabha MP and four Rajya Sabha MPs from the Congress in Karnataka. Each one will keep Rs 1 crore for vaccine procurement under their LAD funds. In total, we are setting aside Rs 100 crore for this purpose,” he said. Under the Karnataka Legislators LAD Scheme, each MLA and MLC gets Rs 2 crore per year to take up developmental works in their constituencies. Each MP gets Rs 5 crore. “We’re not saying everything will become alright because we’re doing this, but it’s a helping hand,” Siddaramaiah, the Leader of the Opposition, said. “Vaccination is the only way to combat Covid-19. The Centre and the state governments know this. But, PM Modi is asleep and so is Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. No preparation was done for vaccination,” the former chief minister said. The Congress’ decision to pay for vaccine procurement comes after the state government temporarily suspended the vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 age bracket owing to shortage of doses. All available stock will be used for those above 45 years who are due for the second dose. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said his party would write to the CM on vaccine procurement. “We will ask for permission (to procure vaccines). We’ll go through a transparent way,” he said. “It’s the bound duty of all political parties to save lives. That’s what’s important now.” But Siddaramaiah said the party will “discuss and figure out” how the Rs 100 crore corpus should be put to use. This is not the first time the Congress has pooled in money during the Covid-19 pandemic. During the first wave last year, Shivakumar wrote a cheque for Rs 1 crore for the government to foot the travel cost of migrants who were leaving Karnataka. Also, Congress legislators bought thousands of tonnes of fruits and vegetables from farmers during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-pools-in-rs-100-crore-to-procure-vaccines-985762.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||R Ashoka bats for extending lockdown in Karnataka to control spread of Covid-19||As Karnataka continues to battle the second wave of Covid-19, Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Friday batted for the extension of the statewide lockdown, aimed at controlling the spread of the virus. He said, the government headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will take a final call, as the current lockdown nears its end. The state is currently under complete lockdown till May 24. "As a citizen of Bengaluru my personal opinion is that it is good to continue the lockdown for a few more days. (Number of cases in the city) has come to 15,000 from 22,000 per day, it is about 7,000 cases less now, it is because of semi-lockdown and complete lockdown," Ashoka, who is also the Vice-Chairman of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority said. Speaking to reporters here, he pointed to long lockdowns implemented in states like Maharashtra and Delhi among others which witnessed the second wave ahead of Karnataka, and said they are a model for us as the number of cases have been coming down. "Three days ahead of the current lockdown coming to an end, Chief Minister will call a meeting where we will share our opinion, looking at the figures that day in the state and whether the number of cases have come down because of lockdown, we will take a decision. The CM will take a decision," Ashoka said, adding he will be sharing his opinion at the meeting. Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Karnataka government that had initially announced 14 days closedown from April 27, it subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, amid continued spike in cases. Stating that no one expected a four-fold increase in the number of cases, Ashoka said, experts had said the second wave will be less compared to first wave, there were media reports too and we too had believed it. "It is a lesson for us...the government is addressing the difficult situation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and our government are facing the situation with courage and will stand by the people," he said, as he hit out at the opposition for changing their stands on the lockdown. Speaking to reporters in Bagalkote, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol too said that the Chief Minister will take a final decision on continuing the lockdown. "The Chief Minister will take a decision after consulting medical experts and doctors in this regard...they will examine the ICMR advice...no decision has been taken yet," he said. Dr.Balram Bhargava, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has said that lockdown restrictions should remain in place for another six to eight weeks, in all districts where the rate of infection is above 10 per cent of those tested, to control the spread. According to reports, 29 out of 31 districts in Karnataka have Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent. While the overall positivity rate in the state as on Thursday stood at 27.64 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.97 per cent. Karnataka on Thursday reported 35,297 new cases of Covid-19, and 344 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 20,88,488 and the death toll to 20,712. Total number of active cases stood at 5,93,078. Out of the 35,297 fresh cases reported, 15,191 were from Bengaluru Urban alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/r-ashoka-bats-for-extending-lockdown-in-karnataka-to-control-spread-of-covid-19-985799.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Who is Devi Shetty, head of Karnataka’s Covid task force?||Noted cardiac surgeon Devi Prasad Shetty has been appointed to lead Karnataka’s task force to prepare the state for a third wave of Covid-19 a day after the Karnataka High Court asked the state government to present a road map of how it plans to tackle a third Covid-19 wave. Shetty is the founder and chairman of Narayana Health, a chain of 21 medical centres across the country. Known as “Bypasswale Baba” in rural India, and once called the "the Henry Ford of heart surgery" by The Wall Street Journal, he is credited with making heart surgery affordable for millions in India, bringing down the price of bypass surgery in the country to one-tenth the price in the United States. The doctor’s Narayana Hrudayalaya in Bengaluru performs 30 surgeries every day and is the world’s largest heart hospital with over 1,000 beds. Shetty himself has performed 15,000 heart operations over his career. The Yeshasvini scheme, a low-cost health insurance programme for poor farmers of Karnataka, is Shetty’s brainchild and covers more than four million people for about 830 kinds of surgery. His focus on providing affordable healthcare to the poorest sections of society changed the landscape of rural healthcare and earned him the Padma Shri in 2004, followed by the Padma Bhushan in 2012. Shetty had even treated Mother Teresa in 1984 after she suffered a heart attack and cared for her over the next five years. With his focus set firmly on making quality healthcare cheaper, Shetty has founded the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences in Kolkata, and inked an agreement with the Karnataka Government to build a 5,000-bed specialty hospital near Bangalore International Airport. He has also signed a deal with the Gujarat government, to establish another 5,000-bed hospital at Ahmedabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/who-is-devi-shetty-head-of-karnataka-s-covid-task-force-985836.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister Basavaraj Bommai turns house into Covid Care Centre||The premises of Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai's residence at Shiggavi in Haveri district has been turned into a Covid Care Centre (CCC) that can house 50 patients. Bommai, who also represents Shiggavi Assembly constituency, has also appointed doctors and medical staff to take care of the patients, his office said. Stating that 50 beds have been installed on the verandah of the house, sources at his office said the Minister intends to have oxygen concentrators at the facility and thereby come to the rescue of patients with breathing issues. Claiming that this is the first time a Minister's residence in the State has been converted into a CCC, they said this would reduce the burden on the taluk hospital in the constituency. It is said Bommai and family largely stays at their residences in Bengaluru or Hubballi and uses the Shiggavi house during visits to the constituency. Bommai, who is the son of former Chief Minister and veteran Janata Parivar leader late S R Bommai, is also the Minister in-charge for Law and Parliamentary Affairs. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi too dedicated the 50-bed CCC set up at Athani in Belagavi district with his personal donation of Rs 50 lakh. The CCC is housed at Athani's Kittur Rani Chennnamma Hostel, Savadi's office said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-basavaraj-bommai-turns-house-into-covid-care-centre-985873.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 55 lakh Karnataka farmers receive a total of Rs 985.61 cr under PM-KISAN scheme||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said more than 55 lakh farmers across the state have received a total financial benefit of Rs 985.61 crore directly into their bank accounts as the first instalment for the current fiscal, under the "Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi" (PM-KISAN) scheme. Prime Minister Narendra Modi today released the fresh installment of the financial benefits under the PM-KISAN scheme via video-conferencing, which Yediyurappa attended. "Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi Ji released the 8th installment of financial benefit under PM-KISAN, an initiative providing income support to the farmers. More than 55 lakh farmers across Karnataka received Rs.985.61 Cr directly into their bank accounts," Yediyurappa tweeted after the video- conferencing. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to the eligible farmer families, payable in three equal installments of Rs 2,000. According to an official release by the state government, till date, 55.06 lakh farmer families have benefited from the scheme by receiving at least one instalment. From March 2019 to March 2021, these 55.06 lakh farmer families have received a total of Rs.6,936.98 crore from the Government of India, it said, adding that for the year 2021- 22, request for transfer of funds of Rs 985.61 crore, being the first installment of the current year was given to the centre. Noting that the state also has provision for providing financial assistance of Rs 4,000 per year in two instalments to the farmer families approved by the Government of India, the release said, the state has provided financial assistance of Rs. 2,891.70 crore till date. Amongst all states, Karnataka has done the highest percentage of Aadhaar enabled transactions and was awarded by the Government of India in February this year, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-55-lakh-karnataka-farmers-receive-a-total-of-rs-98561-cr-under-pm-kisan-scheme-985925.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bharat Biotech setting up Covaxin manufacturing unit in Karnataka: Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka will soon have a Covaxin-manufacturing plant of Bharat Biotech in Kolar district near here, Deputy Chief Minister of the state Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Friday. The construction work has already begun and the government has invited investors to make the vaccine in the state, he said. "Covaxin vaccine-manufacturing plant of Bharat Biotech will be established at the earliest in Malur Industrial Area of neighbouring Kolar district," Narayan, who is the IT-BT Minister and heads the state Covid task force, said in a statement. "The government has approved the project and the company is processing administrative requisites. Civil construction works have already been started and this will be completed soon to facilitate the functioning of the manufacturing operations as early as possible," he said. According to him, Malur, which is close to the state capital, has good transport facilities. He said the state would welcome and give full cooperation to any company engaged in the vaccine- manufacturing. In order to combat the second wave and as a preparation to face the possible third wave, every Assembly constituency in the state needs to have a 100-bed hospital with oxygenated and ICU beds, he said. So far, 1.10 crore people in the state have been inoculated but vaccination for people in the age group of 18-44 has been put off due to the shortage of vaccine. The government has ordered three crore vaccines and has paid money to the manufacturers but till now so far only seven lakh vaccines have been received. The state has reported 41,779 fresh cases and 373 fatalities despite stringent restrictions on the movement of people from April 27 till May 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bharat-biotech-setting-up-covaxin-manufacturing-unit-in-karnataka-deputy-cm-ashwath-narayan-985927.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Wait 12 weeks for second dose if you have taken Covishield in Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Friday asked those who took the Covishield vaccine not to come to vaccination centres if they have not completed 12 weeks of the first dose, citing advisory of expert groups. In a press release, the vaccination mission director said the second dose of Covishield vaccine should be administered to eligible beneficiaries at 12 to 16 weeks interval after receiving first dose as recommended by the National Technical Advisory Group of Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC). "Hence, the earlier interval of six to eight weeks of time for Covishield vaccination between 2 doses is revised to 12 to 16 weeks. Citizens are requested not to come to vaccination centres if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of Covishield vaccine," the release said. The release clarified that the revised time interval between two doses is applicable only to Covishield and not Covaxin. The State government recently suspended the vaccination of people between the age group of 18 and 44 due to inadequate stock of vaccine in the state. The government has already placed an order for three crore vaccines and paid money to the vaccine producers. However, only seven lakh vaccines have arrived, according to officials. The government intends to float global tenders to procure two crore vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wait-12-weeks-for-second-dose-if-you-have-taken-covishield-in-karnataka-985934.html
14-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 41,779 new Covid-19 cases, 373 deaths||Karnataka reported 41,779 new cases of Covid-19 and 373 more deaths, taking the total number of infections to 21,30,267 and the toll to 21,085, the Health Department said on Friday. The day also saw 35,879 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 14,316 new cases. As of May 14 evening, cumulatively 21,30,267 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 21,085 deaths and 15,10,557 discharges, a department bulletin said. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 5,98,605. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 32.86 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.89 per cent. Among the 373 deaths reported today, 121 are from Bengaluru Urban, Ballari (26), Kalaburagi (21), Hassan (20), Tumakuru (19), Uttara Kannada (15), Bagalkote (14), Mandya and Ramangara (13), followed by others. Tumakuru district accounted for 2,668 new cases, Ballari 2,421, Mysuru 2,340, Belagavi 1,592, Mandya 1,385, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 10,29,312, followed by Mysuru 1,07,827 and Tumakuru 77,039. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 6,59,203, followed by Mysuru 91,715 and Tumakuru 50,552. A total of over 2,76,48,133 samples have been tested so far, of which 1,27,105 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-41779-new-covid-19-cases-373-deaths-985941.html
14-05-2021||West||Yet another Mumbai model: Byculla Zoo to introduce first-of-its-kind virtual tours||During the 14 months of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai has shown the way – how it handled the first and second waves, managed to tide over the oxygen crisis and speed up the vaccination programme. Now comes yet another Mumbai model – the Mumbai Zoo is set to become India's first zoo to start virtual tours professionally. The Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan and Zoo, or the Mumbai Zoo, is one of the oldest zoos in India. Spread over 50 acres, it is popularly known as Byculla Zoo or Rani Baug. “As we go through waves of pandemic and the lockdown, we have decided to take the zoo to people’s homes... this is a unique initiative and we are starting virtual tours,” Dr Sanjay Tripathi, the director of Mumbai Zoo, told DH. According to him, the Mumbai Zoo has 270-plus animals and birds of 40 species and 4,000 trees of 200-plus species. Over the past few months, ‘The Mumbai Zoo’ has made its presence felft on social media platforms – Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. “This has become very popular and generated very good traction,” said Dr Tripathi, adding that the virtual tours would begin right at the gate and cover the entire complex and compound. Mumbai Zoo’s biologist Abhishek Satam has played a key role in photographing and videographing the zoo and its animals. Satam, along with Mumbai Zoo’s veterinary officer Dipika Valsarajan, have lent voices for the programme. “The Mumbai Zoo has a 160-year-old history. There are several unique things inside the zoo which people may not be aware about.  Any zoo is about education and that is the thrust,” Satam told DH. “Not many would know that there are plants from six continents in our zoo,” he said. Giving details, Satam said the Mumbai Zoo has 64 internal pocket gardens and 4,132 trees, which includes 291 rare trees and 15 medicinal trees. The zoo has 273 animals, which include 84 mammals of 13 species, 57 birds of 19 species and 32 reptiles and aquatic animals of 7 species.  "The virtual tours have been professionally done and would be a superb educational tool," he said. The larger zoo-compound also houses the Dr Bhau Daji Lad Museum, a building in Greco-Roman style erected in the memory of Lady Frere, an equestrian statue of King Edward VII of England made of black marble, originally known as Kala Ghoda and the David Sassoon clock tower. Outside the museum, one can see the  monolithic basalt elephant sculpture recovered from the sea, which originated from Elephanta Island or the Gharapuri Island.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yet-another-mumbai-model-byculla-zoo-to-introduce-first-of-its-kind-virtual-tours-985729.html
14-05-2021||West||NDRF deploys teams in 5 states ahead of Cyclone Tauktae||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked 53 teams to tackle possible after-effects of cyclone 'Tauktae' that is developing in the Arabian Sea, a senior officer said on Friday. NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a tweet that these teams are being deployed in the coastal regions of Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Out of the 53 teams, he said, 24 have been pre-deployed or stationed on the ground while the rest are on stand-by. A single NDRF team comprises about 40 personnel and they are armed with tree and pole cutters, boats, basic medical aid and other relief and rescue equipments. As per the Indian Metrological Department (IMD) and advisories issued by some of these coastal states, a pressure area had formed over the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area on Thursday. "It will concentrate into a depression over the same region by Saturday morning and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours," the IMD said in the warning report. It is very likely to intensify further and move north-northwestwards Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan coasts. The advisory said the cyclonic storm is likely to reach near the Gujarat coast around May 18 evening. The name 'Tauktae' has been given by Myanmar which means 'gecko'. This is going to be the first cyclonic storm of this year along the Indian coast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ndrf-deploys-teams-in-5-states-ahead-of-cyclone-tauktae-985732.html
14-05-2021||West||Haffkine Institute to roll out first batch of Covaxin by early 2022||The Haffkine Institute in Mumbai, which now has necessary approvals from the Centre to produce Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, would be able to roll out the first batch of Covid-19 vaccine in the next eight to 10 months. Preparations have already started for training and research at the Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Ltd located at Parel in Mumbai. The initiative between the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Haffkine Institute initiative has been approved by the Ministry of Science and Technology’s Department of Biotechnology. According to Haffkine Bio Pharmaceuticals Corporation Limited's Managing Director Sandip Rathod, the roll out would take place in the next eight to 10 months. “Annually we would be able to roll out 22.8 crore vaccines,” he said. A new facility is being created, which will have Bio-Safety Level 3 norms. The project has a capex of Rs 154 crore. While the state government has approved an allocation of Rs 94 crore from the Contingency Fund towards the proposed capex, the central government has sanctioned Rs 65 crore for the project. The Maharashtra government had submitted the proposal under Mission Covid Suraksha in December 2020, while in March-April, 2021, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state Health Minister Rajesh Tope did regular follow-ups with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan. The Haffkine Institute is the place where India’s first clinical trial was held in 1899 when legendary scientist Dr Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine invented the Plague vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/haffkine-institute-to-roll-out-first-batch-of-covaxin-by-early-2022-985763.html
14-05-2021||West||Covid-19 crisis: MakeMyTrip foundation launches community platform CoviRide||Community networks have emerged as a major lifeline during the Covid-19 pandemic as people stepped up to extend support, volunteer or offer services to fellow citizens. To help meet essential travel and medical assistance needs during the pandemic, MakeMyTrip foundation has launched CoviRide — an open, peer-to-peer community platform designed to help individuals, organizations and larger communities to seek and provide transport-related assistance during this difficult time. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-float-global-tenders-to-procure-covid-19-vaccines-soon-says-cm-bsy-985781.html Additionally, it helps users locate a ride to a vaccination centre, drive through oxygen centres, to and from the hospital and for medical equipment transfer such as oxygen cylinders, concentrators, medicines, among others. Updated real-time, the platform enables private vendors and organizations to reach out to users directly as soon as a transport-related query matches their service. Further, the ‘Offer a Ride’ feature allows individuals to volunteer and offer a ride to anyone in need for any transport assistance. Currently, the platform lists transport leads and sources in New Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gurugram, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Agra and will be expanding reach to other cities shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-crisis-makemytrip-foundation-launches-community-platform-coviride-985787.html
14-05-2021||West||DJ held for 'hurting Vijay Rupani's reputation' in spoof video||Police have detained a 30- year-old disc jockey (DJ) in Vadodara city of Gujarat on the charge of harming state Chief Minister Vijay Rupani's reputation by making and uploading a video by using a part of the latter's past speech, officials said on Friday. The accused was identified as Pradeep Kahar, a resident of Kahar Mohalla in Dandiya Bazaar locality of Vadodara, they said. He was detained on Thursday by Vadodara city crime branch under IPC section 469, which deals with forgery for purpose of harming reputation, a release issued by the police said. Right now, he is kept under detention and will be formally arrested once his coronavirus report comes negative, it said. Kahar is a local DJ and uses the name 'DJ Adee' on various social media platforms, including on Facebook. "He is accused of making and circulating a fake electronic document using some portion of the CM's original speech with an intention to harm the reputation and position of the CM," the release said, quoting the FIR. Since it is an act of defamation, the Vadodara city crime branch, upon learning about Kahar's act from social media, detained him, it added. "Kahar is a DJ and created a video using CM's speech on potatoes grown in Banaskantha. He also circulated the video on various social media platforms," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, said. In his speech, the chief minister had tried to say that potatoes grown by farmers of Banaskantha will get more price if sold to fast food giant McDonald's for making French fries sold at their outlets. While Kahar did not alter the original words, he cut some portions of the speech and put it together to make a spoof video of the CM, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dj-held-for-hurting-vijay-rupanis-reputation-in-spoof-video-985833.html
14-05-2021||West||Move Supreme Court afresh for raising quota limit, Devendra Fadnavis tells MVA govt||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said the Maharashtra government should file a review petition in the Supreme Court to increase the 50 per cent ceiling on reservation. Speaking to reporters at the Nagpur airport, he also accused the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of passing the buck on the Maratha quota issue. His statement comes a day after the Centre moved the Supreme Court seeking review of the May 5 majority verdict, which held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the power of state governments to declare Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) for grant of quota in jobs and admissions. A five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had unanimously set aside the Maharashtra law that granted quota to Marathas and had refused to refer 1992 Mandal verdict putting a cap of 50 per cent on reservation to a larger bench. Fadnavis said, "The central government has filed a review petition in the Supreme Court to reconsider the verdict. However, the state is yet to file a review petition in the SC to increase the 50 per cent limit of reservation." The Centre had made it clear in the Parliament during the 102nd Constitution amendment that states' rights will stay intact. However, the SC has said that states do not have the right to announce reservation, the former Maharashtra chief minister added. "The state government is only passing the buck on the Maratha quota issue," he alleged. The top court had recently struck down the Maharashtra government's decision to exceed 50 per cent reservation for Maratha community in education and jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/move-supreme-court-afresh-for-raising-quota-limit-devendra-fadnavis-tells-mva-govt-985897.html
14-05-2021||West||CM Thackeray urges sugar cooperatives to produce oxygen||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday urged the sugar cooperative industry to produce oxygen, much needed for hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. He was speaking after attending the virtual inauguration of an oxygen production plant of Dharashiv Sugar Cooperative in Osmanabad district. The sugar cooperative is the first in the state to start oxygen production, an official release said. Thackeray said the state needs to become self-sufficient in oxygen production to beat the second wave of Covid-19. "Our production capacity is 1,200 metric tons (per day)while the demand is 1,700 metric tons. If we produce 3,000 metric tons of oxygen, we will be self-sufficient," he was quoted as saying. Municipal corporations are trying to ramp up their oxygen production and sugar cooperatives should also follow the suit, he said. Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who also participated in thr virtual function, said having their own oxygen plants should be made mandatory for hospitals with more than 50 beds. Every district must be able to meet its oxygen requirement from within the same district, he suggested. The Dharashiv sugar cooperative has converted its ethanol project into oxygen plant which would be producing six tons of oxygen with 96 per cent purity daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-thackeray-urges-sugar-cooperatives-to-produce-oxygen-985917.html
14-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae likely to reach near Gujarat coast on May 18: IMD||The depression formed over Lakshadweep in the Arabian Sea would turn into a cyclonic storm in the next 24 hours and reach near the Gujarat coast on the morning of May 18, officials said on Friday. This cyclonic activity would bring rain or thunderstorm in the coastal belt between May 16 and 18, with some of the places in the region receiving heavy to extremely heavy rainfall on Monday and Tuesday, they said. In view of this prediction, all ports in Gujarat have been asked to hoist a signal to warn fishermen against venturing into the sea. "As of now, there is no prediction whether it will make a landfall on the Gujarat coast, and a clear picture would emerge only by tomorrow," said Manorama Mohanty, assistant director of the Meteorological Centre in Ahmedabad. Taking no chances, the Gujarat government has already alerted the collectors of all the coastal districts to take necessary steps for the safety of people. In its latest bulletin, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Cyclone Tauktae, once it is formed, is likely to intensify into a "very severe cyclonic storm" on May 17 with wind speed of 150 to 160 kmph. As per the latest weather bulletin, the depression was centred over Lakshadweep about 1,120 km south southeast of Veraval (Gujarat) and was likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours. "Tauktae is likely to move north north-eastwards initially for some more time and then move north-north westwards and reach near Gujarat coast by May 18 morning," the IMD release said. "The cyclone would reach near Gujarat coast on May 18. The cyclonic activity would bring rain, and at some places thunderstorms, in the entire coastal belt on May 16, 17 and 18. Some places along the coast would get heavy to extremely heavy rainfall on May 17 and 18," Mohanty told reporters here on Friday. While the wind speed on the land would remain between 45 to 50 kmph on May 17, it may go up to 90 to 100 kpmh on May 18 when the cyclone reaches near the Gujarat coast. While local authorities were already instructed to alert the fishermen and bring them back to coast if they are in the sea, those who are on the coast are barred from venturing into the sea as a precautionary measure till the situation improves, she said. To alert the seafarers about the approaching cyclone, all the ports in Gujarat have been asked to hoist 'Distant Cautionary Signal Number 2', she said. Meanwhile, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked 53 teams to tackle possible after- effects of the cyclone. These teams are being deployed in the coastal regions of Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Maharashtra, a top NDRF official has earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-likely-to-reach-near-gujarat-coast-on-may-18-imd-985969.html
14-05-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccination drive suspended in Mumbai for 2 days in view of cyclone warning||The Mumbai civic body on Friday decided to suspend its Covid-19 vaccination drive for the next two days in view of the warning about cyclone Tauktae. There would be no inoculation on May 15 and 16, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation tweeted. Dear Mumbaikars, Please note that there will be NO VACCINATION tomorrow and day after i.e. 15th and 16th May 2021. Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani told PTI that it was a precautionary measure as cyclone Tauktae is forecast to pass close to the city. The decision was taken to avoid troubles for senior citizens and also possible crowding as the city is expected to get rains due to the cyclone, he added. Presently, Mumbai has 260 active inoculation centres and 28,41,349 persons have received vaccine jabs including 23,924 on Friday. The India Meteorological Department has warned that cyclone Tauktae is likely to pass close to Mumbai via sea route, though it won't hit the city directly, but is likely to bring strong winds and heavy rain to the financial capital of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccination-drive-suspended-in-mumbai-for-2-days-in-view-of-cyclone-warning-986017.html
