15-05-2021||First Edit||As tensions escalate, Israel must be restrained||Israel appears to be preparing for a ground invasion of the Gaza Strip. It has amassed troops and tanks close to its border with Gaza. Since early this week, Israel has pounded Gaza with artillery and airstrikes, while Hamas has responded with rocket fire. The two sides seem to be on the brink of an all-out war. Neither has shown any concern about civilian casualties. Israel, in particular, has targeted several apartment buildings in Gaza. In the name of eliminating Hamas commanders that it believes are holed up in these buildings or destroying suspected arms dumps, it has killed over a hundred civilians so far, including 27 children. Human rights groups are pointing out that both sides are engaging in violence that merits being described as war crimes. Mixed communities of Jews and Arabs in Israel are engulfed in violence, too. While Israel’s launch of a ground invasion will result in a surge in Palestinian civilian casualties, Hamas’ launch of missiles from Lebanon to target Israel could draw neighbouring countries into the conflict. A geographic expansion of hostilities looms in a highly volatile region. Tensions have been escalating since mid-April when Israeli police put up barricades to prevent Palestinians from gathering at the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount, a site in Jerusalem that is sacred to Muslims, Jews and Christians. Besides, unrest has been growing over the possible eviction of Palestinians living in East Jerusalem’s Sheikh Jarrah district. However, the escalation in hostilities must be seen in the context of Israel’s domestic politics. Just before Israeli bombardment of Gaza began on Monday, a disparate collection of parties was on the verge of forming a coalition to oust Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The possibility that Netanyahu ordered the airstrikes to put off the coalition’s effort at government formation cannot be ruled out. Hamas, which is seeking to project itself as the protector of all Palestinians, including those in the West Bank, also gains from the current hostilities. It may have lost several commanders in the recent Israeli air strikes but its support among Palestinians is soaring as they are banding behind it against the Israeli attacks. The United States has issued a statement supporting Israel’s right to defend itself against Hamas’ rockets. It has made no mention of the Palestinians’ right to defend themselves and is thus not even-handed in dealing with the conflict actors. It also blocked a China-Tunisia-Norway call for an open meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Friday to discuss the situation. Washington’s obstructionist approach will encourage Israel to escalate violence against Palestinians, and that will help neither the cause of peace in the region nor America’s slipping global image.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/as-tensions-escalate-israel-must-be-restrained-986075.html
15-05-2021||In Perspective||Taiwan remembers Subhash Chandra Bose||The international community praises Taiwan’s courage in maintaining independent sovereignty and statehood. In fact, when Indian nationalists were fighting for independence a century ago, their stories inspired the people of Taiwan, when the island was under Japanese colonial rule. Japan after the Meiji Restoration rapidly transformed into a modern state. Japan first acquired Taiwan as a new colony after the war with the Qing Empire of China. After defeating Russia in 1905, Japan rose to the world stage, becoming a new member of the imperial powers. People all over Asia saw Japan as a role model for achieving independence and national pride. Independence fighters from China, Korea, India, and Southeast Asia went to Japan and Japanese territories to learn and to seek support. Being a colony of Japan, Taiwan had strong cultural and economic connections with China and Southeast Asia, serving as a shelter and even training base for independence fighters who were planning revolutionary campaigns at home. Sun Yat-Sen of China, Aung San of Burma, Rash Behari Bose and Subhas Chandra Bose, all founders of nationalist armies, came to Taiwan. In the 1920s, Taiwanese intellectuals were quite familiar with the Swadeshi movement of India and Sinn Fein’s fight for independence in Ireland. Prominent figures of the Indian independence movement -- Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose – also appeared in Taiwanese media. Rash Behari Bose visited Taipei in May 1943 during his trip to Southeast Asia. Their stories were circulated or studied by both Taiwan’s anti-colonialism campaigners as well as even Japanese bureaucrats who served the empire. Among all the independence movement leaders of India, Subhas Chandra Bose has a special connection with Taiwan, not just because he visited the island more than once, but because he eventually died there. When he boarded the Japanese submarine in the Indian Ocean in April 1943, he was first transferred to Indonesia and then took a plane to Taiwan. His flight landed in Taihoku (Taipei) airport on May 14, 1943. This was the first time he stepped on the island and on Japanese territories. On August 18, 1945, Subhas Chandra Bose flew to Taiwan again. This time, his plane landed in Taipei for refueling, then departed either for Japan or Manchuria. Unfortunately, the plane crashed during take-off. Bose suffered severe burns and was taken to the Southgate Military Hospital for treatment. He died that night in hospital. The military hospital where Bose spent his last moments is today the Taipei Municipal Heping Hospital, which shot into prominence during the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak of 2003. Few people today know that this is the site where Bose slept forever. When Bose flew to Taiwan, he was accompanied by Lt Gen Tsunamasa Shidei of the Japanese Kwantung Army, and Bose’s own aide Habib ur Rahman, chief of staff of the Indian National Army in Singapore. Lt Gen Shidei was severely injured and died in hospital the same day, while Habib ur Rahman survived the crash and accompanied Bose in hospital till the latter’s death. It is said the plane carried a huge amount of gold and jewels donated by overseas Indians for the independence movement. After the plane crash, the Japanese military sealed the airport and mobilised female students from nearby high schools to search and collect all the luggage spread along the crash site. All the treasures and related documents, along with the ashes of Subhas Bose, were later transferred to Tokyo and have been preserved there till today. In September 1945, a few weeks after the plane crash and one month before the nationalist government of China formally assumed jurisdiction over Taiwan, British India sent two investigators to Taiwan to examine the plane crash and the death of Bose. In August 1946, Harin Shah, a journalist from Bombay (now Mumbai), came to Taiwan to investigate Bose’s death. His notes and photos were compiled into a book titled “The Gallant End of Netaji” and published in 1956. The book was the only one containing the first-hand observations of those who were with Bose during the last moments of his life. Taiwan’s interest in India has substantially increased in recent years, thanks to the ‘New Southbound Policy’ launched by President Tsai Ing-wen in 2016. Given the increasing military and economic tensions with China, many in Taiwan have started to see India as a new strategic partner as well as a huge market. Yet, the connections between Taiwan and India can trace back to a century ago, when the stories of Indian independence movements inspired many Taiwanese intellectuals who shared the same values of anti-colonialism. Independence fighters such as Rash Behari Bose and Subhas Chandra Bose had their footprint in Taiwan. More stories like theirs remain to be discovered by historians in both India and Taiwan. (Li-fu Chen is Professor at Aletheia University of Taiwan; Mumin Chen is Professor, National Chung Hsiung University of Taiwan, and currently works at Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre in India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/taiwan-remembers-subhash-chandra-bose-986072.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru hostel turned into Covid Care Centre for cops||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V inaugurated 18-bed Covid Care Centre (CCC), exclusively for police personnel and their families, in the now vacant student ladies’ hostel near St Aloysius Gonzaga School in Mangaluru on Friday. Rajendra, applauding the initiative, said that police personnel were working as frontline Covid warriors while effectively implementing the Covid guidelines. This gesture will boost their morale, he added. The DC also thanked St Aloysius Education Institutions for dedicating a building as CCC. “The district administration has already set up three CCCs for frontline Covid workers. The centres are equipped with all facilities,” he added. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said, “As police staff are frontline workers, we decided to set up this center. About 95% of police staff have received Covid-19 vaccines. Out of 1,700 police personnel under the commissionerate, 333 police personnel had tested positive for Covid-19. In the second wave, 62 personnel had tested positive and 46 Covid patients are under home isolation.” “If police department needs additional beds, then Covid Care Centre at NITK will also be utilised,” the Commissioner added. St Aloysius ITI Director Fr Cyril D’Mello SJ said, “During the pandemic, the institution had disbursed food kits and medical assistance to the needy. The institution is ready to provide any kind of facilities to police department rendering service to the society.” DCPs Hariram Shankar, Vinay Gaonkar, St Aloysius College Principal Fr Praveen Martis, SACAA president Steven Pinto, St Aloysius PU College Principal Fr Clifford Sequeira, Registrar/controller of examination, St Aloysius College, Alwyn D’Sa among others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-hostel-turned-into-covid-care-centre-for-cops-986055.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||GAIL to set up oxygen generation plant at Kundapura||GAIL (India) Limited (formerly known as Gas Authority of India Limited) in order to increase the availability of medical-grade oxygen will build oxygen generation plant at Taluk Government Hospital in Kundapura and nine other places across the country. Kundapura Taluk Government Hospital Covid-19 Nodal officer Dr Nagesh Kundapur told DH that the work on the construction of Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plant will begin soon. The land had been identified for the plant. By June-end or July, the plant will be functional, he added. He said plant can generate 500 litres of oxygen per minute and 100 jumbo cylinders can be filled per day. A jumbo cylinder has a capacity of 7,000 litres (gas). Hence there would be sufficient oxygen supply in the taluk from next month onwards, he explained. Udupi Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadhashiv Prabhu said that the total cost of project was estimated to be around Rs 65.49 lakh. About 40% of the cost was paid in advance. Fifty percent is paid against the performance invoice before the dispatch. The remaining 10% is paid after the commissioning of plant by GAIL, he added. The plant will involve 50 KW power connections in the room with two separate earthing and equal capacity back up, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gail-to-set-up-oxygen-generation-plant-at-kundapura-986061.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain lashes Dakshina Kannada||With Cyclone Tauktae forming over the Arabian Sea, rain continues to lash Dakshina Kannada since Friday late night. The storm water drains are full in several parts of the city. The Indian Coast Guard personnel have already warned fishermen not to venture into sea fishing. All the boats that went for deep-sea fishing have returned to the shore and several fishermen have shifted their traditional boats anchored in the shore to safer locations. The IMD has sounded a red alert in Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday and Sunday with heavy rain between 65 mm to 115 mm to lash the region. On the other hand, sea erosion has intensified in Ullal, Subhashnagara areas. Officials have called upon the people residing on the shores to remain cautious. The clouds were so dark that the drivers were forced to switch on the headlights while driving vehicles on the roads. People were seen purchasing essentials while holding umbrellas in the markets in Mangaluru city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-lashes-dakshina-kannada-986109.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Girl baby orphaned within four days of birth||A baby girl is orphaned within four days of its birth in Nagamangala taluk on Friday, due to Covid. Yogesh, a relative, said, “Nanjundegowda and Mamatha of Doddenahalli in Nagamangala taluk were residing in Chintamani of Chikkaballapur district since a few years.” “Nanjundegowda was diagnosed of Covid in April. He died in a private hospital in Bengaluru on April 30. Meanwhile, Mamatha, who was pregnant, was also diagnosed of Covid. She was under home isolation on the advise of doctors, at Doddenahalli. Later, she was admitted to the hospital of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences in Mandya, following respiratory problems. She delivered the baby on May 11. Following Covid complications, she died on May 15. The couple were married 10 years ago and remained issue-less all these years. Mamatha conceived after a lot of treatment,” he said. Meanwhile, in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district, a four and a half month old baby was diagnosed of Covid on Saturday. Covid Nodal Officer of Belagola Gram Panchayat M R Anantharaju said that the baby boy in Belagola village has tested positive. “Both his parents have tested negative. They do not have any symptoms too. His other family members too do not have any infection. The infection might be from visitors or neighbours. The baby is under treatment at home itself and is showing signs of recovery,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/girl-baby-orphaned-within-four-days-of-birth-986294.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sanskrit scholar passes away||Melkote-based Sanskrit scholar Lakshmithathacharya (84) died of Covid complications at a private hospital in Mysuru on Saturday. He was diagnosed of Covid last week and was hospitalised. Lakshmithathacharya was presented the President’s medal for his contributions to the growth and conservation of Sanskrit and its culture. He was a scholar in Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Hindi, English, French and German. Besides, he had good knowledge of a few more languages. He founded the Academy of Sanskrit Research and has collected, curated, preserved, digitalised and researched over 2 lakh manuscripts. He has grown various species of plants and trees on the eight-acre campus of the academy. He excavated the Rayagopura of the Vijayanagara period in Melkote, 30 years ago and conserved it for the posterity. If not for his efforts, the Rayagopura would have remained burried in the earth. He dug out the science and heritage of ancient India like farming, architecture and culture from the manuscripts and introduced them to the modern world. He has published more than 100 books and has spoken on thousands of fora on Indian heritage. He had studied Sanskrit and Philosophy in Madras University and also University of Mysore. He is survived by sons M A Alwar, a professor in Maharajas Sanskrit Patashala and Ananthu. His cremation was held at Melkote as per Covid protocols and also Sri Vaishnava rituals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sanskrit-scholar-passes-away-986295.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Senior citizen spends from her savings to help Covid patients||In a rare show of social concern, a senior citizen, who herself is not financially stable, has spent Rs 10,000 from her saving, to buy biscuits and juice for Covid infected people at the Covid Care Centre (CCC) in Hosaholalu under KR Pet town limits in Mandya district. Sharadamma of Hiralahalli in KR Pet taluk, handed over the amount to Tahsildar M Shivamurthy and urged him to spend the money for Covid patients, recently. The tahsildar said that at a time when the people are getting selfish due to various reasons, the gesture of the woman is commendable. “She had extended a similar financial aid to Covid patients during the first wave also. To honour her gesture, I got the materials purchased for the amount she wished to spend and distributed them to the inmates of the CCC, established at the Backward Classes and Minorities (BCM) Hostel in Hosaholalu, in her presence,” he said. The officials said, "Wealthy people can donate in lakhs and crores, but people like Sharadamma, who are not so wealthy, surprise by their generosity." Sharadamma said that she was pained by the difficulties faced by the Covid patients and their families, by seeing reports in the media. “I have saved some money from my old age pension and also from the wages, I used to get for some menial work I do. Thus, I wished to spend a portion of my savings to provide some nutritional food to the Covid patients,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/senior-citizen-spends-from-her-savings-to-help-covid-patients-986299.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fact check reveals Covid medicines not available in some areas of Mysuru||A few medicines, prescribed for Covid treatment, are not available in a few localities of Mysuru city. In a fact check, it was found that Paracetamol, Ivermictin and Doxy, generally used for treatment of Covid, were not available in Apollo Pharmacy and Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendra on Dr Rajkumar Road near JSS Layout. While the drugs were not provided to some patients, who were subject to tests at the Covid Mitra on the campus of Seth Mohandas Tulsidas Hospital on Jhansi Lakshmi Bai Road, Lakshmipuram; Parecetamol and Ivermictin were provided at the Covid Mitra on the premises of Central Hospital for Beedi Workers on Mahadevapura Main Road near Kalyangiri. Ivermectin and Doxy were not available at Lucky Medicals on Dr Rajkumar Road and Medicare Medicals on Mahadevapura Main Road. However, on the same Dr Rajkumar road, all three medicines were available at Baba Medicals. Some of the pharmacies were not open on the particular road, due to Covid lockdown and also intermittent rains, on Saturday. Besides these three drugs, Zinc tablets, Vitamin C tablets, Cetrizine, Pantoprazole tablet, Shelcal, anti-tussive cough syrup and inhalational Budesonide are administered to Covid patients. Kumaraswamy of the Pharma Association, under the Mysuru Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said that there is no scarcity of drugs that are prescribed for Covid patients, except Doxy. “Doxy is expected to arrive by Monday. Meanwhile, alternatives for Doxy are available. However, in a few areas, the pharmacists are not showing interest in procuring the drugs, as business is not up to their expectations, in such areas,” he said. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said that there can be scarcity of the drugs prescribed for Covid patients. “As the same drugs are prescribed for most of the patients, the pharmacies may not have sufficient stocks. But, the government hospitals and Covid Care Centres have adequate supply,” she said. However, Dr Munavar of the Central Hospital for Beedi Workers said that the hospital did not have sufficient Doxy on Saturday. Rajesh Chawla, Aishwarya Medical Store on Irwin Road, said that there is no scarcity of any drug in the pharmacies in the central business district (CBD) of Mysuru. “The pharmacies in residential areas may not have stocked sufficient drugs. Only Doxy is in short supply. But, alternatives are available,” he said. G Manohar, a relative of a Covid patient, expressed a doubt that the pharmacies may not be selling the drugs to Covid patients. However, Rajesh Chawla said that during the first wave of Covid, the government had restricted sales of drugs related to Covid and Covid-like symptoms. “Now, there is no such restriction. People are ordering and getting such drugs even on online platforms. If the patient or the patient’s caretakers get the doctor’s prescription, we sell the drugs,” he said. Meanwhile, DC Rohini Sindhuri addressed the people on Facebook live at 6 pm on Saturday, to create awareness on Covid. “There are 18,000 active cases as on Saturday. Half of them are under home isolation. Twenty days earlier, only 10% of the total positive cases of Mysuru district used to be in rural areas (taluks). Since the past 15 days, 50% of the cases are from the taluks. So, the spread is wide in the village-level,” she said. The DC said, “Triage has been implemented in Covid Mitras since May 1 at all 150 primary healthcare centres (PHC). The first five days are crucial and if proper care is taken during this initial stage, Covid can be cured in home isolation itself. There are specific medicines for the symptoms. Among them Ivermictin, an immuno-modulator is very important.” “Even if one tests negative, medication is a must for the symptoms. The drugs are available in all PHCs and Covid Mitras. Stickers, with the information on the precautionary measures and medication, will be pasted on the doors and walls of all houses, with the help of ASHA volunteers. All people should be aware of the medication,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fact-check-reveals-covid-medicines-not-available-in-some-areas-of-mysuru-986301.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-orphaned girl adopted by aunt||A five-year-old girl, who was orphaned by the death of both her parents, due to Covid, at Kothalavadi village of Chamarajanagar taluk, recently, has been adopted by her aunt. It has to be recalled that Guruprasad and Rashmi, parent’s of the girl, died of Covid on May 9. Ramya, younger sister of Rashmi, has adopted the girl. Mahadevaswamy (Guru), husband of Ramya, said, he is a goods auto driver. “Just a few minutes before her death, Rashmi had spoken to Ramya over phone, and had requested to take care of her daughter. Ramya is pregnant at present. We both have decided to adopt our niece and look after her, in a proper and loving way,” he said. Chamarajanagar District Child Protection Officer Govindaraju said, “The members of the District Children’s Welfare Committee rushed to the village to take the girl into custody, as she was orphaned. However, the girl’s aunt Ramya declined to hand over her. She said that she will provide shelter and look after her niece with all care and concern. As per the Juvenile Justice Act of 2015, blood relatives can adopt orphaned children. Thus, the girl was officially given in adoption to her aunt.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-orphaned-girl-adopted-by-aunt-986304.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||DC tests negative, all her family members contract virus||The family members of Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, including her husband, have tested positive for Covid-19. However, the DC herself has tested negative. The officials said that the deputy commissioner follows all Covid protocols and guidelines strictly, all the time. “Thus, she is safe, despite her frequent visits to high risk places, including Covid Hospitals and Covid Care Centres. She is leading the combat against the pandemic, from the front. But, she is always vigilant. She takes all possible precautionary and safety measures,” the officials said. “It has to be recalled that on January 12, during a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee of the Legislature, its Chairman MLA Sa Ra Mahesh had asked her to remove the mask and speak, as she was not audible. However, she had said, ‘We are not supposed to remove the mask in the wake of the Covid protocols’,” officials said. In a communication to media persons, the DC has stated that all her close contacts, including parents, husband and in-laws, are positive. They all are under home isolation. Even though the DC has tested negative, she is on medication, Doxy and Ivermectin, since May 11. “The first five days are very critical in Covid management and one should not neglect either the symptoms or if a person is a primary or secondary contact of an infected person,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-tests-negative-all-her-family-members-contract-virus-986306.html
15-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar accuses Centre of 'destabilising' youth movement||Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar on Saturday accused the Centre of 'destabilising' the youth movement, as he blamed it over the Delhi police questioning Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chief Srinivas B V, who is in the forefront of coordinating Covid-19 relief. "Delhi police and the central government should know that Srinivas is one of the giants in the youth movement. Without any political power his contribution and service to the nation is lauded by the entire country and the world media," Shivakumar said. In a video statement, he said, we are proud of Srinivas, especially as he belongs to Karnataka, and that he knows him personally. "..he (Srinivas) is a big asset to the nation, not only to the Congress party. I condemn the attitude of the central government, they are trying to destabilize the youth movement. Youth have to stand by him, he is not involved in political work, but is working for humanity," he added. Srinivas on Friday had said the Delhi Police's Crime Branch questioned him about the assistance being provided by him to people during the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the Delhi Police has said the questioning has been done following a Delhi High Court order. The high court had directed the police to conduct an inquiry into politicians involved in the distribution of Covid-19 medicines and other items, and take steps for lodging of FIR in case of offence. Pledging the support of the Karnataka Congress to Srinivas, the KPCC President said, we stand by him and support him in the commendable and hard work he is doing. "We will stand by you Srinivas, dont worry, let us face. Jail, bail, statement all is part of our life.." he added. An alumnus of National College in Basavanagudi, Srinivas hails from Shivamogga. He represented Karnataka in under-16 and under-19 cricket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-president-d-k-shivakumar-accuses-centre-of-destabilising-youth-movement-986192.html
15-05-2021||Main Article||Covid-19 deaths: Landscape of hell||At the time of writing this, some 3,000-4,000 people are dying a day of a deadly virus, taking the total death toll since the beginning of the pandemic close to 240,000, and a total caseload to nearly 22 million. Experts believe that the figures are grossly underestimated. There is widespread murmur that our governments try to cover up uncharitable data, unsavoury to their image, even if by force and intimidation. As the pandemic rages on, we now know that summer months cannot stop its onward match, that people without any comorbidities may die as well, there is no age bar on who might get infected as younger people are also dying. And there are the images of makeshift crematoria, people gasping to death outside hospitals without oxygen. Alongside nursing a fear of death, there is the added fear of dying without having one’s family by one’s side. Images of bodies washing up along the shores of the shores of the Ganga and the Yamuna in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh evoke a complete landscape of hell. Somehow, the civil society, volunteers and social media are proving to be of greater help than our governments. And our Prime Minister, who loves to emblazon his photo on any central project and take credit, is nowhere in public view. If Indians are already familiar with living precariously, the pandemic has presented them with the prospect of dying without even the minimum semblance of medical attention as a helpless government, known for its monumental apathy, conceit and bigotry, is behaving like a deer caught in the headlights. One suspects that in its zeal for electoral aggrandisement, in seeking to capture states that had gone to polls, it overruled its chances to be overrun by the pandemic. And for the thousands of people who are dying, accounted or without being accounted for, we have no means to know how many died without a hospital bed, how many asphyxiated to death without oxygen, how many died due to lockdown due to ill-health or starvation, how many ended lives in desperation, and therefore, how many lives could have been saved with the right medical intervention at the right time. The problem of cold statistics is also that it leaves out the fundamental details, the atmospherics and circumstances. Thus, when we heard that over a hundred people died because of demonetisation in 2016, the number was hardly a measure of the enormity of the nationwide disruption that the exercise caused. The government refused to mourn the deaths due to hardships caused by demonetisation either because it refused to link the deaths to the exercise or because it counted the deaths as fair price for restructuring the country, much the same way as Stalin or Mao did. There seems to be no cumulative fair record of the CAA (and NRC) protest-related deaths in 2020, either. Consequent to the violence that erupted over CAA in Northeast Delhi, some 53 persons were killed, but that gives us no clue to the actual mayhem and horror on the ground. And when the pandemic swept across the nation and a draconian lockdown was imposed, the Ministry of Labour and Employment could not provide any data of migrant workers who lost their jobs and their lives during the Covid-19 lockdown. But the pictures of thousands of such workers trudging along hundreds of miles of highways and some dying in road and rail accidents will continue to haunt us much the same way the images of overcrowded crematoriums do now to our collective memory. The leading medical journal Lancet draws upon an apocalyptic estimate by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) of a staggering one million deaths from Covid-19 by August 1, warning that in the event of such an extremely grim outcome, the Modi government would be “responsible for presiding over a self-inflicted national catastrophe.” Gabriel Leung, a leading public health epidemiologist from Hong Kong, warned that the pandemic could spread to about two-thirds of the world’s population if left unchecked. “People needed to have faith and trust in their government while the uncertainties of the new outbreak were worked out by the scientific community,” he said, “and of course, when you have social media and fake news and real news all mixed in there and then zero trust, how do you fight that epidemic?” But when the government is itself responsible for frittering away popular goodwill and trust by indulging in fake news and spin and resorting to subterfuges by suppressing or fudging facts, how can it expect the citizens to trust it? If history is any guide, the refusal of the Eisenhower administration, more devoted to private solutions, to mount a vaccination programme to deal with the Asian flu pandemic of 1957 had disastrous consequences. President Woodrow Wilson’s militant passivity to the 1918 influenza pandemic resulted in an even greater spread of the contagion. The pandemic that happened a century ago also spanned over two years, with two-thirds of the deaths occurring in a period of 24 weeks, killing more people in a year than the Black Death of the Middle Ages killed in a century. But, if the ravages of the 1918 influenza pandemic left a trail of wholesale death and desolation, the abiding message was also of a valiant resistance put up by science and discovery and by firm, determined action. The Lancet has duly warned that for India’s fight against the pandemic to be successful, the government must own up to its mistakes, provide responsible leadership and transparency, and implement a public health response that has “science at its heart.” If Modi still nurses some pretensions to a grand image, it is now his call to stop this danse macabre. Changing the narrative is sure to be counter-productive, as the pandemic cannot be stopped with fudged facts and spin. Building trust is more important than building the Central Vista.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/covid-19-deaths-landscape-of-hell-986073.html
15-05-2021||National||China cites market factors to reject India's plea to control soaring prices of Covid-19 medical equipment ||Beijing on Friday cited market factors to virtually dismiss New Delhi’s call for interventions to keep stable the prices of the ventilators, oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment being procured commercially from China to contain the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. The market factors like supply and demand determine prices of products, an official of the government of the communist country said, responding to the recent call by Consul General of India in Hong Kong, Priyanka Chauhan, to the Chinese Government for interventions to lower the soaring prices of medical equipment. “Taking oxygen concentrators as an example, one reason (for soaring prices) is that the increase in demand affected global supply chains,” Hua Chunying, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. She added that production capacity of medical equipment manufacturing companies in China had also been affected due to shortage of raw materials to be imported from Europe. “What's more, Indian buyers usually make the same demand through various channels and sometimes buy products through different channels. This has overly inflated demand, which has to some extent affected market order and pushed up prices,” Hua said, when a journalist asked for her comment on Chauhan’s request to the Chinese Government for intervention to keep the supply chain open and product prices stable. “What I would like to say is that our expectation at this point is that the supply chain should remain open and product prices should remain stable,” Chauhan told the South China Morning Post published from Hong Kong. A number of foreign nations came forward to support Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi in containing the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which wreaked havoc across India. New Delhi, however, did not accept any aid from Xi Jinping’s government in Beijing, as the bilateral relations hit a new low over the one-year-long military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two neighbouring nations in eastern Ladakh. But India’s commercial entities have been buying medical equipment from China in large numbers over the past few weeks. “Even if there is a little bit of supply demand pressure, there has to be some stability and predictability to product prices. And there has to be a sense of governmental level support and efforts. I don’t have the information as to how much influence the Chinese government can have in this matter but if they can, then it would be welcome,” the Consul General of India in Hong Kong was quoted by the South China Morning Post. Hua said that China had last month exported to India over 26,000 ventilators and oxygen concentrators, over 15,000 patient monitors and nearly 3,800 tons of medicinal materials and medicines. “Relevant Chinese companies have received Indian orders for over 70,000 oxygen concentrators and are working around the clock to deliver them as soon as possible,” she told journalists during a routine media briefing in Beijing. “In addition, India has a strong demand for vaccines raw materials including auxiliary materials. Since the beginning of this year, relevant Chinese enterprises have provided more than 10 tons of such materials to India with more than 20 tons expected to be delivered soon.” She said that the Chinese Government had been encouraging and guiding the commercial enterprises of the communist country to work in a cooperative manner to facilitate India's purchase of all kinds of medical equipment and medicines required to deal with the situation. “As far as I know, many Chinese companies and civil institutions are taking actions and providing various kinds of assistance to the Indian side in their own ways.” The Red Cross Society of China (RCSC) donated to its counterpart in India 100 oxygen concentrators, 40 ventilators and other medical equipment. The RCSC also decided to provide $1 million in cash assistance to the Indian Red Cross Society through the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to help New Delhi to deal with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Hua on Friday said that the Chinese Government’s authorities had been facilitating the customs clearance and transportation of relevant supplies sent to India from many cities across the communist country. “We agree with the remarks by the Consul General of India in Hong Kong that supply chains should remain open and stable,” she said. “We hope all parties can take concrete actions to ensure that the global industrial and supply chains are stable and open. No one should intentionally disrupt and undermine the openness and stability of the global supply chains out of political agenda.” Beijing on May 5 last expressed concern over New Delhi’s decision to keep China’s Huawei Technologies Company and the ZTE Corporation out of the 5G trials in India. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) of the Government of India on Tuesday gave its go-ahead to several firms to conduct a six-month-long trial of the 5G technology. But Huawei and ZTE were kept out of the trial. In the wake of the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi banned the use of several apps linked to the companies based in the communist country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-cites-market-factors-to-reject-indias-plea-to-control-soaring-prices-of-covid-19-medical-equipment-986063.html
15-05-2021||National||India's Covid-19 situation hugely concerning: WHO Chief||India's Covid-19 situation remains hugely concerning, with several states continuing to see a worrying number of cases, hospitalisations and deaths, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Friday, warning that the pandemic's second year will be "far more deadly" than the first for the world. Ghebreyesus added that the WHO is responding to the Covid-19 surge in India and has shipped thousands of oxygen concentrators, tents for mobile field hospitals, masks and other medical supplies. "India remains hugely concerning, with several states continuing to see a worrying number of cases, hospitalisations and deaths," he said at the daily media briefing. "And we thank all the stakeholders who are supporting India," the WHO Director-General said. India is in the midst of a deadly wave of the coronavirus pandemic, with 3,43,144 people testing positive for the virus on Friday, taking the country's caseload to 2,40,46,809. The death toll stands at 2,62,317. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 10 million mark on December 19 and in under six months it has doubled, surpassing the grim milestone of 20 million cases on May 4. Ghebreyesus pointed out that the emergency-like situation was not restricted to India. “Nepal, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand and Egypt are just some of the countries that are dealing with spikes in cases and hospitalisations,” he said adding that some countries in the Americas still have high numbers of cases and as a region, the Americas accounted for 40 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths last week. There are also spikes in some countries in Africa. “These countries are in heightened response mode and WHO will continue to provide support in all ways possible,” he said. Noting that Covid-19 has already cost more than 3.3 million lives across the world, Ghebreyesus said, "We’re on track for the second year of this pandemic to be far more deadly than the first.” He lamented that vaccine supply remains a key challenge and that saving lives and livelihoods with a combination of public health measures and vaccination – not one or the other - is the only way out of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-situation-hugely-concerning-who-chief-986079.html
15-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Anupam Kher turns on damage control mode||Days after criticising the government over the handling of the Covid-19 crisis, Anupam Kher has tweeted saying "Only those who work make mistakes." गलती उन्हीं से होती हैजो काम करते हैं,निकम्मों की ज़िंदगी तोदूसरों की बुराई खोजने में हीख़त्म हो जाती है..:) Barbs on Centre by Kher, whose views are consistent with that of the Modi government's, had come as a surprise to many.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-anupam-kher-turns-on-damage-control-mode-986098.html
15-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 15||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections in India was at 3,26,098 on Friday. This takes the country's total caseload to  2,43,72,907 according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.   Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):   2,43,72,907  as of May 15, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  2,66,207  as of May 15, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged: 2,04,32,898  Total Vaccination: 17,92,98,584 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-15-986099.html
15-05-2021||National||US partnered with India as PM Modi made commitment to deploy 450 GW renewable energy: Kerry||The United States has partnered with India on climate change so as to help it meet its commitment to deploy 450 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy, the Biden administration's climate change envoy has told US lawmakers. "Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi has made a commitment to deploy 450 GW of renewable energy. We have created a partnership with India because of that commitment because they don't have the finance and technology completely," US Special Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry said. "So, we're gonna try to help them. Bring the technology to the table, bring the finance to the table, and they have to do certain things internally to make this happen," Kerry told members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee during a hearing on climate change this week. Kerry is the first-ever American climate change envoy with cabinet rank and has been made part of the National Security Council. Responding to his comments, Congressman Joe Wilson from South Carolina said Prime Minister Modi has done “a great job” for the people of India. There needs to be great reduction in carbon emission by India, Kerry added. Responding to a question, Kerry said China produces more emissions than all the rest of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries put together. "There's no way the United States and the rest of the world can get to our goal if China doesn't join in and become part of it," he said. "We need obviously to get greater cooperation from China. We're talking about that now. That is on the table as a critical component. Now, China believes that they're doing a certain amount. I know they know that they are seized by the issue of having to do great reductions," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-partnered-with-india-as-pm-modi-made-commitment-to-deploy-450-gw-renewable-energy-kerry-986102.html
15-05-2021||National||Indian-American Neera Tanden appointed White House senior adviser||Indian-American Neera Tanden has been appointed senior adviser to US President Joe Biden, two months after she withdrew her nomination as Director of the White House Office of Management and Budget due to stiff opposition from Republican senators. Tanden (50) is slated to join the White House on Monday. She has been entrusted with two tasks – launch a review of the US Digital Service, and plan contingencies that could result from the Supreme Court's consideration of Republican lawsuits seeking to strike down the Affordable Care Act. Tanden is currently the president and CEO of a progressive think-tank, Center for American Progress (CAP). "Neera's intellect, tenacity, and political savvy will be an asset to the Biden administration," CAP founder and director John Podesta said. He said the White House has made remarkable progress combating numerous once-in-a-generation challenges — from vaccinating millions of Americans to delivering real economic relief from the coronavirus pandemic, and from strengthening the Affordable Care Act to tackling climate change. "Many of these bold policy solutions, which have bipartisan support from voters across the country, were developed and led by Neera at CAP over many years. The administration's efforts will be magnified with Neera Tanden on the team," Podesta added. Tanden previously served as a senior adviser for health reforms at the US Department of Health and Human Services. She worked with Congress and stakeholders on particular provisions of former President Barack Obama's signature legislative achievement, the Affordable Care Act. Before that, Tanden was the director of domestic policy for the Obama-Biden presidential campaign, where she managed all domestic policy proposals. Tanden also served as policy director for Hillary Clinton's first presidential campaign. Before the 2008 presidential campaign, Tanden served as legislative director in Clinton's office, and deputy campaign manager and issues director for Clinton's 2000 Senate campaign. She began her career as an associate director for domestic policy in former President Bill Clinton's White House, and senior policy adviser to the First Lady. Tanden holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, and a law degree from the Yale Law School.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-american-neera-tanden-appointed-white-house-senior-adviser-986104.html
15-05-2021||National||India reports less than 4,000 Covid-19 deaths after 3 days; new cases dip with 3.26 lakh infections||India on Saturday reported 3,26,098 new Covid-19 cases and deaths, according to the latest update by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The country reported less than 4,000 deaths after three days.  The country's total Covid-19 case tally stands at 2,43,72,907, while the toll is 2,66,207. The active case tally in India is 36,73,802, and 2,04,32,898 people have been discharged so far. Active Covid-19 cases across the country have been hovering around the 37 lakh mark for the past one week, an early indication of plateauing of the second wave. The number of patients recovering from Covid-19 too has been in the range of 3.5 lakh every day for the past six days. The highest recoveries in a single day – 3,86,444 – were reported on May 9. Though the number has dipped slightly over the next few days, India had reported more recoveries than fresh cases on Friday.  “The second wave peaked by last weekend – May 6-7 – but that does not bring immediate good news. Daily numbers will be over three lakhs for days and then over two lakhs for days and over one lakh for days and then will drop to about 20,000 by June end. So, the epidemic is continuing,” T Jacob John, eminent virologist of Christian Medical College, Vellore, told DH. In Geneva, the World Health Organization's chief said the second year of the pandemic was set to be more deadly than the first, with India a huge concern. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus's remarks to an online meeting on Friday came after Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi sounded the alarm over the rapid spread of the disease through the vast countryside. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said his country would accelerate its vaccination programme, to try to contain a fast-spreading Indian variant that could knock off-track the re-opening of Britain's economy. Johnson's comments came soon after India accepted a government panel's recommendation for a longer gap of 12 to 16 weeks between the first and second dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine, from six to eight weeks now. Cases have fallen steadily in states hit by an initial surge in infections, such as Maharastra and Delhi after they imposed stringent lockdowns. But West Bengal, which held elections recently, experienced its biggest single-day spike, suggesting a fall in the overall caseload may take a while. Infections in Gujarat fell below 10,000 after four straight weeks but officials warned against any relaxation in curbs until they return to levels seen before the breakout of India's second wave in mid-February. (With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-less-than-4000-covid-19-deaths-after-3-days-new-cases-dip-with-326-lakh-infections-986105.html
15-05-2021||National||Mortal remains of Kerala woman killed in Israel reach Delhi||The mortal remains of a 30-year-old Indian woman, Soumya Santosh, killed in a rocket attack by Palestinian militants from Gaza, reached Delhi on Saturday. The jet carrying her body left from Ben-Gurion airport at around 7 PM on Friday and arrived in Delhi on Saturday morning. Minister of External Affairs V Muraleedharan was personally present to receive the remains. It will be sent to her hometown in Kerala from Delhi on Saturday itself.   Soumya, who hailed from Kerala’s Idukki district, worked as a caregiver attending to an old woman at a house in the southern Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon. She was talking to her husband Santhosh over a video call in the evening on Monday when a rocket fired from Gaza directly hit the house where she was working. The Indian caregiver was living and working in Israel for the last seven years. She has a nine-year-old son whom she had left with her husband in Kerala. Her 80-year-old elderly charge survived the direct hit on the house and was hospitalised. The rocket shelter was at least a minute's run away from the woman’s home and the pair could not manage to reach it in time. The home lacked a fortified room of its own. Some media reports said that a technical glitch with an Iron Dome battery (an all-weather air defence system that intercepts and destroys short range rockets) during the massive rocket barrage towards the Israeli coastal city prevented some rockets from being intercepted and may have been responsible for the casualties and deaths. Ashkelon's Mayor Tomer Glam said that some 25 per cent of the residents do not have access to a protected area when rockets are fired at the city. “It is impossible when normal life becomes a state of emergency within minutes,” Glam told Army Radio. “There are houses from the 1960s where there is no basic protection. It is time for treasury officials and decision-makers to understand what is happening here in the city,” he stressed. Israel's Ambassador to India, Ron Malka, condoled the death of the Indian woman on Twitter Wednesday. “On behalf of the state of Israel, I convey heartfelt condolences to the family of Ms. Soumya Santosh, murdered by Hamas indiscriminate terror attack on innocent lives. Our hearts are crying with her 9 years old son that lost his mother in this cruel Terrorist attack,” he said in a tweet. Nine Israelis and 119 Palestinians in Gaza have been killed so far since violence erupted on Monday that has spread across Israel, Gaza and the West Bank. Inputs from PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mortal-remains-of-kerala-woman-killed-in-israel-reach-delhi-986113.html
15-05-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi to chair meeting on India's Covid-19 situation, vaccination on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to chair a high-level meeting on the country's Covid-19 and vaccine situation on Saturday, according to news agency ANI.  India on Saturday saw a dip in cases and deaths to 3,26,098 and 3,890 respectively while active cases are appearing to plateau. Many states in the country are facing a vaccine shortage, with the likes of Karnataka and Maharashtra, among others, stopping vaccinations for those aged 18-44.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-chair-meeting-on-indias-covid-19-situation-vaccination-on-saturday-986114.html
15-05-2021||National||Doing it for humanity: These volunteers offer Covid-19 victims a dignified farewell||Suneet Sharma has calmly staged dozens of funerals each day of India's resurgent coronavirus crisis — but he was overwhelmed when a father arrived at the crematorium with the body of his infant daughter. The 48-year-old volunteers in New Delhi with a Sikh association, one of many groups to spring up around the country and reach across religious traditions to help bereaved families bid farewell to their loved ones. The arrival of bodies at cremation and burial grounds has been unrelenting in recent weeks and teams work long hours under the summer heat, sometimes in full protective gear to reduce their exposure to the virus. Like Sharma, the volunteers from different faiths are willing to take on the emotional and physical toll of carrying out the final rites, driven by a sense of duty. "We are doing it for... mankind, for humanity. That's all. Sometimes it's very, very painful," the 48-year-old told AFP. Behind him, smoke curled up from crackling funeral pyres and family members of victims stood silently in protective suits. "We are used to cremating 50 bodies a day, but we never cry. Today, I saw a little girl. Today, we cried," he said. Sharma sleeps in his car at night and has not seen his family for two months, fearful that he could spread the virus to them. Syed Ibrahim, a volunteer with a Muslim charity group in the southeastern city of Chennai, is also aware of the risks. "Of course I'm scared. This is an extremely contagious disease," he told AFP. "In our religion, it's said that God has destined certain things for us... so we bravely take care of the burials and anything else people need from us." The skyrocketing cost of ambulances has meanwhile led the "Mercy Angels" — a group of Christian, Hindu and Muslim volunteers in Bangalore — to help poor families transport bodies to cemeteries and crematoriums. They prepare graves and offer final prayers according to the religious customs of the dead. "We serve... everybody, be (they) a Hindu, Muslim or Christian," driver Mohammed Sadiq told AFP. Fear of the virus in the world's second most infected nation — which has recorded more than 262,000 deaths so far, although experts say the actual toll is much higher — has also seen some families shun funerals. Mahdi Raza, 30, who usually runs a cafe in the northern city of Lucknow and had been fasting during Ramadan, has buried hundreds of Covid-19 victims since the start of the pandemic last year. But in the past few months, he has also received calls for help from non-Muslim communities. "A body was... lying for eight hours inside a house as family members and neighbours refused to cremate it. Someone finally managed to contact us and we picked up the body and handed it over to the crematorium," he told AFP. Back in Delhi, Sharma is hopeful the crisis might be easing in his city. On the day AFP visited the crematorium, the number of funerals had fallen from the peak of up to 120 bodies a day in late April to between 50 and 80 a day. "We only had 25 bodies so far today. So we are relieved," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doing-it-for-humanity-these-volunteers-offer-covid-19-victims-a-dignified-farewell-986116.html
15-05-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan to hold meet with health ministers of 4 states on Covid situation, vaccination drive on Saturday||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan will hold a virtual meeting with the health ministers of four states — Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh — to review the Covid-19 situations in their respective states and their vaccination drive at 3 PM today, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-to-hold-meet-with-health-ministers-of-4-states-on-covid-situation-vaccination-drive-on-saturday-986119.html
15-05-2021||National||PM Modi stresses on door-to-door testing in rural areas, bats for transparency in reporting Covid-19 numbers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked officials to step up testing in areas reporting high test positivity rates, with a focus on door-to-door testing in rural parts of the country which were facing the brunt of the pandemic. Amid allegations of suppression of actual Covid-19 data, the Prime Minister also asked state governments to report their pandemic numbers transparently without any pressure of high numbers showing adversely on their efforts. At a meeting with top officials to review the Covid-19 situation, Modi also directed officials to work closely with states to ramp up the speed of vaccination. Officials briefed the Prime Minister about the increase in testing for Covid-19 from 50 lakhs tests per week in early March to around 1.3 crore tests per week now. They also apprised the Prime Minister about the gradually decreasing test positivity rate and increasing recovery rate. Modi stressed localised containment strategies, particularly in districts reporting high test positivity rates. “The Prime Minister instructed that testing needs to be scaled up further, with use of both RT-PCR and Rapid Tests, especially in areas with high test positivity rates,” a statement from the PMO said. He also asked officials for augmentation of healthcare resources in rural areas to focus on door-to-door testing and surveillance and empowering ASHA and Anganwadi workers with all necessary tools. Modi also asked officials to make available guidelines on home isolation and treatment in simpler terms along with illustrations in the rural areas. The Prime Minister directed that a distribution plan for ensuring oxygen supply in rural areas should be worked out, including through provision of Oxygen Concentrators. Necessary training should be provided to health workers to operate such equipment, and power supply should be ensured for smooth functioning of such medical devices, he said. Taking serious note of some reports about ventilators lying unutilised in some states, the Prime Minister directed officials for an immediate audit of such devices provided by the Central Government. He also asked officials to ensure refresher training to health workers for proper handling of ventilators. The Prime Minister said India’s fight against Covid has been guided throughout by scientists and subject experts and will continue being guided by them. Officials briefed the Prime Minister about the vaccination process and the state-wise coverage of the 45 plus population and discussed the roadmap for future vaccine availability. The Prime Minister directed officials to work closely with states to ramp up the speed of vaccination.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-stresses-on-door-to-door-testing-in-rural-areas-bats-for-transparency-in-reporting-covid-19-numbers-986129.html
15-05-2021||National||Explained | India's Covid-19 crypto relief fund: What is it and how does it work?||India’s cryptocurrency brigade has taken on the complicated task of funneling foreign aid coming in through digital coins to support Covid-19 relief, while the country battles a crippling second wave — and all this, while the blockchain-based assets face an imminent ban by the government. A number of crypto traders and entrepreneurs have announced donations to support India’s fight against coronavirus. Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin added $1 billion to India’s fight against Covid in Shibu Inu coin — a so-called joke coin — and another $2 million in Ether coins. Australian cricketer Brett Lee also donated one Bitcoin to the cause last month. What are the hurdles? While the outpouring of international support could help supplement medical efforts at a time when India is dealing with massive shortage of medical supplies and vaccines, there are a number of regulatory hurdles in channeling the funds through to on-ground relief workers and organisations. Given Indian regulators’ fears over money-laundering and undisclosed income related to crypto payments, actually accessing the growing corpus of funds donated is not as easy as simply converting it into local currency, given issues of legality. This effectively means the donated money would be sitting on off-shore exchanges with NGOs having no means of converting the money into rupees within the country. India Crypto Covid Relief Fund Sandeep Nailwal, co-founder of Ethereum-linked Polygon and a well-respected name in the crypto world, has voluntarily shouldered the responsibility of managing the crypto aid pouring in. On April 24, Sandeep put up a tweet, saying he was willing to take full responsibility of “transparency, funds usage and regulatory compliance” with regard to the crypto donations. Can't take this sitting down anymore, I am going to run a Covid relief campaign in lieu of what’s going on in India. Need help from the Global crypto community. I will take full responsibility for transparency, funds usage and regulatory compliance If you want to donate.. 1/n Sandeep set up the India Crypto Covid Relief Fund with the help of other volunteers and figured out a way to bypass regulatory concerns in repatriating foreign donations. The fund has so far amassed over $1.03 billion in donations, as per its site. How does it work? The fund maintains an Ethereum address that accepts donations from crypto-investors around the world and then liquidates the crypto-currencies through international crypto-exchanges. The crypto-exchange turns the money into fiat currency and hands it back to the fund, which transfers it from a bank account linked to the exchange to a Dubai-based bank. Finally, the Dubai bank wires the money to only FCRA-compliant NGOs, in adherence with the government’s new guidelines on foreign funding to NGOs. Through this entire process, Sandeep maintains transparency by listing all donations publicly in spreadsheets on the fund’s website. Suspicion over digital currencies Getting foreign aid through cryptocurrencies requires jumping through hoops because digital currencies have been viewed with suspicion by regulatory bodies in India. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had issued a circular in April 2018 that directed the institutions it regulates not to trade, deal in or provide services virtual currencies. The Supreme Court scrapped the ban in March 2020, but the RBI has not issued a circular revoking its ban and domestic banks remain wary of dealing in the currency until the central bank gives them the go ahead. The government is also working out the details of a cryptocurrency regulation bill to reportedly bar all private digital currencies and launch its own official Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) backed by the RBI. The bill has provoked strong opposition from crypto investors in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-indias-covid-19-crypto-relief-fund-what-is-it-and-how-does-it-work-986137.html
15-05-2021||National||The curious case of gaps between Covid-19 vaccine doses in India, UK||India earlier this week decided to widen the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine to 12-16 weeks, backed by the findings of a UK-based study. In a confusing turn of events, the United Kingdom in the same week opted to shorten that window to eight weeks, citing concerns over the fast-spreading B.1.617 variant, informally known as the “Indian variant”. The flip-flopping over the interval between vaccine doses and the studies around it have left many scratching their heads. While the Covid-19 working group in India said that its recommendations were rooted in scientific evidence, some view the decision as a tactic by the Centre to ration out its dwindling vaccine supply. Britain’s U-turn on its vaccine policy is likely to whip up even more confusion, especially since Britain was the first to lengthen the dosage gap of the Pfizer vaccine in December to 12 weeks in order to administer more first doses. The move went against medical advice at the time and stirred up controversy. Five months later, Britain seems to have caught a lucky break with its gamble. British studies have claimed that both the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine and the AstraZeneca vaccine turned out to be far more effective on the ground with at least a 12-week gap between doses, findings also backed by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The Indian Covid think tank reportedly based its recommendations on these findings. The longer gap will likely give the Centre and manufacturers more breathing room to produce more vaccines, while covering a larger population of the country with a first dose. Serum Institute of India's CEO Adar Poonawalla has applauded the move, saying it will provide better protection and help India distribute its vaccine stock more efficiently. However, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s change of track in response to the variant that emerged out of India has thrown the issue up in the air. Johnson reasoned that the new variant, which is reportedly 50 per cent more infectitious than the variant that originated in the UK, could threaten to veer the country off course on its roadmap to a full reopening.  Johnson said that reducing the vaccine gap for those over 50 years and clinically vulnerable would help arrest the new strain as more people are fully protected earlier than planned. The UK’s surprising volte-face lends weight to the scepticism of some Indian experts and scientists who have not been entirely convinced by the studies on the AstraZeneca vaccine gap. Some health experts have said that the gap may prove to be too long, given the uncertainty around the virus’ rapid mutation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-curious-case-of-gaps-between-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-india-uk-986159.html
15-05-2021||National||India's Covid-19 recoveries outnumber new cases; active cases down by 31,091||For the fourth time in the last five days, India's daily Covid-19 recoveries outnumbered new cases, taking the total recoveries to 2,04,32,898, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. The number of people who recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours was 3,53,299, while the number of new cases recorded in the same period was 3,26,098, according to ministry data updated at 8 am. The national recovery rate stands at 83.83 per cent, it said. "It (the daily recoveries) outnumbers India's daily new Covid-19 cases for the fourth time in the last five days. Ten states account for 70.49 per cent of the new recoveries," the ministry said. The data showed that Maharashtra recorded the highest number of recoveries at 53,249 followed by Karnataka (35,879), Kerala (31,319), Uttar Pradesh (26,179), Tamil Nadu (20,037), Andhra Pradesh (19,177), West Bengal (19,131), Gujarat (15,365), Haryana (14,577) and Delhi (14,140). The total tally of cases in the country stands at 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, the ministry said. It said that the number of active cases has decreased to 36,73,802 and comprises 15.07 per cent of the total infections. There has been a net decline of 31,091 in the number of active cases in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. The data showed that 11 states cumulatively account for 77.26 per cent of India's total active cases. Karnataka has the highest active cases at 5,98,625, followed by Maharashtra (5,21,683), Kerala (4,42,550), Rajasthan (2,12,753), Andhra Pradesh (2,03,787), Tamil Nadu (1,95,339), Uttar Pradesh (1,93,815), West Bengal (1,31,792), Gujarat (1,17,373), Chhattisgarh (1,15,964) and Madhya Pradesh (1,04,444). The national mortality rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent, the ministry said, adding that the 3,890 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 72.19 per cent of the new deaths and Maharashtra has the highest number of fatalities at 695 followed by Karnataka with 373 fresh deaths, the data showed. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 18 crore, the ministry said. It said 18,04,57,579 vaccine doses have been administered through 26,02,435 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 96,27,650 health care workers (HCWs) who have taken their first dose and 66,22,040 HCWs who have taken the second dose, and 1,43,65,871 front line workers (FLWs) who have taken their first dose and 81,49,613 FLWs who have taken their second dose. The ministry said 42,58,756 beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group have taken the first dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 with 3,28,216 beneficiaries receiving their first dose in the last 24 hours. In the 45-60 age group, 5,68,05,772 people have received their first dose while 87,56,313 beneficiaries have got their second dose, and among beneficiaries above 60 years of age, 5,43,17,646 have got their first dose while 1,75,53,918 have taken their second dose. More than 11 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. It said that as on Day-119 of the vaccination drive (May 14), 11,03,625 vaccine doses were given. Across 11,628 sessions, 6,29,445 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 4,74,180 beneficiaries received their second dose. The Centre also said that cumulatively, 10,796 oxygen concentrators; 12,269 oxygen cylinders; 19 oxygen generation plants; 6,497 ventilators/Bi-PAP and nearly 4.2L remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-active-cases-down-by-31091-986163.html
15-05-2021||National||Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik V: A look at possible side effects of Covid-19 vaccines||The first jab of Sputnik V in India was administered on Friday in Hyderabad. This gives people three vaccine options to choose from.  Scientists around the world are keeping an eye on the side effects of these vaccines and have confirmed that none are serious. All the three vaccines approved in India — Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik — have mild side effects.  Here’s the list of side effects which are observed in the past: Sputnik V  The Russian vaccine Sputnik V is a combination of two different adenoviruses- Ad26 and Ad5-viruses that cause common cold, with SARS-CoV-2. This combination prompts the body for antibody creation and hence causes mild inflammatory reactions, the symptoms of which might include headache, fatigue, pain at the injection site, and flu-like illness.  No serious side effects have been recorded after taking the Sputnik V shot. There have been instances of hypertension, hemorrhagic stroke, and thrombosis, but there’s no confirmation of the vaccine shot being the reason behind it. Covaxin The first indigenous vaccine, Covaxin uses an inactive SARS-CoV-2 antigen strain to teach the body how to react when a real Covid-19 virus enters the body. People have reported side effects like redness, swelling, pain at the injection site, fever, sweating and/ or chills, malaise, body ache, nausea and vomiting, itching and rashes, and headache.  As of now, serious side effects have not been reported by anyone who has taken the shots. Covishield The Oxford-Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, is used in over 62 countries around the world. In this vaccine, Covid-19 virus-like spikes are added to a dead version of the fever-causing virus in Chimpanzee. This makes the body assume it to be a Covid-19 virus and then it builds antibody against it. The side effects after a shot may include pain at the injection site, redness, moderate or high fever, drowsiness and lethargy, arm stiffness, and body ache. In this vaccine, some serious side effects like blood clots have been reported but have been found to be very rare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-covaxin-sputnik-v-a-look-at-possible-side-effects-of-covid-19-vaccines-986167.html
15-05-2021||National||Conducting Olympics will send strong message that we've moved beyond Covid-19, says IOA chief||Opposition to the Olympic Games will be there amidst a raging Covid-19 pandemic but conducting the biggest sporting spectacle in Tokyo will send out a strong message that the world is moving beyond the catastrophic situation, IOA president Narinder Batra on Saturday. The Tokyo Olympics, which was scheduled to be held last year, was postponed because of the pandemic. The Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president, who is also an International Olympic Committee (IOC) member, is hoping that the Games will be held as scheduled, from July 23. "Life has to move on and conducting the Olympics will give a strong message that we have moved beyond the Covid-19 pandemic," Batra told PTI in an interview. "Opposition to the Games will always be there but it is now up to the organising committee of Japan and IOC to decide. "But as far as Indian athletes are concerned we are taking all necessary precautions and have been preparing to the best of our abilities to put up our best-ever performance in the Olympics," the IOA chief added. Batra's comment has come after critics from Japan on Friday submitted a petition, calling for the Games to be cancelled as the host nation fights a fourth wave of coronavirus infections. The petition, signed by 3,50,000 people was submitted to the IOC and International Paralympic Committee (IPC) chiefs as well as Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike. The petition came in the backdrop of Japan adding three more areas to a state of emergency, exactly 10 weeks from the scheduled opening of the Games. The IOA chief also assured that the travel ban imposed on India by Japan wouldn't affect country's participation in the Games. Japan on Thursday suspended entry of foreign nationals from 153 nations, including India in the wake of the recent surge in Covid cases across the globe. "This is a temporary travel ban which has been issued by many countries but when it comes to Olympics, there are different protocols in place which a member nation has adhere to," Batra said. "I assure all the accredited Olympics-bound Indian athletes that they will face no problem in entering Japan. There are enough guarantees being ensured by the Organising committee and IOC," he said. "There will be no restrictions for them." The IOA chief further said that India has been following all protocols, including timely vaccination of all Tokyo-bound athletes and officials. "We have been following all Covid protocols of the Organising Committee and IOC as per as vaccination of our athletes are concerned. "We have also been in discussion with the government about the safe travel of our athletes to Japan. We are also exploring the option of one-way chartered flight for our contingent to Japan for the Games so that they don't have to come in contact with other persons," Batra said. "These things will be finalised in due course when the final list comes out by June end. But rest assured we at IOA and the government will leave no stone unturned for our athletes participation in the Tokyo Olympics."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conducting-olympics-will-send-strong-message-that-weve-moved-beyond-covid-19-says-ioa-chief-986178.html
15-05-2021||National||85% of India's Covid-19 cases from 10 states: MoHFW||Ten states account for 85 per cent of the total novel coronavirus cases in the country, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The ministry said 11 states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases while eight have active cases between 50,000 and one lakh. Twenty-four states have a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 15 per cent, it said. India in a day recorded 3,26,098 Covid-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have reduced to 36,73,802 and comprise 15.07 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.83 per cent, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/85-of-indias-covid-19-cases-from-10-states-mohfw-986191.html
15-05-2021||National||Why is the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine important?||The tweet says the first dose only prepares the immune system of the body to fight against the Covid-19 virus. It is only the second dose that triggers the immune system to produce a large number of antibodies and “gives cell-mediated immunity”, according to the tweet. The second dose helps boost the memory cells of the body to remember the infection for a longer period. Hence, in case of reinfection, antibodies can be produced faster. The first dose creates an antibody response in the body and the second dose works at strengthening it. It is only after taking both the jabs that an individual is considered fully vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus. The government decided to extend the gaps between the two doses of Covishield after researchers found out that 81.3 per cent efficacy rate is seen in 12-16 week interval when compared to 50-60 per cent efficacy in the 6-week interval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-the-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-important-986207.html
15-05-2021||National||NTPC augments Covid-19 care facilities across India, adds 500 oxygen beds||State-owned NTPC has augmented Covid-19 care facilities across the country and added more than 500 oxygen supported beds besides 1,100 isolation beds at its plants in different states. The company has set up Covid-19 care centres with facilities of 200 oxygen supported beds and 140 isolation beds in Badarpur, Noida and Dadri, it said in a statement. It has also set up a 500-bed Covid-19 health centre at Sundargarh in Odisha where 20 ventilators have been provided. "NTPC Ltd has added more than 500 beds with oxygen support and more than 1,100 isolation beds across plants in various states to provide support to the critical Covid care," the statement said. Besides the Covid care centres that are operational in Dadri, Korba, Kaniha, Ramagundam, Vindhyachal, Barh & Badarpur, NTPC will be setting up additional facilities at North Karanpura, Bongaigaon and Solapur as well. Other hospitals are on their way to increase the number of beds with oxygen facilities, it said. Meanwhile, NTPC has inoculated over 70,000 employees and associates across its operations. The massive vaccination drive continues across plant locations. NTPC has also started vaccinating those who are in the age bracket of 18-44 at many of its plant locations. Vaccination drives have been undertaken across NTPC stations in coordination with respective state administrations. The company is running 24X7 control rooms across plants for better coordination for patients across sites which is coordinated by a special task force. The task force also helps in coordination for hospital beds and other treatment facilities across various empanelled and non-empanelled hospitals. The control rooms also coordinate for procurement of medicines, hospital equipment and services. Further, NTPC is in coordination with hospitals and its medical team to ensure that all Covid-19 patients are rendered the best healthcare support. NTPC has also collaborated with the Ministry of Power and Ministry of Health to facilitate the availability of necessary but scarce medicines and other essentials like oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ntpc-augments-covid-19-care-facilities-across-india-adds-500-oxygen-beds-986214.html
15-05-2021||National||Covid-19 curfew extended in Himachal Pradesh till May 26||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to extend the coronavirus-induced curfew in the state till May 26. The decision to extend the curfew was taken in a state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday. Informing about the cabinet decisions, state Parliamentary Minister Suresh Bhardwaj told the media that the three-hour daily relaxation in the curfew would be provided for opening essential commodity shops. The minister said hardware shops would also open on Tuesday and Friday. Bhardwaj urged the public to either postpone the weddings or hold them in a simple way at their homes with not more than 20 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-curfew-extended-in-himachal-pradesh-till-may-26-986215.html
15-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Here's all you need to know about Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine rollout in India||Doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine are all set to help expand India’s ammunition in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, joining the ranks of Astrazeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin as the country faces a dearth of jabs. The rollout of 1.5 lakh doses of the imported vaccine will be carried out by Dr Reddy Laboratories starting next week, with the government expecting another 25 crore doses in the next 8-10 months, with support from local manufacturing. Dr Reddy’s expects Indian manufacturing partners to begin local supply of the vaccine from July. However, Russia hasn’t manufactured or administered such large quantities of doses in its own population so far. Also, it is difficult to make as its two shots have different compositions, raising doubts over how quickly production can be ramped up. When will the vaccine be available? How much will the vaccine cost? Where will Sputnik V be available? The Sputnik V will be available in 35 cities, mostly tier-1 metros and select other cities, given that it needs to be stored at a temperature of -18°C, limiting it to hospitals that have the ability to refrigerate the doses at such low temperatures. Dr Reddy’s is also testing and seeking approval for a freeze-dried form of the vaccine, which can be stored at 2°C to 8°C. Can you register for Sputnik via the CoWIN portal? The vaccine will be listed on the CoWIN site and Aarogya Setu app once the wide-scale rollout is greenlit. How effective is Sputnik V? What is Sputnik Light and will it come to India? Sputnik Light is the single-dose version of the Sputnik V vaccine and has a lower efficacy of 79.4 per cent. Dr Reddy’s is likely to have negotiations with Indian regulators in June to import Sputnik Light. How many doses of the vaccine have been administered in Russia?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-heres-all-you-need-to-know-about-russia-s-sputnik-v-vaccine-rollout-in-india-986216.html
15-05-2021||National||Plea filed in SC for using PM Cares Fund for Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen plants||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to utilise PM Cares Fund to procure Covid-19 vaccines, install oxygen plants and other essential equipment at 738 district hospitals across the country. The plea, filed by advocate Viplava Sharma, also asked the court to direct the central and state governments to ensure that all the private/charitable hospitals within their respective jurisdiction procure, install and commission facilities to provide medical grade oxygen to their patients. Besides, the PIL also asked the court to direct state governments to set up electric and other crematoriums in all cities and also maintain and improve the condition of existing facilities. It was already announced on April 25 that PM Cares Fund would allocate money to set up 551 oxygen plants using pressure swing adsorption at public health facilities. The petitioner challenged the April 24 notification issued by the central government to the extent it capped the exemption from import duty granted to medical equipment, for a period of three months. "Three month time period is too short a period from the standpoint of logistics involved in importing these highly sophisticated medical equipment in India by over 300 concerned notable hospitals throughout the country," it contended. The plea also urged that Members of Parliament (MP) and Members of Legislative Assemblies (MLAs) of all states should be directed to spend their MP/MLA funds in a disciplined manner with full transparency to best serve their respective constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-using-pm-cares-fund-for-covid-19-vaccines-oxygen-plants-986218.html
15-05-2021||National||10,953 oxygen concentrators, 13,169 O2 cylinders and 4.9 lakh remdesivir vials delivered to states: Govt||A total of 10,953 oxygen concentrators, 13,169 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen-generation plants and 4.9 lakh remdesivir vials received as global aid were delivered or dispatched to various states and Union Territories from April 27 to May 13, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. The major consignments received on May 13/14 from the US, Italy, Canada, South Korea, Oman, the UK and Japan include 157 oxygen concentrators, 900 oxygen cylinders and 338 ventilators/BiPAP/CPAP. According to the ministry, 68,810 vials of remdesivir and 1,000 units of tocilizumab were also received from these countries on May 13/14. Cumulatively, 10,953 oxygen concentrators, 13,169 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen-generation plants, 6,835 ventilators or BiPAP and about 4.9 lakh remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air from April 27 to May 13, it said. "Effective immediate allocation, and streamlined delivery to the recipient states and union territories and institutions is an ongoing exercise," it said. The Union Health Ministry is comprehensively monitoring this on a regular basis. A dedicated coordination cell has been created in the ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign Covid relief material as grants, aid and donations. This cell started functioning from April 26. A standard operating procedure has been framed and implemented by the health ministry since May 2, 2021. The Government of India, at the forefront of the "whole of government" approach to combat the ongoing Covid-19, has been receiving international donations and aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries or organisations to augment its efforts in fighting the unprecedented surge of cases. Through a streamlined and systematic mechanism, various ministries and departments of the Government of India have seamlessly collaborated for expeditiously delivering the incoming global aid to states and Union Territories, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10953-oxygen-concentrators-13169-o2-cylinders-and-49-lakh-remdesivir-vials-delivered-to-states-govt-986225.html
15-05-2021||National||Biocon chief compares Covid-19 vaccination situation in India to arranged marriage||Biocon chief Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw has compared the Covid-19 vaccination situation in the country to an arranged marriage. Mazumdar-Shaw, the executive chairperson of biotechnology major Biocon, in a lighter vein compared the two while bringing out the confusion that currently prevails regarding the entire vaccination process. "The vaccine situation in India is like arranged marriage. First u r not ready, then u don't like any, then u don't get any!! Those who got are unhappy thinking may be the other one would have been better. Those who did not get any are willing to get any one," Mazumdar-Shaw tweeted on Saturday. The vaccine situation in India is like arranged marriage. First u r not ready, then u dont like any, then u dont get any!!Those who got are unhappy thinking may be the other one would have been better. Those who did not get any are willing to get any one😅 Earlier this week, Mazumdar-Shaw had expressed concern over shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and sought better transparency from the government regarding their availability so that citizens could patiently wait for their turn. "Very concerned about why vaccines are in such short supply. Can we please know where the 70 million doses are being deployed every month? @MoHFW_INDIA We need better transparency to avoid the suspense. If a timetable of supplies is made public people can patiently wait their turn,' Mazumdar-Shaw had tweeted while tagging the Health Ministry. India has announced expansion of its Covid-19 vaccination drive by allowing its large population aged over 18 to get inoculated from May 1. Various states including Delhi, have complained about lack of vaccines and questioned the Centre's policy in dealing with the situation. While the vaccine manufacturers continue to produce and dispatch lots, there remains a huge gap between demand and supply of the critical medication. As per Health Ministry data, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 18 crore mark. The ministry said 42,58,756 beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group have taken the first dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 with 3,28,216 beneficiaries receiving their first dose in the last 24 hours. In the 45-60 age group, 5,68,05,772 people have received their first dose while 87,56,313 beneficiaries have got their second dose, and among beneficiaries above 60 years of age, 5,43,17,646 have got their first dose while 1,75,53,918 have taken their second dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biocon-chief-compares-covid-19-vaccination-situation-in-india-to-arranged-marriage-986231.html
15-05-2021||National||Overall Covid-19 situation stabilising in India: Centre||The overall Covid-19 situation in the country is stabilising and the government will work towards ensuring further stabilisation, NITI Aayog member V K Paul said on Saturday. At a press conference on Saturday, top health officials said 10 states account for 85 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country. The Union Health Ministry said 11 states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases, 17 have less than 50,000 cases, while eight have active cases between 50,000 and one lakh. It also said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh, which are recording a high number of novel coronavirus cases, are also reporting decline in the number of active cases. Twenty-four states have a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 15 per cent, while Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Daman and Diu, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have reported a major drop in case positivity, it said. India in a day recorded 3,26,098 Covid-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have reduced to 36,73,802 and comprise 15.07 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.83 per cent, it stated. "It is evident that we can see a certain amount of stabilisation of the second wave of the pandemic. Some states have shown a clear pattern, in some states there are concerns and in some others there is a trend towards an increase. It is a mixed picture. But overall, the situation is stabilising and we hope and we will work towards ensuring further stabilisation and rapid decline of this pandemic," Paul said. Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health, said a total of 18.04 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far in the country. This includes 12.74 crore people above the age of 45 years, 1.62 crore healthcare workers, 2.25 crore frontline workers and 42.59 lakh people between the age of 18-44 years who have received their first dose. Agarwal also said the containment efforts of the government is working and the overall Covid-19 positivity rate in India, which stood at 21.9 per cent last week, has now fallen to 19.8 per cent. He also spoke of 'e-Sanjeevani OPD' which is a telemedicine platform that facilitates free online medical consultation to all citizens of India, as well as provides for online prescription of medicines. He said this 'Stay Home OPD' is operational in 28 states and has so far provided over 30,000 consultations by more than 17,000 doctors. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria also warned against the spread of mucormycosis and recommended that with Covid-19 cases increasing, it's of paramount importance that protocols of infection control practices are followed at hospitals. "It is been seen that secondary infections like fungal and bacterial are causing more mortality," Guleria said. The black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, is caused by a fungus called mucor. Recently, several states have flagged cases of Covid-triggered mucormycosis, especially among patients who are diabetic. In an advisory released on May 9, the Centre said mucormycosis may turn fatal if uncared for. It also said the fungal infection mainly affects people who are on medication that reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/overall-covid-19-situation-stabilising-in-india-centre-986234.html
15-05-2021||National||6 policemen injured as mob attacks police station in Tripura||Six policemen were injured when a mob pelted stones and attacked the law enforcers with sticks after storming the Ganganagar police station in Dhalai district. The attackers were angry with the police for arresting three persons for their alleged links with the outlawed National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) and demanded their release, a police officer said. The mob vandalised three police vehicles and attacked the police personnel, prompting them to lob tear gas shells to disperse the unruly crowd from the complex on Friday, he said. When contacted, Mrinal Kanti Reang, Officer-in-Charge of Ganganagar police station, said trouble started after three persons were arrested from a forest on Friday evening for their collaboration with the banned NLFT. "Soon after their arrest, a group of people assembled and ran amok in and outside the police station demanding the immediate release of the three persons. "They attacked the police station and also vandalised three police vehicles, including a bus and official vehicles of the additional superintendent of police and the sub- divisional police officers of Ambassa," Reang said. The injured were given first aid in a local hospital, he said. Dhalai district Superintendent of police Kishore Debbarma said they registered an extremist-related case at Ganganagar police station based on which the three persons were picked up and interrogated on Friday. "We had information and during interrogation, we received some evidences, including exchange of sim cards with insurgents, which proved that these persons have contact with the militant group following which they were arrested," Debbarma said. He also said that the local people wanted the release of the arrested persons which was illegal. "We tried to make them understand but they did not listen and attacked us," the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-policemen-injured-as-mob-attacks-police-station-in-tripura-986241.html
15-05-2021||National||Delhi government fixes rates for hearse services for deceased Covid-19 patients||The Delhi government has fixed the rates for hearse services provided for deceased Covid-19 patients, according to an official order on Saturday. A committee was constituted under the chairmanship of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner, which recommended the rates for hearse/mortuary services to be provided to deceased coronavirus patients, it said. On the recommendations of the committee, the rates have been fixed, the order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said. "The rates of hearse van facility for deceased Covid-19 patients has been fixed at Rs 1,300 per trip for initial 10 kilometres and Rs 100 per kilometre thereafter. “This will include the cost of transportation with driver and one attendant wearing PPE kits," it said. If the family members of the deceased patient desire to avail "dead body-wrapping" facility as per corona protocol, they would have to pay an additional Rs 700, the order said. "In case the services of an additional person is required by the family of the deceased patients to handle the body/wrapping etc the charges would be Rs 500 which includes charges of safety gear to be worn by the additional person. No extra charge for sanitisation will be charged by the vendor," it said. Mortuary services for coronavirus patients are provided free of cost in private as well as government facilities, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-government-fixes-rates-for-hearse-services-for-deceased-covid-19-patients-986242.html
15-05-2021||National||Government, administration, public - all dropped guard after first Covid-19 wave, says RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||In his first remark on the Covid-19 pandemic, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday batted for consistent efforts to fight the disease, acknowledging that the present crisis arose as everyone, including the government, administration and public dropped their guard after the first wave. At the very outset, Bhagwat, however, acknowledged: "I have been asked to speak about positivity. It is difficult because the time is very tough. Many families have lost their near and dear ones. In many families, the one who were earning livelihood suddenly died." Bhagwat also cautioned against evading reality, saying "we do not want negation. We are not saying nothing has happened. Everything is right. The situation is indeed tough and sad, which is perplexing people and disappointing them. This is indeed a difficult time. But we are in the situation that is there. We have to face this situation," Bhagwat said. He said accepting this situation, we have to stop our mind from turning negative. "We have to keep the body corona negative and mind in a positive state so that we can fight it out," Bhagwat said. "We dropped our guard after the first wave came--whether the public, the government or the administration. Doctors were giving indications. Still we dropped our guard a bit. Hence such a big crisis arose. Now there is a talk of a third wave. So do we have to be afraid? No, not all," Bhagwat said, speaking at an even to counter despondency due to the pandemic. Addressing a lecture series ‘Positivity Unlimited’ organised by 'Covid Response Team' (CRT), a group formed by the RSS and its affiliates in association with various civil services outfits, Bhagwat underlined the importance of "consistency" in efforts to win the battle over Covid-19. He cited the example of the Hindu mythological event "Amrit Manthan," to flag that the exercise was not stopped due to any fear and continued till the "nectar" was found. "We will keep taking efforts till we win over this. Commitment is important, and so is the importance of consistency in effforts (satat prayas) till we get complete victory (sampoorna vijaya)," the RSS chief said on the conclusion of the five-day event, which was also addressed by Wipro founder-chairman and philanthropist Azim Premji, Sri Sri Ravishankar of Art of Living and Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev of Isha Foundation, among others. Bhagwat also underlined the importance of the nation fighting against the pandemic as a team and putting aside the narrative of fault-finding for the time being, a remark that came in the backdrop of Opposition parties having launched a joint campaign against the government over its handling of the crisis. While Rahul Gandhi has been attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a daily basis, 12 Opposition leaders wrote a joint letter to the Prime Minister flagging the lacunae in the Covid-19 management. Bhagwat said, "There will be time for disussing faults and achievements. The need of the hour right now is to keep it aside and work together as a team, forgetting our differences." The Congress has mocked the event as "publicity campaign," saying this shows they will never understand peoples' pain. Amid growing criticism of the government on the handling of the second wave of Covid-19, RSS has stepped in provide succour to the patients and people and also counter the negativity building around the government's image. On April 24, RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale asked Swayamsevaks to get involved in removing all sorts of deficiencies in delivery wherever they are, and act promptly to resolve people's problems. Possibly for the first time, RSS got involved in health awareness drives on such a large scale in the last few decades. Bhagwat appeared cautioning against the practice of prescribing just any kind of therapy in the name of Ayurveda without it having gone through adequate scientific testing, a suggestion that comes in wake of some from the ruling BJP and outside routinely prescribing cow dung and cow urine to treat Covid-19, for which there is no scientific basis. "So many things keep on going on in the name of Ayurveda. if you are using something and think you are benefitting from it, it is ok but this should not be prescribed to everybody, till this has not been proved scientifically," the RSS chief said. He asked people to follow the medical advice without panicking. "There is talk of a third wave. But we will not be scared. We shall stand like a rock," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-administration-public-all-dropped-guard-after-first-covid-19-wave-says-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-986246.html
15-05-2021||National||Centre, states suppressing Covid death figures, alleges Congress||Congress on Saturday said it suspected that the Modi government was suppressing the true numbers of new infections and Covid-related deaths in conjunction with some state governments. Former Home Minister P Chidambaram made the allegation citing reports in a section of the Gujarati media that the state had reported 1.23 lakh deaths between March 1 and May 10 this year as against 58,000 deaths for the same period last year. “We have independently verified the two numbers referred to above for the period of 71 days,” Chidambaram told reporters in a virtual press conference. He said the Gujarat government had reported 4,218 Covid-related deaths between March 1 and May 10 this year. He said the difference between the increase in the number of death certificates – 65,805 – and the official Covid-related deaths – 4,218 – must be explained. “It cannot be explained as ‘natural annual increase’ or ‘due to other causes’,” Chidambaram said that Congress had a strong suspicion that the bulk of the increased number of deaths were also due to Covid. “Our suspicions are confirmed by the fact that hundreds of unidentified bodies have been found floating on the river Ganga and nearly 2,000 unidentified bodies have been found buried on the sands along the river,” he said. “We have a strong suspicion that the Government of India, in conjunction with some state governments, is suppressing the true numbers of new infections and Covid-related deaths,” Chidambaram said. Gujarat Home Minister Pratapsingh Jadeja rejected the allegations claiming that the state government never hid the death figures. “The state government follows the death protocol system formulated for the registration of death figures due to Covid. Sometimes, post Covid recovery deaths are also seen, which if included as Covid death in the report, would be inappropriate,” Jadeja said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-states-suppressing-covid-death-figures-alleges-congress-986247.html
15-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Centre says Covid-19 situation stabilising in India||Summary: In your evening news brief, Govt says Covid-19 situation stabilising in the country; Prime Minister Narendra Modi asks officials to step up testing in areas reporting high test positivity rates, and rain disrupts normal life in Kerala. Here is the top news of May 15, 2021:   Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked officials to step up testing in areas reporting high test positivity rates, with a focus on door-to-door testing in rural parts of the country which were facing the brunt of the pandemic. Amid allegations of suppression of actual Covid-19 data, the Prime Minister also asked state governments to report their pandemic numbers transparently without any pressure of high numbers showing adversely on their efforts. At a meeting with top officials to review the Covid-19 situation, Modi also directed officials to work closely with states to ramp up the speed of vaccination.   The overall Covid-19 situation in the country is stabilising and the government will work towards ensuring further stabilisation, NITI Aayog member V K Paul said on Saturday. At a press conference on Saturday, top health officials said 10 states account for 85 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country. The Union Health Ministry said 11 states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases, 17 have less than 50,000 cases while eight have active cases between 50,000 and one lakh. It also said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh, which are recording a high number of novel coronavirus cases, are also reporting decline in the number of active cases.   Scores of houses were damaged, trees uprooted and power supply disrupted for hours across Kerala as incessant rains and strong winds continue to lash the state on Saturday even as severe sea incursion disrupted normal life in the coastal areas According to the latest update of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), a red alert, indicating the possibility of extremely heavy rains, was sounded in five northern districts of Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. Thunderstorm with moderate rainfall and gusty winds speed reaching 40 Kmph, is likely at one or two places in Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts, it added. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-says-covid-19-situation-stabilising-in-india-986251.html
15-05-2021||National||Ex-UP bureaucrat booked for his tweet about floating bodies in Ganga||Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday booked former IAS officer Surya Pratap Singh for his tweets about dead bodies floating in the Ganga and other rivers in the state. According to the sources, the police in the state's Unnao district lodged a case against Singh under sections 153 (promoting enmity between different groups), 505 (incitement to commit offence against any class or community), IT Act and the Epidemics Act. Singh had said in his tweet that the state government had cremated 67 dead bodies in pits on the banks of the Ganga in Unnao. ''It is humiliating for Hindus not to cremate the dead in accordance with Hindu rituals,'' he had tweeted. The ex-IAS officer had also tweeted a picture showing the floating dead bodies in the river. ''The Unnao police has said that my tweet on dead bodies is misleading.....two cases have been registered against me in two days...it's a prize for exposing the UP model,'' he said. Hundreds of dead bodies were found floating in Ganga, Yamuna and other rivers in different parts of the state. It was suspected that these bodies could be of people, who had died from Covid-19. Singh had also been booked last year for questioning the Covid policy of the state government. He had claimed that the district magistrates were 'admonished' by a top state bureaucrat for increasing the number of Coronavirus tests.  Singh, who had taken voluntary retirement (VRS), had tweeted that UP's Covid policy appeared to be ''No tests, No Corona'' and wondered if the low number of Coronavirus positive cases in the state were due to less number of tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-up-bureaucrat-booked-for-his-tweet-about-floating-bodies-in-ganga-986252.html
15-05-2021||National||Individuals can't be denied services in absence of Aadhaar during Covid-19, says UIDAI||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) on Saturday asserted that no one should be denied vaccine, medicine, hospitalisation or treatment just because they do not have an Aadhaar. The UIDAI made it clear that Aadhaar should not be misused as an excuse for denial of any essential service. The statement assumes significance given the second severe wave of Covid-19 pandemic, which has swept through the nation. In a statement, the UIDAI said there is a well-established exception handling mechanism (EHM) for Aadhaar, and that it should be followed to ensure delivery of benefits and services in the absence of the 12-digit biometric ID. If a resident does not possess Aadhaar for some or the other reason, they must not be denied essential services as per Aadhaar Act. "No one shall be denied vaccine, medicine, hospitalisation or treatment for want of Aadhaar," UIDAI said flagging certain reports which claimed that some essential services like hospitalisation, were being denied to the residents for want of Aadhaar. If one does not have Aadhaar or if Aadhaar online verification is not successful due to some reason, the concerned agency or department has to provide the service as per specific norms laid out in Aadhaar Act, 2016, it informed. The Aadhaar-issuing body has advised that in case of any such denial of service or benefit, the matter should be brought to the notice of the higher authorities of concerned departments. The UIDAI emphasised that Aadhaar is meant to bring transparency and accountability in public service deliveries through effective use of technology and there are exception handling regulations issued by it through circular dated October 24, 2017, to ensure that no beneficiary is denied of benefits/services for the want of Aadhaar. "Also, relevant provisions are there in the Aadhaar Act under Section 7 to ensure that there is no exclusion and no denials. Further, the Cabinet Secretariat OM dated 19 December 2017 has clearly explained the exception handling mechanism by using alternate means of identification for extending benefits and services to the residents who do not posses Aadhaar or in cases where Aadhaar authentication is not successful due to any reason," UIDAI said. India in a day recorded 3,26,098 Covid-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 18 crore mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/individuals-cant-be-denied-services-in-absence-of-aadhaar-during-covid-19-says-uidai-986254.html
15-05-2021||National||BJP alleges link between Kalra, Congress||The BJP on Saturday alleged links between businessman Navneet Kalra, who is accused of hoarding and selling oxygen concentrators in the black market, and the Congress. BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said Kalra was given the membership of Golf Club, one of the most premium clubs in the national capital, by Congress leader Ajay Maken when he was the urban development minister in the UPA-I government. Congress MP Abhishek Manu Singhvi is lawyer of all such "criminals" and black-marketeers, she said, hitting out at the opposition party. Kalra and officials of Matrix Cellular had hoarded about 7,500 concentrators, she said, alleging their links with the Congress. She claimed that an artificial shortage of oxygen was created and exploited by those close to the party. Lekhi said Kalra's Facebook page shows his pictures with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The businessman has also claimed in his page that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic, she added. The chef who works at Kalra's restaurant had described Gandhis as the first family of the country, she said. "The Congress' hand is always with black marketeers and hoarders, and this is evident from the events which have unfolded themselves. These people are directly in links with the Congress. The Congress has encouraged such people when it was in power," she alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-alleges-link-between-kalra-congress-986258.html
15-05-2021||National||States step in to support children orphaned by Covid-19||At least four state governments have stepped in to support the education of children who have been orphaned by Covid-19. Similar initiatives were also announced by Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand governments. In Chhattisgarh, such children studying in Class 1-8 will receive Rs 500 as monthly stipend, while those in Classes 9-12 will be entitled to Rs 1,000 as stipend every month. The stipend, issued under the Chhattisgarh Mahtari Dular Yojana, will be applicable for students of both private and state-run schools. The state government will also fund education of children who have lost the earning member of the family. Jharkhand and Delhi governments too have announced similar initiatives but were yet to spell out details. Jharkhand government announced monthly financial assistance to families or relatives taking care of children orphaned by Covid-19 and directed Child Welfare Committees to visit respective homes to ensure that the child was in safe hands. In case such children do not have caretakers, they would be taken to the state-run child care homes. Delhi Government said it would help all such families who have lost earning members to Covid-19. “I know many children who have lost both their parents… the government will take care of their studies and upbringing,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said his government would also provide interest-free loans to those women, who have been widowed by the pandemic, to start small businesses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-step-in-to-support-children-orphaned-by-covid-19-986259.html
15-05-2021||National||Maharashtra govt exempts truckers from RT-PCR test for entering state||In a relief to road transporters, the Maharashtra government has done away with the mandatory RT-PCR test requirement for the truck drivers in the state, industry body AIMTC said on Saturday. The All India Motor Transport Congress, which is the top body of the transporters in the country, had demanded from the state government for waiving such a condition. The state government in its revised guidelines, issued on Saturday, said that the truck drivers "may be allowed to enter in the state only after checking the temperature and any other symptoms as well as status of each person on Aarogya Setu". “With persistent follow-ups at the highest level we are successful in getting revised guidelines regarding mandatory requirement of negative RTP-CR Test for drivers in Maharashtra,” Bal Malkit Singh, Chairman of the Core Committee, AIMTC, said in a statement. Earlier in the day, AIMTC got instructions from the Chief Secretary office issued to the field officials to release the vehicles immediately, he said, adding this was done promptly and the vehicles were released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-exempts-truckers-from-rt-pcr-test-for-entering-state-986270.html
15-05-2021||National||Covid-19 patients on home care should not take Remdesivir: AIIMS doctors||Covid-19 patients on home care should not take Remdesivir medication and they should get admitted at a hospital if the oxygen level drops below 94, AIIMS doctors advised on Saturday. The doctors were addressing a webinar on 'Medication and Care in Home Isolation' for Covid-19 patients. "Remdesivir should never be taken at home. Positive attitude and regular exercise are a must for patients in home isolation, said Dr Neeraj Nishchal of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Dr Manish, also from AIIMS, said if the oxygen level goes below 94, patients should be admitted, adding that while checking oxygen level, age of the patient and other chronic diseases should be kept in mind. Dr Neeraj, however, said that 80 per cent of infected patients experience very mild symptoms and suggested a repeat RT-PCR rest if the first test report comes negative. "If the RT-PCR test comes out to be negative, but symptoms are present, it is recommended to go for another test. Whether hospitalization is required is to be decided based on the intensity of the disease,” he said. The doctors also advised that medications must be taken in the proper quantity and at the right time. "Knowing about the medicine is not enough. Patients should also know how and when they are to be taken, only then would it prove to be beneficial,” said Dr Neeraj. The decision of home isolation for patients above 60 years and with comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic ailments related to kidneys and lungs, should be taken only after consulting doctors, they said. The commonly observed symptoms among Covid-19 patients are fever, dry cough, tiredness and loss of taste or smell. Irritation in throat, headache, body ache, diarrhoea, rash on skin and redness in eyes are also observed in rare cases. “If you observe any of these symptoms, you should immediately isolate yourself from others,” Dr Neeraj said. Suggesting measures Covid-19 patients need to take to manage the infection, the doctors said sanitisation, cleanliness, use of medical grade masks and taking medicines on time are essential. “We should plan for daily essentials and prepare a list of contact numbers for health-related information, health workers, hotlines, etc. Along with this, contact numbers of friends, other family members and neighbours should also be kept handy for emergency situations. Proper care and planning should be done also for the children in the family,” Dr Neeraj said. Doctors said that mild and asymptomatic patients should be kept in home isolation.  Such patients should take utmost care to keep safe distance from other family members, especially children. It was advised that positive patients should always wear three-layered masks which should be discarded after proper sanitization every eight hours. “Patient and caregiver both should wear N-95 masks while interacting with each other,” the doctor said. The AIIMS doctors also advised that pulse oximeters should be used to monitor oxygen levels in the body, very carefully. “Artificial nails or nail polish should be removed before use and the patient's hand should be warmed if it is cold. Take rest for at least five minutes before testing. If the observation is constant for five seconds, the figure indicates oxygen level in your body,” doctors said. Informing about the use of Ivermectin and Paracetamol, Dr Manish said that their use depends on the immunity level and other patient-specific conditions so one should take medicines only as prescribed by the doctors. While informing about the medicines taken to fight Covid-19, he said, many patients insist on the use of Azithromycin, but the guidelines clearly discourage the use of these tablets. “Same instructions are given about Revidox. It is not recommended to use Revidox in home isolation,” said the doctor. During the discussion, both experts clearly said that no medication should be taken during home isolation without consulting doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-patients-on-home-care-should-not-take-remdesivir-aiims-doctors-986271.html
15-05-2021||National||Prevention of fungal infections key area of focus in treating Covid-19 patients: AIIMS director||Training in rural areas, good infection control practices in hospitals and prevention of fungal infections are the three areas of focus of the government in its treatment of those infected with coronavirus, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said Saturday. Amid reports of the coronavirus pandemic spreading to rural areas, he said that Covid management should reach out to all parts of the country. "It should now reach out to all parts, especially the rural areas. The Ministry of Health and AIIMS started a programme for Covid management in rural areas from April 30 to May 13 for national institutes of excellence at regional levels where we held webinars on home isolation, medication for home isolation, ICU management, testing, diabetes management... "These regional centres have to themselves do more webinars in their areas and train doctors, so that even in rural areas Covid management is ideal and of international standards," Guleria said. He also warned against the increase in the number of fungal infections that are being reported from across the country and said that it is of paramount importance that hospitals follow protocols of infection control practices. "It has been seen that secondary infections -- whether fungal or bacterial -- are causing more mortality. This disease, mucormycosis, can affect the face, infecting nose, orbit of eye, or brain, which can even cause vision loss. It can also spread to the lung," Guleria said. He also said that the misuse of steroids is a major cause behind the spread of this infection. "Chances of fungal infection increase in the patients who are diabetic, Covid positive and are taking steroids. To prevent it, we should stop the misuse of steroids," he said. According to Guleria, mucormycosis spores are found in soil, air and even in food, but they are of low virulence and usually don't cause infection. "Even before Covid, this disease could be seen mostly in diabetic patients, transplant and cancer patients, but it was rare among the general public. Now a large number of cases are being reported due to Covid treatment," he said, recommending close monitoring of blood sugar levels to prevent the infection. At AIIMS, he said 23 cases of such infection were reported among Covid patients. Out of them, 20 are still Covid-19 positive while the rest are negative. Guleria said that many states have reported more than 500 cases of mucormycosis. He also advised against using steroids in the early stages of coronavirus and said that if the patient has mild symptoms, steroids would do him more harm than good. "Data shows that 5-10 days steroids are needed for the majority of Covid patients," he said. Niti Ayog member VK Paul too raised concerns over mucormycosis and appealed to people to control their diabetes as the disease is seen to spread among such patients more widely. "Control your diabetes. Even when you have Covid, please ensure you don't forget to have your medicines. Another aspect of this is to use steroids judiciously," he said. Paul said that while steroids are part of the treatment for Covid, it is important to prescribe it at the right time and in the right dosage, otherwise it could lead to secondary infections like mucormycosis. "Steroids should not be prescribed lightly... This disease has to be prevented," he said. India recorded 3,26,098 more Covid-19 cases that took the total number of infections to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday morning. The active cases have reduced to 36,73,802 and comprise 15.07 per cent of the total infections, while the national recovery rate has improved to 83.83 per cent, it stated. PTI ASG/PR ZMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prevention-of-fungal-infections-key-area-of-focus-in-treating-covid-19-patients-aiims-director-986273.html
15-05-2021||National||Take extra efforts to ensure Cyclone Tauktae doesn't have an impact on Covid-19 operations: PM to officials||Special effort should be taken to ensure that Covid-19 management in hospitals, cold chain for vaccine and storage of essential medicines are not impacted by cyclone Tauktae, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a high-level meeting on Saturday. He directed senior officials to take every possible measure to ensure that people are safely evacuated while ensuring maintenance of all essential services such as power, telecommunication, health and drinking water. In the meeting to review the preparedness of states and central ministries to deal with the situation, he also directed officials to immediately restore services in the event of damages caused to them. With the country facing the pandemic, Modi said there should be "special preparedness on Covid-19 management in hospitals, vaccine cold chain and other medical facilities on power back up and storage of essential medicines and to plan for unhindered movement of oxygen tankers". The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has kept ready 10 Quick Response medical teams and five Public Health Response teams, with emergency medicines, Modi was informed by officials. Modi also directed for the round-the-clock functioning of control rooms. He said that special care needs to be taken to ensure that there is least possible disruption in oxygen supply from Jamnagar. There is also a need to involve the local community for timely sensitisation and relief measures, he added. In the meeting also attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the cyclone is expected to touch Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18 afternoon or evening with the wind speed ranging upto 175 kmph. "It is likely to cause heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Gujarat, including extremely heavy falls in Junagadh and Gir Somnath and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places in the districts of Saurashtra Kutch and Diu namely Gir Somnath, Diu, Junagadh, Porbandar, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Amreli, Rajkot, Jamnagar," the IMD said. IMD also warned of storm surge of about 2-3 metre above astronomical tide to inundate coastal areas of Morbi, Kutch, Devbhoomi Dwarka and Jamnagar districts and 1-2 metre along Porbandar, Junagarh, Diu, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar and 0.5 to one metre over the remaining coastal districts of Gujarat around the time of landfall. The officials also informed the Prime Minister that the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has already deployed 42 teams which are equipped with boats, tree-cutters, telecom equipment among others in six states and has kept 26 teams on standby. Indian Coast Guard and the Navy have deployed ships and helicopters for relief, search and rescue operations, while the Air Force and Engineer task force units of Army, with boats and rescue equipment, are on standby for deployment. Seven ships with humanitarian assistance and disaster relief units are on standby along the western coast. While the Ministry of Power has taken steps to immediately restore power supply in case of disruption, the Ministry of Telecom is keeping all telecom towers and exchanges under constant watch and is fully geared to restore telecom networks. The Ministry of Port, Shipping and Waterways has deployed emergency vessels (Tugs).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-extra-efforts-to-ensure-cyclone-tauktae-doesnt-have-an-impact-on-covid-19-operations-pm-to-officials-986282.html
15-05-2021||National||Assam imposes more restrictions to prevent Covid-19 spread||Assam government on Saturday announced further restrictions in urban and its adjacent areas, upto five km of its periphery, banning movement of people and vehicles from 12 noon to 5 am to contain the surge in Covid-19 positive cases. Assam Chief Secretary Jishnu Baruah, in his capacity as Chairperson of the State Disaster Management Authority, in an order directed that there will be a total ban on movement of individuals from 12 noon to 5 am except for those going for vaccinations, medical emergencies and engaged in essential services. All shops and commercial establishments will have to be shut down at 11 am on all days. All vehicles, other than the government vehicles and those exempted by an earlier order, will be allowed to ply in accordance with an odd-even formula, to be decided by the district disaster management authorities, between 5 am to 12 noon. There is no let-up in Covid surge in Assam which currently has 3,19,632 Covid-19 positive cases while 2,060 people have died due to the infection. The number of active cases are 41,978 with 2,74,247 persons having recovered so far. This restriction will, however, not apply to personal vehicles used for medical emergencies, the order stated. The order shall come into effect from 5 am of May 16 and will be applicable in urban and adjacent areas within five km radius from the periphery of municipal corporation, municipal boards and revenue towns. The state government on May 12 had directed that all offices, religious places and weekly markets be shut for 15 days while there was total ban on movement of people from 2 pm to 5 am. The state government on May 4 had advanced the night curfew to 6 p.m from 8 p.m to 5 a.m which was imposed on April 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-imposes-more-restrictions-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-986283.html
15-05-2021||National||Plasma therapy not effective, likely to be dropped from clinical management guidelines on Covid-19||Plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients has not been found effective in reducing the progression to severe disease or death and is likely to be dropped from the clinical management guidelines, sources said. In a meeting of the ICMR-National Task Force for Covid-19 on Friday, all members were in favour of removing the use of convalescent plasma from the Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult Covid-19 Patients citing its ineffectiveness and inappropriate use in several cases, they said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will issue an advisory on the matter soon, they said. The present guidelines allow "off label" use of plasma therapy at the stage of early moderate disease, that is, within seven days of the onset of symptoms and if there is availability of a high titre donor plasma. The decision to remove it from the guidelines comes in the backdrop of some clinicians and scientists writing to Principal Scientific Advisor K VijayRaghavan cautioning against the "irrational and non-scientific use" of convalescent plasma for Covid-19 in the country. In the letter, which was also marked to ICMR chief Balram Bhargava and AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, public health professionals alleged that the current guidelines on plasma therapy are not based on existing evidence and pointed out some very early evidence that indicates a possible association between emergence of variants with “lower susceptibility to neutralising antibodies in immunosuppressed" people given plasma therapy. This raises the possibility of more virulent strains developing due to irrational use of plasma therapy which can fuel the pandemic, according to the letter signed by vaccinologist Gagandeep Kang, surgeon Pramesh C S and others. "We are writing to you as concerned clinicians, public health professionals and scientists from India about the irrational and non- scientific use of convalescent plasma for Covid-19 in the country. "This has stemmed from guidelines issued by government agencies, and we request your urgent intervention to address the issue which can prevent harassment of Covid-19 patients, their families, their clinicians and Covid-19 survivors,” said the letter. "The current research evidence unanimously indicates that there is no benefit offered by convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19. However, it continues to be prescribed rampantly in hospitals across India,” the letter said. Families of patients run from pillar-to-post for getting plasma, which is in short supply. The desperation of patients and their families is understandable because they like to try the best for their loved ones, when a doctor has prescribed this, the public health professionals said. In the plasma therapy, antibodies from the blood of a patient who has recovered from Covid-19 are used to treat serious patients. They said ICMR guidelines are not based on the existing evidence. They cited the ICMR-PLACID trial which was the world''s first randomised controlled trial on convalescent plasma in 39 public and private hospitals across India. It found "convalescent plasma was not associated with a reduction in progression to severe Covid-19 or all-cause mortality. This trial has high generalisability and approximates convalescent plasma use in real life settings with limited laboratory capacity". The large trial of 11,588 patients found no difference in death or proportion of patients discharged from hospital, the clinicians said. Even for those patients who were not on ventilation initially, there was no difference "in the proportion meeting the composite endpoint of progression to invasive mechanical ventilation or death", they pointed out. The health professionals added that the PlasmAr trial in Argentina concluded that there is no significant difference in “clinical status or overall mortality between patients treated with convalescent plasma and those who received placebo”. "Current research evidence unanimously indicates that there is no benefit offered by convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19. However, it continues to be prescribed rampantly in hospitals across India," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plasma-therapy-not-effective-likely-to-be-dropped-from-clinical-management-guidelines-on-covid-19-986287.html
15-05-2021||National||Second wave of Covid-19 to impact blue-collar, gig jobs: Report||The second wave of the pandemic in the country is likely to have a 'short-term setback' mostly affecting the blue-collar jobs and the gig or temporary workers especially in the retail, hospitality, aviation and construction industry, according to a report. As India's economy tried regaining its footing earlier this year, the number of job opportunities rose 32 per cent during January-March 2021 as compared to the preceding December quarter, hinting towards an economic revival in the country, the report by global recruitment specialist Michael Page said. However, it stated that in the ongoing second wave of the pandemic (April and May 2021), India is witnessing a decline in economic activity owing to the localised lockdowns, but the impact on the economy is unlikely to be as devastating as in 2020. The report is based on information, facts and data procured from within Michael Page India's platform. Compared to last year when there was a national lockdown and movement was completely restricted for 30 days, currently, business activities are operational with limitations to ensure safety and well-being of people, it noted. The second wave will only result in a "short-term setback", however, in the medium term, the growth outlook remains stable for the rest of 2021, it added. This will not impact the livelihood of salaried employees to a great extent, but it will affect the blue-collar jobs and the gig workers as thousands of migrant workers and daily wage labourers returned home when some states announced lockdowns in prominent cities, the report noted. The sectors which will see the maximum impact in India are retail, hospitality, aviation as well as property and construction. “This current situation in India has impacted many people and their families leading to disruption in their daily lives. Therefore, we have noted a drop in confidence levels among candidates to change jobs, this has impacted the hiring market adversely,” Michael Page India Managing Director Nicolas Dumoulin said. The report noted that the sectors which will continue to lead hiring this quarter will be IT and healthcare. “The second Covid-19 wave comes at a time when India's economy has made a resilient comeback. Firms and consumers have rapidly adjusted to the new normal,” Dumoulin said. Currently, the IT sector is very buoyant and Bengaluru continues to be the hotspot in IT-related hiring, he said, adding that talent is scarce as the task is much more than the available pool of resources. "More and more traditional companies are making the shift to digital processes and implementation leading to a surge in demand for IT support. India also has a very strong position as a shared services centre for IT companies globally and we will see this trend continuing for a long time,” he added. Michael Page India Associate Director Nupur Mehta observed that hiring activities in the healthcare sector are up by almost 35 per cent and within diagnostics and MedTech specifically, there is a 10-15 per cent increase. “We have seen a lot of positive movement in India's healthcare sector since last year. There is investment coming in from private equity and venture capital firms as well as pharmaceutical giants especially in the diagnostics segment,” Mehta added. To deal with the talent crunch, hiring managers in India's healthcare are looking at the talent coming from the FMCG sector right now for digital, technology and marketing positions, the report said. The demand of returning Indians from overseas has increased for skills that are currently not available in India and contractual hires in support functions have also risen, it said. The second wave of the pandemic in India has created a surge in demand for technicians in the diagnostic labs for short-term contracts as well as nurses and paramedics. There is even more demand for medical specialists in home ICU set-ups, essential deliveries for the quarantined and medical affairs, it stated. This has again opened plenty of new jobs in India's healthcare sector, in skillsets different from what was traditionally needed in this field, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-wave-of-covid-19-to-impact-blue-collar-gig-jobs-report-986291.html
15-05-2021||National||Centre relaxes certain norms to fast-track approvals for imported cylinders, pressure vessels for medical oxygen||The government on Saturday eases certain norms under Gas Cylinders Rules, 2016 to fast track approvals for imported cylinders and pressure vessels for storage and transportation of medical oxygen amid rising Covid cases. The relaxations would be valid for six months or till further orders of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), an official statement said. The department said that the certification of Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organization (PESO) will not be mandatory before importing consignment of oxygen cylinders, and containers. The certification of PESO will be required before use of the oxygen cylinders, which entails weight and hydro testing, it added. "The Indian missions should, however, ensure that the oxygen cylinders should comply with India or international standards before shipment," it said. In case of filled cylinders, the agency exporting to India would have to certify that the oxygen filled in the cylinder is of such purity and concentration that is fit for medical use. The certification would be attested by the Indian mission in the exporting country and soon upon arrival in India, such filled cylinders will be inspected on sample basis by an empanelled agency of PESO. "All the filled cylinders must be verified for quality of gas filled therein under the supervision of medical/ Food and Drugs Controllers and if quality of gas conforms to their requirement of medical oxygen, cylinders may be sent directly to hospitals for use," the department said. Regarding PSA (pressure swing adsorption) installations at hospitals with filling facilities or at Covid centres, it said PSA plants where generated oxygen is directly supplied to hospital and no filling of cylinders is taking place, in such cases the facilities do not need any permission or license under PESO rules. The department instructed that if the PSA is attached with a compressor and filling of oxygen cylinder is to take place, hospitals have to notify it to PESO with certain information like number of cylinders to be stored at site; and number of filling points. "Any Covid centre may utilise liquid cylinders on board with vaporizer for supplying of gaseous medical oxygen through pipeline or for filling cylinders in open places are permitted" subject to certain conditions, it said.  Further, it said that in case if consignment of oxygen cylinders, ISO containers or PSA plants or its related equipment have already arrived in India, without taking import permission from PESO, due to an urgency, the filling permission for these cylinders will be issued based on relaxed rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-relaxes-certain-norms-to-fast-track-approvals-for-imported-cylinders-pressure-vessels-for-medical-oxygen-986292.html
15-05-2021||National||Six-time Amritsar MP Raghunandan Lal Bhatia dies at 100||Senior Congress leader and six-time MP from Amritsar Raghunandan Lal Bhatia passed away after a brief illness, his family members said on Saturday. He was 100. Raghunandan Bhatia died at a private hospital here on Friday night. He is survived by his son Ramesh Bhatia, daughter Saroj Munjal and younger brother J L Bhatia, they said. He was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1972 from Amritsar and again re-elected from the same seat in the 1980, 1985, 1992, 1996 and 1999 elections as a member of the Indian National Congress. Raghunandan Bhatia had also served as the governor of Kerala and Bihar from 2004 to 2008 and 2008 to 2009, respectively. He had also served as the minister of state for external affairs in 1992. He, as a senior member of the Congress, held various positions in the party, including the post of Punjab unit president and general secretary. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed grief over the death of Raghunandan Bhatia. "Saddened to lose former Governor & Senior Congress Leader & six-time MP, Raghunandan Lal Bhatia Ji. My thoughts and prayers are with his family members in their hour of grief. May his soul rest in peace," the chief minister tweeted. Punjab Congress leader and MLA Raj Kumar Verka condoled the demise of Raghunandan Bhatia, describing him as “Bhishma Pitamah” of the Indian politics. The mortal remains of Bhatia were consigned to flames with full state honour at the Shiv Puri electric crematorium of Durgiana Temple in the evening. Leaders from different parties besides relatives were there to pay respects to Bhatia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-time-amritsar-mp-raghunandan-lal-bhatia-dies-at-100-986320.html
15-05-2021||National||SpiceJet crew spend 21 hours inside aircraft at Zagreb airport due to RT-PCR rule change||The flight crew of SpiceJet's Delhi-Zagreb flight had to spend around 21 hours inside the aircraft at the Zagreb airport as there was a sudden change in rules making negative RTPCR test results mandatory for anyone coming from India, the airline said on Saturday. The crew were not allowed to come out of the plane and they conducted the return flight to Delhi -- after the 21-hour rest period -- without passengers or cargo. "Prior to departure from India, email confirmation was received from Croatian authorities that RTPCR is not required for crew," the airline's spokesperson said. On arrival in Zagreb on Tuesday, the crew, including four pilots, as well as cabin crew members, was told that the orders have changed. "Due to sudden and massive increase in Covid cases in India, they were then instructed that RTPCR test is required. This came as a surprise," the airline's spokesperson said. India recorded 3,26,098 coronavirus cases and 3,890 deaths on Saturday. Since the crew could not fly back immediately due the FDTL (flight duty time limitation) restrictions, bedding, food and water was provided in the aircraft, according to the spokesperson. "Aircraft was cleaned. DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) permission was obtained. Crew rested in the aircraft for 21 hours (as mandated by regulation). "They then flew back to Delhi. All crew confirmed that they were comfortable and happy with the arrangements," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-crew-spend-21-hours-inside-aircraft-at-zagreb-airport-due-to-rt-pcr-rule-change-986321.html
15-05-2021||National||India needs to restore deterrence to stop China from attempting to nibble at LAC: Shivshankar Menon||India needs to restore deterrence if it wants to stop China from attempting to nibble at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and changing its status quo, noted strategic affairs expert and former National Security Adviser and foreign secretary Shivshankar Menon said on Saturday. In an online discussion, he said making noises or building some international coalition in response to what China has been doing will be ineffective and India needs to strengthen itself along the LAC to make sure that the neighbouring country is not able to change the situation in its favour. "The answer is not making noise or building some international coalition or passing resolution at the UN. To my mind (it) is ineffective. If you want to stop them from nibbling at the LAC and changing the status quo, you need to restore deterrence which we did partially around Pangong in August. You need to restore it across the line," he said. Menon, whose book 'India and Asian Geopolitics: Past, Present and Future' has just been released, was replying to a question at the discussion organised by the Indian Women's Press Corps. He also called for a broader vision of India's relationship with China. "If we are saying peace and tranquillity is an essential condition for the rest of the relationship, then how do you explain the fact that in 2020, China again became your biggest trading partner overtaking the US which has been your number one trading partner in 2019. How do you explain the first quarter of this year, where trade has boomed between you and China, maybe because of medical supplies and the outrageous prices they are charging, whatever it is," Menon said. The former NSA also said that problem arises when attempts are made to spin the issues. "The problem is when we start spinning these issues when we play them for domestic politics when we start telling lies about what is happening, what is not happening. Then you cannot deal with it effectively on the ground. Then it becomes very difficult," he said. He said there was a need to think about how far India can economically decouple itself from China and what it is going to do to strengthen itself on the LAC to make sure that China cannot keep changing the situation in its favour whenever it suits it. Asked whether the perception of India's mishandling of the second wave of the coronavirus crisis will have an impact on its image, Menon said it was not possible now to gauge if there would be any long-term impact. "I do not know about the long-term impact. I do not think we can say anything yet. But it certainly means that people will not rely on you to some extent," he said. On what should be India's foreign policy priorities, Menon said it must focus on consolidating relations with countries in the neighbourhood as also in the Indian Ocean region which included Southeast Asian nations. "You have to be much more with your neighbours, especially when the world is getting more and more chaotic, more and more fractious, much more difficult," he said. In that context, he also mentioned that walking away from the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) was a "huge mistake" by India. In November 2019, India pulled out of the RCEP over unresolved core concerns saying the pact in its current form would have an adverse impact on the lives and livelihoods of all Indians. "So this idea that we can cut off from the word and we are a world unto ourselves; we have so much demand at home and we will run ourselves; for me, that's crazy thinking," Menon said, adding there could have been many ways to deal with the issue. To a question, whether domestic politics was driving foreign policy he suggested that it has been the case always. "If you have a domestic politics which is clear about the kind of India you want and the kind of world you want to enable that India; then it is much easier to deal with the world and the world also knows what to do with you," he said. "They also know what to expect from you and at least for a very long time, we had a very clear view where democracy we were building as a secular, modern democratic country of our own and that is what we would like the world to be a democratic place where laws applied, which is peaceful, and therefore, enabled the rise of India," Menon said. He said India was a very active participant in the international processes and that it had a very clear view of its role in the world and what kind of world it wanted. The former foreign secretary also cited examples of how neighbouring countries like Nepal and Sri Lanka looked up to India in drawing inspiration. "That's stopped; why, because you are not clear what kind of India you are building up. You are busy arguing about that among yourselves. And the India that they see some people are arguing for in India is not very attractive to your own neighbours. So the power of example today no longer works. "So, it is not just, oh, we dragged domestic politics into our foreign policy, it is the kind of domestic politics we have dragged into our foreign policy that makes the trouble," he said. Asked about the escalation in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, he said the problem is that Israeli politics were in a very complicated state. He said there is a real risk of further deterioration of the ground situation because of the nature of Israeli politics with the ambition of individual politicians wanting to look more heroic than their rivals. On the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan, Menon said New Delhi has significant interests in ensuring freedom of navigation in the South China Sea and it must seize the available options considering its strategic interests. He said if the Quad serves some of India's interests, then it should go for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-to-restore-deterrence-to-stop-china-from-attempting-to-nibble-at-lac-shivshankar-menon-986324.html
15-05-2021||National||SII doing best to ramp up Covishield production, says CEO Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) is doing its best to ramp up the production of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to cater todemand in the country, Adar Poonawalla said on Saturday. Responding to a tweet by JSW Group Chairman Sajjan Jindal, Poonawalla said the vaccine major is doing itsbest to introduce vaccines on priority for the Indian market. "Yes@sajjanjindal, we at @SerumInstIndia are doing our best toramp up production & launch new vaccines on priority for India. We aregrateful for @TheJSWGroup efforts in trying to fulfill India’smedical oxygen needs as we stand together in this fight against this pandemic,"Poonawalla said in a tweet. Earlier Sajjan Jindal had tweeted while tagging SII, Poonawalla , Bharat Biotech and its ManagingDirector Krishna Ella: "The only way we can win the #FightAgainstCovid19in India is to vaccinate everybody. Great to see @SerumInstIndia @adarpoonawalla and@BharatBiotech @krishnaella ramping up theircapacities.” Both SII and Bharat Biotech are in theforefront of supplying Covid-19 vaccines in the country even as the second wave ofthe pandemic continues to ravage various states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-doing-best-to-ramp-up-covishield-production-says-ceo-adar-poonawalla-986325.html
15-05-2021||National||India to have 51.6 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by July, says health minister Harsh Vardhan||The number of vaccine doses administered in India will reach 51.6 crore by the end of July, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. India has so far administered over 18 crore jabs to eligible beneficiaries. Vardhan, during his discussion with the health ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, said vaccine production was being ramped up to cater to the increased demand. "Production of vaccines is being steadily ramped up to cater to increased demand while vaccines that are being produced now continue to be equitably apportioned and swiftly sent to States/Union Territories. "We will have 51.6 crore vaccine doses by the end of July including the 18 crore doses already administered. Sputnik has been approved. This along with the slated approval of the new vaccine of Zydus Cadila, Serum Institute of India- Novavax vaccine, Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine and the Genova mRNA vaccine will push the availability of Covid vaccines to 216 crore doses in the August-December period,” he said. During his interaction with the state health ministers and principal secretaries/additional chief secretaries of the four states in the presence of Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, Vardhan highlighted the challenges faced by the states. He said that Gujarat has displayed a gradual increase in the positivity rate since April and the recovery rate stands at 79 per cent, which is lower than the national average. He noted that nearly 100 per cent ICU beds in Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Mehsana and 97 per cent and 96 per cent of oxygen beds in Ahmedabad and Vadodara, respectively, stood occupied indicating saturation. Andhra Pradesh has had an increasing positivity rate since early April and the weekly growth rate was as high as 30.3 per cent, he said, adding that Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam were flagged as districts of concern in the state. Uttar Pradesh saw an exponential growth in cases in a six-week period (5,500 to 31,000 cases and two per cent to 14 per cent positivity rate) with Lucknow and Meerut having more than 14,000 active cases with all categories of bed showing more than 90 per cent occupancy. In Madhya Pradesh, 10 districts have more than 20 per cent positivity with over one lakh active cases all over the state. Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior and Jabalpur were flagged as districts of concern, the minister said. During the meeting, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat were cautioned for having a high proportion of deaths in the age group 18-45 years. Vardhan also expressed a strong view that the present plateauing of Covid cases should not be taken as a sign for complacency but as a breathing space to expand, revamp and improve health infrastructure. State health administrators were advised to increase ICU and oxygen-supported beds, undertake oxygen audits, take stock of availability of medicines in the states and strengthen their medical workforce. Dr Sujeet K Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), presented the epidemiological findings and a granular analysis of the Covid trajectory in the states. He suggested continuing focus on the health infrastructure in small cities as people from nearby towns and villages would rush there in case of surge. He also urged the states to keep a tab on the variants of Covid through the INSACOG consortium. States were advised to ensure complete utilisation of available vaccination slots for 45+ age-group/healthcare workers/frontline workers with awareness campaigns for conveying the importance of completing the second dose of vaccine. It was reiterated that States need to focus on reduction of vaccine wastage as that will be factored in subsequent allocations to that State. States were advised to constitute a 2/3-member team at State level on the lines of the dedicated team at Union Health Ministry to regularly coordinate with manufacturers for timely supplies of vaccine through 'Other than Govt. of India channel' and also to coordinate with private hospitals for their procurement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-have-516-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-by-july-says-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-986333.html
15-05-2021||National||Delhi government has written to Dr Reddy's for 67 lakh doses of Sputnik V vaccine, says Arvind Kejriwal||Amid vaccine shortage faced by Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said his government has written to Dr Reddy's Laboratories for supply of around 67 lakh doses of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's Laboratories launched Sputnik V -- the first foreign-made vaccine being used in the country -- on Friday. Kejriwal's announcement came after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia earlier this week claimed that Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused to provide additional doses to the national capital. "We have asked for 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin and have written to Dr Reddy's who are dealers of Sputnik in India for nearly the same quantity," Kejriwal told reporters. The response from Dr Reddy's is awaited, he said. "We have asked them (Dr Reddy's) how many doses and by what time they can provide. No response has come from their side as yet." Kejriwal said experience of many countries shows that coronavirus infection can be reduced through mass vaccination. He expressed hope that the vaccination programme in the country will pick up pace with the increased availability of jabs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-government-has-written-to-dr-reddys-for-67-lakh-doses-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-says-arvind-kejriwal-986342.html
15-05-2021||National Politics||Samyukta Kisan Morcha to observe May 26 as 'black day' to mark six months of protesting farm laws||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Saturday announced that it will observe May 26 as ‘black day’, marking six months of their protest at Delhi’s borders against the Centre's three farm laws. In a virtual press conference, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal appealed to people to raise black flags at their houses, vehicles and shops on May 26 to protest against the contentious farm legislations. "On May 26, we will complete six months of this protest and it also happens to mark seven years since PM Modi formed the government. We will observe it as black day," Rajewal said. A large number of farmers reached Delhi’s borders on November 26 after facing water cannons and police barriers as part of their "Delhi Chalo" march against the Centre’s farm laws. Thousands of farmers from across the country joined the protest in the following months at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders around the national capital. Rajewal appealed to people to support the call for observing ‘black day’ on May 26. "We appeal to people of the country and also Punjab to hang black flags at their house, shops, trucks and other vehicles. We will also burn effigies of (PM) Narendra Modi as a form of protest," he added. He said that the government has not heard the farmers demands to repeal the three farm laws and "with increasing prices of fertilisers, diesel and petrol, the farming business is not possible". Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government, which has held multiple rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samyukta-kisan-morcha-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-to-mark-six-months-of-protesting-farm-laws-986197.html
15-05-2021||National Politics||Government's 'disastrous policy' will ensure third Covid-19 wave, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday called for a national vaccine strategy and claimed that the government's "disastrous" inoculation policy will "ensure a devastating third wave" in the country. He also accused the prime minister of making "mother Ganga cry" after bodies of suspected coronavirus victims were found floating in the river. "The Government of India's (GOI's) disastrous vaccine strategy will ensure a devastating third wave. It can't be repeated enough - India needs a proper vaccine strategy," he said on Twitter. GOI’s disastrous vaccine strategy will ensure a devastating third wave. It can’t be repeated enough- India needs a proper vaccine strategy! Tagging media reports claiming that over 2,000 bodies have been found in 1140 km area along the Ganga, he alleged, "One who used to say 'Ganga' has called him has made Mother Ganga cry." Gandhi and the Congress have been attacking the prime minister and his government over its vaccine strategy and handling of the pandemic. In yet another tweet, Gandhi appealed to people to stay safe after cyclone Tauktae warning was issued by the government in many states. He also appealed to Congress workers to provide all assistance to those in need. "May 15 Cyclone Alert has been issued in Kerala, Maharashtra, Goa, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka. Cyclone Tauktae is already causing heavy rains in many areas. "I appeal to Congress workers to provide all possible assistance to those in need. Please stay safe," he said on Twitter. I appeal to Congress workers to provide all possible assistance to those in need. Please stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/governments-disastrous-policy-will-ensure-third-covid-19-wave-says-rahul-gandhi-986281.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Experts attribute lockdown as main factor behind fall in Covid-19 cases in Delhi||Delhi on Friday recorded 8,506 Covid-19 cases, the daily count dipping to below the 10,000-mark again after a month, with medical experts believing the lockdown to be the main factor behind the dip amid the second wave of the pandemic. The national capital had registered 7,897 coronavirus cases on April 10 with 39 deaths, as per official data. The fatality count stood at 289 on Friday, with experts cautioning that even over 8,500 daily cases was "still a huge figure" and "severity of cases were still the same as before". Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the city's Covid-19 cases count in the last 24 hours, just over 8,500, was much lower than the figures reported on April 20, when it had crossed the 28,000-mark. Doctors at leading government and private hospitals in Delhi said there is a relative fall in the number of cases and "still a long way to go" before the daily count falls below the 2,000-mark, as it was a few months earlier. "Lockdown, I would say is the biggest factor in arriving at a situation where we are now, when daily cases from 28,000 have come down to about 8,500. However, it is still a huge figure, and there should be no room for complacency, on any front," Medical Director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), B L Sherwal, told PTI. RGSSH is a Delhi government-run 650-bed facility, and about 500 beds are earmarked for treating Covid-19 patients, and 350 are currently occupied, most of them being ICU patients, he said. Asked about the number of daily fatalities at the facility located in east Delhi, Sherwal said, about 10-12 patients per day, out of the 350 beds occupied as of now, which would soon be expanded to full capacity. "While daily cases have come down, the severity of infection is still the same, and new patients are being brought to our hospital in the same condition as before. Many of them are brought dead or die shortly after being brought to emergency. So, we must understand the gravity of the situation," he added. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals adding to the woes. On Thursday, the city had recorded 10,489 cases and 308 deaths. Last year, the highest daily cases was 8,593 reported on November 11. This year, the lockdown here was first imposed on April 19, amid a steep rise in Covid-19 cases, and has been extended thrice so far. On May 9, it was extended by another week by Chief Minister Kejriwal, till May 17 morning. In his briefing on Friday, Kejriwal said, "In these times of despair, I wish to bring some good news for everyone. About 8,500 new corona cases have been registered in Delhi in the last 24 hours. The infection rate has come down to 12 per cent today... It was 36 per cent on April 22". Dr Richa Sareen, consultant, pulmonology at Fortis hospital here, echoed Sherwal and said the prime factor behind, a relatively improved situation, is that a lockdown was imposed. She argued that had the lockdown been imposed a week earlier in April, the situation wouldn't have become this worse, but then it's a difficult decision by any government. "Besides lockdown, another factor is that a large number of the population has got infected by the virus, so they have developed immunity, and hence, in a way, herd immunity has been attained, which helps in breaking the chain of transmission," Sareen said. RGSSH's Sherwal also attributed the ongoing vaccination drive as a contributing factor for slowing down of the daily cases. Sareen, however, said, the efficacy of the vaccination will be seen in the coming weeks and months, and "too early to factor in for the dip in daily cases". "But, yes, the maniacal and distressful scenes at the hospital have reduced a bit. However, the severity of cases is still there and we must not lower our guards. We hope, people will learn lessons from this tragedy and horrific deaths and continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviours," she said. Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, a senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals here, agreed with Sareen, that the situation at hospitals has improved a bit. "We are getting fewer SOS calls, my phone's ringing less number of times, the daily routine at work is not that stressful as it was a few weeks ago. So, things seem a bit better, but again we have to be watchful," he added. Kejriwal in his briefing also said that people are not facing problems in getting beds here but ICU beds are still full. This means, the number of serious patients have not declined much, the chief minister said. He attributed the positive impact of the lockdown restrictions to the disciplined behaviour of the people of Delhi while asserting that "the battle is not won yet" and the number of coronavirus cases had to reduced to zero.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/experts-attribute-lockdown-as-main-factor-behind-fall-in-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-986077.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||6-time MP from Amritsar Raghunandan Lal Bhatia passes away at 100||Senior Congress leader and six-time MP from Amritsar Raghunandan Lal Bhatia passed away after a brief illness, his family members said on Saturday. He was 100. Raghunandan Bhatia died at a private hospital here on Friday night and he is survived by his son Ramesh Bhatia, daughter Saroj Munjal and younger brother J L Bhatia, they said. He was first elected to Lok Sabha in 1972 from the Amritsar parliamentary constituency, and again re-elected from the same seat in the 1980, 1985, 1992, 1996 and 1999 elections as a member of the Indian National Congress. Raghunandan Bhatia had also served as the governor of Kerala from 2004 to 2008 and the governor of Bihar from 2008 to 2009. He had also served as minister of state for external affairs in 1992. He, as a senior member of the Congress, held various positions in the party, including the post of Punjab unit president and general secretary.   Punjab Congress leader and MLA Raj Kumar Verka condoled Raghunandan Bhatia's demise and said he was the 'Bhishma Pitamah' of Indian politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-time-mp-from-amritsar-raghunandan-lal-bhatia-passes-away-at-100-986115.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi sets up oxygen concentrator bank; Covid-19 cases dip further with 6,430 new infections||The decline in Covid-19 cases in the national capital continued on Saturday, the consecutive second day in which the new cases remained below 10,000-mark, even as the number of tests slipped to the lowest since the second wave of the pandemic hit the city. The number of fresh cases recorded in Saturday's health bulletin was 6,430 as against 8,506 on Friday. The positivity rate also dipped to 11.32% from Friday's 12.40%. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi government will not let its guard down though cases have come down. He also announced the starting of oxygen concentrator banks for patients who are in home isolation and require oxygen support. As per the plans, 200 each oxygen concentrators will be distributed in 11 districts and these will be provided to patients in home isolation on the recommendation of doctors. If recommended by doctors, these will also be provided to those Covid-19 patients who are discharged from hospitals. Separately, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government has earmarked a fund of Rs 1,051 crore for the three municipal corporations in the capital to pay salaries of healthcare workers and other employees. "The Delhi government has released Rs 1,051 crore to the three municipal corporations in total so that they can pay salaries of their employees, amid this pandemic... The East Delhi Municipal Corporation is to get Rs 367 crore, North Delhi Municipal Corporation about Rs 432 crore and South Delhi Municipal Corporation will get Rs 251 crore," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sets-up-oxygen-concentrator-bank-covid-19-cases-dip-further-with-6430-new-infections-986134.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||21-year-old man rapes 70-year-old woman in UP; arrested||A 70-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a 21-year-old man in Uttar Pradesh's Lalitpur district, police said on Saturday. The accused has been arrested, they said. The woman was allegedly raped by the youth on Wednesday night when she was sleeping. She was alone at home at the time of the incident, said Sub-Inspector Digvijay Singh, incharge of Bar police station. A case was registered on Thursday and the accused arrested on Friday, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/21-year-old-man-rapes-70-year-old-woman-in-up-arrested-986140.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||93% who died due to Covid-19 in J&K had not been vaccinated, NHM data reveals||At least 93 per cent of those who died of Covid-19 in the last one month in Jammu and Kashmir had not received their vaccination, while the remaining 7 per cent were partially vaccinated, data released by National Health Mission (NHM) reveal. “An analysis of Covid-19 mortality in J&K between April 15 and May 12 states that 93 per cent of positive critical cases who died in this period were unvaccinated, 7 per cent were partially vaccinated; hence, clearly establishing that vaccination hugely reduces chances of death,” the NHM stated. According to US Centers for Disease Control (CDC), while Covid-19 vaccines are effective and critical to bring the pandemic under control, there will be a small percentage of people who are fully vaccinated who still get sick, are hospitalised, or die from Covid-19. However, such cases are rare, the CDC data shows. The NHM also released figures regarding the delay in hospitalization and said it directly increases the likelihood of mortality in Covid cases as nearly 50 per cent of deaths were of those cases that witnessed a delay in the process of hospitalization. “At least 46 per cent of deaths occurred within three days of testing positive, thus indicating that they were well into late stages of infection before they got tested. Don’t be in denial of your symptoms and get tested immediately so that treatment could start early,” the NHM said. The CDC data also shows that vaccines reduce hospitalisation and deaths in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/93-who-died-due-to-covid-19-in-jk-had-not-been-vaccinated-nhm-data-reveals-986143.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police arrests 15 people, lodges 17 FIRs over posters critical of PM Narendra Modi||Fifteen people have been arrested in the national capital on charges of circulating posters critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the vaccination drive, an action that attracted criticism for the government on social media. Posters appeared in several parts of the capital on Thursday, which read "Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyu bhej diya? (Prime Minister, why did you send vaccines of our children to foreign countries?)," officials said on Saturday. Incidents of surfacing of posters were reported from North-East Delhi, Outer Delhi, Central Delhi, Rohini, East Delhi, Dwarka, North Delhi and Shahdara districts. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had earlier targeted the BJP-led government at the Centre for exporting vaccines when the country was facing vaccine shortage amid the second wave of Covid-19. After receiving inputs about the surfacing of posters, a senior police official said police forces in the districts were alerted and cops were sent to the locations. At least 17 FIRs were registered across the capital under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code among others as well as Section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act. More FIRs are likely to be registered once more complaints are received. The official said it is being ascertained as to who was behind these posters. Of the 17 FIRs, three were registered in north-east Delhi, for which two persons were arrested. Three FIRs each were registered in West Delhi and Outer Delhi too. Four persons were arrested from Central Delhi in two cases, while two persons were apprehended in Rohini in two cases. Four persons were arrested from east Delhi's Kalyanpuri even as police are investigating whether AAP councillor Dhirender Kumar has any role in it. Investigators said 860 posters were seized from these four people. Two persons were arrested from Dwaraka in one case, while one man was apprehended from North Delhi where an FIR has been registered. The man arrested in North Delhi claimed during interrogation that he had been given Rs 500 to paste these posters. Police are also examining CCTV footage to arrest a person who pasted posters in Shahdara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-arrests-15-people-lodges-17-firs-over-posters-critical-of-pm-narendra-modi-986145.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Tiger found dead in Madhya Pradesh, third in a week||A tiger was found dead in the buffer zone of the Bandhavgarh reserve in Madhya Pradesh, which took the number of tiger fatalities reported in the state to three within a week, an official said on Saturday. The decomposed carcass of the tiger was found near a drain in the buffer area on Friday, Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve's field director Vincent Raheem told PTI over phone. "As the carcass was highly decomposed, the tiger's tongue and an internal organ were sent for testing to ascertain the cause of the death. The report is awaited," Raheem added. The carcass has been disposed of as per the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), he said. Last Saturday (May 8), a tiger was found dead in Kanha Tiger Reserve of the state, officials said. A day before that, a dead sub-adult tiger (aged between 18 and 24 months) was found floating in a canal of an inter-state water project in Balaghat's Waraseoni tehsil, they added. Madhya Pradesh is home to a number of tiger reserves, including Kanha, Bandhavgarh, Pench, Satpura and Panna. The central Indian state had regained the top slot in the 2018 census with a population of 526 tigers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tiger-found-dead-in-madhya-pradesh-third-in-a-week-986148.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Double mutant reason behind surge in Covid-19 deaths in Jammu||The double mutant variant of SARS CoV-2 (B.1.617) is the reason behind the surge in Covid-19 deaths in the Jammu region of the Union Territory, genomic data and epidemiological trend have indicated. Genome sequencing of 158 samples from the Jammu division, which was done by the Biotechnology lab at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Delhi, revealed the presence of the UK variant in more than 60% of samples in March. However, in April, the percentage of UK variants dropped to 47% and the B.1.617 increased to 38% that led to a sudden surge in Corona cases and deaths in Jammu province. The data was shared with states by the National Genomic Consortium (INSACOG) of ten laboratories, including Genome Sequencing laboratories (RSGLs) of the Department of Biotechnology, CSIR, ICMR and Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. Over the last few weeks, the Jammu division has witnessed more deaths than Kashmir even though the Valley is leading in infections, official data reveals. In the first two weeks of May, the UT has recorded 60707cases, of which 38954 (64.17%) were reported in Kashmir and 21753 (35.73%) in Jammu. In the same period, J&K lost 744 people to the virus, of which 482 (64.78%) were in Jammu and 262 (32.22%) in Kashmir. In April, of approximately 45,000 cases, the highest monthly total since the pandemic outbreak in the UT, Kashmir had reported 28,500 cases and Jammu 16,500. Of the 289 people who succumbed to Covid-19 in April, 136 were in Kashmir and 153 in Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/double-mutant-reason-behind-surge-in-covid-19-deaths-in-jammu-986153.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Max Hospital in Dehradun reports another case of black fungus||An elderly man who had recovered from the novel coronavirus infection was detected with the deadly black fungus infection or mucormycosis at Max Hospital here. Doctors had to remove the infected eye of the 60-year-old patient earlier this week, hospital authorities said on Saturday. He had recovered from Covid-19 late last month, they said. There have been three cases of post-Covid black fungus infection at the hospital. The first two cases were reported in January and February this year. All three patients had to undergo surgeries, they said. Chief Medical Superintendent of the hospital Rahul Prasad said people with diabetes and weak immunity are vulnerable to the infection which first affects the eyes and can be fatal if it spreads to other parts of the body. Covid-19 patients who have co-morbidities like diabetes need to be very careful even after recovery to keep mucormycosis at bay, Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/max-hospital-in-dehradun-reports-another-case-of-black-fungus-986155.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||51 out of 141 residents in Uttarakhand village test positive for Covid-19||Fifty-one out of the 141 people living in a village in Uttarakhand's Pauri district have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Saturday. The village has been declared a containment zone and villagers have been put in home isolation, they said. Residents of Kurkhyal village in Pauri's Ekeshwar block had been showing symptoms of Covid-19 like fever for some time. A health department team from the primary health centre at Pathisain took samples of villagers for testing on May 11, said Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Satpuli, Sandip Kumar. The reports were received on Friday. Fifty-one out of the total 141 villagers were found infected with the coronavirus, he said. The villagers have been put in home isolation and given medicine kits while the village has been declared a containment zone, he added. As a precautionary measure, Kumar said, the nearby market at Pathisain has also been closed. Six residents of a village adjoining Kurkhyal have also tested positive for Covid-19, he said. Anganwadi volunteers have been asked to remain in touch with the infected people in villages so that they can be shifted to the Covid care centre in Satpuli in case their condition deteriorates, he said. Recently, there has been a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in rural areas across the country. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the pandemic is spreading fast in rural areas and that every state government is making efforts to stop this. Awareness about this among rural people and cooperation of the panchayat institutes are equally important, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/51-out-of-141-residents-in-uttarakhand-village-test-positive-for-covid-19-986161.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Dehli civic bodies to get Rs 1,051 crore for paying salary to staff amid Covid-19||The Delhi government on Saturday announced a fund of Rs 1,051 crore for the three municipal corporations here to pay salaries of healthcare workers and other employees amid the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, in an online briefing, said despite constrained circumstances due to the lockdown, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has taken this decision as those people who are helping fight the Covid-19 pandemic should get their salaries. Doctors and other employees of the civic bodies are not getting their salaries due to "mismanagement and corruption in MCD (municipal corporations of Delhi)", the Aam Aadmi Party leader alleged. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation, East Delhi Municipal Corporation and North Delhi Municipal Corporation are all BJP-led civic bodies. "The Delhi government has released Rs 1,051 cr to the three municipal corporations in total so that they can pay salaries of their employees, amid this pandemic... the east corporation is to get Rs 367 cr, north corporation about Rs 432 cr and south corporation Rs 251 cr," he said. The minister asserted that civic authorities must ensure this fund is used for paying salaries of employees only and not "diverted for another usage". Delhi on Friday recorded 8,506 Covid-19 cases, the daily count dipping to below the 10,000-mark again after a month, with medical experts attributing the lockdown as the main factor behind the dip amid the second wave of the pandemic. Chief Minister Kejriwal, on Saturday, said that the number of cases recorded in the last 24 hours, has further dipped to about 6,500, with a positivity rate of 11 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dehli-civic-bodies-to-get-rs-1051-crore-for-paying-salary-to-staff-amid-covid-19-986164.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||40% of Punjab's Covid-19 deaths occurred in last 44 days||Around 40 per cent of the total Covid-19-related fatalities in Punjab took place in the last forty-four days, indicating the severity of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Punjab had reported a total of 6,868 deaths due to the infection as on March 31. The death toll rose to 11,477 as on May 14, showing 4,609 more people succumbing to the disease since April 1 this year, the state Health Department's data revealed. The health officials had earlier pointed out that the delay in approaching hospitals for treatment by patients with severe symptoms and comorbidities were the main reasons behind fatalities. Punjab witnessed a record 217 deaths because of the contagion in a single day on May 11. The state has been seeing more than 100 fatalities daily for the past several days. Ludhiana is one of the worst-affected districts in Punjab as it has registered 538 deaths between April 1 and May 14, 2021, as per the data. Besides, Amritsar reported 515 more deaths due to the contagion between April 1 and May 14. During the same period, Patiala saw 396 deaths, Bathinda 349, Mohali 307 and Jalandhar 301, as per the data. The case fatality rate in rural areas is 2.6 per cent as against 0.8 per cent in urban areas, officials said. Apart from this, Punjab has added 2,44,250 fresh cases of infection in the last 44 days. The state had a total of 2,39,734 cases as on March 31. It went up to 4,83,984 between April 1 and May 14, as per the Health Department data. Ludhiana, Mohali, Bathinda, Patiala, Jalandhar and some other districts have witnessed a sharp rise in infections. Punjab's positive rate on Friday stood at around 11 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-of-punjabs-covid-19-deaths-occurred-in-last-44-days-986190.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Police arrest 4 for 'sacrilegious act' in Rajouri||Four persons were arrested on Saturday in connection with a case related to a “sacrilegious act’ in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The case under sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Police station Budhal on Thursday following a "sacrilegious act" committed in the Khwas area, Rajouri Police said in a statement. Based on examination of witnesses and technical evidence during the investigation, four prime accused were identified and were meticulously tracked leading to their arrest, it said. “Several police parties were deputed to conduct raids on suspected locations and finally all the four main accused were arrested,” police said, adding further legal formalities in the matter are underway. The police requested all stakeholders to maintain calm and repose faith in the legal process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-police-arrest-4-for-sacrilegious-act-in-rajouri-986200.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 restrictions continue in Jammu and Kashmir||The lockdown imposed in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of an alarming surge in coronavirus cases entered the 17th day on Saturday as the normal life remained affected most areas of the union territory, officials said. Markets remained shut and public transport was off the roads, the officials said. However, private cars were seen plying in some areas of the city here and other district headquarters in the valley and the Jammu region, they said. The officials said while the restrictions on the movement and assembly of people continued to remain in force, the curbs were not strict. Several roads have been sealed by security forces and barricades have been put at many places in the city here as well as in other district headquarters of the valley to prevent the movement of people. On April 29, the Jammu and Kashmir administration imposed a curfew in 11 districts in a bid to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, which was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day till May 17. The officials said the government will review the situation before making a decision on the extension of the lockdown beyond May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-restrictions-continue-in-jammu-and-kashmir-986206.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh asks districts to extend lockdown till May 31||The Chhattisgarh government has asked authorities in all the 28 districts to extend the Covid-19 lockdown till May 31 even as it granted more relaxations in economic and other activities, an official said on Saturday. The lockdown, currently in force in all districts of the state, was set to end in most regions at May 15 midnight. "The lockdown will not be lifted in the state. Only certain relaxations will be granted, depending on the Covid-19 situation and risks in each of the districts," the official from the public relations department said. The restrictions and relaxations will be applicable till May 31, he said. The state government had on May 4 asked all the districts to extend the lockdown, which was imposed in early April, till May 16 while giving some relaxations, the official said. As per the new guidelines, all government and private construction activities will be allowed and they can be carried out in compliance with all standard operating procedures (SOPs) and labour safety measures, he said. Standalone shops including those selling groceries, essentials, vegetables and fruits can function till 5 pm, he said. "Shops located in established markets can operate, but with an odd-even system, under which they will be allowed to open on alternate days. Collectors and superintendents of police can decide modalities after consulting local traders' associations," the official said. All shops and establishments shall remain shut after 5 pm on working days, he said. On Sundays, only petrol pumps, hospitals, medical establishments, medicine shops, PDS shops will be allowed to function. Home delivery of essential commodities will be permitted, he said.    Vegetable markets, wedding venues, cinema halls, malls, clubs, swimming pools, supermarkets, showrooms, gyms, religious places, coaching classes, schools, colleges, parks, liquor stores and roadside establishments will remain shut, the official said. Tourist spots will remain shut and public gatherings will be prohibited, he said, adding that exams maybe permitted as per the state government orders and home delivery of liquor will be allowed for online orders. These relaxations will be applicable for Raipur, Durg and Rajnandgaon districts, while other districts can choose to impose certain relaxations based on their local situations, he said. "However, for state-wide uniformity, it is strongly advised that no district grants more relaxations than those mentioned above," he added. The lockdown has been extended till May 31 in Raipur and till May 24 in Bilaspur district. As of Friday, Chhattisgarh's Covid-19 caseload stood at 8,99,925, including 11,461 casualties, leaving the state with 1,15,964 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-asks-districts-to-extend-lockdown-till-may-31-986208.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||MP extends ban on interstate bus movement till May 23||The Madhya Pradesh government on Saturday extended the ban on the movement of passenger buses to and from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan till May 23, as a measure to contain the spread of coronavirus. The state government had on May 7 issued an order banning interstate movement of passenger buses, which was effective till Saturday. As per the new order issued by the state transport department, the ban on bus movement to and from the Covid-19- affected states of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh has been extended till May 23, additional commissioner transport Arvind Saxena said. The ban also covers vehicles that have All India tourist permits, the official added. Madhya Pradesh on Friday reported 8,087 fresh Covid-19 cases and 88 fatalities that took the tally of infections to 7,16,708 and toll to 6,841.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-extends-ban-on-interstate-bus-movement-till-may-23-986222.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Mucormycosis declared as a notified disease in Haryana, says Anil Vij||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday said that black fungus has been declared a notified disease in the state. The black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, is caused by a fungus called mucor. Now, if a patient is diagnosed with black fungus in any government or private hospital of the state, it will have to be reported to the CMO of the concerned district so that appropriate steps can be taken to prevent the disease, he said. Senior doctors of PGIMS, Rohtak will conduct meetings through videoconferencing with all the doctors who are treating coronavirus patients in the state and inform them about the treatment of black fungus. Recently, several states have flagged cases of Covid-triggered mucormycosis, especially among patients who are diabetic. Earlier this month, Niti Aayog member (health) V K Paul had ruled out an outbreak of Covid-triggered mucormycosis and said that the situation was being monitored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mucormycosis-declared-as-a-notified-disease-in-haryana-says-anil-vij-986224.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Covishield stock to last 6 days for 45+ age group after Delhi received its 1.73 lakh doses: Atishi||The Delhi government received over 1.73 lakh doses of Covishield on Saturday and the stocks of this vaccine will last for another six days for the 45 plus age group as well as frontline and health care workers, AAP MLA Atishi said. She said the stocks of Covaxin will last for another three days. There was no vaccination on Friday since it was a holiday owing to Eid, she said while issuing the vaccination bulletin. There is no Covaxin stock available for the 18-44 years age group while the stock of Covishield will last for another eight days, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covishield-stock-to-last-6-days-for-45-age-group-after-delhi-received-its-173-lakh-doses-atishi-986248.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir extends Covid restrictions till May 24||Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday extended Covid restrictions across the Union Territory (UT) till May 24 to prevent further spread of the virus. Directorate of Information and Public Relation (DIPR) in a tweet informed of the extension in restrictions for one more week. "The Corona Curfew imposed in all 20 distts of J&K till 7 am on Monday, 17/5/21 is extended further till 7 am on Monday, 24/5/21. The curfew will be strict except for a few essential services,” DIPR-J&K tweeted. Corona curfew was imposed in the UT on April 29 and since then has been extended a couple of times.  Meanwhile, for the 17th consecutive day on Saturday, restrictions remained imposed across the UT to contain the unabated rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths. A majority of the public remained confined to their homes even as streets continued to wear a deserted look while shops and business establishments remain closed and traffic off the roads. Police and paramilitary forces have closed a majority of the roads with barbed wires and barricades to stop the movement of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-extends-covid-restrictions-till-may-24-986267.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Tragedy averted as IED defused in J&K's Pulwama||Security forces Saturday averted a major tragedy when they detected an improvised explosive device (IED) in south Kashmir's Pulwama district.  A police official said inputs were received that Jash-e-Mohammad (JeM) militant outfit was planning to carry out IED attacks which shall be spectacular. "On the basis of this few suspects were questioned and on their admission, an IED weighing 10 kg was recovered and a major tragedy averted,” he said. Earlier on February 14, a seven-kg IED was detected and defused near the crowded general bus stand area in Jammu city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tragedy-averted-as-ied-defused-in-jks-pulwama-986274.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath, Amarinder Singh engage in verbal duel over Malerkotla||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh were engaged in a verbal duel on Saturday over the creation of a new district in Punjab. Adityanath, in a tweet, slammed his Punjab counterpart for carving out 'Malerkotla' as a new district out of Sangrur district and termed it as reflective of the ''divisive policy'' pursued by the Congress. ''Any division on the basis of religion is against the basic spirit of the constitution....creation of Malerkotla reflects the divisive policy of the Congress,'' Adityanath said in the tweet. In a sharp response to UP CM's tweet, Amarinder Singh said that it was an ''attempt to incite communal passion'' in Punjab. ''Adityanath should keep away from Punjab....in comparison to UP, communal amity prevails in Punjab...UP government has only pursued a communal agenda in the past four years,'' Singh said. Stating that Adityanath knew very little about the history of Malerkotla, Singh said ''Every Sikh and Punjabi knows very well about the relation between Malerkotla and Sikhism.''  The Punjab CM went on to say that Adityanath had ''scant regard'' for the Indian constitution. ''Passage of Love Jihad law in UP and hatred toward Taj Mahal have earned international condemnation,'' he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-amarinder-singh-engage-in-verbal-duel-over-malerkotla-986279.html
15-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 curfew extended in Uttar Pradesh till May 24||The Uttar Pradesh government decided on Saturday to extend the partial coronavirus curfew till 7 am on May 24. A decision was taken at a virtual meeting of the cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Earlier, the government had decided to increase the duration of the curfew till 7 am on May 17. "The partial corona curfew has helped in controlling the Covid-19 spread in the state," Adityanath said. "Keeping this in mind, the duration is being increased." In a statement, Adityanath said the state government was already providing free testing and treatment of Covid-19, as well as vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-curfew-extended-in-uttar-pradesh-till-may-24-986289.html
15-05-2021||Opinion||As Cyclone Tauktae knocks on India’s west coast, mitigation efforts fall short||Even as you read this, Cyclone Tauktae is brewing strong in the Arabian Sea. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has charted its path since May 14, when it was still a deep depression over the Lakshadweep area. The deep depression moved northwards and turned into Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced Tau’Te) late last night and is now moving almost parallel to the western coast to reach the Gujarat coast on May 18. The latest IMD forecast, at 10 am on May 15, states that the cyclone is likely to intensify into a ‘severe cyclonic storm’ during the next 12 hours and possibly into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ during the subsequent 12 hours, which would mean wind speeds of more than 160 km per hour. Over 5,500 km of the 7,500-odd km of India’s coastline is exposed to cyclones of varying intensity. Government studies estimate 40 per cent of the population living within 100 km of the coastline could potentially suffer from these cyclones. In reply to a Parliament question in March, the government said, “Studies show a decreasing trend in the frequency of the formation of ‘cyclonic storms’ over the Bay of Bengal and an increasing trend over the Arabian Sea, based on the data during 1965-2020.” Not just their frequency, even the intensity of cyclones in the Arabian Sea has increased in recent years, which experts had pointed out when the west coast braved Cyclone Nisarga last year. The phenomenon was ascribed to the rapid warming of the relatively cooler Arabian Sea (as compared to the Bay of Bengal) that suits cyclone formation. Economic losses due to such disasters are also on the rise. Thus, there must be ample cyclone preparedness. In recent years, thanks to the IMD tracking cyclones almost from their inception to their landfall and beyond, cyclone forecast has improved considerably. Technology has also enabled easy access to similar forecasts by agencies the world over. Post-1999, Odisha has gradually upgraded its infrastructure with proactive measures to mitigate damage from cyclones. Village level volunteers, cyclone shelters on stilts with provisions for livestock, rescue boats, water and ration kits at the shelters are part of the regular drill that has proved its worth time and again in the state. States on the west coast need to similarly ramp up their efforts. The early warning systems for the most vulnerable communities and the mitigative efforts are being improved but the pace is tardy. The objective of the ongoing National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project (NCRMP) is to undertake suitable structural and non-structural measures to mitigate the effects of cyclones in the coastal areas. The NCRMP aims at reducing the vulnerability of coastal states through the creation of an appropriate infrastructure that can help mitigate the adverse impacts of cyclones while preserving the ecological balance of a coastal region and strengthening cyclone warning systems enabling quick and effective dissemination of warning and advisories from source/district/sub-district level to the relevant communities. Phase II of this project was approved in July 2015 to be completed by March 2020 for the states of Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra on the west coast, and West Bengal on the east coast, at an outlay of Rs 2361.35 crore, including World Bank assistance of Rs 1881.20 crore with the remaining to be contributed by the states. As of March 2021, government records show the works for the Early Warning Dissemination System (EWDS) in Goa, Karnataka and Kerala remain incomplete and were given a new deadline of February/March 2022. Unlike several government documents that are mostly in English, this information is supposed to reach the beneficiary in a language that he or she understands. Further, in Goa, of the 12 Multi-Purpose Cyclone Shelters (MPCSs) to be completed, none was fully complete in all respects and the deadline for five of them was shifted to early 2022. In Karnataka, of the 11 MPCSs, eight are complete and three are under construction. Kerala claimed that 10 of its 17 MPCSs were almost complete; three would be completed by August 2021, and the remaining by March 2022. Gujarat said it has completed 33 of 76 MPCSs, and the remaining 43 would be completed by December 2021. Once the physical structures are erected, the states would have to ensure Shelter Level Equipment (Set) too. As the storm surges ahead, the real test would be the on-ground preparation, coordination between multiple agencies, training of the state government officials to first design protocols and then to follow them and increasing community awareness, in local languages, about the risks and the possible mitigation measures. A telling comment on the state of affairs on the ground was the lack of coordination that departments of the state governments displayed during the project steering committee meeting of the NCRMP in March this year. “It was expected that the state governments should have sorted out their in-house issues/communications before attending the meeting with the Government of India,” was put on the record in the minutes of the meeting. What can be a more severe indictment of the state governments?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/as-cyclone-tauktae-knocks-on-india-s-west-coast-mitigation-efforts-fall-short-986156.html
15-05-2021||Right in the Middle||What’s in a name?||It was a day like any other. A sneeze. A sliver of doubt. Could this be it? Well, let’s not take chances. My elder son came out with an action plan. Isolation. Neem. Steaming. Oxygen concentrator. Contact numbers. The young chap felt a headache coming on and retired to his room, wondering if this was an early symptom. But this is not another story about how we survived or succumbed to the virus. The disease I encountered that day was far more devastating and far-reaching. We managed to get a number for home sample collection. With two doctors at home who have been dealing with patients and possibly infected friends and family members, it made sense to get tested through the entire pandemic. A few hours after calling and booking a test, we heard the front doorbell ring. The lab technician was equipped with his little kit and ready to put on his PPE and get started. One by one, he took down details and efficiently swabbed both nose and throat. As I got up to leave, I turned and asked through the double mask,” What’s your name?” Silence. Then, “@&£%#,“ he mumbled. “What’s your name?” I asked again. This time a bit louder, in a more strident voice, so that I could be heard through the mask. As I observed him, I saw hesitation and a hint of real worry for the first time in his face. “Ismail, sir,” he said more clearly, but still sounding diffident and nervous. In that moment, I realised what it must feel like to be marginalised or discriminated against in any society, in any part of the world. Whether as a woman in a patriarchal world, a Dalit, a sexual minority or just an outspoken person in a society that does not tolerate reason. Ismail was worried whether his name or identity would have unpleasant repercussions. “Thank you, Ismail,” I said. “Isn’t it time for you to break your fast? Do you want water or fruits?“ Ismail told me that he wanted to be back home for the last prayer and Iftaar meal with his family. He accepted the bananas I offered and ensured me that the reports would reach in 24 hours. The Chinese virus or the Indian strain, Shetty or Sharma, Amar, Akbar or Anthony? Would we be able to use this pandemic to rise above nomenclature and labels and move onto the universal religion of humanity and kindness? Only time will tell whether the Bard had a point when he asked us, “What’s in a name? That which we call a rose, By any other name, would smell as sweet.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/what-s-in-a-name-986076.html
15-05-2021||Second Edit||Advertising our gender bias||A study of the gender roles in advertisements in India has revealed, expectedly, that they closely reflect the deep biases that are found in society as such. The study was done by UNICEF and the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media, and it analysed the top 1,000 most viewed ads in India in 2019 on television and on YouTube. Though there have been perceptions about gender bias and scattered studies of representation and attitudes in the media, this is the first major attempt to make a systematic analysis of gender representation in ads in the country. The study shows that girls and women are well-represented as characters to the extent of 49.6 per cent, and they take up 59.7 per cent of the screen time and 56.3 per cent of the speaking time. But their roles confirm entrenched stereotypes, and they mostly sell domestic and beauty products to female consumers. Their beauty and charm are used to make the products attractive. Women are less likely to be seen as working women in paid jobs, and those in high places are extremely rare. They are usually seen in the kitchen, doing domestic chores and recommending products which are usually used by women. They are also shown as responsible for childcare and for shopping but are less likely to be seen in public spaces. Most often, women are shown as beautiful and sometimes scantily dressed. Female characters are nine times more likely to be shown as attractive, six times more likely to seen in revealing clothing and five times more likely to be sexually objectified than male characters. They are not shown as decision-makers outside their homes. Men are also represented true to the stereotypes about them, having power and wealth and dominating. Advertisements, like art and literature, reflect the biases, prejudices and attitudes in society. But they don’t take the critical view that art and literature sometimes take. Ads, in fact, make use of gender stereotypes to sell things and to convey commercial messages. Children who watch these advertisements are likely to imbibe these messages and that influences their attitudes in later life. Ideas about family, gender roles and man-woman relationships are deeply influenced by these narratives. Therefore, dismantling the stereotypes and removing the biases in advertisements is important in a society that aspires to gender equality. When women are as good as men in every respect, it is wrong to project only their traditional roles in society. The study should serve as a guide to ad-makers who should critically examine the messages being conveyed by their work. Since ads and social perceptions are mutually dependent and reinforcing, there is also the need for change on both sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/advertising-our-gender-bias-986074.html
15-05-2021||South||Coast Guard ship from Karnataka rescues 3 fishermen off Kannur coast during Cyclone Tauktae search operations||The Indian Coast Guard ship Vikram from Karnataka has rescued three distressed fishermen off Kannur in Kerala during the search and rescue mission carried out in the wake of cyclone Tauktae. According to Coast Guard Commander DIG Venkatesh, the fishing boat IFB IND KL 08 M0 2536 reportedly had an engine failure in mid-sea. The rescue operation was taken up at midnight on May 14. The three fishermen were provided with food and are in healthy condition. ICGS Vikram will hand over the fishermen to the Fisheries Department and Coastal Security personnel at Kochi, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coast-guard-ship-from-karnataka-rescues-3-fishermen-off-kannur-coast-during-cyclone-tauktae-search-operations-986127.html
15-05-2021||South||Houses damaged, cracks develop in Valiyathura sea bridge as rains continue to batter Kerala||Scores of houses were damaged, trees uprooted and power supply disrupted for hours across Kerala as incessant rains and strong winds continue to lash the state on Saturday even as severe sea incursion disrupted normal life in the coastal areas. According to the latest update of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), a red alert, indicating the possibility of extremely heavy rains, was sounded in five northern districts of Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. Thunderstorm with moderate rainfall and gusty winds speed reaching 40 Kmph, is likely at one or two places in Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts, it added. High range and coastal areas in the central and northern districts mainly bore the brunt of the nature's fury in the last 24 hours. As the water level in major rivers like Meenachil, Achankovil and Manimala was rising steadily, authorities cautioned people living on its banks to be vigilant. The shutters of the Kallarkutty, Malankara and Bhoothathankettu dams in hill district Idukki were opened and that of the Maniyar in Pathanamthitta was raised as a precautionary measure following high inflow in the catchment area. Trees were widely uprooted and fell upon houses and vehicles, causing rampant destruction across the state. Uprooted trees also caused traffic blocks in several places while the movement in Munnar-Vattavada road in Idukki was disrupted for some time. NDRF personnel were trying to remove trees and clear the paths, authorities said. Heavy rains and gusty winds, accompanied by extensive sea incursion, continued to cause widespread destruction in the coastal hamlets of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. Valiyathura pier, one of the oldest sea bridges in the state located here, developed a crack in the strong winds which hit the shores since last night. A portion of the over 200 metre-long structure, which offers a breath-taking view of the sea, seemed tilted to a side in the morning, locals said. The entrance of the bridge was blocked and placed under police security considering the safety of people. Besides Chellanam in Ernakulam district, rough sea and high tidal waves wreaked havoc in Kaipamangalam, Chavakkad and Kodungallur in Thrissur, Pallithura in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrikkannapuzha in Alappuzha and Beypore and Koyilandy in Kozhikode districts. Initial reports said that hundreds of houses were damaged in coastal belts across the state as seawater seeped in following very high waves. A large number of people were shifted to relief camps in various districts, arranged in adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Meanwhile, the Indian Coast Guard Ship Vikram rescued three fishermen from a small fishing boat off northern Kannur district on Friday night. Local fishing boats and Marine Enforcement Wing boats were not able to go out for rescues, an Indian Coast Guard statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/houses-damaged-cracks-develop-in-valiyathura-sea-bridge-as-rains-continue-to-batter-kerala-986151.html
15-05-2021||South||IMA urges Kerala govt to conduct swearing-in ceremony virtually||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday appealed to conduct the swearing-in ceremony of the new Left government in Kerala on virtual platform in the wake of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. The state chapter of the outfit pointed out that the violation of the social distancing norms and the lack of proper usage of masks during the campaign of the recently-concluded Assembly election was among the several reasons which triggered the second wave of the pandemic in the state. The new government is coming to power upholding scientific temper and understanding the will of people, it said. "So, the conduct of the swearing-in ceremony on the virtual platform, avoiding the gathering of people, will give a strong message of fight against Covid-19," the IMA said here in a statement. The outfit of medicos also applauded the Pinarayi Vijayan government for its decision to extend the lockdown till May 23, taking into consideration the demand of the scientific community. The new LDF ministry, headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, is expected to assume power on May 20. Recently, Vijayan indicated that the plan was to take oath on May 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ima-urges-kerala-govt-to-conduct-swearing-in-ceremony-virtually-986162.html
15-05-2021||South||Goondas Act for hoarding Remdesivir, says TN CM||Hoarding of Remdesivir, a drug used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, and selling oxygen cylinders at exorbitant rates will attract police action under the stringent Goondas Act in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister M K Stalin said on Saturday. The CM's direction to the police comes in the wake of arrest of a number of persons for allegedly selling Remdesivir vials in the black market at inflated prices amid a surge in demand for the life-saving oxygen. Stalin said that while the public have accepted the "bitter pill" of lockdown despite the curbs affecting their livelihood and have extended cooperation to save lives, at the same time, some "anti-social elements" were hoarding the drug and selling it in the black market, he said in a statement. "Similarly, complaints are being received that at some places oxygen cylinders are being sold at high rates. Indulging in such acts during a pandemic is a severe crime," Stalin added. "I have directed to the police department to take stringent action under the Goondas Act against those who hoard Remdesivir and sell oxygen cylinders at inflated price," the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/goondas-act-for-hoarding-remdesivir-says-tn-cm-986199.html
15-05-2021||South||Kerala youngster who inspired many succumbs to cancer||Condolences are pouring in over the death of a youth in Kerala due to cancer as he inspired many cancer patients by advising them to treat cancer just as a 'cold' and shared his experiences with the disease. Nandu Mahadeva, 27, hailing from Thiruvananthapuram, died at a hospital in Kozhikode on Saturday. Nandu, who graduated in business administration, was in the catering business when he was diagnosed with cancer at the age of 24. Even his left leg had to be amputated in due course. Nandu started sharing his experiences with cancer on social media and his positive outlook got much attention. Subsequently, he formed a social media group of cancer patients and their supporters, titled 'Athijeevanam' (Survival). Many of his songs, videos and speeches went viral on social media. After understanding more about the disease by talking to doctors, Nandu once posted that he was treating cancer just like a cold. He used to keep on posting details of his treatment and even urged all cancer patients not to hide facts about the disease. He also initiated crowdfunding initiatives through social media to help cancer patients. A crowdfunding initiative for his own treatment witnessed around Rs 50 lakh flowing into his account with in a day. He had to request his well wishers to stop contributing. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and many celebrities' condoled the death of Nandu, who leaves behind father Hari, mother Lekha and two siblings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-youngster-who-inspired-many-succumbs-to-cancer-986245.html
15-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis: Rush for Remdesivir increases in Tamil Nadu; Ivermectin taken off treatment protocol||Despite doctors clarifying that Remdesivir is not a life-saving drug and it does not work on all Covid-19 patients, the queue to buy vials of the anti-viral drug keeps growing with each passing day. Relatives of patients are standing in serpentine queues at major cities in Tamil Nadu for hours on end to buy the medicine – not everyone gets lucky as the medicine is in short supply and only a few hundred tokens are issued each day. The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday shifted selling of the drug from a medical college hospital to a sprawling indoor stadium, but the ever-growing crowd only raised fears of more people contracting coronavirus. Doctors and healthcare experts have been appealing to people not to crowd centres that sell Remdesivir as the drug cannot guarantee the life of a Covid-19 infected person. However, doctors also continue to prescribe the medicine, forcing the kin of patients to run from pillar to post in search of it. “The doctor treating my mother has prescribed Remdesivir, and I stood in the queue for two days but in vain. What else are we supposed to do when private hospitals ask us to buy the drug?” asked a 43-year-old man, who had come to the stadium to buy the drug. He said only 300 tokens are issued each day at the stadium, while a few hundred tokens each are issued at four other counters across the state. “The government should increase the number of counters selling the drug, or instruct hospitals not to prescribe. It should put the onus on procuring the drug on hospitals that treat the patients,” a doctor, who is at the forefront of Covid-19 efforts, told DH. The government on Saturday warned of action under Goondas Act against those hoarding Remdesivir and increasing the price of oxygen. The state government began selling Remdesivir in Chennai from April-end and expanded it to four other cities. “Remdesivir, an anti-viral primarily taken along with steroids, anticoagulants and antibiotics, is used to improve the outcome of treatment and survival rate in Covid-19. Remdesivir is not a magic wand that cures Covid-19. Social distancing and masks are still the solution. “People should realise it works along with a variety of other factors, and it is not indicated for those who don't have breathing issues,” Dr A Mohammed Hakkim, Emergency physician in Tiruchirapalli, told DH. In its revised treatment protocol, the Tamil Nadu government has removed Ivermectin, after the World Health Organisation (WHO) said the drug does not work on Covid-19 patients. Another problem that doctors are facing in Tamil Nadu is use of steroids by patients in the first week of their infection without any medical advice. Dharmapuri MP S Senthilkumar, a radiologist by profession, said many youngsters are losing their life due to intake of steroids immediately after they are infected with Covid-19. “This has to be checked immediately. Like Remdesivir, people have a lot of misconceptions about steroids. Steroids work, but not in the first week, and it is not needed for all patients. Since they are available over-the-counter, people misuse them,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-rush-for-remdesivir-increases-in-tamil-nadu-ivermectin-taken-off-treatment-protocol-986249.html
15-05-2021||South||Cyclone Tauktae: Rain wreaks havoc in Kerala, high alert sounded across state||Houses and crops faced extensive damage across Kerala due to heavy rain and strong winds since Friday. Two persons drowned at Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts. While a red alert was sounded in nine districts on Friday, a night travel ban was imposed in the hilly district of Idukki in view of the rough weather alert in connection with Cyclone Tauktae. Many houses along the coastal areas of Kerala were entirely washed away by high tides and heavy rain, accompanied by strong winds. Videos of houses, including two-storey ones, along the coastal areas of Kasargod collapsing went viral on social media. However, no major casualties were reported as people were already shifted to relief camps. Power supply in many parts of the state were disrupted after electric lines snapped. With the Central Water Commission predicting flood-like situation in some parts of the state, the water levels of dams were being continuously monitored and shutters of many dams were opened. People staying along the banks of rivers were directed to remain on high alert. Many families have already been shifted to safe locations. At Thiruvananthapuram, a decades-old pier suffered damage due to the heavy tide in the region over the last three days. A portion of the 214-metre pier reportedly sagged. Entry of public to the pier was already banned. As per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Saturday afternoon, no red alert was not sounded in any district. Only orange alert was sounded at Ernakulam, Idukki and Malappuram districts. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said changes in climate was proving that the coastal areas of Kerala were becoming unsafe and hence, further steps for protection of those living in these areas was required. He said over the last two days, the state received an average rainfall of 145.5 mm. Nearly 200 mm of rain was received over the last 24 hours in some parts of the state. With monsoon likely to hit the state by May 31, the state needs to remain on high alert in forthcoming days. Meanwhile, Covid-19 protocol will be strictly ensured at relief camps. So far, around 1,900 persons have been shifted to relief camps. Those under home quarantine in the calamity-hit areas were being shifted to nearby first-line treatment centres, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-tauktae-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-kerala-high-alert-sounded-across-state-986255.html
15-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government floats global tender to procure Covid-19 vaccines||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday floated a global tender to procure 5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine to be administered to those between the age of 18 and 45. The tender floated by Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) says the vaccines should be delivered within three months of the date of the purchase order. The tender document, which has been uploaded on TNMSC website, says the last date for applying is June 5, the date when the tenders will be opened. The development follows an announcement by Chief Minister M K Stalin on May 12 that the state will go for a global tender to procure vaccines to be administered to those in the age group of 18-45. The Centre, which has provided vaccines for those above the age of 45, has asked the state governments to procure vaccines for 18-45 years of age. With just two brands available in India – Covaxin and Covishield – the state government has gone for a global tender to procure vaccines. The tender says the state will procure 50 million (5 crore) doses and they should be delivered within 90 days progressively of the date of the purchase order. It further says manufacturers or direct importers or non-manufacturer bidders meeting the eligibility criteria are eligible to participate in this tender The document said the vaccines should be delivered at the DMS Complex in Chennai, and at district vaccine stores at Cuddalore, Thanjavur, Tiruchirapalli, Madurai, Sivaganga, Tirunelveli, Vellore, Salem and Coimbatore. “The Purchaser reserves the rights to split the order quantity to more than one responsive bidder at the L1 matched rates at its full discretion, depending on the delivery schedule as time is the essence of the contract and the goods are under life saving category,” the tender document said. The document also said the quantity indicated is tentative and will vary as per the actual requirement and that the purchaser reserves the rights to purchase one or more vaccines at differential prices based on cost, vaccine efficacy and availability during the period of vaccination programme. Tamil Nadu's vaccination rate is one of the poorest with less than 70 lakh people getting jabs in the past few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-floats-global-tender-to-procure-covid-19-vaccines-986264.html
15-05-2021||South||Triple lockdown to make Kerala government's swearing-in a low key function||With triple lockdown being imposed in four districts in Kerala, including Thiruvananthapuram from Monday to May 23, the swearing-in ceremony of the new left-front government proposed for May 20 will be a low-key affair. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the swearing-in function would be conducted only by considering the Covid situation. Only a minimum number of people would be participating in the event. Already, arrangements for the swearing-in ceremony were progressing at the Central stadium adjacent to the government secretariat. It is for the first time after four decades that a same front was retaining power in Kerala, and hence the LDF was planning to make it a remarkable event. Talks among the various coalition partners in the LDF over representation in the new cabinet was progressing. Meanwhile, stringent restrictions would be put in place at Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts in view of triple lockdown. These four districts have a high number of active Covid cases now. The Chief Minister said that borders of the districts would be blocked. Shops selling vegetables and groceries shall preferably function on alternate days. Banks would function on Tuesday and Friday only. A total of 32,680 fresh Covid cases were reported on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases to 4.45 lakh. The test positivity rate was also remaining high at 26.65 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/triple-lockdown-to-make-kerala-governments-swearing-in-a-low-key-function-986280.html
15-05-2021||South||Steroids, diabetes main causes of black fungal infections in Covid patients||The abuse of oral steroids and uncontrolled diabetes are the culprits behind the unusual outbreak of black fungus infections among Covid-19 patients in India, two senior health officials said on Saturday. "Misuse of steroids is the main reason behind corona-associated mucormycosis. The chances of fungal infection increase in patients who are diabetic, Covid-19 positive and are taking steroids. To prevent it, we should stop the misuse of steroids,” Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said at a press conference. This disease can affect the face, infecting the nose, orbit of the eye or the brain, which can cause even vision loss. It can also spread to the lungs. “Steroids should not be given indiscriminately and not in high doses. Diabetes must also be checked as uncontrolled diabetes causes the infection,” added V K Paul, NITI Ayog member and a former professor at AIIMS. Paul said there was no national inventory of Covid-19 associated mucormycosis cases but the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) began an exercise to create one after some states reported 400-500 such cases. Guleria said there were 23 such cases at AIIMS, Delhi.   On the Covid-19 scenario in the states, a health ministry official said Tamil Nadu was a new cause of concern because of the rise in the positive cases in the last week. Chennai, Chengalpattu and Coimbatore are three districts that saw a continued rise in the cases in the last two weeks. Since the last ten days, Tamil Nadu has been among the top five states reporting the maximum of daily new Covid-19 cases. As many as 516 districts have more than 10 per cent test positivity ratio, of which 316 districts showed an increasing trend since the last two weeks. On the positive side, 187 districts were showing a decreasing trend and there was a drop in active cases in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh, said Lov Agarwal, joint secretary in the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/steroids-diabetes-main-causes-of-black-fungal-infections-in-covid-patients-986332.html
15-05-2021||South||CID court remands rebel YSRC MP to 14 days in judicial custody||A designated CID court on Saturday night remanded arrested YSR Congress MP K Raghu Ramakrishna Raju to 14 days in judicial custody but directed that he be admitted to a hospital for treatment of injuries allegedly caused due to police torture. The CID court magistrate directed that the MP be kept in hospital till he was completely cured. On the other hand, hearing a Habeas Corpus petition, the Andhra Pradesh High Court constituted a medical board to examine Raju's injuries and submit a report by Sunday. Raju submitted a four-page letter to the CID court magistrate in Guntur alleging that the sleuths beat him, causing severe injuries particularly to his legs. He submitted photographs showing his swollen and bruised feet as evidence of police torture. "They used third-degree methods while interrogating me," the rebel MP alleged. The same evidence was also presented to the High Court, hearing the Habeas Corpus petition. The High Court took a serious view of this and said stern action on the police would be taken if it was found that the injuries on Raju were caused by their torture. The High Court constituted a special bench, headed by Justice C Praveen Kumar, to hear Rajus case. Additional Advocate General P Sudhakar Reddy, on behalf of the state government, debunked the Narsapuram MPs claims and said the latter started a "new drama" after the High Court dismissed his bail petition earlier in the day. "His family members brought lunch for Raju in the afternoon and till then he was fine.But he began the new drama after the bail petition was dismissed," the Additional Advocate General alleged. Taking to Twitter, Telugu Desam party president N Chandrababu Naidu lambasted the Jagan Mohan Reddy government over the MP's issue. "..@raghuraju_mp was arrested in a foisted case, tortured right in the AP CID office in a barbaric manner.... Broad daylight violation of fundamental rights and mockery of democracy," Chandrababu said in a tweet. "Trust in our great constitution is put under question. I am sure constitution and judiciary will ensure justice. Pray for safeguarding democracy and upholding our constitutional values. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere," he said. In a statement, the Leader of Opposition found fault with the CID for going to the MPs residenc and arresting him. "This is a major crime as it is against the Covid-19 restrictions.Now, applying third-degree measures is another wrong. All these reflect that AP is under a faction regime and not a constitutional system," Chandrababu lamented. He demanded that appropriate legal action be taken against the "guilty police officials".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cid-court-remands-rebel-ysrc-mp-to-14-days-in-judicial-custody-986338.html
15-05-2021||State||Covid vaccination: Digital divide comes between arm and needle in Karnataka's villages||A group of men sitting under a peepal tree on a hot summer afternoon in Chikkamalapura, a village in the hinterlands of Chamarajanagar district are asked about the government’s decision to vaccinate all above 18. They say they are unaware of it. “Perhaps the youngsters might know,” one of them suggests. A group of youngsters sitting nearby say they, too, have no such information. “We have not been told anything. For now, our masks should suffice.” The village has, thus far, received the first dose of vaccine for those above sixty. Those above 45 are yet to get vaccinated.  While thousands of people in the state between 18-44 years have queued up online for vaccination even as the government is yet to procure vaccine, there’s a stark divide between urban and rural Karnataka. According to government data, until May 12, about 70,000 people were vaccinated in the 18-44 age group. When this reporter from DH visited a few villages in Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts, a majority of the people, including panchayat members and those working in PHCs, were neither aware about the CoWIN portal nor any form of online registration. While those living in interior areas have no clue that the government has even announced vaccination for all above 18, the situation is slightly different in villages closer to district centres. People here know about the announcement, but do not know that it requires online registration. Also, they do not want to register until the vaccine stock arrives. “Many in our village have phones with internet connection and can register online. In case they cannot, Gram Panchayat Task Force members will carry out registrations at the doorstep,” Ramadas, the PDO of Naganahalli in Mysuru, says. Rural areas are also lagging behind in vaccinating people above 45 years. Unavailability of vaccine, having to commute to the closest village that has a Primary Health Centre only to be sent back home with no vaccine has led to public anger against local officials. That coupled with general skepticism about the vaccination itself has discouraged people from getting jabbed. The role of Gram Panchayat Task Force, which includes the Panchayat Development Officers, ASHA workers and other panchayat members, has been crucial in encouraging vaccination. “We tell them that we have also taken the injection and that we’re healthy. That’s the only way to build confidence,” Lalitha, the PDO of Kestur in Yelandur, Chamarajanagar, explains. These are but a few instances. The situation is similar in villages across the state, according to ASHA Workers Union state secretary Nagalakshmi. “Superstition and skepticism about the vaccine are widely prevalent. As for vaccination of 18-44 years, ASHA workers themselves are unaware of CoWIN portal. At least half the population in rural areas do not have mobile phones with internet. Even with internet, one must have network availability and should know how to register. Rural areas will be left behind unless the government takes up door-to-door vaccination drive,” she says.  Dr R Balasubramaniam, who heads the Grassroots Advocacy and Research Movement (GRAAM) encourages embracing technology for vaccination while insisting on creating local support structures. “The fundamental flaw is exclusion. There is an arrogance of presumption that everyone in the country knows how to access the portal. The second problem is comprehension. The CoWIN portal should be accessible in the local language. The government should make use of the ASHA and Anganwadi workers’ network to do registrations online and bridge the divide,” he says.  Health Minister K Sudhakar told DH that once the vaccine stock arrives the state government will ensure that nobody is left out of the process. “We are planning more awareness campaigns at Gram Panchayat level and we will also involve ASHA and Annganwadi workers in coming days. People who cannot register online for vaccination can walk-in to nearest PHC or vaccination center and get registered.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-vaccination-digital-divide-comes-between-arm-and-needle-in-karnatakas-villages-986311.html
15-05-2021||State||Govt reducing Covid tests to show less cases: D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Saturday alleged that the state government had directed all hospitals to reduce Covid-19 testing by 50% to bring down the number of daily fresh cases.  “This amounts to the government itself killing citizens,” he told reporters.  “An ICMR report has stated that testing should be ramped up. But the government has asked hospitals to cut testing by 50%. More testing means more awareness among people. However, it is wrong to reduce the number of tests just for the sake of showing fewer cases,” Shivakumar said.  Shivakumar said his party was ready to cooperate with the government on any life-saving measures. “But we will not cooperate and tolerate mistakes and wrong decisions,” he said. “The government should realise what judges, the media and citizens are saying about its performance.”  Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai refuted Shivakumar’s charge. “We have not reduced RT-PCR tests. Earlier, testing happened at public places including railway stations and bus stands. This has stopped now because of the lockdown. That’s why the testing numbers have come down. But we are testing primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients compulsorily,” he said.  Teachers deaths Shivakumar said the death of 42 teachers in Basavakalyan, where bypolls were held recently, was “our fault” as he lamented the government’s decision to hold elections during the pandemic. “Political parties, including ours, failed to maintain social distancing. The death of the 42 teachers due to Covid is our fault. We were intoxicated with mobilising people and getting votes. But the government should have given protection to teachers who were on election duty,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-reducing-covid-tests-to-show-less-cases-d-k-shivakumar-986312.html
15-05-2021||State||Cyclone Tauktae: Rough sea batters coastal districts||The deep depression over the east-central Arabian Sea on Saturday intensified into cyclonic storm Tauktae, unleashing heavy rain and sea erosion in coastal districts while bringing widespread rain in Malnad region. “The cyclonic storm is currently centered over the east Arabian Sea. It is likely to intensify and move further north. The storm is expected to reach Gujarat coast on May 18. Karnataka coast will experience heavy rain and a red alert has been sounded for Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts for Sunday (May 16). The region is likely to receive about 200 mm of rain,” said C S Patil, Director, India Meteorological Department (IMD). The coast is witnessing squally wind speed reaching up to 70 kmph. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the rough sea for the next five days. On Saturday, all three coastal districts saw storm surge with coast erosion at several parts of the district. It was more pronounced in Uttara Kannada, where the saline sea water has intruded into the farmland close to the coast. Vast tract of paddy land is under sea water at Haldipur in Honnavar taluk. A fisherman died while salvaging his boat in the rough sea at Jalokhodi in Bhatkal. Lakshman Naik (60) was crushed between two fishing boats after a huge wave rammed the coast. The invading sea has damaged more than 50 houses in Kumta, Bhatkal and Honnavar taluks. More than 50 people are taking refuge at a shelter opened at Paavinakurva government school in Honnavar taluk. The situation is no different in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada where roads, houses, a Hindu crematorium and scores of coconut trees have been damaged under the onslaught of waves. The administration has made arrangements to move the people in vulnerable areas into make-shift shelter homes opened across the twin districts. Good inflow to dams The Malnad region and many parts of north and south Karnataka witnessed high intensity winds and widespread rain through the day on Saturday. The incessant showers in Malnad districts have spurred the water level in Tunga, Bhadra and Cauvery rivers. The dam authorities have sounded a warning for the people living on the banks of the rivers. Meanwhile, Kalyana Karnataka and Vijayapura districts continued to receive summer rains with thunder and lightning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cyclone-tauktae-rough-sea-batters-coastal-districts-986315.html
15-05-2021||State||Consider advocates as frontline workers: AAB||The Advocates’ Association Bengaluru (AAB) has submitted a representation to the government requesting to consider advocates as frontline workers. The association has also requested the chief minister to grant Rs 30 lakh as compensation for the advocates who succumbed to Covid-19. “The entire legal fraternity, especially the advocates across the country and the state, have toiled day in and day out to ensure that the administration of justice does not come to a standstill. In this pursuit of selfless sacrifice and public service, many advocates not only contracted the virus, but also tragically succumbed to it,” the representation stated. A P Ranganath, president of AAB, said many advocates are in dire financial crisis and are not able to afford basic living expenses. “I also request you to provide free treatment in all the hospitals for the members of the Bench, the Bar and Court staff. Further, the government must immediately release funds to be dispersed for advocates in dire financial distress,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/consider-advocates-as-frontline-workers-aab-986341.html
15-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Second Oxygen Express to Karnataka with 120 MT reaches Bengaluru||The second Oxygen Express to Karnataka with 120 MT liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from Kalinganagar in Odisha's Jajpur district reached Bengaluru on Saturday morning. The third such train to the State with 120 MT LMO from Tatanagar in Jharkhand will reach here on Saturday evening, the South Western Railway said. The total tonnage of LMO from both the trains is 240 MT, SWR added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-oxygen-express-to-karnataka-with-120-mt-reaches-bengaluru-986136.html
15-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tanker shortage delays Karnataka's oxygen procurement plans||Despite a fresh allocation of 1,015 metric tonnes of medical oxygen from the Centre, the lack of an adequate number of tankers has delayed the state's efforts to bring the supply from far away regions. Until Thursday, as per the drug control department, Karnataka was supplied with only 812.54 metric tonnes of oxygen as against the revised allocation of 1,015 MT from May 11. However, data shows that Karnataka was consuming 825.2 MT of oxygen as of May 9, according to an audit report of oxygen consumption carried out by the state nodal officer for oxygen distribution Munish Moudgil.  "We are consuming all supplies. We were supplied with 790 to 812 MT of oxygen from May 11 to 13. Besides, we have 220 MT allocation from Odisha which we were unable to lift," Moudgil said.  Explaining the logistical reasons why the state wasn't getting all of the 1,015 metric tonnes of oxygen, Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Jawaid Akhtar said, "Out of 1,015 metric tonnes, 60 tonnes are produced in house at oxygen generation units. So we get a supply of 955 tonnes from manufacturers." "But the allocations we have from Jharkhand and Odisha are not coming on a regular basis via trains. Tankers need to be increased. Tomorrow, we will receive 120 tonnes each from Odisha and Jharkhand. For want of four tankers of oxygen, we need to send 16 tankers, and it takes two days to go and two days to come. By train it is one day," he added. "We've got four tankers from the Government of India, and we're also procuring more tankers from the state. It's in the pipeline," he said.  Based on the scientific projection for the peak of the second wave, Karnataka had previously sought an allocation of 1,792 MT of medical oxygen from the Centre.  With the surge in demand in the last few days, the state government has put in an elaborate system both in districts as well different zones of the BBMP monitoring the allocation, supply and consumption of oxygen as per the need. Officials have also been deployed at 57 refilling stations and seven oxygen manufacturing plants. Alongside the supply from the seven domestic manufacturers of oxygen, Karnataka has also been allocated 30 tonnes allocation per day from RINL Steel Plant in Visakhapatnam, and Tata-BSL (30 tonnes) and Jindal Steel and Power (40 tonnes) in Angul, Odisha, and Linde (90), Kalinganagar in Odisha. As part of the oxygen audit, officials are monitoring the daily flow of oxygen, receipts and expenditure at each re-filing plant. Oxygen supply is also monitored daily by the nodal officers at every hospital. Information is obtained from each hospital and once a week oxygen audit of every hospital in the state is done.  "District-wise oxygen allocation has been given, and they are tagged to re-filling plants. Daily monitoring of oxygen consumption of each district, BBMP zone and hospitals is also being done. Buffer oxygen stocks are being built in each district to handle any unforeseen shortages," said Moudgil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tanker-shortage-delays-karnatakas-oxygen-procurement-plans-986147.html
15-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown yielding results, should be extended if need be, says Sadananda Gowda||Union Minister Sadananda Gowda on Saturday said lockdown has to be extended if need be, as it has been yielding results, with major cities including Bengaluru witnessing a decline in daily Covid-19 cases. The state is currently under complete lockdown till May 24. "Lockdowns have been successful and have yielded results, cities like Mumbai, Delhi, and Karnataka's Bengaluru are examples. There has been a decline (in Bengaluru) since the last couple of days," Gowda said. Speaking to reporters, the union minister who represents Bengaluru North parliamentary seat said, there is a need to break the chain. ".. it (lockdown) has been going on successfully, after May 24 if there is a need for it to be extended, it has to be done. We have to save lives, leading life may become difficult, governments will have to take steps to improve it," he added. Gowda's statement came a day after Revenue Minister R Ashoka batted for the extension of the statewide lockdown, aimed at controlling the spread of the pandemic. Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Karnataka government that had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, amid continued spike in cases. Noting that the state and central governments were ready to take all the criticism regarding Covid-19 management, Gowda said, those in the government will not get disturbed by it. "We have a responsibility and the commitment and we will have to fulfill it," he added. Conceding that the government's action plan on vaccination got disturbed as people of all the age groups started coming in large number to take it, with the intensity of the second wave increasing, the Union Minister said necessary steps and policies will be implemented soon so that everyone gets the vaccine. Karnataka on Friday reported 41,779 new cases of Covid- 19, and 373 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 21,30,267 and the death toll to 21,085.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-yielding-results-should-be-extended-if-need-be-says-sadananda-gowda-986217.html
15-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Home isolation discontinued in rural Karnataka to prevent spread of Covid-19||Gearing up to counter the sudden surge in the fresh Covid cases in the districts and rural parts of Karnataka, the state government on Saturday decided to discontinue the home isolation system in villages and taluks and instead directed Deputy Commissioners to admit all Covid positive patients to Covid Care Centres or isolation centres. Accommodating the patients, the district administration has been told to make use of the government hostel and schools facilities. A high-level meeting of the Karnataka Covid Task Force headed by Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwatha Narayana decided that all home isolation facilities are withdrawn in the rest of Karnataka (RoK) areas and admit Covid patients to isolation centres at CCCs or hostels. “Unlike Bengaluru, the household in these rural areas and hinterland lack separate facilities for isolation. Hence, there is always a bigger risk of infecting others in the family. As a result, we have made it mandatory that all infected patients have to be admitted to Covid Care centres functioning at Primary Health Care Centres (PHCs) or at taluk headquarters,” Deputy CM Dr Ashwatha Narayan told media persons. Preparing to accommodate this huge influx of fresh cases, Deputy Commissioners have been instructed to convert all the government hostels under the Social Welfare Department and schools as isolation centres and Covid Care Centres. “Any Covid patient, starting from tomorrow will only be admitted to these centres where all facilities will be provided including oxygen concentrators. No person is allowed to isolate themselves at home,” DCM explained. According to sources in the state government, experts had recommended this community isolation centres as the only solution to contain the spread of cases in rural and hinterlands of Karnataka which is of late reporting nearly 60 to 70 per cent of fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/home-isolation-discontinued-in-rural-karnataka-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-986243.html
15-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to use DMF money for Covid-19||Karnataka Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Saturday approved the use of District Mineral Foundation (DMF) funds for the purchase of oxygen tankers, concentrators, pulse oximeters and other emergency items during the Covid-19 pandemic.  The DMF is a statutory fund meant for the development of areas affected by mining.  The decision to use DMF funds was taken at a meeting Nirani chaired with senior officials. It assumes significance as cases seem to be increasing in the districts, particularly rural areas.  According to a statement from his office, the DMF funds will be used to procure 10 cryogenic oxygen tankers - two of them will be provided to each of the four revenue divisions, two will be sent to the coastal region. “The Regional Commissioners will be given the power to manage and monitor the movements of these oxygen tankers in their jurisdictional areas,” the statement said.  It was also decided to set up oxygen generation plants at ten district hospitals to ensure smooth supply of the life-saving gas to patients. Again, two hospitals in each of the four revenue divisions and two hospitals from the coastal region will be chosen for this. A committee will identify these hospitals.  Nirani’s department will procure 1,000 oxygen concentrators that will be distributed to all the districts. A large number of pulse oximetres will be procured and given to the health committees of gram panchayats. “This will greatly help the villages as it will prompt (gram panchayats) to seek timely medical care in case of a dip in oxygen saturation levels,” Nirani said.  The minister also decided to set up a nursing college at the Hutti Gold Mines campsite hospital. “This will help address shortage and provide placements to nurses and paramedics at hospitals in Raichur district. Apart from this, an exclusive oxygen generator plant will be installed at this hospital,” Nirani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-use-dmf-money-for-covid-19-986275.html
15-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Steady decline in daily Covid cases in Bengaluru; Karnataka logs over 41K cases||Bengaluru is witnessing a steady decline in the number of daily cases with 13,402 new infections on Saturday, as Karnataka reported 41,664 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 349 fatalities. The caseload now stands at 21,71,931 and the toll at 21,434, the health department said. The city had reported 14,316 new cases on Friday and 15,191 on Thursday respectively, from over 20,000 cases during the last weekend. Saturday also saw 34,425 patients getting discharged after recovery. As of May 15 evening, cumulatively 21,71,931 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 21,434 deaths and 15,44,982 discharges, a department bulletin said. The number of active cases in the state stood at 6,05,494. While the positivity rate for the day was at 35.20 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.83 per cent. Among 349 deaths reported on Saturday, 94 are from Bengaluru Urban, Ballari (28), Kalaburagi (21), Tumakuru (18), Mysuru and Shivamogga (15), Bagalkote (14), followed by others. Mysuru accounted for 2,489 cases, Hassan 2,443, Tumakuru 2,302, Dakshina Kannada 1,787, Ballari 1,622, Belagavi 1,502, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 10,42,714, followed by Mysuru 1,10,316 and Tumakuru 79,341. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 6,66,582, followed by Mysuru 94,053 and Ballari 54,112. A total of over 2,77,66,478 samples have been tested so far, of which 1,18,345 were tested on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/steady-decline-in-daily-covid-cases-in-bengaluru-karnataka-logs-over-41k-cases-986323.html
15-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM to review Covid-19 situation on May 17||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will review the Covid-19 situation with deputy commissioners (DCs), zilla panchayat CEOs, police superintendents, health officers and surgeons of all districts on May 17, his office said on Saturday. The Chief Minister's meetings come ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's video conference with deputy commissioners of 17 districts of the state on May 18 to take stock of Covid-19 situation, the office said. The DCs of Uttara Kannada, Hassan, Ballari, Mysuru, Tumakuru, Kolar, Kodagu, Bengaluru Urban, Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Mandya and Chikballapur districts will be part of PM's video conferencing, it said. Meanwhile, Yediyurappa held a virtual conversation with several district and taluk doctors who are on Covid-19 duty and thanked them for their service. The Chief Minister, who heard the doctors and discussed issues faced by them, also enquired a few of them who had contracted the Covid-19 infection and have recovered. The Covid-19 second wave has caused more chaos than the first wave, Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by his office in a statement, even as he thanked doctors, medical and paramedical staff for rendering selfless service and called them an asset to the State.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-to-review-covid-19-situation-on-may-17-986335.html
15-05-2021||West||Cyclone: Mumbai civic body gears up to minimise impact||The Mumbai civic body on Friday said it was taking various precautionary measures in view of the IMD's warning that cyclone Tauktae is likely to pass close to the city during the weekend. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed in a release that potentially dangerous tree branches are being cut, dewatering pumps are being stationed in low-lying areas, temporary shelters would be opened if required and rescue teams would be deployed on six main `Chowpatties' (beaches). Already 384 dangerous trees close to Covid-19 centres have been pruned. India Meteorological Department has warned that cyclone Tauktae, forming over the Arabian Sea, will intensify into a cyclonic storm and is likely to bring strong winds and rainfall to the city on May 15 and 16. Last June, Mumbai was badly hit due to cyclone Nisarga which made landfall in neighbouring Raigad district. BMC officials said they are prepared to shift around 400 patients from the ICUs of Jumbo Covid-19 facilities (field hospitals) at Dahisar and BKC to civic and state-run hospitals. "We have kept our plan ready, but the patients will be shifted only if required," Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-mumbai-civic-body-gears-up-to-minimise-impact-986071.html
15-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Konkan Coast put on high alert||The Konkan coastal belt of Maharashtra has been put on high alert with Cyclone Tauktae expected to hit and make landfall on either Saturday evening or Sunday. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the situation and asked people to be vigilant. "In a preparation meeting regarding Cyclone Tauktae on Friday night, Thackeray instructed the Divisional Commissioners, District Collectors to be vigilant and well equipped in coastal areas, especially of Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg," a CMO official said. "Latest satellite image indicating the system getting matured and cloud bands are now over coastal North Karnataka, Goa and South Konkan too," said KS Hosalikar, Head SID, Climate Research and Services, Pune. The Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Services, said: "Two deep depression intensified into a cyclonic storm over Lakshadweep area and adjoining southeast and east-central Arabian Sea - there is a cyclone watch for south Gujarat and Diu coasts."  Maharashtra's higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, who hails from Konkan, said that the government machinery has been kept ready. "Wherever there are oxygen plants, we have sourced generators for backup power. We have kept ambulances ready in case we need evacuation of patients," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-konkan-coast-put-on-high-alert-986097.html
15-05-2021||West||Goa authorities gear up to tackle Cyclone Tauktae situation||The government machinery in Goa has put in place necessary measures to tackle the situation in view of the warning about cyclone Tauktae, officials said on Saturday. As per the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) prediction, Konkan and Goa are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 15 and 16 as the weather condition is very likely to intensify into cyclonic storm Tauktae. The Goa Fire and Emergency Services said it has kept its personnel ready to tackle the situation. "We have kept our force ready to face any kind of eventualities arising out of the cyclone," its director Ashok Menon told PTI. The Emergency Services, with its force of 800 personnel, have taken proactive steps in this regard, he said. "The cyclonic winds and rains that lashed the state on Friday did not cause much damage," Menon added. The disaster management response forces of the state's two districts - South Goa and North Goa - led by the respective collectors, held meetings on Friday to check the preparedness. According to officials, as curfew is in place in the state till May 24 due to coronavirus situation, the impact of cyclone is likely to be less severe. State Ports Minister Michael Lobo said the entire beach belt in this tourist state is currently empty. "Due to the curfew, all the restaurants and regular activities in the coastal belt are shut. People are also not allowed to move on the beaches. This will help in ensure that the impact of the cyclone remains minimal," he said. Sanguem tehsil in South Goa witnessed several incidents of tree falling due to cyclonic winds on Friday. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar said he has been personally requesting people not to venture out during the weekend in view of the cyclone warning. "I have requested people to stay indoors and be safe from the cyclone," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-authorities-gear-up-to-tackle-cyclone-tauktae-situation-986149.html
15-05-2021||West||Depression over Arabian Sea intensifies into cyclonic storm Tauktae, says IMD||The deep depression over the Arabian Sea has intensified into cyclonic storm Tauktae and is likely to cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. It said Tauktae will be a very severe cyclonic storm from May 16-18. In a bulletin released at 1:45 PM, the IMD said, "It (Tauktae) is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during the next six hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 12 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around 18th May afternoon/evening." Both the Centre and states have been gearing up to deal with the cyclone that has been building up over the Arabian Sea for days now. Later in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an important meeting to review preparations to deal with the impending Cyclone Tauktae, according to government sources. The National Disaster Response Force has increased from 53 to 100 the number of teams earmarked to undertake relief and rescue measures in the aftermath of the cyclone. The Central Water Commission has also issued a moderate to high risk alert over watersheds in central and northern parts of Kerala, adjoining south coastal and south interior Karnataka. The government machinery in Goa has put in place necessary measures to tackle the situation in view of the warning about Cyclone Tauktae. According to the IMD, Konkan and Goa are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 15 and 16. The Goa Fire and Emergency Services said it has kept its personnel ready to tackle the situation. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the authorities in coastal districts of the state to remain alert and well-equipped to tackle the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/depression-over-arabian-sea-intensifies-into-cyclonic-storm-tauktae-says-imd-986176.html
15-05-2021||West||Fadnavis writes to Sonia Gandhi, accuses MVA govt of fudging Covid-19 data||At a time when the 'Mumbai model' to fight coronavirus is being appreciated across the country, Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis shot off a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi saying that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was fudging Covid-19 figures. Fadnavis, a former Chief Minister, highlighted that Maharashtra accounted for 22 per cent, 14 per cent and 31 per cent of India's total Covid-19 cases, active cases and deaths respectively. He said that the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government — in which Congress is an alliance partner —  was blaming the Centre for merely hiding its own failures. According to him, the Narendra Modi government is offering much-needed help and standing solidly with the people of the state. Fadnavis said that the Centre has provided 1.80 core doses of vaccine, over 8 lakh Remedesivir injections and 1750 MT oxygen to Maharashtra. The ventilators and oxygen concentrators were also provided in sufficient numbers by the union government, he said. Fadnavis alleged that the state government had failed to announce any relief package for the poor, farmers and underprivileged sections of the society during the Covid-19 lockdown. “But the state is trying to suppress the number of deaths for obvious reasons and prefer to register them under ‘deaths due to other reasons’…is hiding deaths called the 'Maharashtra model'?” he said. “While 'death due to other causes' category constitutes for 0.8 per cent of the deaths in districts other than Mumbai, the percentage for Mumbai is 40 per cent. Every possible attempt is being made to hide the number of deaths in Mumbai. While there are approximately 88,000 deaths in Mumbai every year, 2020 saw the addition of 20,719 deaths. Out of these, 11,116 deaths have been designated as Covid-19 deaths. Only in 2020, 9603 deaths have been suppressed. This pattern is continuing this year too,” he said. Fadnavis said it was the duty of the opposition to offer suggestions but efforts were on to create an atmosphere of negativity. “Mere criticism was not going to offer anything. But it's pertinent to have a look at what's happening in the states where Congress is in power. I hope you will be able to understand the current situation in Maharashtra,” he said. Letter reflects RSS training: Congress Reacting sharply to the letter, Maharashtra Congress has said that the letter reflects Fadnavis's training from RSS of dichotomy, hypocrisy and double-speak — a perfect example of the pot calling kettle black. The strong-worded statement of MPCC came from its general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant, who also tweeted “party of superspreaders including PM & HM (seen in West Bengal & Uttar Pradesh etc)” – a reference to Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. “In Uttar Pradesh, more than 2,000 bodies are seen in Ganga river bed… Same scene in Bihar, MP as well! Entire world is blaming India for hiding figures thanks to the Modi government, it requires a different type of mindset to have courage to blame others for their own sins,” said Sawant. “In India more than Corona, people are dying because of lack of oxygen, Remdesivir and ventilators. The true test of a leader is how well you function in a crisis. What Modi ji offered during Corona is tali, thali, ghanta (bell), diya and politics but did not offer strategy, planning or leadership that India desperately needed,” he said. On the issue of ventilators, Sawant said: “It is commendable that some medical officers in Ahmedabad had courage to call spade a spade. But Still many government medical officers are scared. In Maharashtra many ventilators are lying unused. It is satisfactory that we could give voice to this injustice meted out to the people in dire need. A joint audit from the Centre and state government would be in public interest and will guarantee truth. Yesterday's reply of the central government to the report of the Aurangabad Medical College team on the uselessness of ventilators was an eyewash.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-accuses-mva-govt-of-fudging-covid-19-data-986213.html
15-05-2021||West||11 rescued, five feared trapped after building slabs collapse in Thane||At least 11 people were rescued and five are feared trapped after slabs of a residential building collapsed in Ulhasnagar town of Maharashtra's Thane district on Saturday, an official said. The incident took place in a ground-plus four-storey residential building in camp no 1 around 1.40 pm, said Santosh Kadam, chief of the regional disaster management cell of the Thane Municipal Corporation. A slab on the fourth floor came crashing down on other slabs, trapping people in the process, he said. Local firemen rushed to the scene and rescued 11 residents, who were taken to a local hospital for first aid, the official said. A team from the Thane Disaster Response Force is at the scene to help firemen remove the debris and rescue five others who are trapped, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/11-rescued-five-feared-trapped-after-building-slabs-collapse-in-thane-986233.html
15-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae has intensified, moving towards Gujarat, says Indian Meteorological Department||Cyclonic storm Tauktae has intensified and is heading towards the coast of Gujarat and the Union Territory of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, though it could bring gusty winds and showers to Mumbai, the IMD said on Saturday. The cyclonic storm is very likely to intensify further into a "very severe cyclonic storm" by late Saturday night, the India Meteorological Department said, adding it was very likely to move north-northwestwards and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18. As it would bring very heavy rainfall in that region, cities like Mumbai would not be affected much, the IMD added. There will be strong winds and heavy rainfall at isolated places on May 17 over north Konkan, including Mumbai, the met department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-has-intensified-moving-towards-gujarat-says-indian-meteorological-department-986266.html
15-05-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 death toll crosses 80,000-mark||The progressive Covid-19 death toll in Maharashtra crossed the 80,000-mark on Saturday. During the last 24 hours, 960 deaths and 34,848 cases were reported in the state, taking the total to 80,512 and 53,44,063 respectively. The number of active patients has come down below the five-lakh mark and currently stands at 4,94,032. During the day, 59,073 patients were discharged, taking the total recovered patients to 47,67,053.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-80000-mark-986290.html
15-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Konkan braces for heavy rainfall||The coastal Konkan region of Maharashtra including the financial capital of Mumbai is bracing itself for strong winds and heavy rainfall on Sunday as Tauktae moves along the Arabian Sea. According to the weatherman, Mumbai can experience heavy rains and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has beefed up the disaster management machinery. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has reviewed the situation in Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. “All Jumbo Covid centres have been asked to remain on alert and if needed, patients to be shifted to other places,” Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said. Some of the patients from Mulund and Dahisar field hospitals have already been shifted. “We have asked hospitals to prepare in case patients are needed to be shifted from jumbo centres…there should be no last-minute hassles of beds, oxygen, medicines,” Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said. “Mumbai may experience heavy rains as the cyclone passes…it may not directly impact Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, Scientist, Climate Research and Services, Pune. According to latest reports, the twin South Konkan districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have experienced heavy rains and winds during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-konkan-braces-for-heavy-rainfall-986293.html
15-05-2021||West||Covid-19: Rajeev Satav critical after brief recovery||Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member from Maharashtra, Rajiv Satav, who has tested positive for Covid-19, is critical and remains on ventilator after a brief recovery. Satav (46) is part of the core team of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Satav developed symptoms on 19 April and went in for a swab test on 21 April, which returned positive. He was admitted to the Jehangir Hospital in Pune. A week later he was put on a ventilator and recovered a bit but his condition has deteriorated. “Our friend from Marathwada, Satav ji is critical, however, doctors are making all efforts,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters. “I spoke to the Director (of Jehangir Hospital) and inquired about his health,” he said, adding that while he was being treated for Covid-19, he has also developed cytomegalovirus infection and have some additional infection,” he said, adding that experts’ advice is being taken. Tope would be visiting the hospital on Sunday. State Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat visited the hospital and inquired about his health. “He will get back soon,” he said. Minister of State for Agriculture and Congress leader Vishwajeet Kadam is regularly taking the updates from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-rajeev-satav-critical-after-brief-recovery-986296.html
15-05-2021||West||Gujarat govt refutes report on under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths, claims it doesn't hide figures||A day after a news report indicated under-reporting of coronavirus-related deaths in Gujarat, the state government on Saturday termed the report as "inaccurate" and questioned the "methodology" of arriving at the conclusion. The report revealed the government issued a record 61,000 more death certificates in 71 days of the second wave compared to the same period when the first wave had hit the state last year. On Friday, a Gujarati newspaper, Divya Bhaskar, reported that between March 1 and May 10, municipalities and municipal corporations issued a record 1,23,871 death certificates, compared to only 58,000 in the same period last year. The report stated that the government issued only 4,218 certificates where the reason for death was shown as Covid-19. The paper claimed that these data were obtained from 33 districts and eight cities. Refuting the report, additional chief secretary, home and revenue, Pankaj Kumar told reporters in Gandhinagar: "We want to tell you that death, registration and certification are three different processes which always have gaps among them. The methodology of drawing a conclusion based on death certificates issued in last March, April and May and the same period this year is defective." Kumar said in the online system of birth and death registration, there are chances of multiple registrations. "...we can't deny the possibility of multiple registrations of deaths due to differences in the person's place of actual death and native place. We have found such duplicity and based on a small sample, we can say this is about 5%." Kumar said during the lockdown, the government made changes in issuing death certificates that included waiving late fee and submission of affidavits, in cases of late registration, for one year that is till July 2021.  He said the paper didn't take this aspect into consideration. "The deaths that occurred in that period are being registered even today...there is a possibility of registration based on which there is the possibility of issuing death certificates. Therefore, death certificates issued in that period and comparing them with total death is wrong," he said. The minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja also stated in the press conference that "time of death, registration and issuing of certificates are three different aspects. All these three things combined together to show death figures and analysis is inappropriate. The data of the year 2020 has no accuracy at all in this report." He claimed that the government is not hiding anything. However, Jadeja and Kumar refused to share any other figure with the reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-refutes-report-on-under-reporting-of-covid-19-deaths-claims-it-doesnt-hide-figures-986322.html
15-05-2021||West||Goa to borrow Karnataka's Covid treatment protocol to control cytokine storm in patients||The Health Ministry in Goa will borrow a trick from the Karnataka government's Covid treatment protocol and introduce baricitinib, a drug used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, in order to control the high death rate of Covid-19 patients in the state, many of whom have succumbed to oxygen shortage. Addressing a press conference late on Saturday, Dr Shivanand Bandekar, dean of the Goa Medical College, the state government's apex health facility, also said that baricitinib, which was introduced in Karnataka's Covid treatment protocol earlier this week, also reduces the requirement of oxygen in patients suffering from severe cytokine storms. The decision to introduce baricitinib was taken at a meeting of the state health ministry's expert panel, which has been appointed to oversee Covid management in the state."The next important thing was decided in a meeting of experts was to adopt a treatment protocol followed by the state of Karnataka. They have found that anyone who gets infected with the double mutant virus, their oxygen requirement is found to be very high. That is why they have changed their protocol and they have added one medicine called baricitinib," Bandekar said. "4 mg baricitinib is to be given from the fifth day of symptoms. It works fantastic in reducing the cytokine storm and the lungs are protected. This protocol will be adopted soon now. We have already decided to start with patients who are already admitted to hospitals. Oxygen requirement will also be less and lungs will be protected and they will recover fully," Bandekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-borrow-karnatakas-covid-treatment-protocol-to-control-cytokine-storm-in-patients-986330.html
