16-05-2021||Comment||Imitation Game redux: Homogenising the globe||While the internet has made access to consumer goods and fake news all the easier, a slow but noticeable homogenisation of ideas, values and lifestyles has also been occurring across the globe. This is especially true in India, perhaps the most diverse and cacophonous nation on earth. Aldous Huxley’s fictional world (Brave New World and Brave New World Revisited) presupposed a society where truth is buried in too much information, narcissism is paramount, and people neither think nor read books since they are kept busy being entertained. Armed with a smartphone, we have been able to create, in just a few years, such a type of society so perfectly described by Huxley. However, today’s society is a world presaged by Sinclair Lewis in his novel Main Street, written nearly a hundred years ago, well before Huxley, electronic computers and the internet. Here are some select excerpts from Main Street, suitably paraphrased to fit an India context. “Anand had sought to be definite in analysing the surface ugliness of Bengaluru. He asserted that it is a matter of universal similarity; of flimsiness of construction, so that the cities resemble shanty towns; of neglect of natural advantages, so that the hills are hollowed out, the rivers shut off by highways, and the lakes lined with dumping grounds…But a city in an India which is taking pains to become altogether standardised and ‘smart’, which aspires to succeed America as the chief mediocrity of the world, is no longer provincial but cosmopolitan, but content in its imitative ignorance…Such a society functions admirably in the large production of cheap automobiles, cheap watches and blended-cotton shirts…to make gigantic hoardings of all that is cheap, and in the twilight talking not of originality or creativity but of the convenience of WhatsApp… “It picks at information which will visibly procure money, political or social distinction. Its conception of a community ideal is not the lofty ideas, the aesthetic, the generosity of spirit but cheap labour for the global marketplace and rapid increase in the price of land…Nine-tenths of the Indian towns are so alike that it is the completest boredom to wander from one to another. Always, south of New Delhi, and often, east of it, there is the same pathetic government hospital, the same dirty bus station, the same Hyundai garage, the same Coffee Day or Starbucks, the same boxy concrete flats and garish malls. The malls show the same standardised, nationally advertised wares such as whitening creams and insurance schemes; the newspapers of sections two thousand miles apart have the same ‘syndicated features’; the boy in Imphal displays just such a colourful smartphone as is found on just such a boy in Chennai, both of them iterate the same slang phrases from the same sports pages, movies and TV shows whose themes have been borrowed from the US, and if one of them is in college, elite or abysmal, and the other is a barber, no one may surmise which is which. “…If Anand were snatched from Bengaluru and instantly conveyed to a town hundreds of kilometres away, he would not realise it. He would go down apparently the same Gandhi Street (almost certainly it would be called Gandhi Street); in the same Apollo Pharmacy, he would see the same young man serving the same diet pills to the same young woman with the same Samsung phone in her palm.” The same fate is sure to befall the rainforests of the Amazon (not the Silicon Valley one with which you are so familiar) and the tribal regions of North-East India, two of the few regions of the world left that have not yet been ‘civilised’ and dragged into the ‘Information Age’. In a poignant essay that appeared recently in the Guardian, Nemonte Nenquimo of the Waorani tribe in the Amazon writes “…the less you know about something, the less value it has to you, and the easier it is to destroy. And by easy, I mean: guiltlessly, remorselessly, foolishly, even righteously” and “…our elders are dying from coronavirus, while you are planning your next moves to cut up our lands to stimulate an economy that has never benefited us.” Much of this article is imitative, I must confess. I hope you are flattered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/imitation-game-redux-homogenising-the-globe-986359.html
16-05-2021||Comment||EVs make best sense for public transport||Two years ago, on one of my trips to the US, I rode in the Tesla S class. The ride was fantastic, and in parts completely autonomous. The cockpit was contemporary and more like a spaceship control station. My friend, who was in the driver’s seat, let go of the steering and was in conversation with me, describing various features of the touchscreen cockpit display. The vehicle autonomously overtook other vehicles moving to the passing lane and appropriately making it back to the driving lane. This, while I held on to the base of my seat in utter fear. The external noise was higher than in an internal combustion engine vehicle and, unfortunately, made me feel that I was in a flimsy vehicle at a very high speed. The interiors were also rudimentary. Though some car aficionados thumb their nose and do not acknowledge Tesla as an automotive company, the vehicle makes an impression. This was a different ride than the feeling of a golf cart that I got in other electric vehicles (EVs), which were smaller and had lower battery range. After the Tesla ride, I felt that there was finally a possibility of EVs storming the passenger vehicle market with the right batteries, charging infrastructure, range, and full-featured cars. EVs do not emit smoke. But this fact, by itself, does not make EVs clean. The electricity used for charging must be generated, transmitted, and distributed in a green manner for the EV to have a net positive impact. A case can be made for EVs promoting cleaner cities, as particulate matter from vehicles can be eliminated or reduced by EV adoption. However, the ozone layer might be adversely impacted if coal is the major fuel used to generate electricity to charge them. In India, while the installed power capacity mix is 53 per cent coal and 36 per cent renewables, the actual generated power is more than 60 per cent coal and less than 30 per cent renewables. Also, the significant gains of solar and wind have come against a drop in hydro rather than a drop in fossil fuel from the mix. The elephant in the room is the 100 GW of diesel genset capacity in India, a quarter of the 400 GW of utility power. The diesel gensets are polluting and have grown in usage due unreliable utility power, while governments tout power surplus! And then, there are the 20 per cent transmission and distribution losses. The EV strategy in India must revolve around public transport, shared transport, two wheelers, and micro grids of renewable power: 1. Public transport: Indian cities need to quadruple public transport from about 10 per cent of total trips to 40 per cent (Singapore is at 80 per cent) while making it all electric. 2. Shared transport: should be all electric and be partially reliant on self-generated renewable power (car parks with solar roof sheets). 3. Two wheelers should be all electric and be partially reliant on self-generated renewable power (home or apartment solar rooftops). 4. Electric charging infrastructure: should be focused on public transport and be partially reliant on generating renewable power (bus stations with solar rooftops). 5. Long-distance travel and goods transport: Hydrogen-based, newer diesel/petrol engines (cleaner burning). 6. The government’s FAME, Hydrogen Mission, etc., can include tax breaks for living closer to work (within 3 km). 7. Additional challenges: roads need improvement; non-availability of parking in apartment living. A large market exists for smart mobility and several Indian start-ups have tapped into the trend. Electrification as a trend is picking up in the two-wheeler and three-wheeler segments. There have been a few four-wheeler EV launches as well. But India is still at a very nascent stage relative to the EV penetration aspirations articulated by the government. The key, though, is in the hands of the government to overhaul public and shared transport in our cities and beyond, rather than the focus on private vehicles and retail charging infrastructure. Starting small, all transportation to and from international airports can be mandated to be electric!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/evs-make-best-sense-for-public-transport-986360.html
16-05-2021||Comment||The unbearable loss of giants||As the second wave of the pandemic tears through our cities, it leaves deep wounds in our fabric. This month, Bengaluru lost two giants who were fundamental in shaping the ‘Green City’. Someshwar Shyam Sunder, who passed away on April 29 at the age of 90, was one of India’s best-known foresters. Sethuram Gopalrao Neginhal, who lost the battle with Covid on May 2, just three days after Shyam Sunder, was another retired forester who was a household name in Bengaluru. The programme they launched in 1982, under a Forest Division specially created for this work, planted 6,56,000 trees in 1983, and 14,43,000 trees in 1984 – i.e., close to 21 lakh trees in just two years – as Shyam Sunder records in his paper, “Urban Tree Planting – Foresters Efforts in Bangalore”, presented to the World Forestry Congress in 1985. Contemporary discussions about Bengaluru’s environment are filled with nostalgia. I cannot forget hearing 12-year-old children describe, with heartbreaking clarity, how the tree cover in areas like Malleswaram have changed in their lifetime. Yet, we often forget that similar debates were taking place in the 1980s. Shyam Sunder recorded that in 1976, the Urban Land Ceiling Act was brought in “to carve out more space for house building.” By the early 1980s, “the garden city of India was doing its best to shed the adjective.” He castigated the Bangalore Development Authority and the Bangalore City Corporation for being more concerned with providing civic amenities to the detriment of the city’s ecology. In 1982, when the annual Vanamahotsava function was conducted in Bengaluru, the then chief minister Gundu Rao was disturbed at reports documenting the destruction of greenery. The BDA and the City Corporation responded to the chief minister’s queries saying they could “go all out” and plant 10,000 saplings. The Forestry Department immediately jumped in to say that that this was a pitifully inadequate suggestion. If the government could give them a free hand, they would plant one lakh trees in 1982, and increase this to five lakh trees in 1983. The rest is history. Neginhal was brought in to take charge of the programme. He came up with innovative strategies. One of the biggest challenges the city faced was that saplings did not survive long, promptly consumed by hungry goats, cows and buffaloes. Neginhal raised saplings for several months in nurseries, planting them only after they were over six feet in height – taller than the head of the largest, most agile, free ranging cow. The department experimented with various strategies to produce low-cost tree guards at mass scale, trying out bitumen drums (too expensive), iron rods (pilfered by thieves) and brick tree-guards (dismantled by people looking for bricks), and bamboo (eaten by white ants, or collapsing under the weight of cows and buffaloes, who liked to use the poles to scratch their backs). After much trial and error, they settled on a combination of bamboo and lopped Eucalyptus poles, termite-proofed with bitumen, and strengthened by chicken wire. The afforestation programme was path-breaking in other ways, too, being socially adapted to Bengaluru, and getting everyone on board. Volunteers were appointed as honorary tree wardens, and social clubs like the Jaycees, Rotary and Lions Clubs, industries, public sector organisations and environmental groups provided support and sponsorship. Local residents were consulted about their preference for species. Television and radio broadcasts advertised the programme to the public, who could get saplings free of cost. Both Shyam Sunder and Neginhal were disillusioned to see the devastation of the trees they had planted across Bengaluru. They planted trees in the millions. Bengaluru massacred these trees, also in the millions, in its misguided obsession for high-speed roads. The roads remain even more choked with traffic than they used to be, but the trees have vanished forever. So have these two giant foresters -- lost to a pandemic that emanates from the human disregard for environmental balance. We live in a sad world, where progress is equated with destruction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-unbearable-loss-of-giants-986361.html
16-05-2021||Comment||A new rage against the machine||Indians are trying their hardest to survive without oxygen, ICU beds, doctors, medicine, and vaccine. One expects no less of a proud world power that defeated Covid-19 in a speech at Davos—yet they seem upset and are generally being very negative about the whole thing. I say Indians, and not India, because when the second wave of Covid-19 began to savage us, the State leapt nimbly offstage. For a few weeks, we were civilians in a deadly war, but without a government at the helm, each person for themselves, each family on its own. If it hadn’t been for the empathy, courage, and selflessness of friends and strangers who pulled together to fill the gaps—delivered oxygen cylinders, compiled lists of numbers and services, manned the phones, and physically showed up—many more of us would have negatively gone and died. To be fair, the mighty government machine has done its best. Last year, it had said that we would defeat Covid-19 in 21 days, and advised us to roll about in cow dung, bang dinner plates, and light candles. In court, it fixed the migrant problem by saying that there were no migrants on the roads. This year, it said that the Ganga is too holy for coronavirus, and that political rallies are glorious—the best way to counter negativity, after all, is to super-spread positivity. It has recently said that dark chocolate helps, and also there’s this pretty cool herb. In court, it fixed the oxygen problem by saying, let’s not be a crybaby about oxygen. Right? Remember? Be fair. Despite all the negativity around choking to death, the government has not rested for a minute in its efforts to rebuild Delhi’s central vista according to a design conceived by one Klingon with a god complex, for another. Behind the smokescreen sent up by funeral pyres, it works night and day to copy-paste self-congratulatory tweets, get ministers to write shrilly defensive op-eds, and promote troll-like articles put up on faux-international websites. If you’re also going to insist on oxygen, look to your chief ministers—how much can one man do, even though the government’s whole schtick is that only that one man can do anything? In Delhi, we lived this nightmare closely and for many weeks, but if we dominated much of the airtime, the Covid-ridden bodies washing up from the Covid-safe Ganga is just as loud. No citizen who has had a brush with death, or lost someone, or felt someone else’s pain and grief, or watched that guy speak up for the virus’s right to live, will forget what went down at this time. It really is life and death, and not just for Muslims—Beardy and Baldy were right: they do work for all Indians. One of the casualties of this time has been language, which stands eviscerated. The situation has mutated to evade our usual descriptors. Agony, horror, tragedy, trauma, despair, wretchedness, apocalypse, terror, betrayal, grief, and fury don’t begin to describe it. We’re feeling a new level of rage against the machine. As we crawl out of this government-made abyss, towards what is probably just a staging area for a coming third wave, I’d like to offer one neologism. The word is ‘paeandemic’. It’s a noun that describes a disease of mass sycophancy, either blind or fearful or both, that obliterates truth, reality, integrity, and autonomy, at hideous cost—ultimately, at the cost of life. The pandemic is taking its toll, but the paeandemic is turning India to ashes. It’s a disease we’ve suffered for seven years, and its only cure is to break the chain of transmission. Now that would be positively healing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-new-rage-against-the-machine-986363.html
16-05-2021||Comment||China is dancing all around us, but we don’t have to play dead||When the Chinese ambassador to Bangladesh decided to give a piece of his mind to Dhaka and advise it to keep away from the Quad, little would he have expected a rebuttal, that too a strong one, from his host. Reeling under the trauma of the “Wuhan Virus” pandemic, Bangladesh, like many other countries in Asia, has set survival as priority rather than getting involved in strategic matters beyond its immediate requirements. In any case, there is no report of any member of the Quad – India, the US, Japan or Australia -- inviting Bangladesh into the grouping. The Bangladesh foreign minister’s reply to the Chinese ambassador – “We’re an independent and sovereign state. We decide our foreign policy” – was as polite a “mind your own business, Beijing” response as language would allow a diplomat. Elsewhere, Beijing is busy salvaging a crumbling political edifice in Nepal where Prime Minister K P Oli lost a trust vote but remains in office because his detractors failed to muster numbers to form a new government. Beijing has been keen, and has tried its best, to keep Oli in office. Meanwhile, Sri Lanka is all set to discuss and pass the highly controversial Colombo Port City Economic Commission Bill. The Bill provides for protection of China’s interests and assets, almost resulting in ceding State control over Colombo Port City to Beijing. China’s defence minister was in Colombo last month with a team of military officials to oversee the commercial projects and finalise defence cooperation protocols with Sri Lanka. Unlike Bangladesh, Colombo has complied with Beijing’s warning on the Quad. As Sri Lanka’s Foreign Secretary Jayanth Colombage had noted, “We are observing the rise of Quad as an exclusive military alliance. That is the problem. If Quad is aimed at economic revival, there are no issues.” It is no secret that Beijing is making intense efforts to rope in Asian countries into its sphere of influence. The economic packages and infrastructure projects are a ruse to lure the political establishments in these countries to tilt towards Beijing or at least remain neutral even as they get into a Chinese debt trap. Laos, the resource-rich gateway to Southeast Asia, is the latest in the list of countries that have come under China’s debt trap. The China Southern Grid Company is all set to take a controlling stake in Laos’s state-owned power grid company Electricite du Laos (EDL), which is saddled with a $5 billion debt. The Quad summit in March took notice of the impending challenges that the region could face if Beijing decides to continue with its belligerent approach towards Taiwan. The conflict with India in Ladakh may hold lessons. China carried out the intrusion into Indian areas at the height of the Coronavirus pandemic, lockdown and economic stagnation. China has refused to withdraw completely and continues to deploy forces in excess of what’s required for normal patrolling. A weak moment in Washington or in Taipei is all China will be looking for. If push comes to shove, the Quad will have to be prepared to take tough decisions as a team, keeping national considerations aside. Meanwhile, closer home, after turning Pakistan into a virtual satellite country, China has set its eyes on Afghanistan. It appears that once the US withdraws, Beijing is waiting in the wings to wrest economic and political control over Kabul. Delhi will have to make a deeper assessment of what US withdrawal from Afghanistan will mean. Unlike the former Soviet Union, which confronted the local tribal fighters grouped under the Taliban umbrella, Beijing has been reportedly entertaining second-rung Taliban leaders. China has already signed contracts for resource exploitation – from copper mining to oil exploration – in Afghanistan. Beijing has invested heavily in Pakistan in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). These assets are important for China but also extremely vulnerable. Notwithstanding Islamabad’s compulsions, the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), or the Pakistan Taliban, is not very happy to let the Chinese have their way in the Af-Pak region. Last month, there was an attempt on the life of Nong Rong, China’s ambassador to Pakistan, for which TTP claimed responsibility. Sections of the radical outfits in Pakistan and Afghanistan are also not happy with China’s inhuman treatment of Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang province. However much Beijing may want to forge a China-Pakistan-Iran-Turkey axis, it may fizzle out when religious and national interests override China’s strategic interests. Over the years, even as China has encircled India through its ‘string of pearls’, it has strengthened its military presence in all the major choke points that were once strongholds of the US navy in the Indo-Pacific. It will be of great strategic importance for the US to regain complete control over these. India is doing its bit by building as many strategic partnerships as possible in the Indo-Pacific region. Recently, India and Russia agreed on establishing a 2+2 ministerial dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries. India already has similar dialogues with all the other Quad countries. The dialogue with Russia, India’s old friend, is in line with both Delhi’s interests with regard to military procurements as well as its approach to the Indo-Pacific. Beijing should have taken note. Delhi has also scaled up its engagement with the European Union. The India-EU summit has agreed to establish a mechanism to promote a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific architecture and strengthen the Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) forum. India will have to assess whether these action plans will help to reduce China’s belligerence or provoke it further to hasten its efforts to achieve its hegemonic ambitions in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/china-is-dancing-all-around-us-but-we-don-t-have-to-play-dead-986364.html
16-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada records 1,787 fresh Covid-19 cases on May 15||Dakshina Kannada district reported a record 1,787 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the highest single-day spike in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. The district had reported 1,694 positive cases one of the highest in a single day on May 5. Three more Covid fatalities too had been registered, thus taking tally of deaths to 808. The total positive cases reported so far in the district is 63,357. With 1,490 recoveries, the total number of patients discharged stood at 49,355.The district has 13,194 active cases undergoing treatment in home isolation, Covid Care Centres and in hospitals, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-records-1787-fresh-covid-19-cases-on-may-15-986370.html
16-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Don’t neglect sea erosion at Someshwara, says MLA||Mangalore MLA U T Khader said that it is not right to neglect sea erosion in Someshwara. “District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, during his visit to sea erosion-prone areas in Someshwara a year ago, had promised to take all precautionary measures to check sea erosion. However, many people are facing the threat of loss of properties in Someshwara-Ucchila-Bettampady areas following sea erosion,” he said. “If the government fails to consider sea erosion seriously, then major damage will be incurred during July and August. The government should wake up and take all precautionary measures to check the erosion,” he stressed. The MLA said he had written to the Port officials not to take over the works carried out under ADB-funded sustainable coastal protection and management till an expert committee submits its report on the quality of work. The MLA urged the district in-charge minister to convene a meeting of the port, ADB officials and elected representatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/don-t-neglect-sea-erosion-at-someshwara-says-mla-986380.html
16-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cyclone Tauktae: Nine labourers stranded mid-sea off Udupi coast||A tug vessel with nine persons on board has been caught between a rocky structure mid-sea, nearly nine kilometres away from Kaup. The rescue operation is hampered due to the rough sea condition. The labourers onboard the vessel have sent a video seeking help. As the sea is rough, the boats are unable to reach the spot to carry out the rescue. As the vessel is caught in between a rock, it might capsize any time with high tide, they said. All those who are on board are wearing life jackets. Officials in Udupi said that Coast Guard in Kochi has been requested to airlift those in distress. The helicopter has not yet reached the spot.   Though Dakshina Kannada and Udupi district did not experience any rainfall following Cyclone Tauktae, the sea continues to remain rough on Sunday. Two houses have been damaged in Panambur while a road from Surathkal Light House to the NITK beach has been cut in the fury of the wave. The water that had entered the road in Thannirbavi and Panambur area has receded completely. However, the fishermen living on the shores of the sea are still anxious over what lies in store for them. “The sea is still rough. We do not know when the waves will start lashing the store and sea erosion will intensify in the region,” said Praveen Devadas from Panambur. Meanwhile, Udupi Deputy Commissioner Dr Jagadeesha said that 36 houses have been damaged in Udupi district. Electric poles, transformers, and electric lines too have been damaged in the district, he said. The IMD has sounded a red alert in coastal districts on Sunday as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cyclone-tauktae-nine-labourers-stranded-mid-sea-off-udupi-coast-986462.html
16-05-2021||National||Covid probably India's greatest challenge since independence: Raghuram Rajan||Covid-19 pandemic is probably India's greatest challenge since independence, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan said on Saturday and added that in many places the government was not present to help the people for various reasons. Addressing a virtual event organised by University of Chicago Center in Delhi, Rajan said India needs a quick bankruptcy process for the MSME sector. "This is a tragic time in India given the pandemic. Covid-19 pandemic is probably India's greatest challenge since independence," he said. India has been reporting more than 3 lakh new Covid cases daily in recent weeks and the death toll due to the infection is also rising. "One of the effects of the pandemic is, we don't see the government present for various reasons," Rajan said. Noting that the Maharashtra government was able to provide oxygen beds to Covid-19 patients, he said, "In many places that level of the government was also not working." According to Rajan, post pandemic if we don't seriously question society, it would be almost as big a tragedy as the pandemic. "The Pandemic has shown that we are all connected. No man is island, no woman is island," he said. Rajan, currently a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, noted that sometimes, you have to reform not by stealth but in full openness. Recalling his famous IIT Delhi speech, the eminent economist said he was being seen as token opposition by the press. "My IIT Delhi speech was not a criticism of the government...Things get over interpreted sometimes," he said. Speaking at the convocation of IIT Delhi, his alma mater, on October 31, 2015, Rajan had said tolerance and mutual respect were necessary to improve the environment for ideas and physical harm or verbal contempt for any particular group should not be allowed. "We need freedom of speech, freedom to criticise, it will prepare India for the 21st century," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-probably-indias-greatest-challenge-since-independence-raghuram-rajan-986384.html
16-05-2021||National||West Bengal hospital issues death certificate, Covid patient later found alive||A hospital in West Bengal's Nadia district issued the death certificate of a Covid patient on Saturday but when the crematorium staff reached to take his body for the last rites, they found him sitting on the hospital bed. The incident happened at Netaji Subhas Sanatorium Covid Hospital in Kalyani. A 26-year-old resident of Hijuli in the Dhantala police station area was first admitted to the Ranaghat Sub Divisional Hospital with fever and chest pain, his family said. As his condition deteriorated after he was found to be Covid-positive, the patient was referred to the hospital in Kalyani on May 12. He has been undergoing treatment there since then, they said. On Friday, the hospital authority allegedly sent a message to the family that he has died, the family said. His family was also given the death certificate on Saturday. When the crematorium staff reached the hospital ward to take his body, they found him sitting on the bed, the family said. Further, the death certificate also mentioned that his father was dead, but that was not the case, they said. The family said they have shifted the patient out of the hospital after the incident. A senior district official refused to comment on the issue, stating that he would be able to do so after collecting information from the medical officer concerned. "I have received no written complaint about the issue," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-hospital-issues-death-certificate-covid-patient-later-found-alive-986391.html
16-05-2021||National||Senior journalist Sunil Jain passes away due to post-Covid complications||Business newspaper Financial Express' Managing Editor Sunil Jain passed away here on Saturday due to post-Covid-19 complications, his sister Sandhya Jain said. Jain had tested positive for the coronavirus and was admitted at AIIMS. "We lost my brother Sunil Jain this evening to Covid+its complications. Doctors, staff at AIIMS battled heroically, but the demon was too powerful. May Tirthankaras guide his onward journey; deep gratitude to all who stood by us in these darkest days," she tweeted. Paying condolences, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "You left us too soon, Sunil Jain. I will miss reading your columns and hearing your frank as well as insightful views on diverse matters. You leave behind an inspiring range of work. Journalism is poorer today, with your sad demise. Condolences to family and friends. Om Shanti." Anant Goenka, executive director of the Indian Express Group which owns Financial Express, described Jain as a friend who was of unquestionable integrity and inspired with his professional commitment. "Privileged to have known him, will cherish his passion, balance & wisdom.Your Express family will miss you," he tweeted. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman expressed shock at his death. A regular Twitter user, Jain had posted about his poor health on May 3 and then expressed his thanks in his last tweet on the same day after he was admitted at AIIMS. "Thank you everyone for all the help. I don't even know whom all to thank. Am in AIIMS emergency now. So I'm safe hands," he had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-journalist-sunil-jain-passes-away-due-to-post-covid-complications-986392.html
16-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Covid crisis reveals floating bodies||Several bodies, presumably of Covid-19 victims, floating in the River Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have attracted the attention of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The harrowing images of floating dead bodies seem to be emblematic of India's struggle through the second wave of the Covid-19 that has hit various institutions, particularly the health care infrastructure, which collapsed in several parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-covid-crisis-reveals-floating-bodies-986403.html
16-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Centre leaves citizens at the mercy of Covid||As countless people with near and dear ones infected with the virus waited in long queues before healthcare facilities and ran from pillars to posts to get medicines, hospitals ran out of oxygen and patients died gasping for air, bodies were lined up before burial grounds and crematoriums and inoculation centres shut down due to shortages of vaccines, international media went on to blame PM Modi for the mess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-centre-leaves-citizens-at-the-mercy-of-covid-986408.html
16-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 16||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections in India was at  3,11,170 on Sunday. This takes the country's total caseload to 2,46,84,077 according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.   Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,46,84,077   as of May 16, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  2,70,284  as of May 16, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged:  2,07,95,335 Total Vaccination:  18,22,20,164  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-16-986410.html
16-05-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices at record highs, increased for the ninth time in May||Petrol price on Sunday was increased by 24 paise per litre and diesel by 27 paise, pushing rates across the country to record highs and that of petrol in Mumbai to near Rs 99 a litre. The increase led to rates in Delhi climbing to Rs 92.58 per litre and diesel to Rs 83.22, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Rates had already crossed Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and with the latest increase, price in Mumbai too was inching towards that level. A litre of petrol in Mumbai now comes for Rs 98.88 and diesel is priced at Rs 90.40 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. This is the ninth increase in prices since May 4 when the state-owned oil firms ended an 18-hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan had the costliest petrol and diesel in the country at Rs 103.52 per litre and Rs 95.99 a litre, respectively. In nine increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 2.19 per litre and diesel by Rs 2.49. Since March last year when the government raised excise duty on fuel to an all-time high, petrol price has increased by a record Rs 22.99 per litre (after accounting for a handful of occasions when rates fell) and diesel by Rs 20.93. Oil companies, which have in recent months resorted to unexplained freeze in rate revision, had hit a pause button after cutting prices marginally on April 15. This coincided with electioneering hitting a peak to elect new governments in five states including West Bengal. No sooner had voting ended, oil companies indicated an impending increase in retail prices in view of firming trend in international oil markets. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 on diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-at-record-highs-increased-for-the-ninth-time-in-may-986418.html
16-05-2021||National||4,077 more die of Covid-19; new infections lowest in nearly a month||4,077 more people died of coronavirus in the last 24 hours while 3,11,170 more contracted the infection in that time period, Union Health Ministry data on Sunday showed. This is the lowest single-day rise of infections since April 20. India now has 2,70,284 fatalities since the beginning of the pandemic. The cumulative tally of positive cases is now 2.46 crore. Active cases dipped to 36,18,458 on Sunday. 3,62,437 more people recuperated from the fatal disease over the past 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 31,48,50,143 samples have been tested up to May 15 with 18,32,950 samples being tested on  Saturday. With vaccine stocks running critically low and patients dying as oxygen supplies fall short, India is grappling with more cases of black fungus as experts are reeling with ways to contain the spread. The biggest fear at the moment is the condition in India's rural districts, where diagnosis, reports, and supplies are far fewer, that are not equipped to deal with a health crisis of such magnanimity. (With PTI inputs) More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4077-more-die-of-covid-19-new-infections-lowest-in-nearly-a-month-986422.html
16-05-2021||National||As Covid-19 wave continues to spiral, PM Modi calls on four chief ministers||PM Narendra Modi on Sunday called on chief ministers of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Puducherry to discuss the Covid-19 situation, news agency ANI reported. India, reeling under the second wave of Covid-19, reported 3.11 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday as the number of deaths, 4,077, continued to raise alarm. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-wave-continues-to-spiral-pm-modi-calls-on-four-chief-ministers-986449.html
16-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae: Here's a list of dos and don'ts||Cyclone Tauktae has intensified into a "very severe cyclonic storm" and is approaching the Gujarat coast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. Gusty winds and heavy rains lashed several parts of Goa on Sunday morning due to cyclonic storm Tauktae, uprooting electric poles and affecting power supply in many parts of the coastal state, officials said. No casualty was reported so far. Here’s a list of Dos and Don’ts for you, if you are in a cyclone-affected area: 1. Before the Cyclone, “Ignore rumours, Stay calm, Don’t panic”: NDMA has asked people to ignore rumours and follow credible sources such as radio, television weather news and newspapers for weather updates. 2. Keep your mobile phones charged to ensure connectivity and use SMS when your internet connection is not available. 3. Prepare an emergency kit with all essentials for easy access. 4. During the cyclone, if you’re inside then switch off your electrical mains and gas supply to avoid any accidents. 5. If your house is in an unsafe condition/location then leave before the cyclone starts. 6. During the cyclone, keep your doors and windows of your house closed. 7. After the cyclone, drink boiled or chlorinated water. 8 If you’re outside during the cyclone, then watch out for broken electric poles and wires, avoid getting into broken buildings, and seek a safer shelter “as soon as possible,” the NDMA advised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-heres-a-list-of-dos-and-donts-986456.html
16-05-2021||National||PM Modi speaks to CMs of UP, Chhattisgarh, Puducherry, Rajasthan on Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry on the Covid-19 situation in the states and the union territory, government sources said.  Modi has been regularly speaking to chief ministers to take stock of the pandemic's situation in states and union territories.    With 3.11 lakh fresh coronavirus infections, India saw the lowest rise in daily Covid-19 cases after a gap of 25 days, while the death toll rose to 2,70,284 with 4,077 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have reduced to 36,18,458 comprising 14.66 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 84.25 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,07,95,335, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-to-cms-of-up-chhattisgarh-puducherry-rajasthan-on-covid-19-situation-986458.html
16-05-2021||National||States to receive nearly 51 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses in next three days: Centre||More than 1.84 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs, while nearly 51 lakh doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The Centre has so far provided more than 20 crore vaccine doses (20,28,09,250) to states and UTs free of cost, it said. Of this, the total consumption, calculated based on average up to May 14, including wastages, is 18,43,67,772 doses, according to data available at 7 pm on Saturday. "More than 1.84 crore Covid vaccine doses (1,84,41,478) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces," the ministry said. It said 50,95,640 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by states and UTs within the next three days. Vaccination forms an integral component of the comprehensive strategy of Government of India of containment and management of the pandemic (including Test, Track, Treat and Covid Appropriate Behaviour). The Centre has been supporting the nationwide vaccination drive by providing Covid vaccines free of cost to states and UTs, in addition to several efforts to ramp up its production and supply, the ministry stated. Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination has started from May 1 as part of which the government has opened up inoculation for all aged above 18. Under the Strategy, every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to state governments free of cost as was being done earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-to-receive-nearly-51-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-next-three-days-centre-986468.html
16-05-2021||National||Arrest me too: Rahul Gandhi challenges Modi, tweets poster that got 15 arrested in Delhi||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday challenged Prime Minister Modi and the BJP-led government to arrest him as he tweeted a picture critical of the leadership's policy on vaccines. "Modi ji, why did you send vaccines meant for our children abroad?" Rahul's tweet read. Arrest me too. The controversy began after Delhi Police registered 17 FIRs and arrested 15 people on Saturday for allegedly pasting posters critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in connection with the vaccination drive against Covid-19. The posters reading "Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyu bhej diya (Modiji, why did you send vaccines for our children to foreign countries?)" were pasted in several parts of the city, Delhi Police officials said. 25 FIRs were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections, including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, across various districts of the Delhi Police, officials said. (WIth agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrest-me-too-rahul-gandhi-challenges-modi-tweets-poster-that-got-15-arrested-in-delhi-986474.html
16-05-2021||National||Government issues guidelines on Covid-19 management in rural, peri-urban areas||With 490 districts reporting more than 10 per cent test positivity, the Union Health Ministry on Sunday released a guideline to spruce up the health infrastructure in rural areas where Covid-19 infections are feared to be heading to. The guideline comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked for the augmentation of healthcare resources in rural areas to focus on door to door testing and surveillance, besides empowering the ASHA and Anganwadi workers with all necessary tools. The ministry asked the administration to set up village clinics to check influenza like illness and severe acute respiratory infections besides training the community health officers and auxiliary nurses and midwives on RAT test and other aspects of Covid-19 detection so that they can identify the patients and guide them appropriately. The aim would be to triage the symptomatic cases at village level by teleconsultation with community health officers so that cases with comorbidity and low oxygen saturation should be sent to higher centres. Every subcentre has been advised to run a dedicated ILI/SARI out patient service. Since 80-85 per cent Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, who can be cured at home, the guideline suggests providing a home Isolation kit to all such cases. The kit would contain medicines like paracetamol 500 mg, ivermectin tablet, cough syrup and multivitamins besides a detailed pamphlet indicating the precautions, medication and monitoring proforma. Health experts while welcoming the move pointed out it would be a challenge to implement particularly because of manpower shortage in the rural areas, which overburdened the ASHA and ANM workers. “Rome was not built in a day nor can rural public health response be established overnight. Frontline workers need to be supported by augmenting their capacity, community based volunteers who are trained. But it is reassuring to note that there is a focus on strengthening the rural response,” Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health told DH. “The field workforce could be augmented by recruiting local residents with required qualifications and be trained in standard operating procedures for home based testing using rapid diagnostic tests in combination with digital tools needed for decision support to facilitate triage and referral.” At a review meeting on Saturday, Prime Minister Modi said that localised containment strategies were the need of the hour specially for states where test positivity rate in districts was high. The Prime Minister instructed to scale up the testing further with use of both RT PCR and RAT. Earlier this week, the Indian Council of Medical Research recommended setting up round the clock RAT booths up in cities, towns and villages. Such booths can be set up at all government and private health care facilities to screen the maximum number of people without any need for an accreditation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-issues-guidelines-on-covid-19-management-in-rural-peri-urban-areas-986475.html
16-05-2021||National||Amitabh Bachchan says first consignment of oxygen concentrators to arrive on Monday, orders 50 more||Megastar Amitabh Bachchan on Sunday said that the first tranche of 50 oxygen concentrators he had ordered from Poland for the Covid-19 centre at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj will be landing in New Delhi tomorrow. The 78-year-old actor, who has been regularly sharing the updates on his continued philanthropic efforts as the country fights its deadlier, second wave of the novel coronavirus, has ordered a batch of additional 50 oxygen concentrators of five litre capacity for medical facilities in Mumbai. "The first consignment of the 50 Oxygen Concentrators ordered and bought by me from Poland should be on a plane as I write, and shall be landing in Delhi by 6 am tomorrow morning..." Bachchan wrote on his blog. The screen icon has a personal connection with Poland: last year the City Council of Wroclaw named a square after his late father and celebrated poet Harivansh Rai Bachchan. The actor, who also shared that he had received the second and final dose of the coronavirus vaccine, said the consignment will be cleared by the Gurudwara Committee. "These shall be cleared by the Gurudwara Committee where I have donated where I have donated in the building of the 400 bed facility and which was inaugurated the other day .. 300 functional immediately and the balance 100 in due time .. and the O2 concentrators shall also be donated to this facility for their discretionary use," he added. Last week, the veteran actor donated Rs 2 crore to Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Covid Care Centre at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib to combat the ongoing health crisis in the national capital. "These are the 10 litre concentrators, but research from my office informs me that the 5 litre ones are also acceptable and in greater demand .. so I have bought another 50 oxygen concentrators today of the 5 litre capacity, and hopefully they should be despatched to us in a few days .. these shall be distributed to the needy facilities in Mumbai," Bachchan shared in the new post. The 25-bedded care centre that he had donated for to be put up in a school in the suburban Juhu was ready, he said. "The facilities are all in place .. and just today the relevant OC's have been obtained from the BMC and the Fire Brigade .. just one more permission is due to come tomorrow and with that the facility shall be ready to operate by Tuesday or Wednesday .. this is for the really needy and those that cannot afford the expenses required for their treatment." The actor shared that he was able to deliver the first lot of 10 ventilators to the desired locations -- six to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), three hospitals and one clinic in the city. "There is always a sense of satisfaction on seeing your efforts at giving to the needy and to those in distress," Bachchan said. "I give wherever I can .. my means are extremely limited .. it may not seem so, but they are .. somehow by the grace of the Almighty they come to me .. I have not made any effort to collect them through campaigns or donations to a cause that I may have instituted." He said he was not seeking praise for his philanthropical efforts, but has been forthcoming about giving description of the work done during this time "to assure all of the delivery and the visuals of where the funds have been used and to what avail .. that they are not just blank promises". Bachchan also wrote about Cyclone Tauktae, which is likely to pass close to the city. "Cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea intensifies along the Western Coasts of India .. from the South moving up .. the effects of its arrival have begun here in Mumbai with rain as I write ..".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-bachchan-says-first-consignment-of-oxygen-concentrators-to-arrive-on-monday-orders-50-more-986483.html
16-05-2021||National||Digvijaya Singh writes to MP CM over Mucormycosis injection||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday said an injection to treat Mucormycosis, a rare and dangerous fungal infection that has been found in some Covid-19 patients as well as those who had recovered from the infection, was not available in shops in Madhya Pradesh. In a letter to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the Rajya Sabha MP said people were in distress due to the unavailability of Amphotericin injections that are used to treat Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus. Singh said the unavailability of Amphotericin gives rise to doubts whether it too is being black-marketed like Remdesivir, a key medicine in Covid-19 treatment. Singh, in his letter to the CM, said the black fungus infection was spreading fast, with more than 70 cases reported in capital Bhopal alone, of which 23 are in Hamidia Hospital here. The former MP CM asked Chouhan to take strict action against those involved in medicine black-marketing and ensure people needing Amphotericin get it in time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digvijaya-singh-writes-to-mp-cm-over-mucormycosis-injection-986487.html
16-05-2021||National||Cow dung as Covid-19 cure spurs black fungus fear||With videos and pictures of people dunking themselves in water mixed with cow dung surfacing on social media, medical experts are sounding the alarm against treating Covid-19 with cow dung, saying the practice could lead to an explosion in the number of mucormycosis or “black fungus” cases. Cases of the fungal infection have recently picked up in the country and put some recovered Covid patients back in hospital beds. Doctors in India and abroad spoke out against the use of cow dung as a remedy after a video of people seen smearing cow waste over their bodies did the rounds on social media last week, prompting Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav to tweet: "'Should we laugh or cry."     According to doctors, close contact with cow dung could increase the chances of recovered Covid patients contracting mucormycosis, a rare but deadly fungal disease caused by a group of moulds called mucormycetes that are present everywhere in the environment, including soil and dung. The fungal disease is more likely to affect Covid patients with acute diabetes who have been treated with steroids and immunosuppressants, which weaken the body’s immune system and make it more vulnerable to infections like mucormycosis, doctors said. Doctors say any Covid-19 patient who is diabetic or immunocompromised and has taken steroids should be warned against using cow dung.  “This will lead to a phenomenal increase in their chances of catching black fungus,” he added. Kothalkar also said that in the last twenty years, he had operated on only 12 patients with mucormycosis but had been conducting three to four surgeries daily during the pandemic’s second wave. Other health experts also denounce the practice, citing little scientific evidence to claim that cow dung cures Covid in the first place. While they agree there are no studies to prove a direct relationship between cow dung and the rise of black fungus cases so far, they say it is logical to expect that it could lead to a blow up in cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cow-dung-as-covid-19-cure-spurs-black-fungus-fear-986489.html
16-05-2021||National||Maharashtra Governor, CM condole Rajeev Satav's death; hail his leadership skills||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday expressed grief over the death of Congress MP Rajeev Satav and lauded his leadership qualities and organisational abilities. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also condoled Satav's demise and said he forged friendships going beyond political affiliations. Satav (46) died on Sunday, days after recovering from the coronavirus infection. The Rajya Sabha member was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Pune after testing coronavirus positive last month and was on ventilator support. In a condolence message, Koshyari said, "The news of the untimely demise of the young and dynamic parliamentarian Shri Rajiv Satav is agonising. The news has come at a time when one felt that he would come out of Covid-19." Satav was known for his leadership qualities and organisational abilities, and had excellent public relations, the governor said. "Unfortunately, death has snatched away a promising leader with great potential. I pray to God for eternal peace to the departed soul and convey my deepest condolences to the members of the bereaved family and to his admirers," he said. Chief Minister Thackeray in a statement said an aspiring leadership has been lost. "Satav forged friendships going beyond political affiliations. He had complete faith in parliamentary democracy and was known as a studious leader," the CM said. State PWD Minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan also expressed grief over Satav's death. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis expressed shock over Satav's untimely death and said the state will miss the young and studious leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-governor-cm-condole-rajeev-satavs-death-hail-his-leadership-skills-986496.html
16-05-2021||National||'Come get me': Jairam Ramesh puts poster critical of PM Modi at his home, dares Delhi Police to arrest him||Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh on Sunday pasted posters asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi where has Covid-19 vaccines disappeared at his residence in the national capital protesting against Delhi Police arresting at least 25 people for pasting similar posters in the capital. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also joined the protest by tweeting the poster which led to the arrests, saying “arrest me too.” Arrest me too. "Modiji jawab de, vaccine aapki tarah gayab kyon hei? (Answer Modiji. How has vaccine disappeared like you?)" read the poster pasted on the letter box of Ramesh's residence in Lodhi Road in the capital. After reports of the arrests came, Ramesh had tweeted on Saturday that he would be putting up posters on his compound wall and dared the police to arrest him. "Putting up critical posters against the PM is now a crime? Is India run by the Modi Penal Code now? Is the Delhi Police so jobless in the middle of a raging pandemic?? I am putting up posters on my compound wall tomorrow. Come get me. @DelhiPolice @AmitShah," he had said. Putting up critical posters against PM is now a crime? Is India run by the Modi Penal Code now? Is the Delhi Police so jobless in the middle of a raging pandemic?? By Saturday, Delhi Police had arrested 25 people after registering as many as FIRs across the capital for pasting posters which read "Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyu bhej diya? (Prime Minister, why did you send our children's vaccine to foreign countries?)." Incidents of surfacing of posters were reported from North-East Delhi, Outer Delhi, Central Delhi, Rohini, East Delhi, Dwarka, North Delhi and Shahdara districts. Many of those arrested were daily wagers and trying to earn some money for their families. Reports also suggested many of them had lost their jobs during the lockdown. Police said they were investigating who were behind the printing and engaging these people for pasting of these posters. While four people arrested in East Delhi claimed they were engaged by AAP councillor Devender Kumar, who denied the allegations, AAP said on Twitter late Saturday night echoing the contents of the poster, "Modi-ji, why did you send our children's vaccines abroad?".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-get-me-jairam-ramesh-puts-poster-critical-of-pm-modi-at-his-home-dares-delhi-police-to-arrest-him-986498.html
16-05-2021||National||Ashraf Sehrai's sons arrested for raising ‘anti-national’ slogans: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday said that two sons of separatist leader late Ashraf Sehrai, have been arrested for raising ‘anti-national’ slogans during funeral of their father and not booked under Public Safety Act (PSA). “Both Sons of Late Ashraf Sehrai & Others were arrested for raising Anti National slogans during Sehrai's funeral. They haven’t been booked under PSA. People are appealed not to pay heed to rumors (sic),” Kashmir police tweeted. Rashid and Mujahid – both sons of Sehrai who died at a hospital in Jammu on May 5, were arrested by the police from their uptown Baghat residence in Srinagar on Saturday evening in connection with a case registered in Kupwara district on May 6 after pro-freedom slogans were raised at the separatist leader’s funeral. Sehrai’s other son - Junaid - a commander of Hizbul Mujahideen outfit was killed in an encounter with security forces here in May last year. While reacting to detention of Sherai’s sons, former chief minister and PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti alleged that the PSA was government of India’s go to method for every problem. “Latest example being Ashraf Sehrai’s sons who lost their father in custody due to inadequate medical care & have been arrested under PSA. In rest of India dead are being ill treated but in Kashmir its the living who are made to suffer,” she tweeted. However, the police replied to Mehbooba’s tweet, “Don’t spread rumours”. Moderate Hurriyat Conference while expressing serious concern over the arrest of late Sehrai’s sons, in a statement demanded that they should be released and the ‘persecution’ of the family stopped. Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader Saif-ud-Din Soz in a statement while terming the detention of Sherai’s sons as unfortunate, alleged that ‘some’ people were adamant to see his sons punished for the ideas of their father. “This is an obnoxious trait in the character of those who want to fight Ashraf Sehrai’s family after his demise. I reject this attitude with contempt,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashraf-sehrais-sons-arrested-for-raising-anti-national-slogans-jk-police-986506.html
16-05-2021||National||Centre asks states to keep ration shops open on all days, for longer duration||The Centre on Sunday asked the state governments to keep ration shops, also called fair price shops, open for a longer duration and on all days to ensure timely and safe distribution of both subsidised and free foodgrains to the poor. An advisory in this regard has been issued by the Union Food Ministry following representations that during the current lockdown in some states/UTs, ration shops' timings have been curtailed due to which the intended beneficiaries might not be getting adequate time to lift their entitled foodgrains. "In view of ongoing lockdown in some States/UTs, that may curtail the functioning hours of Fair Price ShopsFair Price Shop (FPS), an advisory has been issued on 15th May, 2021...to keep the FPSs open, preferably on all days of the month," the ministry said in a statement. The Centre is distributing highly subsidised monthly foodgrains of 5 kg per person at Rs 1-3 per kg via ration shops to over 80 crore poor under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). ver and above this, additional 5 kg of free grains are being distributed to the same beneficiaries under the PMGKAY (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana) scheme for two months -- May-June in order to minimise economic hardships being faced by the NFSA beneficiaries during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the advisory, the Centre has asked states to keep the ration shops open for distribution of foodgrains under the NFSA as well as PMGKAY scheme in a staggered manner throughout the day, maintaining proper social distancing and adhering to all Covid-19 protocols, it said. To facilitate this, states have been requested to ensure that FPSs are exempted from the restricted hours of opening of regular markets as foodgrains are covered under essential items, it added. Further, the Centre has asked states to take necessary steps for timely distribution of foodgrains at their FPSs without causing hardships to the beneficiaries, and to give wide publicity to the measures undertaken in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-keep-ration-shops-open-on-all-days-for-longer-duration-986518.html
16-05-2021||National||Government awaits SC's recommendations to fill vacancies in apex, lower courts||The Supreme Court has seven vacancies, two high courts are functioning without regular chief justices and two high court chief justices are set to retire in the next one and a half months, a government functionary said. He said the government is awaiting recommendations from the apex court collegium to fill up the slots. The first vacancy in the Supreme Court arose following the retirement of Justice Ranjan Gogoi in November 2019 as the Chief Justice of India (CJI). Subsequently, a few more vacancies arose in the top court following the retirements of justices Deepak Gupta, R Bhanumathi, Arun Mishra, Indu Malhotra, and S A Bobde, who demitted office as the CJI last month. Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar passed away in April. With a sanctioned strength of 34, the apex court is functioning with 27 judges at present. The high courts of Allahabad and Calcutta are being run by acting chief justices. The chief justice of the Chhattisgarh High Court will retire later this month, while the chief justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court will retire in June, the functionary pointed out. The 25 high courts of the country have a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges, but are functioning with 660, a shortfall of 420 judges, according to May 1 figures available on the website of the Department of Justice. Vacancies keep arising in courts due to retirement, resignation or elevation of judges. The government has maintained that appointment of judges in high courts is a "continuous collaborative process" between the Executive and the Judiciary, as it requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities. As per the procedure for the appointment of judges to the Supreme Court and the 25 high courts, the apex court collegium recommends the names of candidates to the government which, in turn, either accepts the proposal or returns it for reconsideration. The high court collegiums first send their recommendations to the Law Ministry which in turn processes the files by attaching Intelligence Bureau reports and forwards it to the SC collegium. The SC collegium comprises the CJI and four senior-most judges of the apex court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-awaits-scs-recommendations-to-fill-vacancies-in-apex-lower-courts-986521.html
16-05-2021||National||NIA conducts searches in Tamil Nadu over social media posts advocating ISIS ideology case||The NIA on Sunday carried out searches at four locations in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai in connection with a case relating to incriminating Facebook posts by an extremist advocating the ideology of the Islamic State terror group and fundamentalist organisation Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, an official said. The case pertains to uploading some incriminating posts on Facebook by Mohammad Iqbal, a Madurai resident, who was arrested in December last year, he said. In the social media posts, Iqbal, an extremist, advocated the ideology of the ISIS terror group and Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, a fundamentalist organisation, the official of the premier investigation agency said. The posts on the Facebook page titled “Thoonga Vizhigal Rendu is in Kazimar Street" was uploaded by Iqbal for denigrating a particular community, the official said, adding they were designed to incite communal disharmony amongst different religious groups, in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. The searches were conducted at Kazimar Street, K Pudur, Pethaniyapuram and Mehaboob Palayam in Madurai district. During the operation, 16 digital devices, including a laptop, hard disks, mobile phones, memory cards, SIMs, pen drives and many incriminating books/pamphlets/documents have been recovered, the official said. Further investigation in the case continues, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-conducts-searches-in-tamil-nadu-over-social-media-posts-advocating-isis-ideology-case-986527.html
16-05-2021||National||Second batch of Russian Covid-19 vaccine reaches Hyderabad||The second batch of Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V on Sunday landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here, Sputnik V official Twitter page said. "Second batch of Sputnik V @sputnikvaccine arrives in Hyderabad, India," the tweet said along with pictures of vaccine boxes being unloaded from an aircraft. Dr Reddy's Laboratories on May 14 soft-launched imported Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V vaccine which is priced at Rs 948, with five per cent GST per dose (retail price). "Given the recent launch of the Russian vaccine in the Indian vaccination campaign, this second delivery has become very timely. The efficacy of the #SputnikV is well-known in the world," Nikolay Kudashev Russian Ambassador to India tweeted. The first consignment of 1.50 lakh doses of Sputnik V vaccine from the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) landed in India on May 1 and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory. The Indian drug-maker had earlier said these consignments will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up the supply chain for the larger vaccination programme rollout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-batch-of-russian-covid-19-vaccine-reaches-hyderabad-986528.html
16-05-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload falls to 36,18,458; positivity rate drops to 16.98%||India's Covid-19 active cases count has decreased to 36,18,458 with a net decline of 55,344 cases being recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 16.98 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The total active caseload now comprises 14.66 per cent of the country's total infections, it said. Ten states — Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh — cumulatively account for 74.69 per cent of the country's total active cases, the ministry said. “A declining trend in the positivity rate is also observed which has dropped to 16.98 per cent (May 16) from 24.47 per cent recorded on May 3,” it said. India’s cumulative recoveries have reached 2,07,95,335 with 3,62,437 patients recuperating in a span of 24 hours. It outnumbers the country’s daily Covid-19 cases for the fifth time in the last six days, the ministry said. Ten states account for 70.94 per cent of the new recoveries. The ministry noted that Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Haryana reported 74.7 per cent of the 3,11,170 new cases registered in a span of 24 hours. Karnataka has reported the highest daily new cases at 41,664 followed by Maharashtra with 34,848 cases and Tamil Nadu with 33,658 new cases. The national mortality rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent. A total of 4,077 deaths were reported in a day in the country, the ministry said. Ten states/UTs, namely, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Haryana, account for 75.55 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (960). Karnataka follows with 349 daily deaths. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 18.22 crore on Sunday under phase 3 of the nationwide vaccination drive. A total of 18,22,20,164 vaccine doses have been administered through 26,55,003 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Sunday. These include 96,42,278 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,41,047 HCWs who have taken the second dose; 1,44,25,044 FLWs who have received the first dose and 81,86,568 FLWs who have taken the second dose; and 48,25,799 beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group who have received the first dose. Besides, 5,71,61,076 and 90,66,862 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have been administered the first and second doses, respectively, while 5,44,69,599 and 1,78,01,891 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have taken the first and second dose. The health ministry said 10 states--Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra--account for 66.76 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country. A total of 5,62,130 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 48,25,799 people across 32 states and UTs got the jabs since the start of phase 3 of the vaccination drive. “More than 17 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours. As on Day-120 of the vaccination drive (May 15), 17,33,232 vaccine doses were given. Across 16,027 sessions, 11,30,928 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 6,02,304 beneficiaries received their second dose of the vaccine,” the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-falls-to-3618458-positivity-rate-drops-to-1698-986531.html
16-05-2021||National||NDRF deploys 79 teams in eight states, UTs affected by Cyclone Tauktae||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 79 teams in eight states and union territories affected by cyclone Tauktae while another 22 teams are on the stand-by, officials told a high-level meeting on Sunday. This was disclosed in a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, which was attended by Chief Secretaries of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu as well as Advisors to the Administrators of the Union Territories of Lakshadweep and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. Secretaries of various Union ministries also attended the video conference. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with top officials and instructed them to ensure that the cyclone should not impact the functioning of Covid-19 facilities. Officials said Home Minister Amit Shah is monitoring the situation and has asked all concerned to leave no stones unturned to ensure safety of people. Gauba asked the states to take all measures to evacuate people in areas affected by the cyclone, so as to ensure zero loss of life and damage. Preparatory arrangements to restore power, telecom and other important services should be ensured, he said. He also noted that the state governments should take all steps to avoid disruption of functioning of hospitals and Covid-19 Care Centres and maintenance of regular supply of oxygen to them. The Cabinet Secretary also directed the concerned agencies to work in close coordination and extend all requisite assistance to the state administrations, an official statement said. The Chief Secretaries apprised the Committee of the preparatory measures put in place to deal with the cyclonic storm, which is likely to make a landfall in Gujarat on May 18. Adequate stocks of food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies have been arranged and preparations made to maintain essential services such as power and telecommunications, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndrf-deploys-79-teams-in-eight-states-uts-affected-by-cyclone-tauktae-986535.html
16-05-2021||National||Sonia hails Rajeev Satav as 'rising star'; Modi remembers 'friend from Parliament'||Congress President Sonia Gandhi hailed senior leader Rajeev Satav, who passed away on Sunday, as a rising star and a trusted colleague, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembered him as a “friend from Parliament". Leaders cutting across party lines paid glowing tributes to the 46-year-old Rajya Sabha member, who was a trusted aide of Rahul Gandhi and key to the revival plans of the Congress party. Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi is deeply pained by the tragic loss of Shri Rajeev Satav. It is a personal loss to her. Congress President spoke with Satav’s mother Rajanitai and wife Pradnya recalling the young leader’s rise from the grassroots and handling of key assignments for the party with unfailing dedication. “He was a rising star of the Congress party,” Sonia said about Satav, who served as an MLA in Maharashtra and represented Hingoli in the Lok Sabha from 2014-19. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Maharashtra in April last year. “Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential,” Modi said. Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters. Om Shanti. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh remembered Satav as a forceful speaker who came well prepared for Parliament. “A thorough organisational man, he was integral to the Congress’ revival,” Ramesh said. A member of ‘Team Rahul’, Satav had taken on senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma at the meeting of the Congress Working Committee last year after the Group of 23 leaders had demanded a more visible and active leadership in the party. At an earlier meeting of Rajya Sabha members with the Congress President on July 30 last year, Satav had targeted Kapil Sibal, who had asked the party to introspect over repeated failures. He had accused the senior leaders of lacking the fighting spirit in taking on Modi and said that introspection on the party’s decline should begin from UPA-II years and not from the past few months. Rahul remembered Satav as a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress, while Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said he was “one of our brightest colleagues”. I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-hails-rajeev-satav-as-rising-star-modi-remembers-friend-from-parliament-986545.html
16-05-2021||National||Covid carnage: Are states lying about death figures?||By Jeanette Rodrigues, Across India’s small towns and villages, local language newspapers are revealing that thousands more are probably dying of the coronavirus each day than the government’s data show. The Dainik Bhaskar, a Hindi newspaper popular across India’s crowded heartland, fanned 30 of its reporters along the banks of the river Ganga in Uttar Pradesh state. They found — and photographed — more than 2,000 corpses across some 1,140 kilometres (708 miles). That’s when the state government claims only about 300 are dying daily.  Their findings make grim reading: Authorities are piling silt over more than 350 bodies lying in shallow graves in Kannauj, the reporters say; they see dogs gnawing at some of the 400 corpses just a short distance from a crematorium in Kanpur; they count 52 corpses floating down the river in Ghazipur, often crossing state borders. “The Revered River probably wants us to share her grief,” the report reads. “That’s why, the bodies that are sought to be hidden, our Holy Mother Ganga has unearthed.” Meanwhile, in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state of Gujarat, the Divya Bhaskar newspaper found that 1,23,000 death certificates were issued between March 1 and May 10 — about 65,000 more than the same period last year though the state reported 4,218 Covid deaths. The Gujarat Samachar reported that an average of 200 bodies is being cremated daily using 72 tons of wood in Vadodara, compared with an average of 60 corpses using 21.6 tons of wood before the pandemic.   The work of photojournalists like Arun Sharma has gone viral as Indians grapple with the yawning gap between what authorities say and what the cameras reveal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-carnage-are-states-lying-about-death-figures-986551.html
16-05-2021||National||Already booked online appointments for 2nd Covishield dose to remain valid: Govt||The Union health ministry on Sunday clarified that already booked online appointments for second dose of Covishield vaccine will remain valid and the same will not be cancelled on Co-WIN platform. It, however, said requisite changes have now been done in the Co-WIN digital portal, as a result of which further online or on-site appointments will not be possible if the period after first dose date for a beneficiary is less than 84 days. The Centre had on May 13 extended the gap between the first and second doses of Covishield vaccine to 12-16 weeks based on the recommendations by the Covid Working Group chaired by N K Arora. “The Government of India has communicated this change to states and UTs. The Co-WIN digital portal has also been reconfigured to reflect this extension of interval for two doses of Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) to 12-16 weeks,” the ministry said. "However, there have been reports in a section of the media suggesting that people who had pre-booked their appointments for the second dose in less than 84 days on Co-WIN are being turned back from vaccination centres without getting the second dose of Covishield,” it said. "Additionally, already booked online appointments for second dose of Covishield will remain valid and are not being cancelled by Co-WIN. Further, the beneficiaries are advised to reschedule their appointments for a later date beyond the 84th day from the date of first dose of vaccination," the ministry added. The Union government has reiterated to the states/UTs that online appointments booked for second dose of Covishield prior to this change of the interval between the two doses of Covishield, must be honoured. It advised the states/UTs that the field staff may be instructed that, if such beneficiaries do come for vaccination, "the second Covishield dose must be administered and they must not be turned away". They have also been asked to undertake awareness activities to inform the beneficiaries about this change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/already-booked-online-appointments-for-2nd-covishield-dose-to-remain-valid-govt-986571.html
16-05-2021||National||Prevent dumping of bodies in Ganga, ensure dignified cremation: Centre to states||The Centre directed the Gangetic states to prevent dumping of dead bodies in river Ganga and focus on their safe disposal and providing support for ensuring dignified cremation. Stopping of dumping of dead bodies as well as their safe disposal and protection of water quality has to be attended to on a war footing, said Secretary, Jal Shakti Ministry. The Centre sent instructions after a large number of dead bodies and partially burnt bodies were found floating in the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Pankaj Kumar, Secretary, Jal Shakti Ministry who chaired a high-level meeting with state officials, told them that dumping of dead bodies, their safe disposal and protection of water quality has to be attended to on war footing, a statement from the ministry said. He said that after getting the progress report from states, Central Water Commission (CWC), Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution Control Boards would be giving their feedback and action plans. The secretary wanted quick action and underscored the need to give equal attention to such incidents in urban and rural areas along the Ganga and other rivers. He called for strengthening enforcement, maintaining vigil and taking proactive action to facilitate and support the families for cremation of dead bodies and asked state missions to report on this, said the statement. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was assigned the task of overall monitoring, providing guidance to the state pollution control boards and taking up advanced analysis in the matter. Support for cremation needs to be given top priority. Effective implementation of the government orders needs to be ensured. No loss of time should take place in implementation, the ministry said. An advisory was issued by Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga, to the district magistrates, who are also the chairpersons of the district Ganga committees, on May 11. This was followed up by a letter the next day to the chief secretaries to prevent the dumping of dead bodies in the river and ensure enforcement of the government guidelines on the cremation of Covid-19 victims. The letter also advised the states to provide financial assistance as well as regulate the rates for the cremation or burial process. On May 15, the steps taken in this regard in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were reviewed at a meeting chaired Pankaj Kumar, Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, and further action points were decided. Highlighting the instructions already given, Kumar had called for expeditious action and underscored the need to give equal attention to such incidents in urban and rural areas along the Ganga and other rivers. "Stopping of dumping of dead bodies as well as their safe disposal and protection of water quality have to be ensured on a war footing. After knowing the progress from the states, the CWC (Central Water Commission), the CPCB and the state pollution control boards would also be giving their feedback and action plans," he had said. Mishra stated that the situation is being monitored and follow-up action is being taken in several districts such as Unnao, Kanpur rural, Ghazipur and Balia in Uttar Pradesh and Buxar and Saran in Bihar. However, some cases have also been reported from other districts. He asked the state missions to keep an eye on the situation. Mishra emphasised the need to strengthen enforcement, maintain vigil and take proactive action to facilitate and support the families for the cremation of the bodies and asked the state missions to specifically report on this. "If needed, the project directors can assess and also give support to the district Ganga committees for this out of the NMCG funds available with them, while keeping the NMCG informed," he said. Rajnish Dubey, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development, and Anurag Shrivastav, Principal Secretary, Jal Shakti and Project Director, State Ganga Mission, represented Uttar Pradesh in the meeting. Shrivastava said all the district magistrates have been alerted about the issue and patrolling is being carried out to prevent dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga. He also informed that 13 crematoria under Namami Gange, in addition to the existing ones, have been made available for the cremation of dead bodies. It was informed that orders have been issued for financial support for cremations in urban areas. Dubey said similar orders for a financial support of Rs 5,000 have been issued by the Panchayati Raj department for rural areas and the SDRF and other forces have also been asked to carry out patrolling. Anand Kishore, Principal Secretary, Urban Development and Project Director, State Ganga Mission, Government of Bihar, informed that it has been decided that the cremation or burial expenses of those dying due to Covid-19 will be borne by the state government. He added that even if the deceased did not have a Covid-positive report but showed symptoms of the disease, the family will be offered this support. He also said patrolling is being done to prevent further dumping of dead bodies in the river, especially in districts like Buxar and Saran (Chhapra). CWC Chairman S K Halder informed that they are monitoring the flow and the water quality of the river through their stations and will further increase the frequency. CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava said the board has forewarned all water monitoring stations along the Ganga and her tributaries. The periodicity of testing the water quality has also been increased. Debashree Mukherjee, Additional Secretary with the Jal Shakti Ministry, stated that besides an urgent assessment of the risks to the riverside communities by the pollution control boards, there is a need to raise awareness on the dos and don'ts as regards the use of river water and to prevent such incidents of dumping of bodies in the river. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prevent-dumping-of-bodies-in-ganga-ensure-dignified-cremation-centre-to-states-986572.html
16-05-2021||National||Centre considering subsidy to phosphatic and potassic fertilisers||The Centre is considering subsidies to phosphatic and potassic (P&K) fertilisers to safeguard the interests of farmers during the Covid-19 crisis and amid rise in global prices of raw materials. Unlike urea, P&K fertilisers are decontrolled products. The prices are fixed by the manufacturers and the government gives them fixed subsidies each year. For the current fiscal year, subsidies for P&K fertilisers have been kept unchanged. However, for the last few months, the international prices of raw materials of Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP) and other P&K fertilisers have increased sharply. Prices of finished DAP, etc in the international market have also risen proportionately. "The government of India is also considering the subsidy rates to offset the rise in international prices of raw materials of P&K fertilisers and DAP in order to support the farmers'' cause and lessen the financial burden on them," the ministry noted. The government is fully aware of the situation, and it is being closely monitored at a very high level in the government, it said. "Despite this sharp increase, DAP prices in India were not increased by the companies till last month. However, some companies have now increased the DAP price," the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers said. In accordance with its farmer-friendly approach, the ministry said the government is committed to ensuring the availability of P&K fertilisers to farmers at affordable prices, it added. The government is taking all necessary steps to safeguard the interests of farmers during the Covid-19 crisis. On the pricing front of DAP, the government has already asked all the fertiliser companies to sell their old stocks of DAP, etc at old prices only, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-considering-subsidy-to-phosphatic-and-potassic-fertilisers-986574.html
16-05-2021||National||Plea in SC for financial assistance to those who died of Covid-19||A plea has been moved in the Supreme Court for a direction to the authorities to provide ex gratia monetary compensation of Rs 4 lakh to family members of those who succumbed to Covid-19. Petitioner-advocate Reepak Kansas pointed out that the central government issued a revised list and norms of assistance from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and recommended ex gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakhs per deceased person to those involved in the relief operation. After the Union government declared Covid-19 as a national disaster by a notification on March 14, 2020, it is all the more necessary for the national authority under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act, to recommend the minimum standards of relief to affected persons, his plea stated. The petitioner also sought directions to the states to issue death certificates or any letter to the families of the deceased affected by the pandemic.  He contended the financial assistance was a constitutional obligation on the state as the right to live with dignity of the victim and their family members, were violated due to death of the bread earner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-for-financial-assistance-to-those-who-died-of-covid-19-986576.html
16-05-2021||National||Confusion, anger over changed Covishield dose duration||Ram Avtar Tyagi stood in a queue for an hour at a vaccination centre in north Delhi, only to be turned away and asked to return almost two months later. "I was told that second dose cannot be given now as new guidelines have come into effect," the 55-year-old, who visited the Burari centre on Saturday, said. While some like Tyagi were turned away from the vaccination centre, others were left confused after the Centre's directive came into effect to extend the gap between the two doses of Covishield to 12-16 weeks. The Centre had on Thursday approved the extension following a recommendation from a government panel, saying it was a "science-based decision". The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, however, suggested no change for the dosage interval for Covaxin, the Health Ministry said. Tyagi did not receive any message informing him about the new date. "Authorities should send message to those who are scheduled to get their second jab this month so that people don't have to face unnecessary problem," he added. The Health Ministry has conveyed it to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories to instruct officials "to undertake necessary steps to widely disseminate the message of revised dosing interval amongst programme managers, vaccinators and recipients of Covishield vaccine and ensure adherence of revised dosing interval". Gurgaon-based media professional Nikitha Phyllis, who is a patient of an autoimmune condition, expressed shock when she found out about the revised date. "My doctor had put off my medication till I have taken both the Covishield vaccines. But with the increased gap, I simply cannot do without my medication for so long," Phyllis told PTI. Earlier, the date for her second jab was on June 23, now she has to wait till August. Delhi-based lawyer Mishika Singh was also in for a surprise when she logged in to the CoWIN portal to find slots for vaccination. "My Covishield vaccination booking date has been revised (automatically) on the site itself. From 5th June to 27th July," Singh said. Some also took to Twitter to vent their anger over the revised timeline. Kumud Ranjan Choubey wondered if there were new guidelines, then why had the CoWIN portal allowed people to book slots. The ministry had said "requisite changes are being carried out in the Co-WIN platform and would be separately communicated to the states/UTs". The platform started showing rescheduled dates from Saturday night. Another Twitter user, Sahil Arora, said: "I got 1 dose of covishield on 8 May. My masters start in US in July-21 (sic). Now that the gap is 12-16 weeks, I will not be able to get a second dose." Tagging the official handle of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Arora asked: "Can you please suggest the workaround for students in the same situation as me?" A government official said those people whose vaccination was due this month would not be administered the vaccine and only be be given the dose according to the new guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/confusion-anger-over-changed-covishield-dose-duration-986594.html
16-05-2021||National||AAP members behind posters against Modi, says Delhi police||While criticism mounted on Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah over the arrests of 25 people involved in pasting of posters critical of the Prime Minister, Delhi Police on Sunday claimed that people affiliated to AAP were behind the incident and that they violated Covid-19 lockdown guidelines. It also accused a section of the media of "merely" showing the arrests of "poor persons", claiming that "some" news reports did not carry the "entire result of the investigation”. A statement said the investigations have unearthed the involvement of "political persons and leaders of a political party" who have "organised and financed" the defacement of public property during the lockdown. The police statement came on Sunday evening, a day after media reported about the arrests, as criticism mounted over arresting at least 25 people, including from the economically vulnerable sections. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi joined the protest by tweeting "arrest me too", while AAP also intensified its protest on Sunday with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia repeating the content of the poster. "Modiji humare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyu bhej diya? (Prime Minister, why did you send our children to foreign countries?)" read the posters, which led to the arrests. Police said the posters did not have details of the press or the publisher. In one of the cases registered in Mongolpuri, those people pasting posters told investigators that an AAP worker Arvind Gautam had tasked a graphic designer Rahul for printing and pasting these posters for Rs 9,000. A printing press owner Rajesh Sharma was roped in by Rahul. The statement said the press owner circumvented rules by not putting the details of his establishment and violated lockdown guidelines by running the press when it was not allowed. In another case in south Delhi's Khanpur colony, police said, two AAP workers Santosh and Mayank were arrested and they told police that former AAP councillor Sanjay Chaudhary tasked them with pasting posters. Mayank had approached Mohit Chaudhary's press where he gave Rs 4,000 for posters, besides roping in Santosh. In West Delhi, according to the statement, five persons were named in a case and two of them - Prashant Kumar and Rakesh Joshi are active AAP members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-members-behind-posters-against-modi-says-delhi-police-986599.html
16-05-2021||National||India got 5.3 lakh Remdesivir vials, 13,496 oxygen cylinders as foreign aid: Centre||The Union health ministry on Sunday said 11,058 oxygen concentrators, 13,496 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen generation plants and about 5.3 lakh Remdesivir vials received as global aid have been delivered to various states/UTs from April 27 to May 15. India has been receiving international donations and aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries and organisations to augment its efforts to combat the pandemic outbreak. The Centre is expeditiously delivering the global aid to the states and Union territories (UTs) to supplement their resources and efforts, the ministry said. “Cumulatively, 11,058 oxygen concentrators, 13,496 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen generation plants, 7,365 ventilators/Bi PAP, about 5.3 lakh Remdesivir vials have been delivered/dispatched through road and air, from April 27 to May 15. “Major consignments received on 14th-15th May 2021 from Kazakhstan, Japan, Switzerland, Ontario (Canada), USA, Egypt and British Oxygen Co (UK) include oxygen concentrators (100), ventilators/BiPAP/CPAP (500), oxygen cylinders (300), Remdesivir (40,000) besides masks and protective suits,” the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-got-53-lakh-remdesivir-vials-13496-oxygen-cylinders-as-foreign-aid-centre-986600.html
16-05-2021||National||76L vials of Remdesivir allocated to states till May 23: Sadananda Gowda||The Centre has allocated 76 lakh vials of anti-viral drug Remdesivir to states until May 23. “Considering the requirement of Remdesivir in various states and UTs and to ensure its adequate availability substantial increase has been made in overall production and allocation,” Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers Sadananda Gowda tweeted on Sunday. “The allotment is made for the States/UTs, and it is the State Governments and UTs that have to monitor and manage proper distribution within the State/ UT, covering both government as well as private hospitals,” Gowda tweeted. According to data shared by the minister, 76 lakh vials of the drug have been allocated to all states and UTs between April 21 and May 23. Of these, Maharashtra got the highest allocation of 14.92 lakh vials followed by Karnataka, which received 10 lakh vials from the Centre. Remdesivir is being manufactured in India by seven companies. Due to a great demand for the drug and its acute shortage after the second wave of Covid-19,  the Centre recently banned its export.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/76l-vials-of-remdesivir-allocated-to-states-till-may-23-sadananda-gowda-986610.html
16-05-2021||National||Russia to introduce single-dose Sputnik vaccine shot in India||Russia is planning to introduce its single dose anti-Covid-19 vaccine in India soon, Nikolay Kudashev, Moscow’s envoy to New Delhi, said as the second consignment of 60,000 doses of the Sputnik V jabs developed by his country’s Gamaleya National Centre of Epidemiology and Microbiology arrived in Hyderabad on Sunday. Kudashev also said that the production of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines in India was expected to be increased to 850 million doses per year. “Pleased to share that the consignment that arrived today in Hyderabad contains 60,000 doses of the second dose component of the #SputnikV vaccine. Samples from the consignment will be sent for release to the Central Drugs Laboratory,” Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Limited posted on Twitter, after the shipment arrived from Russia. The pharmaceutical company had on May 1 received the first consignment of 1.5 lakh doses of Sputnik V and the Central Drugs Laboratory at Kasauli in Himachal Pradesh cleared it for use last Thursday. The company soft-launched the imported vaccine, which would cost Rs 995.4 including 5% GST per dose, in Hyderabad on Friday. “Given the recent launch of the Russian vaccine in the Indian vaccination campaign, this second delivery (in Hyderabad on Sunday) has become very timely. The efficacy of the #SputnikV is well-known in the world,” tweeted Kudashev. “(The) Sputnik V is Russian-Indian vaccine. We expect that its production in India will be gradually increased up to 850 million doses per year.” Moscow has plans to introduce the single-dose Sputnik Light vaccine in India soon, said the Ambassador of Russia in New Delhi. The Sputnik Light is the first component – recombinant human adenovirus serotype number 26 (rAd26) – of the Sputnik V vaccine, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) stated. It claimed that the Sputnik Light had demonstrated 79.4% efficacy according to the data taken from 28 days after the injection had been administered. The data had been obtained from the Russians, who had been vaccinated with a single injection, but not received the second one for any reason during the mass vaccination program between December 5 and April 15, the RDIF stated. The Sputnik V was approved for use in India on April 12 last and granted an emergency use authorization, amid the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic across the country. The RDIF, which is promoting the Sputnik V vaccine around the world, had entered into a partnership with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Limited in September 2020 to conduct clinical trials of the jab and its distribution in India. The RDIF had committed to supply 100 million doses of the vaccine Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Limited. Russia is keen to turn India into a major production hub for the Sputnik V vaccines. The RDIF recently stated that it had reached agreements with the leading pharmaceutical companies in India – like Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech – with an objective to produce more than 850 million doses of the anti-Covid-19 jabs in the country per year. “In Russia, (the) #SputnikV (is) being successfully used to vaccinate citizens starting since 2nd half of 2020. #Russia'n specialists declared it’s also effective against new #COVID19 strains,” tweeted Kudashev.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-to-introduce-single-dose-sputnik-vaccine-shot-in-india-986627.html
16-05-2021||National||Virologist Shahid Jameel resigns from INSACOG Science Advisory Chair||Eminent virologist Shahid Jameel on Sunday resigned from the chair of the scientific advisory group of the INSACOG – a 10-laboratory consortium tasked to carry out genetic sequences of different variants of the SARS-CoV-2 circulating in India. While confirming his resignation to DH, Jameel refused to elaborate on the reasons that had led to such a decision. The resignation came within days of publication of an article by Jameel in The New York Times, in which the virologist wrote that his fellow scientists “are facing stubborn resistance to evidence-based policymaking” in India. “On April 30, over 800 Indian scientists appealed to the Prime Minister, demanding access to the data that could help them further study, predict and curb this virus. Decision-making based on data is yet another casualty, as the pandemic in India has spun out of control. The human cost we are enduring will leave a permanent scar.” The resignation happened at a time when INSACOG scientists involved in the sequencing work internally expressed their worries on the slow pace of sequencing and lack of efforts to link the genetic evidence on the new variants with the epidemiological data to derive clinical conclusions. When asked what the government did in the four months between November and March to avoid such a second wave scale as seen from March onwards, Jameel told DH last week, “The government was busy telling us that the endgame was near, congratulating itself for conquering “Corona” and boasting to the world.” “This surge is brought on by two things - (a) complacency due to this narrative and (b) more infectious variants. The interim period was spent in elections ignoring preparation for a second wave. Even available containment facilities were dismantled,” stated Jameel, who is known for his critical views of some of the government’s Covid-19 policies and practices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virologist-shahid-jameel-resigns-from-insacog-science-advisory-chair-986630.html
16-05-2021||National||PM reviews Covid-19 situation in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, UP, Puducherry||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to chief ministers of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh, and Lt Governor Puducherry to review the Covid-19 situation there. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel asked the Prime Minister to ensure sufficient availability of vaccines, while Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot requested him to step up oxygen supply to the state which has been witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath briefed Modi about the reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state and also apprised him about the status of the vaccination drive. He said vaccination for the 18-44 age group would begin from Monday in 23 districts across the state. The vaccination drive for this age group was started on May 1 in seven districts with high caseload. In the second phase, vaccination for the 18-44 age group was started in all municipal corporation limits. Puducherry Lt Governor Tamilsai Soundarajan briefed Modi about the Covid-19 situation in the union territory as chief minister N Rangaswamy was recuperating from the infectious disease.   During the discussion with Modi, Baghel said that the positivity rate of the viral infection has been steadily declining in the state. Baghel told the Prime Minister that the state currently has adequate availability of oxygen, and urged him to allow use of the surplus gas for industrial purposes. Baghel said special attention was being paid to rural areas and additional teams of officials were deployed in the regions where cases were still rising. Gehlot said he spoke to Modi on increasing the allocation of oxygen to states on the basis of the number of patients. He also requested the Centre to continue the services of the Indian Air Force for sending empty oxygen tankers to Jamnagar, Hazira as before.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-chhattisgarh-rajasthan-up-puducherry-986647.html
16-05-2021||National Politics||Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Satav succumbs to Covid-19||Rajeev Satav, the Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP from Maharashtra, succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. He was in critical condition. Satav (46) was part of the core team of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. He developed symptoms of Covid-19 on 19 April and tested positive on April 21.  He was admitted to the Jehangir Hospital in Pune on the next day. However, his condition deteriorated and, on April 25, he was shifted to the ICU. Three days later, he was put on a ventilator. He won from Hingoli in Marathwada in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Satav was the All India Congress Committee (AICC) In-charge of Gujarat. He was a permanent invitee to the Congress Working Committee, which is the highest decision-making body of the Congress. Known for his clarity of thought, he was respected by every member of Congress and also other political parties. A big loss Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences and said, "Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters. Om Shanti."  Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters. Om Shanti. Condoling his demise, several leaders from Congress and other parties expressed their grief. " I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress," Rahul Gandhi tweeted.   I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress. "Speechless!" wrote Surjewala, who remebered Satav and his first foray into politics with joining the Youth Congress. निशब्द ! आज एक ऐसा साथी खो दिया जिसने सार्वजनिक जीवन का पहला कदम युवा कांग्रेस में मेरे साथ रखा और आज तक साथ चले पर आज... राजीव सातव की सादगी, बेबाक़ मुस्कराहट, ज़मीनी जुड़ाव, नेत्रत्व और पार्टी से निष्ठा और दोस्ती सदा याद आयेंगी। अलविदा मेरे दोस्त !   "A thorough organisation man, he was integral to the Congress's revival. Tragic!" Jairam Ramesh wrote. My young colleague Rajeev Satav has passed away from COVID19 complications. He had been President, Youth Congress as well as MP in both Houses. He was a forceful speaker and was always well prepared. A thorough organisation man, he was integral to the Congress's revival. Tragic!   Sharad Pawar also offered his condolences and said it was a sad day for the state. गुजरातमधील निवडणुकांमध्ये काँग्रेस पक्षाने सोपवलेली प्रभारीपदाची जबाबदारी समर्थपणे सांभाळत पक्षाला चांगले यश मिळवून देण्याची भूमिका त्यांनी पार पाडली. त्यांच्या निधनाने महाराष्ट्रातील एका उमद्या नेतृत्वाचा अकाली अस्त झाला आहे.भावपूर्ण श्रद्धांजली!   "I have no words, just prayers for his young wife & children. May they have the strength to carry on without him," Priyanka Gandhi tweeted. In Rajeev Satav we have lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress & devoted to the people of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-and-rajya-sabha-mp-rajeev-satav-succumbs-to-covid-19-986423.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 surge: Delhi HC to continue virtual hearings till June 4||The Delhi High Court on Saturday said it has decided to continue with existing system of hearing cases via video conference till June 4 in view of the prevailing pandemic. The Full Court of the Delhi High Court has also decided that its summer vacation would be according to the schedule already notified -- from June 5 to July 2 -- according to an office order issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain. The order also said that all the pending routine or non-urgent matters listed in the high court between May 17 and June 4 shall be adjourned en-bloc to corresponding dates between July 30 and August 18. In view of the "alarming rise" in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the high court on April 23 had said that the existing system of hearings via video conference will continue till May 15. On April 18, the high court had said that from April 19 onwards it will only take up "extremely urgent matters" filed this year. Prior to that, on April 8, it had decided that from April 9 to April 23 it will take up matters "through virtual mode only" in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases. The high court had commenced complete physical functioning from March 15 onwards. Subsequently, it had said that virtual or hybrid proceedings would be held on the request of lawyers. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 in March last year, the court was holding proceedings through video conference. Its functioning was restricted to urgent matters from March 16 last year. Thereafter, from March 25 last year, the functioning of the high court and district courts was further restricted and no physical hearing was being conducted due to the spread of Covid-19. Subsequently, from September last year a few benches started holding physical courts everyday on a rotation basis. Some of them also started holding hybrid proceedings, wherein lawyers have the option to attend the hearing via video conference instead of appearing in person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-surge-delhi-hc-to-continue-virtual-hearings-till-june-4-986375.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||CM Kejriwal launches centre for real time Covid-related data||The Delhi government's preparations will not slow down as there is a possibility of a third coronavirus wave, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday, launching an integrated command and control centre (ICCC) to capture realtime pandemic management data. The Covid care centres that were closed down after decline in the first wave will be reopened and strengthened further, Kejriwal told reporters. The new centre will help in decision-making by furnishing realtime data like vaccination details, availability of oxygen, beds, medicines and other requirements in both private and government hospitals, he said. "Decisions taken by the government in thin air are never successful. However, if based on data, the decisions will be effective and more meaningful," Kejriwal said. The realtime data will be made available to the officers through an app, while the government will also consider to what extent access can also be provided to public, he said. Asked about preparations for anticipated third wave of Covid, Kejriwal said although the second wave was showing signs of decline, but efforts of Delhi government have not slowed down. "The government has set up 1,000 ICU beds, while more oxygen beds are to follow. The Covid care centres that were closed down after the first wave will also be reopened and strengthened," he said. Kejriwal said experience of countries like the US and the UK showed that vaccination on a massive scale could check coronavirus. The Centre and the states are trying their best and, hopefully, with availability of more vaccines, the vaccination drive will pick up pace in the country, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-kejriwal-launches-centre-for-real-time-covid-related-data-986388.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||UP government letter acknowledges Covid victims among bodies found in Ganga||Bodies of Covid-19 victims have been found dumped in some rivers, a state government said in a letter seen by Reuters, the first official acknowledgement of an alarming practice it said may stem from poverty and fear of the disease in villages. Images of corpses drifting down the Ganges river, which Hindus consider holy, have shocked a nation reeling under the world's worst surge in infections. Although media have linked the recent increase in the numbers of such bodies to the pandemic, Uttar Pradesh, home to 24 crore people, has until now not publicly revealed the cause of the deaths. "The administration has information that bodies of those who have succumbed to Covid-19 or any other disease are being thrown into rivers instead of being disposed of as per proper rituals," a senior state official, Manoj Kumar Singh, said in a May 14 letter to district heads that was reviewed by Reuters. "As a result, bodies have been recovered from rivers in many places." Singh confirmed the letter to Reuters but said autopsies on four to five bodies in the state's disrict of Ghazipur had not revealed virus infection. "The bodies are decomposed, so I am not sure in this state it can be found out about corona positive," he said in a text message. Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged officials on Saturday to beef up rural healthcare resources and boost surveillance as the virus spreads rapidly in those areas, after ravaging the cities. Uttar Pradesh, home to more people than Brazil or Pakistan, has been badly hit by India's dramatic second surge of Covid-19. Health experts say many cases are going undetected in the state's villages, home to the bulk of its people. In the memo, Singh said a lack of funds for materials such as firewood for cremation, religious beliefs in some communities, and families abandoning victims for fear of the disease were among the likely reasons for the surge in dumping. He asked village-level officials to ensure no corpses were thrown into water and said the state government would pay poor families Rs 5,000 each to cremate or bury the bodies of the dead. The state has also asked police to patrol rivers to stop the practice. India has been officially reporting about 4,000 daily deaths from the disease for nearly two weeks, but health experts say the toll is probably much higher because of factors such as poor testing in rural areas. The jump in deaths has led to backlogs at crematoriums in many places and multiplied the cost of last rites. On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary, Information, MSME, Export Promotion, Khadi & Village Industry Navneet Sehgal denied media reports that as many as 2,000 corpses of possible virus victims had been pulled from rivers in the state and neighbouring Bihar in recent days. "We keep recovering 10 to 20 bodies every now and then," Sehgal told Reuters, adding that some riverside villages did not cremate their dead due to Hindu traditions during some periods of religious significance. Bihar officials did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-letter-acknowledges-covid-victims-among-bodies-found-in-ganga-986419.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 24||The Covid-19 lockdown in the national capital has been extended by another week till May 24 even as the test positivity rate further declined to 10.40 per cent with Delhi Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying the government do not want to lose the gains accrued through restrictions imposed so far. The Sunday medical bulletin showed that Delhi reported 6,456, which was a slight increase from Saturday's 6,430. However, on a positive note, there was an increase in the number of tests conducted — 62,509 as against 56,811. The number of tests increased by around 5,700 but the number of cases rose by only 26, bringing down the positivity rate to 10.40 per cent from 11.32 per cent on Saturday and 12.40 per cent on Friday. The daily death toll fell to 262 as against 337 on Saturday.  Announcing the extension of lockdown, the Chief Minister said, "Covid-19 is rapidly declining, but the gains we have made in the past few days, we don’t want to lose them. So we are going to extend the lockdown for another week. Rather than tomorrow, 5 am, the lockdown in Delhi is being extended till next Monday at 5 am." He expressed hope that in the next week, there will be greater recovery. "As far as I can understand, Delhi is slowly coming back on track. The lockdown is to continue as it is and no concessions will be given, he said. Last week, the Delhi government had shut the Metro services and prohibited marriage functions in public places. These restrictions will continue. Regarding Covaxin and Covishield, Kejriwal said the Delhi government has written to the Centre and the two manufacturing companies to provide the capital with the vaccine, but there is no indication of the vaccine being given to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-24-986447.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||J-K: Security forces detect, neutralise IED in Shopian||Security forces detected and neutralised an improvised explosive device (IED) on Sunday following inputs about a terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district, police said. They had inputs about the attack and the IED was recovered after intense searches were launched this morning, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Shopian, Amrit Pal Singh said. The IED was "detected and neutralised between Sugan and Turkhwangam (areas in Shopian) by alert security forces", he said. "Police and the Army were aware of likely attempts by some Pakistani-sponsored terrorists attempting to use an IED against security forces. However, security forces are committed to foil all attempts of terrorists to disturb peace in Kashmir," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/j-k-security-forces-detect-neutralise-ied-in-shopian-986469.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccination drive loses momentum in Jammu and Kashmir||Amid a spike in Covid-19 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir, the vaccination drive has slowed down in the union territory (UT) with only two immunisation centres being functional in Srinagar. After May 7, the number of Covid-19 vaccines administered on a daily basis in the UT has come down drastically, apparently due to shortage of vaccines. Reportedly on May 7, a total of 56,714 people got vaccinated, 40,223 were administered the vaccine on May 8 and only 10,269 on May 10. Similarly, on May 10 and May 11, 28,595 and 26,221 people got vaccinated respectively but thereafter, the process slowed down and on May 12, only 10,524 people were vaccinated. The number of vaccinations administered on May 13 was 4,942, 15,395 on May 14 and 15,201 on May 15. However, the shortage is more severe in Kashmir valley than Jammu region. Official data reveals only 607 persons were vaccinated across Kashmir on Saturday and not a single person could get a jab in seven out of 10 districts of the Valley. On Sunday, no person was vaccinated in any district of Kashmir, while 8,750 persons were vaccinated in Jammu division. Sources said the majority of the vaccination centres in Srinagar district are lying closed for the last several days and presently only two centres are functional. A senior health official said the government has ordered 1.24 crore vaccines, but so far a mere 1.5 lakh doses have arrived, creating a huge shortage. “Even those who have taken the first dose of vaccine around two months before are waiting to get the second jab,” he said. “Inadequate amount of doses were given to us and hence, the vaccination has been slowed down,” he added. State Immunisation Officer, Dr. Shahid Hussain admitted the shortage of Covishield, saying that the vaccine will be available shortly. “We have taken the issue with the Serum Institute as well and vaccines will be available shortly,” he claimed. So far over 13,35,758 persons have been vaccinated in different health institutions of Kashmir region. Of this, 10,27,897 are citizens above 45 years, 2,38,883 are frontline workers and 68,978 are healthcare workers. It is pertinent to mention that J&K administration had repeatedly claimed that there is no shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccination-drive-loses-momentum-in-jammu-and-kashmir-986473.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Normal life remains affected in J-K as admin extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 24||The lockdown imposed in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of an alarming surge in coronavirus cases entered the 18th day on Sunday as the normal life remained affected in most areas of the union territory, officials said. The Jammu and Kashmir administration had on Saturday extended the lockdown till May 24. The officials said restrictions on the movement and assembly of people continued to remain in force on Sunday, though the curbs were not strict. Markets remained shut and public transport was off the roads, they said. However, private cars were seen plying in some areas of the city here and other district headquarters in the valley and the Jammu region, the officials said. Several roads have been sealed by security forces and barricades have been put at many places in the city here as well as in other district headquarters of the valley to prevent the movement of people. On April 29, the Jammu and Kashmir administration imposed a curfew in 11 districts in a bid to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, which was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day till May 17. However, On Saturday, the lockdown was extended till 7 am on May 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/normal-life-remains-affected-in-j-k-as-admin-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-24-986485.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Meet Shahjahanpur's 'cylinder waali bitiya' who helps everyone with oxygen||Breathing hope into the lives of people in need of oxygen amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, 26-year-old Arshi has earned the sobriquet of “cylinder waali bitiya” — the daughter with the oxygen cylinder. What began as a struggle to procure the life-saving gas for her coronavirus positive father, who managed to beat the viral disease, has now turned into a mission to save as many lives as possible in this district and those around it including the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand. Perched atop her trusted companion — a scooter — the young woman, a resident of Madaar Khel locality in Shahjahanpur, has so far distributed around 20 oxygen cylinders for free and is helped by her two brothers and some other associates. Recalling the beginning of her philanthropic journey, Arshi said on the first day of Ramzan, the condition of her father Mashoor, who was not keeping well, began deteriorating and her worst fears came true when he tested positive for Covid-19. While in home isolation, his oxygen levels started falling and the doctor asked me to arrange an oxygen cylinder. However, when I approached the authorities, I was told that patients in home isolation cannot get oxygen cylinders and was advised to get my father admitted to a hospital, according to Arshi. "Despite moving from pillar to post, I was not able to arrange a cylinder. As desperation grew, I somehow managed to get one from the office of the city magistrate,” Arshi told PTI. “I then came in contact with a social organisation based in Uttarakhand through WhatsApp which provided oxygen for my father and he subsequently recovered from the illness," she added. After this incident, I realised what families of Covid patients needing oxygen must be going through, she said. "Ever since, anyone who sought oxygen either through phone or WhatsApp was helped. I have provided oxygen to several people in Shahbad and Hardoi (UP) and Uttarakhand," the 26-year-old said, adding that she does not charge any money. The young woman has received many laurels for her heroic actions not only from those whom she has helped but also the state’s politicians. Shahjahanpur district president of Samajwadi Party Tanveer Khan said Arshi has embarked on a mission to provide oxygen cylinders to those who need it. "Amidst the Covid-19, Arshi is doing a historic work, without caring for her own life," Khan told PTI. Showering praises on Arshi, local resident Syed Naved said the woman provided him with three oxygen cylinders for his Covid-19 positive father. "May Allah fulfil all her wishes," he said. Meanwhile, Shahjahanpur Chief Medical Officer S P Gautam said there was no shortage of oxygen in the district and stressed that the life-saving gas was being provided to Covid-19 patients who are in home isolation. "There is no shortage of oxygen in the district, and oxygen is available in the hospitals. Apart from this, people who are Covid-19 infected and are in home isolation, oxygen cylinders are being provided to them by the city magistrate," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/meet-shahjahanpurs-cylinder-waali-bitiya-who-helps-everyone-with-oxygen-986491.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Education a luxury for poor children in digitally divided Kashmir||With schools in Kashmir closed for the last 21 months, a huge number of students remain deprived of online education due to the digital divide and the government’s failure to provide educational contents through alternate modes like television and radio. After the Centre’s decision to revoke J&K’s special status on August 5, 2019, and subsequent security clampdown, schools remained closed for months in the Valley. And as soon as the schools reopened in March last year, the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. While private schools are getting creative and teaching through conference calls, students in government schools are still struggling to get access to necessary devices. Unlike urban areas where the majority of the students and their parents have smartphones through which online education can be easily imparted, the vast population of students in the rural areas of Kashmir remain deprived of this facility as they lack these gadgets due to their poor economic condition. “Students with poor background are finding it hard to obtain benefits of online education because they don’t have smartphones on which WhatsApp, Zoom App, Facebook and YouTube Channel can be operated,” a senior officer of the school education department admitted. He said that last year community classes were started in rural areas for the convenience of such students but this year the same could not take place due to the devastating second wave of the pandemic. “In such a situation providing educational contents through alternate modes like television and radio is the only option to make up for the losses being suffered by the students in their studies,” the official said and added they have taken up the matter with the higher authorities. A school teacher, who wished not to be named, said that poor students mostly studying in government schools always had to bear the brunt of abnormal situations in Kashmir during the last three decades. “The pandemic was dubbed a great equalizer. But like in the past, those without the privileges are suffering. Most students of government schools can’t afford smartphones and high-speed internet. The education playing field in Kashmir, never really level, is now potholed and bumpy,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/education-a-luxury-for-poor-children-in-digitally-divided-kashmir-986492.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Young SP starts free taxi service for elderly in Mohali||Gurjot Singh Kaler, Superintendent of Police (Traffic and Cyber Crime), has started a free taxi service run by the Mohali Traffic Police department for senior citizens going for vaccinations. They also deliver the elderly medicines when required. The senior citizens can call on these numbers- 9115516010 and 0172-2219356 to book the taxis for their use. They need to follow the Covid-19 protocols and carry their Adhar card along with them while travelling. They are only required to pay for the medicines they order. This service has started from May 11 and can be availed between Monday to Friday from 10 am to 2 pm. Last September, to give a tribute to the Covid warriors of Punjab Police, Gurjot performed a 15,000-foot skydive in Nottingham, UK. “By this gesture, I wanted to encourage the frontline workers who are fighting this pandemic,” he told the publication. Gurjot has also made videos on social awareness in the past on issues like cybercrimes like ATM thefts, cloning of SIM cards, e-frauds, and OTP scams. “I shot these videos and wrote the scripts. The reason was to create awareness, as many persons are falling prey to these crimes,” he told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/young-sp-starts-free-taxi-service-for-elderly-in-mohali-986505.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi government deploys 4-member team to answer distress calls from senior citizens during Covid pandemic||The Delhi government has deployed staff from its Department of Social Welfare to attend to distress calls and other queries from senior citizens impacted by the pandemic. A team of four officials has been sent to the office of the divisional commissioner to support helpline number 1077 that is run under the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the department said in an official order. Section officer G C Meena, senior assistant Kumar Gandharva, welfare officers Kuldeep Saini and Vijay have been deployed for the task, it said. "These officials will also coordinate with HelpAge India, Qutub Institutional Area to utilise the manpower engaged for the new elderly helpline for which the Department of Social Welfare has entered into an MoU with HelpAge India as a project supported by the Ministry of Social Justice and the National Institute of Social Defence," the order stated. The duties of these officials will involve attending telephone calls from senior citizens, providing guidance regarding the online process of applying for senior citizen pension and answering queries pertaining to the non-receipt of pension. The officials will also "provide guidance and linkage with DDMA services or NGO services with respect to food distribution, shelter, medicines, making available Covid-related items such as masks, sanitisers, etc., to the senior citizens". The team will also help senior citizens connect with government and NGO resources with respect to education and health and counsel them to protect themselves against the Covid-19 pandemic, the order said. "The helpline staff shall at all times be cordial and polite, and handle the queries with patience. They shall follow up with each caller to ensure complete resolution of his or her problem/issue," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-deploys-4-member-team-to-answer-distress-calls-from-senior-citizens-during-covid-pandemic-986515.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh villagers turn to gods, superstitions as Covid-19 wreaks havoc||As Covid continued to ravage the villages across Uttar Pradesh, the people have started resorting to superstitious practices to ward off the virus. According to the reports, people in several UP districts, including Varanasi, Kushinagar and Mau, have been holding 'bhajans' (religious hymns), special pujas and havans (a ritual by fire) at temples to keep Covid at bay. Reports said that the people, especially the women, have been offering 'dhar' (a mixture prepared with water, flowers and some other articles) at the temples of 'Dih Baba' (local deity) and goddess 'Kali' at several villages in Mau district, about 350 kilometres from here. "They (people) think that the Baba will check the spread of the virus and will not allow it to enter their villages," said Brahmanand Pandey, a local scribe in Mau. Special pujas were also organised at the ghats on the Ganga in Varanasi in which dozens of women from the nearby areas have been taking part, reports said. Scores of women were seen performing special rituals at a temple in Dumri Malav village in the state's Kushinagar district, about 325 kilometres from here, according to the reports. Incidentally, none of the participants wore masks nor did they follow social distancing while performing the pujas triggering fears of further spread of the virus in the rural areas. A senior government official in Kushinagar said that he had received information about the pujas and added that stern action would be taken against those found to be spreading misleading information with regards to Covid-19. Hundreds of people have died in the rural areas in UP after exhibiting Covid-like symptoms of cold and cough and breathlessness in the past few days, though the officials denied it. The people have also been dumping the dead bodies in the Ganga, Yamuna and others rivers in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-villagers-turn-to-gods-superstitions-as-covid-19-wreaks-havoc-986550.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Police lob tear gas, use force as farmers tried to disrupt Khattar’s programme in Hisar||Police on Sunday lobbed tear gas shells and used force to disperse a group of farmers who tried to march towards the venue where Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to inaugurate a Covid hospital. Police said the farmers jumped police barricades and they had to use force and resort to tear gas shelling to disperse them. Khattar inaugurated the newly built 500-bedded Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjeevani Covid Hospital in Hisar and farmers were stopped before they could reach the venue, the police said. The farmers claimed that a few of them were injured in police action. A police spokesman said farmers pelted stones at the force and some personnel were injured and subsequently hospitalised. Police said they detained some agitators, included women, as they were marching towards the venue to create obstructions in the chief minister's event. PTI SUN VSD AQS AQS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-lob-tear-gas-use-force-as-farmers-tried-to-disrupt-khattar-s-programme-in-hisar-986555.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||PIL in SC seeks court-monitored independent inquiry into Chitrakoot jail killings||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored independent inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or National Investigation Agency (NIA) into alleged killings of three inmates at Chitrakoot jail in Uttar Pradesh. The incident took place on May 14, in Chitrakoot Jail of Uttar Pradesh, where it was reported that one undertrial Anshu Dixit from Sitapur opened fire and killed two others. He was also shot dead by the police in a retaliatory fire. Advocate Anoop Prakash Awasthi, in his plea, also sought a direction for probe into all alleged extra-judicial killings that have taken place in Uttar Pradesh after March 18, 2017, when Yogi Adityanath took over as Chief Minister of the state, saying "the culture of violence promoted in the state militates against the basic notion of very rule of law". The petition alleged that the Chief Minister has openly promoted the culture of encounters and extra-judicial killings, and went on record to say "Police in UP will now respond to a bullet with a bullet." The plea cited the killing of Munna Bajrangi who was shot dead in Bagpat Jail of Uttar Pradesh in July, 2018, and Vikas Dubey's encounter in July, 2020 saying there have been several hundred encounters in UP since 2017, which is "not only alarming but equally disturbing". "The Chief Minister, who is the provincial head of an elected government encroached upon the domain of punishment in sanctioning the taking of life in encounters without following the due process of law," the plea claimed. The petitioner cited a video circulating in social media, which purportedly showed undertrial Dixit apprehending his killing by the police. "It is further astonishing to find that the two other killed inmates, namely Merajuddin and Mukim Kala, were transferred to Chitrakoot Jail only recently as a part of larger design behind the shootout".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-sc-seeks-court-monitored-independent-inquiry-into-chitrakoot-jail-killings-986557.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Punjab extends Covid-19 curbs till May 31||The Punjab government on Sunday extended all existing Covid restrictions in the state till May 31, amid a high positivity and fatality rate due to the disease. The announcement in this regard was made by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. He also gave directions for strict enforcement of all the curbs. The CM said deputy commissioners will continue to determine the opening hours of shops in a staggered manner and enforce other restrictions to check the Covid-19 spread, especially in rural areas. They can also make suitable amendments based on local conditions as long as these do not dilute the state's overall restrictions, Chief Minister Singh said in an official statement here. Reviewing the state's Covid-19 situation at a meeting, he said while the restrictions so far had shown results, with some decline in day-to-day positivity and cases coming down from around 9,000 to 6,000 in this period, there was a need to extend the same due to the high positivity rate of 13.1 per cent as of the May 9 till 15 period, with case fatality rate (CFR) standing at 2.4. The state government has already imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like weekend lockdowns and night curfew till May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-may-31-986570.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc in Jammu and Kashmir||With 4,141 fresh infections and 59 deaths, Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc in Jammu and Kashmir, despite a marginal drop in the daily coronavirus figures. The drop in cases detected can be attributed to the fewer tests conducted as only 36,716 tests were conducted on Saturday against over 47,000 tests being conducted daily a week before. On May 7, J&K had reported the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases with 5,443 fresh infections and 50 deaths recorded. Though the number of positive cases have seen a dip since due to the less number of tests conducted, the deaths have on an average hovered between 60 to 65 daily. Of the 59 deaths in J&K today, 32 were reported in Jammu division and 27 in Kashmir and of the new cases, 2,451 were detected in Kashmir and 1,690 from Jammu. The Union territory (UT) has logged 3,149 fatalities and 2,44,608 cases so far. May has proved to be the worst month for J&K in terms of Covid cases and deaths as the monthly infections reached 68,525 and fatalities to 867. According to the daily media bulletin, 3,934 patients recovered from the disease on Sunday. The Covid-19 surge has been significantly high in rural areas in almost the entire J&K, a result of which 16 districts today reported more than 100 cases. While cases in Srinagar have come down from more than 1,100 at the start of this month to over 400 now, other districts of the Valley are showing a surge now. The lockdown imposed on April 29 has now been extended till May 24. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is over 19,500 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 1.25 crore. The national average per million population so far is over 17,750. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. The coronavirus outbreak was reported in Jammu and Kashmir on 7 March 2020, when two persons tested positive for the deadly infection. The peak of the first wave was September 12 when 1698 positive cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-continues-to-wreak-havoc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-986584.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Sacrilege cases: Sidhu posts on Twitter 'video clips' of police action on protesters||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday shared on his Twitter handle purported video clips of police action on people protesting the desecration of a religious text in Punjab’s Faridkot in 2015, a day after SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal dared his party leaders to show evidence. The Amritsar MLA also shared purported contents of the report of the one-man commission that had probed incidents of the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib. The SAD-BJP government was at the helm, with Parkash Singh Badal as the CM, when the incidents had taken place in 2015. On Saturday, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, who was the deputy CM in the previous Punjab government, had asked the Congress leaders to produce the proof, if they have any, about the "planning and execution" of the incidents. Sidhu shared two video clips of an event from September 2018, in which he is seen sharing the CCTV footage and some contents of the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission report. “Enough cognizable evidence available against Badals, says Justice (Retd.) Ranjit Singh Inquiry Commission report. In Sept 2018, I shared in public domain, statements by doctors, Ex-DGP & civil administration that prove actions at Kotkapura Chowk were consentual with then CM,” said Sidhu in a tweet. “This CCTV footage was hidden from Justice (Retd.) Zora Singh Inquiry Commission during Badal regime. Later, dug up by Justice Ranjit Singh. I brought this footage to public domain, which shows role of police, acting on behest of the Badals. You are guilty but being protected,” said Sidhu in another tweet. Meanwhile, reacting to Sidhu's remarks, SAD chief's principal adviser Harcharan Bains said in a tweet, "For 4½ yrs, @sherryontop boasted he had SENSATIONAL EVIDENCE on sacrilege. Asked to share it wth Khalsa Panth, court & SIT, all he does scoot & hide behind a retired judge's politicised report,already exposed, rubbished & rejected by HC. Where's the much touted evidence." The one-man commission was set up by the Congress-led government in 2017 to investigate incidents of the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing cases at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura of Faridkot. Two people were killed in the police firing at Behbal Kalan. Sidhu has been repeatedly attacking Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over the issue after the Punjab and Haryana High Court last month quashed a probe report into the Kotkapura case and ordered to form a fresh SIT to reinvestigate it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sacrilege-cases-sidhu-posts-on-twitter-video-clips-of-police-action-on-protesters-986595.html
16-05-2021||North and Central||Residents pitch in to set up Covid care centre in Noida||The death of an old lady in search of a hospital bed late April prompted a group of residents in neighbouring Noida to get together to start a Covid Care Centre with oxygen support. What began from May 1 as a single-bed service with oxygen support at the Community Centre in Sector 50 of Noida has now grown to a 14-bed facility that has helped save lives of Covid-19 patients. “We were able to save the life of one patient, Jagadish, who was brought to the centre with an oxygen level of 35. The nurse at the centre immediately put him on oxygen support,” Aanchal Bohra, a businessman associated with the Resident Welfare Association of Noida Sector 15, told DH. The nurse got in touch with the district officials and arranged an ICU bed for Jagadish, who is now stable but on ventilator support with much improved oxygen level, said Bohra. “We were disturbed when we could not find a hospital bed for an old lady on April 28. We kept moving around Noida and Greater Noida with the lady in a car but in vain,” Vimal Sharma, President of the Noida Sector 50 RWA said. He said the old lady breathed her last in the car which eventually was taken to a cremation ground to perform the last rites. “Some of us got together the next day and arranged for an oxygen cylinder and started an isolation facility at the Community Centre,” Sharma said, adding that the number of beds gradually increased to nine and now 14. The facility runs 24x7 and has deployed nurses and has provision for online consultation with doctors. A helpdesk has also been set up in case a patient develops some complication and requires hospitalisation. The facility had about nine patients – the maximum – on May 9-10 and volunteers at the centre had their hands full in organising proper care for them. “We do not have a single patient on Sunday. Thankfully, cases have also come down,” Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/residents-pitch-in-to-set-up-covid-care-centre-in-noida-986605.html
16-05-2021||Opinion||How Left's hammer and sickle lost potency in Bengal bastion||Some Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders of Bengal have publicly spoken against the party leadership’s whimsical and ‘wrong’ choice of allies. But the party that suddenly finds itself irrelevant in a state it ruled in recent history for 34 years, from 1977 to 2011, does not have an answer. It does not have a mature leadership that can answer such questions as to why it allied with the Indian Secular Front (ISF) led by Abbas Siddique, a radical cleric from Furfura Sharif. Lost in a quagmire, the party leadership does not have the strength or the stamina to rejuvenate itself. This is an unusual story of a mighty force, almost a monolith, withering away in a mere 15 years. Flashback to May 2006. We come across two standout numbers – 235-seats in an assembly of 294, and a 50 per cent vote share. Five years later, the Left lost out to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), but still managed 62-seats and a 40 per cent vote share. In 2016, in a desperate bid to wrest power, the Left aligned with Congress. The result shocked the Left. It bagged 25 per cent of the polled votes but won only 32-seats. The Congress with its concentration of votes in Muslim dominated districts of Malda, Murshidabad and adjacent areas won 44-seats with just 12.25 per cent vote share. The result showed that Congress might have a limited future, but the Left was fast losing relevance. Taking a cue from the success of the Congress, the Left aligned with the ISF this time in a bid to reclaim the Muslim votes of South Bengal. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha and the president of the party’s Bengal unit, opposed it. When the results trickled in on May 2, it became evident that the Muslims had deserted the Samjukta Morcha en masse, and only a small section of the Hindus have voted for it. The alliance that got nearly 38 per cent votes five years ago could secure just about 8 per cent votes this time. The Left’s vote share stands at about 5 per cent. The debacle cannot be assigned to ideological reasons. The Left is still going strong in Kerala and trying hard to stay relevant in Tripura. So, what has gone wrong with it in Bengal? Crisis of credible leadership and viable USP This time the Left fared badly as its alliance fell out of favour with the Muslims who are 30 per cent of the total electorate. Unlike in the past, the Muslim vote completely polarised in favour of the TMC this time. It happened as the Muslims felt if they voted for TMC it would return to power and stop implementation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) to identify Bangladeshi immigrants. There was widespread fear among Muslims that not only Bangladeshis but even Indian Bengali Muslims would be harassed if the BJP came to power. On the other hand, BJP took away 38 of 70 per cent Hindu votes, which is a significant chunk. The BJP has dislodged the Congress-Left from the opposition space quite grievously. It happened at a time when even the numero uno of Bengal BJP, its state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, is a face with whom the people have been acquainted only for five years. But he has surpassed in popularity top leaders of the Left who have been around for at least three decades. It reveals that the Left leaders lost their only face when Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee became physically indisposed after 2011. The rest of its leadership neither has credibility nor the ability to be imaginative enough to adapt to the changed scenario. The crisis is all the more acute as the Left has nothing to offer to the people materially that has not been offered by the TMC or the BJP. It has no unique selling proposition (USP) that would attract voters, particularly those below forty years. Its ideology too does not carry any appeal to the common folks who have not forgotten how it went for industrialisation without caring for the farmers whose land was being acquired. Again, after the polarization of the Muslim votes in favour of the TMC, the BJP in future will go a whole hog for the polarisation of the Hindu votes. The TMC may try to fight it with its social welfare programmes while retaining the Muslim vote bank. But the Left has almost nothing at its disposal to counter these trends. So, in all probability, for some years now, it will be a straight fight between the TMC and the BJP, which has anyway now occupied almost the entire opposition space, and the Left will remain down and out. (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-lefts-hammer-and-sickle-lost-potency-in-bengal-bastion-986415.html
16-05-2021||Opinion||Israel faces greater dangers than Hamas||By Pankaj Mishra, Israel and Hamas have taken to open warfare yet again. The sense of déjà vu, as the militant group’s rocket attacks on Israeli territory are met by retaliatory airstrikes in Gaza, is compounded by Western politicians repeating an old formula: “Israel has the right to defend itself.” That’s undoubtedly true. And yet it’s equally clear that Israeli actions are unlikely to deter Hamas. Nor will re-establishing military superiority over a technologically primitive enemy obscure Israel’s new and acute vulnerabilities. The shocking images of lynch mobs and street fighting between Arabs and Jews within Israel underscore the fact that the most formidable threat to the country’s present and future stability is now internal. About one in 5 Israelis are Arabs, the descendants of Palestinians who stayed in the country after the creation of Israel in 1948, and they have long been disaffected. Feeling marginalized even further by 2018 legislation that exalted Israel’s Jewish majority above all other groups, as well as the mainstreaming of explicitly racist, far-right Israeli parties, Arab Israelis have now erupted into open mutiny. The mob violence between Jews and Arabs should not be underestimated: It represents a watershed in the history of Israel. For traditions of co-existence cannot be repaired once they have been so brutally violated. The bitter history of communal fratricide in India and Pakistan tells us that the legacy of hate and suspicion corrode a country from within, making it even more susceptible to far-right movements. Israel’s external challenges have been multiplying, too. Reflexive pro-Israel statements from Western politicians have long obscured the unease they feel about the country’s direction. German Chancellor Angela Merkel summed up the tension in 2011 after a crucial United Nations resolution against Israel that both Germany and the United States unprecedentedly supported. Chastised by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Merkel reportedly said, “How dare you? … You haven't made a single step to advance peace.” Forging intimate relations with such figures as Narendra Modi, Jair Bolsonaro and Viktor Orban, Netanyahu openly scorned the Obama administration when the latter tried to check Israel’s settlement program in the West Bank. In another instance of myopic policy, Israel’s longest-serving prime minister allied his country closely to the Republican right as President Donald Trump facilitated a series of diplomatic victories for him. Trump trashed the nuclear deal with Iran, moved the US embassy to the disputed city of Jerusalem, cut off US aid to Palestinians and supervised Israel’s entente with Gulf Arab regimes. But not even Trump-friendly Arab despots can afford to remain silent when Israeli police assault Islam’s third-holiest site. And the Biden administration, which adopted a standoffish approach to the Israel-Palestine issue, cannot do much as China, enthused by the success of its vaccine diplomacy, steps in. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s recent six-country tour of the Middle East proclaimed his country’s intention to involve itself in the region’s most complicated issue. China has even offered to host peace talks between Israeli and Palestinian leaders. Beijing’s increased proximity to Iran should leave no one in doubt over which side it’s likely to favour. More significantly, Israel has been steadily losing its moral stature as a nation-state built for and by victims of monstrous crimes against Jews. For many Europeans and Americans who came of age after 1945, the Holocaust was the main, if not the sole, touchstone for moral and historical awareness. This made for understandably deep emotional identification with and stalwart support for Israel, especially when the country faced existential threats. Today, a younger generation of Westerners is learning about older and relatively under-explored crimes of white supremacy (genocide, slavery and colonialism) and their present-day manifestations in structural forms of cruelty and injustice. Statues have been toppled, educational syllabuses revised with a view to diversity, and reparations proposed for historical victims of racist and supremacist regimes. Israel, recently indicted by Human Rights Watch in a 224-page report for “crimes against humanity of apartheid and persecution,” seems to embody many of the things that politicized young people loathe about the past and present. The historian Tony Judt, who was a fervent Zionist in his youth, warned in 2003 that “the very idea of a ‘Jewish state’ — a state in which Jews and the Jewish religion have exclusive privileges from which non-Jewish citizens are forever excluded — is rooted in another time and place.” Judt’s belief that Israel is an “anachronism” feels truer today. At a time when institutions and individuals struggle to understand and overthrow “unconscious bias,” a majoritarian Israel appears to be a case study in conscious and unreconstructed bias. Israel, of course, has the right to defend itself against Hamas’s rockets. As always, it will exercise that right robustly. However, against many other clear and present dangers in the wider world, Israel is growing increasingly defenceless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/israel-faces-greater-dangers-than-hamas-986472.html
16-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu: Are Covid-19 patients' attendants possible super spreaders?||The Tamil Nadu Health Department on Saturday ordered Covid-19 hospitals in the state to not allow those tending to infected patients (mostly relatives) to enter isolation wards over worries of these sites turning into super spreaders. Some of these attendants and relatives, looking after patients who are elderly, say that their presence is needed. Many of them claim that except for oxygen supply, their patients receive very little help from doctors and nurses. While nurses are having to take on more than just one patient 50 per cent of doctors are reportedly in quarantine. According to Dr Therani Rajan, Dean of Rajiv Gandhi Medical College Hospital, nurses and doctors take turns in quarantining. 450 out of 900 nurses, and 350 out of 700 doctors are in quarantine, the news channel reported.  Elumalai, brother of a Covid-19 patient at the government hospital told the news outlet that he had to beg nurses and doctors multiple times to provide medicines for his sister. "Doctors are not enough. Nurses also inadequate, they aren't able to do anything. They say 'patients keep coming, what can we do?'" he recalled his plight. Covid-19 cases in Chennai and Tamil Nadu continue to surge, as the state's active case tally crossed 2 lakh on Saturday. Many hospitals have more patients than medical staff, and Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan informed the broadcaster that Chief Minister Stalin would okay the employment of 25 per cent more staff if the need arises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-are-covid-19-patients-attendants-possible-super-spreaders-986424.html
16-05-2021||South||First Oxygen Express arrives in Kerala||An Oxygen Express train carrying 118 metric tonnes of medical oxygen arrived here from Odisha in the wee hours on Sunday, official sources said here. "The first #OxygenExpress to Kerala has reached Ernakulam from Kalinganagar with medical Oxygen for Covid-19 patients in the State," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said in a tweet. Sources said the medical oxygen load was meant for Delhi but it was diverted to Kerala after requirement in the national capital has dipped. The train carrying oxygen reached the Vallarpadam terminal here at 1.45 am. Trucks carrying oxygen will leave for various districts after completing the process of decanting from containers to tankers, they said. The Oxygen Express train reached Kerala, two days after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayanwrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to allocate 450 MT oxygen as the state was witnessing an increase in the number of patients who require critical care, including oxygen support. "As the State government will not be able to manage the oxygen demand without assistance from the Central government, it is requested that Kerala's daily oxygen allocation may be immediately enhanced to 450 MT," Vijayan had said in his letter to Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-oxygen-express-arrives-in-kerala-986486.html
16-05-2021||South||Anti-viral drug Remdesivir will be given directly to hospitals, says Tamil Nadu government||Anti-viral drug Remdesivir would be made available directly to private hospitals to avoid overcrowding in places designated for its prescription-based sale by state authorities to the kin of Covid-19 patients, the Tamil Nadu government said here on Sunday. Effective May 18, a facility would be made available to private hospitals to register their drug requirement in a portal and only their representatives should collect the medicine from sale depots. While information on the portal would soon be released, the hospitals must furnish information related to intended recipients, the oxygen-dependent patients, the government said in an official release. The state-run Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation provided the drug to government hospitals. For patients in private facilities, it was being made available to the families of Covid-19 patients through government sale centres in Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchirappalli, Madurai and Tirunelveli. The government said authorities would monitor if Remdesivir was used by private hospitals only for eligible patients and whether it was sold to patients at the same price at which it was bought from its centres. Legal action would be taken against those who violate norms and if patients were recommended Remdesivir without any necessity, the government said. Following a meet chaired by Chief Minister M K Stalin to review the current practice of providing the drug to people through direct sale, the government said only in Tamil Nadu Remdesivir was being sold directly to the families of people infected by the virus. Overcrowding in places where Remdesivir is being sold made following physical distancing impossible and also led to the possibility of virus spread and hence this has to be avoided, the government said. There were also complaints alleging that some who got the drug from centres sold it in the black market and experts opined that Remdesivir had a limited efficacy only for patients on oxygen support. Considering such factors, and to see that people do not face hassles, the Chief Minister advised top officials to change the current practice and provide it only to hospitals. Relatives of patients should not be tasked to buy the medicine directly, he told the officials. Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma Subramaniam and top officials including Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan took part in the meet held at the Secretariat. On Saturday, public health expert Prabhdeep Kaur tweeted (on overcrowding to get the drug), "This is perfect setting for #Covid19 cluster. Will make lockdown ineffective. Remdesivir is not a life-saving drug. Yet, if Govt wants to help patients in private hospitals - it should be given directly to the hospitals @CMOTamilnadu @Subramanian_ma."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anti-viral-drug-remdesivir-will-be-given-directly-to-hospitals-says-tamil-nadu-government-986525.html
16-05-2021||South||Israel envoy visits house of Malayali woman killed in Hamas attack||Israel consul general to South India Jonathan Zadka on Sunday visited the house of Malayali care taker killed in Hamas shelling. Idukki native Soumya Santhosh was killed at Ashkelon in Israel on May 11. Her mortal remains were brought to her home by Saturday night. Zadka expressed condolences to the family and gave a badge carrying Israel ad Indian flags to Soumya's nine year old son Adone. He later tweeted, "Honoured to pay my respects and convey our sympathies to the family and friends of Soumya Santosh as she was laid to rest in her home town Keerithod. May she RIP. Our prayers are with the family that lost an angel in a cowardly hamas terror attack." The funeral was performed at near by church by Sunday afternoon after people from various walks of life and state leaders paying homage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/israel-envoy-visits-house-of-malayali-woman-killed-in-hamas-attack-986590.html
16-05-2021||South||Remdesivir sale to be streamlined in Tamil Nadu from May 18||After chaos at counters selling the drug, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday decided to streamline the sale of Remdesivir by launching a web portal to take requests for the drug from private hospitals directly from May 18. The decision by CM M K Stalin at a meeting was taken after hundreds of people continued to throng the only five counters across the state to buy the drug for their relatives or friends. A statement issued after the meeting said a dedicated web portal will be launched to take requests from hospitals on the need for Remdesivir for patients. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) has been selling Remdesivir at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital (KMCH) in Chennai and at other four locations in the state. However, the sale was marred by over-crowding at the counters and flouting of social distancing and other Covid-19 rules. To avoid overcrowding, the statement said, Remdesivir should be given to patients on Oxygen support. “The hospitals should upload the request on the web, and once the request is approved, their representative can go and collect the drug,” the statement said. Though Remdesivir is not part of the treatment protocol released by the state government, doctors continue to prescribe the drug for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/remdesivir-sale-to-be-streamlined-in-tamil-nadu-from-may-18-986592.html
16-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu forms legislators' consultative committee on Covid-19||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday constituted a committee of legislators, headed by him, to provide suggestions to control the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Former Health Minister Dr C Vijayabaskar, who spearheaded the Covid-19 containment efforts in the AIADMK regime, and Dr N Ezhilan of the DMK are some of the prominent members of the 13-member committee. The committee, which is represented by all political parties whose members were elected to the assembly, will meet periodically to discuss ways and means to control Covid-19, Stalin said in a statement. Besides Vijayabaskar and Ezhilan, the committee has another doctor Sathan Thirumalaikumar of the MDMK. The Constitution of the committee is one of the decisions taken at the all-party meeting chaired by Stalin on May 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-forms-legislators-consultative-committee-on-covid-19-986611.html
16-05-2021||South||Kerala on alert as seven cases of black fungus infection reported||At least seven persons in Kerala were so far reported to have Mucormycosis (black fungus) infection. Health department sources said that among the seven under treatment for black fungus infection in Kerala, three recently came down from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. All three were stable. The infections disease wing of Thiruvananthapuram medical college and the state medical board were looking into the black fungus infections reported in the state. The health department also alerted all hospitals treating Covid patients to be alert against the fungus infection. At the time of discharge, Covid patients have to be made aware of the symptoms of the fungal infection. Meanwhile, the Covid test positivity rate of the state declined slightly to 25.61 per cent on Sunday as 29,704 cases fresh cases were reported. Over the last several days, daily new cases were over 30,000. A triple lockdown will be imposed at Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Thrissur and Malappuram districts from Monday. The state-wide lockdown was also extended till May 23. The first oxygen express train reached Kerala on Sunday. The train carrying 118 MT oxygen reached Kochi and from there, it was being distributed to various districts. An oxygen war room was formed in the state to streamline oxygen supply to hospitals. One more oxygen express train is expected to reach Kerala soon, health department sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-on-alert-as-seven-cases-of-black-fungus-infection-reported-986642.html
16-05-2021||South||Kerala gets temporary relief from rough weather||Kerala got relief on Sunday evening as the intensity of the rains and winds decreased. Throughout Sunday, heavy rains were reported in central and north Kerala districts. Orange alert was sounded in eight districts. Extensive damages to crops were reported from various parts of the state in the heavy winds. Two persons died in separate rain-related incidents in the state and other incidents were reported from Kozhikode and Ernakulam districts. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority informed that the effect that the cyclone may be felt in Kerala till Monday with heavy winds and rains. However, red or orange alerts were not sounded in any districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gets-temporary-relief-from-rough-weather-986646.html
16-05-2021||State||Karnataka expresses interest in DRDO's 'game changing' Covid drug||A new drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) promises to cut down on oxygen dependency among Covid-19 patients. Representatives of the state government have now shown interest. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar was briefed by scientists on projects to tackle the ongoing second wave during his visit to the DRDO campus. Among the innovations was the organisation’s 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug which Dr Sushakar's office described as a "game changer." In Karnataka’s ongoing second wave of novel coronavirus infections, a significant percentage of symptomatic cases require oxygen support, which has strained the state's oxygen manufacturing capacity. However, the 2-DG drug, which is based on a glucose molecule and which has completed Phase III trials, has been shown to reduce oxygen dependency in 42 per cent of 220 studied patients by the third day of hospitalisation.  Based on these results, the Drugs Controller General of India's (DCGI) Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) permitted Phase-II clinical trials of 2-DG in Covid-19 patients in May 2020. Phase IIA was conducted in six hospitals and Phase IIB (dose ranging) clinical trial was conducted at 11 hospitals all over the country. Phase-II trial was conducted on 110 patients. The Phase-III clinical trials were conducted between December 2020 and March 2021, at 27 Covid hospitals in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. During the trials, a significantly higher proportion of patients were said to have improved symptomatically and became free from supplemental oxygen dependence (42 per cent) by Day-3, compared to 31 per cent efficacy found during Standard of Care (SoC).  The drug works by inhibiting glycolysis, a method used by cells to break down glucose for energy. This is a method used previously to starve out and eradicate cancer cells. DRDO scientists believe they can use the method to inhibit virus cells as they too are dependent on glycolysis for replication. However, no clinical paper has been published so far.  "The drug will be of immense benefit to the people suffering from Covid-19," Dr Sudhakar said. The drug is currently being developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL), Hyderabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-expresses-interest-in-drdos-game-changing-covid-drug-986362.html
16-05-2021||State||Karnataka faces severe shortage of drug to treat black fungus||Critical shortage of an anti-fungal drug required to treat mucormycosis or black fungus, which is increasingly being found in Covid patients and those who have recovered from the disease, has become a new source of worry for Covid-battered Karnataka. Hospitals in Bengaluru and the state are turning back patients as they have no stocks of Liposomal Amphotericin B, an expensive anti-fungal medication that is the only available option in the market to treat the disease.    Liposomal Amphotericin B is available in 50 mg vials. Each patient requires 40-60 vials during the course of treatment and each vial costs Rs 7,000. The Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society said it is left with just 1,050 vials, reflecting the seriousness of the situation. Dr Ravi Sachidananda, ENT/head and neck surgeon, People Tree Hospital, said the hospital has stopped taking in patients as they had run out of the drug. "A busy ENT surgeon would not see more than two or three cases of mucormycosis in a year out of 6,000 ENT cases. Now, we are seeing only these cases," he said. "Each patient needs 60 vials. With four vials required per day, the patient needs it for 15 days. This is the only drug available in the market to treat this disease," he said. According to this calculation, the state has enough vials left only for 17.5 patients. "We can use plain Amphotericin B but it carries the risk of damaging the kidney. It has to be taken after guidance from nephrologists. Patients need subsidy as each one needs to shell out Rs 4.2 lakh for 15 days worth of vials," he added. Dr Bhujang Shetty, Chairman and Managing Director, Narayana Nethralaya, said the hospital had "approached both the health minister and additional chief secretary, health". "But we have not received the drug yet," he said. "We have been approached by at least 18 patients who we had to refer to other hospitals," Dr Bhujang said. Talking about the shortage, Shridhar G K, Director, Dhanavantri Speciality Pharma Pvt Ltd, said pharmaceutical firm Cipla had a production capacity of six lakh vials at a time but the demand is for "13 lakh vials".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-faces-severe-shortage-of-drug-to-treat-black-fungus-986366.html
16-05-2021||State||Karnataka to ramp up health setup to check Covid surge||In a bid to contain the Covid-19 second wave, the state government on Saturday decided to overhaul the health infrastructure across the state with measures like setting up laboratories, oxygen generating plants and super speciality hospitals in Bengaluru. A high-level meeting of the Karnataka Covid Task Force headed by Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan resolved to bring in several changes to make health care affordable for the public. Rolling out a detailed plan of action to contain the Covid surge in districts and villages to begin with, the state government has decided to withdraw home isolation facilities for asymptomatic Covid patients. Instead, all Covid patients will be admitted to Covid Care Centres (CCCs) or isolation centres for better monitoring and to prevent spread of infection. “Unlike in Bengaluru, households in rural areas lack separate facilities for isolation, exposing other family members to the infection. Hence, we are withdrawing home isolation option and admitting all Covid patients to the CCCs either at primary healthcare centres (PHCs) or at the taluk headquarters,” Narayan told reporters. He said this would enable better monitoring, treatment and supply of nutritious food to patients. Deputy commissioners have been directed to arrange for CCCs at government hostels and schools. “Any Covid patient, from today, will undergo physical triaging at CCCs and depending on their condition, they will be advised further treatment. Wherever cases are reported, health workers will carry out RAT testing,” the DCM revealed. Fearing possible infection at hospitals during vaccination, the government has decided to shift Covid vaccination centres from hospitals to schools, open air grounds and stadiums,” Narayan said. The Covid Task Force has also revised the frontline warriors’ list and included delivery boys, postal staff, bank employees, Internet providers and traders. “All these sections of society will be vaccinated on priority. As and when we receive vaccine stocks, we will start vaccinating those above 18 years,” the DCM said. The state government has also finalised the global tender for procurement of vaccines. “We will purchase 50 lakh doses each from four companies, each at a cost of Rs 843 crore. Another Rs 75 crore has been set aside for the purchase of five lakh doses of remdesivir. Aimed at providing quality and affordable medical care to the common, the task force resolved to set up 100-bed hospitals in all the 28 Assembly constituencies of Bengaluru. This apart, a super-speciality hospital with a tertiary treatment facility will be set up in seven places with each hospital catering to four Assemblyconstituencies. Further, for better administration of health facilities in Bengaluru, the government has decided to bifurcate the health wing from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and create a separate entity for it under the Health and Family Welfare Department. “We have appointed an experts committee to look into the technicalities of bifurcation. Based on their recommendation, we will decide on the bifurcation of the department from BBMP,” the DCM explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-ramp-up-health-setup-to-check-covid-surge-986377.html
16-05-2021||State||7 feared missing, 2 rescued after tug boat meets tragedy||Seven feared missing, two were rescued after a tug vessel named  Alliance which was assisting the MRPL is cargo unloading near Single Point Mooring started drifting following the rough sea. According to sources in MRPL, the vessel belongs to M/s Underwater Services Company Ltd. There were nine men on board of the vessel. The company assists MRPL in Cargo unloading near SPM and functions in coordination with New Mangalore Port. "The cargo operation had completed on Friday and the vessel was supposed to return on the same day. Due to adverse conditions, they stayed back and started its journey on Saturday and faced the distress," said the sources. Two persons on board of the vessel who were tossed into the stormy sea started swimming towards the shore using tubes. Local residents and fishermen in Mattu near Padubidri who noticed them struggling while reaching the shore rescued them.  The two men Munnirulla Mulla (34), Karibulla Shiek (24) overcome by fatigue were shifted to a hospital, said residents of Mattu near Padubidri. The body of one more person Hemakantha Jha (50) has been recovered at Mattu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/7-feared-missing-2-rescued-after-tug-boat-meets-tragedy-986396.html
16-05-2021||State||One dead, six missing as tug boat capsizes in sea||One person died and six others were missing after their tug boat that was assisting a ship capsized 10 nautical miles off the coast here. Nine people were on the boat that left New Mangalore Port on Friday to carry out maintenance work at the single point mooring facility, which is located 17 km from the port. The boat was caught in the rough seas in adverse weather conditions and capsized while they were returning to the shore on Saturday, police sources said. The body of one crew member was found near Kaup beach in Udupi district, while two others were rescued. A search is on for the rest of the crew members, police sources said. The damaged boat was found at Katipatna near Padubidri beach in Udupi district. The tug boat was contracted by Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) for its single point mooring facility. In a statement, MRPL said the tug vessel, 'Alliance', with nine men on board faced distress while assisting the company in cargo unloading at its single point mooring facility. The company's cargo operation was completed on Friday and the vessel was supposed to return on the same day. However, it started only on Saturday morning and had to face distress, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-dead-six-missing-as-tug-boat-capsizes-in-sea-986520.html
16-05-2021||State||From the Newsroom: 73 Karnataka villages affected by Cyclone Tauktae||In your evening news brief,  73 Karnataka villages affected by Cyclone Tauktae; Congress leader Rahul Gandhi dares the government to arrest him, and Israeli airstrikes in Gaza City have killed at least 33 people.  Here is the top news of May 16, 2021:   With Cyclone Tauktae wreaking havoc in the coastal and surrounding Malnad districts of Karnataka, four deaths have been reported in the state so far, officials said on Sunday. According to a situation report by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials Sunday morning, 73 villages, 17 taluks in seven districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Kodagu Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan have been affected by the cyclone so far. Among the 73 villages affected, a maximum of 28 are from the Udupi district. Among the four deaths reported so far one each are from Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga, officials said.   Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday challenged Prime Minister Modi and the BJP-led government to arrest him as he tweeted a picture critical of the leadership's policy on vaccines. The controversy began after Delhi Police registered 17 FIRs and arrested 15 people on Saturday for allegedly pasting posters critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in connection with the vaccination drive against Covid-19.   Israeli strikes killed 33 Palestinians in the Gaza Strip Sunday, the worst reported daily death toll yet in the almost week-long clashes, as the UN Security Council prepared to meet amid global alarm at the escalating conflict. The heaviest fighting since 2014, sparked by unrest in Jerusalem, saw the rivals again trade heavy fire, with the death toll rising to 181 in the crowded coastal enclave of Gaza since Monday and at 10 in Israel, according to authorities on either side. Israel said Sunday morning its "continuing wave of strikes" had in the past 24 hours struck over 90 targets across Gaza, where the destruction of a building housing news media organisations sparked an international outcry. Source: DHNS/ PTI/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-73-karnataka-villages-affected-by-cyclone-tauktae-986553.html
16-05-2021||State||Ventilators procured under PM Cares substandard: H K Patil||Alleging that the ventilators bought under PM Cares were substandard, senior Congress legislator H K Patil on Sunday said that those involved in procuring the equipment should be booked and the Supreme Court should order CBI probe on the same. “Ventilators provided to Gadag district are of poor quality. Most of them do not have connector and oxygen sensor. Because of which, they are not put to use. Many patients in the district are dying of Covid-19 due to substandard ventilators. The Union government is responsible for Covid deaths, Patil charged. Most of the ventilators in ICU are not functioning. Ventilators supplied to the state are putting lives at risk. People are watching these developments. The governments - Centre and the state - should take immediate measures to set this right and save lives, he urged. Former RDPR minister accused the state government of fudging Covid numbers. “Covid-19 cases are on the rise. But the government has brought down the tests to show the numbers are on the decline. There is a huge gap in the figures being provided by the state government and the district administrations. Deaths are being under-reported.” What was the need for the Centre to export Covid vaccines when the states are struggling to meet jab requirement?, he said seeking explanation from the prime minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ventilators-procured-under-pm-cares-substandard-h-k-patil-986619.html
16-05-2021||State||Agriculture Minister to pay ex gratia for Covid victims||Agriculture Minister B C Patil has announced a compensation of Rs 50,000 for the families of all Covid-19 victims in his Hirekeruru constituency. The minister said he will pay the compensation out of his personal money. According to a release, as many as 18 people have died in Hirekerur and Rattihalli taluks during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The minister is expected to disburse the compensation on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/agriculture-minister-to-pay-ex-gratia-for-covid-victims-986621.html
16-05-2021||State||Govt misleading Karnataka on Covid figures: Siddaramaiah||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah accused the state government of hiding the true number of victims who perished to Covid-19. The government is cheating the state by reducing test numbers to mislead people into believing that case numbers are coming down, he said. "Can Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa contain Covid-19 in the state by keeping people in the dark?" the Congress leader asked. According to experts, a wave of a pandemic subsides if positivity rate falls by  5 per cent. In the state, however, positivity rate is increasing with many districts recording positivity rate of over 50 per cent, he said. In the last week of April, Karnataka was conducting an average of 1.75 lakh tests per day, which is now reduced by 30 per cent to around 1.15-1.24 lakh tests, he said. Highlighting other 'deficiencies' of the government in tackling the pandemic, Siddaramaiah demanded the government to increase testing and ensure that test reports are out in 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-misleading-karnataka-on-covid-figures-siddaramaiah-986622.html
16-05-2021||State||Delay alleged in shifting bodies of Covid victims from ward||A video alleging delay in shifting the bodies of the deceased patients from the Covid ward in the district hospital, went viral on social media on Sunday. In the video, a person, who identifies himself as Hanumantharaju, advocate, is seen claiming that three patients died of Covid at ward number 13 of the hospital in the early hours of Saturday. He alleges that the bodies were not shifted even by 10 in the morning. "The ward had 10 patients of whom three died. As a result, the other patients are in fear," he says. A patient seen in the video also died later in the day. Hanumantharaju has questioned the authorities whether the patients can have food with a dead body on the bed next to his. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Kavitha S Mannikeri has ordered suspension of two 'D' group workers for their negligence in shifting the bodies from the ward. As soon as the video went viral, the DC visited the ward and spoke to patients. The in-charge assistant commissioner has been directed to submit a report on the incident.  "Three patients died during the night. The health personnel directed the concerned to shift the bodies, but they did not so. The complaint regarding hygiene is also addressed," the deputy commissioner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/delay-alleged-in-shifting-bodies-of-covid-victims-from-ward-986628.html
16-05-2021||State||Recoveries overtake new Covid cases in Karnataka as tests remain low||Sunday came with a new twist for Karnataka as the number of daily discharges (36,475) overtook the 31,531 new infections reported, with the number of tests remaining low. A total of 403 deaths were reported in the state, of which 143 were from Bengaluru. The state capital reported 8,344 cases as the rest of Karnataka accounted for nearly 73.54 per cent of the new infections. Eight districts reported more than a thousand cases and three others teetered on the edge. Tumakuru led the list with 2,138 infections, followed by Mysuru (1,811), Belagavi (1,762), Ballari (1,729), Hassan (1,182), Davangere (1,155) and Bengaluru Rural (1,082). Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad reported more than 900 cases. Of the 403 deaths reported, one happened in March and 37 in April, while more than 50 were those that happened between May 1 and 7. As many as 12 persons died at their residence and 12 others were classified as ‘brought dead’ to the hospital. Only 35 per cent of the new deaths were from Bengaluru. More than 10 deaths were reported in 10 districts, led by Ballari (26), Uttara Kannada (24), Hassan (18), Bengaluru Rural (17) and Mandya (15). Continuing the trend of the last few days, the daily tests fell by nearly one third of the average numbers for last week. The state, on Sunday, conducted 1.13 lakh tests against the 1.59 lakh average daily tests conducted between May 1 and 7. Over the last one week, the fall in the number of cases has been directly linked to the fall in tests with some officials stating that the epicentre of the disease in the state, Bengaluru, has already hit the peak. The new guidelines from the Centre has been cited as the reason for reducing the tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/recoveries-overtake-new-covid-cases-in-karnataka-as-tests-remain-low-986629.html
16-05-2021||State||Forest staff rescue elephant stuck in slush using excavator||An elephant, stuck in slush and struggling to get up, was rescued by Forest department personnel with the help of an excavator at Moleyur range, Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Sargur taluk of Mysuru district on Saturday. Following heavy rain, the pond was filled with slush. A female elephant slipped into the puddle and could not get up. According to a department staffer, the incident occurred at around 1 pm. The Forest department personnel, who found the jumbo, rushed to its rescue and helped it to get up using an excavator. The Bandipur Tiger Reserve authorities have shared the video of the rescue operation on their twitter account. The video had more than 9,000 views in just four hours of posting it. The netizens have praised the Forest department personnel for the timely help in saving the jumbo. Later, the elephant moved into the forest safely. Assistant Conservator of Forests Ravikumar and Range Forest Officer Puttaraju supervised the operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/forest-staff-rescue-elephant-stuck-in-slush-using-excavator-986631.html
16-05-2021||State||Cyclone Tauktae unleashes strong winds, rain on coast, Malnad||Cyclone Tauktae on Sunday unleashed powerful winds and heavy to very heavy rains bringing life to a standstill in coast and Malnad districts. Cyclonic storm has crossed the Karnataka coast and charging towards Gujarat, where it is expected to make a landfall by Monday evening or Tuesday morning. However, the storm has left a trail of destruction in coastal districts, damaging houses, roads and bringing down trees and power lines. As many as 76 electricity poles and 14 transformers have been damaged in the storm in Karwar alone. Similar incidents have been reported in twin districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. High-intensity wind, blowing at a speed of 70 to 80 kmph, plunged several towns into darkness. High waves in the sea brought back the memories of 2008 Tsunami for people living in coastline. Sheet roofs and tiled roofs of several houses were blown away in the heavy winds hitherto unknown to the people of the region. Many parts of coastal districts have been experiencing heavy showers since Saturday night. Train, flights hit The Tiruvananthapuram Central-Mumbai LTT (06346) train is running three hours late due to tree fall incidents on track between Mdgao and Tivim in Goa. Many flights from Sambra airport, Belagavi, were cancelled due to inclement weather. Heavy rain has wreaked havoc on road infrastructure and power lines in Kodagu. Water level in Cauvery river has gone up considerably due to sustained showers in the last few days. Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts also received good spells of rain in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cyclone-tauktae-unleashes-strong-winds-rain-on-coast-malnad-986634.html
16-05-2021||State||Covid: Karnataka districts to have oxygen buses; Chikkamagaluru gets it first||As rising Covid cases in districts leave thousands in need of oxygen, the Transport department has decided to expand its service to carry it. Chikkamagaluru will get the first bus carrying oxygen on Monday, thanks to a joint initiative by KSRTC and NGOs. The bus will be parked on the premises of the government hospital. It can provide oxygen to eight Covid patients and will help those who cannot get oxygenated beds in the hospital. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who holds the transport portfolio, said the ‘Oxygen on Wheels’ bus will be launched in more districts if more private companies and NGOs join hands with the government. He said the four road transport corporations were ready to provide the buses. “Each bus can provide oxygen for six to 10 people. As hospitals are burdened with high number of patients, supplying oxygen has become a challenge. In such places, these buses will allow patients to get oxygen and rest. The initiative has already seen success in Bengaluru,” he said. He invited NGOs to bring health professionals and the oxygen supply equipment, to introduce more buses. “I have already told the transport corporations to provide buses for oxygen supply to meet the increase in demand,” he said. The minister said a Hyderabad-based organisation has come forward to scale up the number of oxygen buses and a discussion on the matter has been held with Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar. He advised the officials to contact the district transport officials for making similar arrangements. The buses on oxygen service will be designed to suit the need of the Covid patients. The design will also ensure that the staffers of the transport corporation are protected. Sanitiser and masks will be provided to the staffers. The oxygen facility on the bus can only be an emergency help during the golden hour before patients are shifted to oxygenated beds for treatment. Lack of oxygen has led to scores of deaths in districts, with 24 deaths in the Chamarajanagar incident drawing national attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-karnataka-districts-to-have-oxygen-buses-chikkamagaluru-gets-it-first-986635.html
16-05-2021||State||Rainfall in Karnataka expected to continue till May 20: IMD||The effects of the cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea, are likely to be felt in the state up to May 20, said the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru on Sunday. Since the cyclonic storm is moving towards the north-west direction, the intensity of rainfall will gradually decrease from May 17 according to the weatherman. This combined with the forthcoming monsoons could mean the end of summer to the state, experts say.  Tauktae, which is travelling towards Goa and predicted to move to Gujarat from there, has caused heavy and very heavy rainfall in many parts of coastal and south interior Karnataka. On May 15, Kollur in Udupi recorded 24 cm rainfall, followed by 19 cm in Kota and Puttur. Over the next four days, it is predicted that Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts are likely to receive heavy or very heavy rainfall at isolated places and yellow alerts have been issued for the same. North interior and south interior Karnataka might experience fairly widespread rainfall till May 20 IMD has said.  Sunil Gavaskar, a scientist at KSNDMC said “although several parts of the state received heavy rainfall in the past two days, and high tide inundations were felt all along the coast. Since the cyclone is now moving away from our state, the impact is likely to come down from Monday.” He also said that Bengaluru will experience cloudy weather with light to moderate, scattered rainfall and breeze in the next 2-3 days. The pleasant weather is expected to continue in the city until the monsoon rains start. The onset of monsoon in Kerala is predicted to occur on May 31 this year, a day earlier than the usual onset on June 1, according to the IMD. The state is likely to experience average or above average monsoon this year, according to the prediction. “After onset, it might take 2-3 days for the monsoon winds to reach Karnataka. Depending on the strength of the winds, it might reach coastal, south interior and Malnad regions by June 5th or a couple days before or after”, Gavaskar explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rainfall-in-karnataka-expected-to-continue-till-may-20-imd-986655.html
16-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa takes stock of situation amid Cyclone Tauktae||With Cyclone Tauktae wreaking havoc in the coastal districts of the state, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday asked district in-charge Ministers and Deputy Commissioners to visit affected areas and carry out rescue and relief works. Yediyurappa on Sunday called Ministers incharge of coastal districts and Deputy Commissioners there and took stock of the situation there, his office said in a statement. It said, the chief minister asked them to visit and carry out relief and rescue works in the areas affected by the cyclone which has come amidst the Covid pandemic. The Chief Minister has directed the officials to call the Ministers concerned or him directly if in need of any emergency assistance from the state government, it added. According to the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority heavy to extremely heavy rainfall was observed over the state mainly, in coastal and Malnad districts during last night. More than 64.5 mm (heavy) rainfall was observed in 286 locations from 08:30 AM on May 15 to 6:45 AM on May 16 in the state, it said. Widespread heavy to extremely heavy rains were observed in 8 districts including Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, it added. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned light to moderate rainfall at most places, with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places in the coastal and adjoining ghat districts of the state on Sunday. State's Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Saturday had said the effect of the cyclone is likely to be there till May 18 and had warned fishermen not to venture into the sea till then. District administrations have been ordered to shift people from low lying areas, he had said, eight relief camps have been set up in three districts that can accommodate about 10,000 people where food and other basic amenities will be made available. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had said, around 1,000 trained personnel from fire force, police, coastal police, home guards, SDRF have been deployed in the three coastal districts and they will work with coordination in rescue and relief operations, also NDRF teams have also been roped in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-takes-stock-of-situation-amid-cyclone-tauktae-986457.html
16-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cyclone Tauktae: 98 villages affected in Karnataka, 4 human lives lost so far||With Cyclone Tauktae wreaking havoc in the coastal and surrounding malnad districts of Karnataka, a total of four deaths have been reported in the state so far, officials said on Sunday. According to a situation report by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials, till this evening, 98 villages, 20 taluks in seven districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan have been affected by the cyclone so far. Among the 98 villages affected, a maximum of 31 are from Uttara Kannada district. Of the four deaths reported so far, one each are from Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga, officials said. While one fisherman who went to tie his boat died in Uttara Kannada as he got hit by another boat, a person died in Udupi due to electric mishap, they said, adding that one death each were reported in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga due house collapse and lightning respectively. A total of 516 people have been evacuated so far, as per the situation report, and 253 people are currently taking shelter in the 10 relief camps that have been opened. Damages to a total of 216 houses, 491 poles, 27 transformers, 3,000 meters of lines have been reported so far, it added. Meanwhile Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa today asked in-charge Ministers of coastal districts and Deputy Commissioners (DCs) there to visit affected areas and carry out rescue and relief works. Yediyurappa called Ministers incharge of coastal districts and DCs and took stock of the situation there, his office said in a statement. He has directed the officials to call the Ministers concerned or him directly if in need of any emergency assistance from the government. According to a tweet in the evening by the CMO, the Chief Minister once again spoke to three DCs and the Chief Secretary in the evening and directed the Dakshina Kannada DC to take necessary measures to rescue the crew of a tug boat that is caught in the sea. He also directed the Chief Secretary to stay in touch with the Centre for the rescue of crew, and make all the necessary arrangements, including chopper if required. A tugboat named Coromandel has nine crew members, sources said. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, due to very severe cyclonic storm from 08:30 am to till 07:30 pm rainfall was observed over parts of the state. Widespread moderate to heavy rains were observed over Uttara Kannada, Belagavi and Udupi districts. The officials said as the system is moving further north, towards Maharashtra coast, the impact of cyclone will likely to come down from tomorrow over the state. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that rain or thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over coastal and South Interior Karnataka and at many places over North Interior Karnataka. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said around 1,000 trained personnel from fire force, police, coastal police, home guards, SDRF have been deployed in the three coastal districts and they will work with coordination in rescue and relief operations, also NDRF teams have also been roped in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cyclone-tauktae-98-villages-affected-in-karnataka-4-human-lives-lost-so-far-986512.html
16-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Treatment for black fungus at Bowring Hospital, Karnataka govt to form expert panel: K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said it has been decided to start treatment for "black fungus" at Bowring Hospital here on a pilot basis, and later extend the treatment to medical colleges and district hospitals. Noting that the treatment for black fungus infection is a bit costly, the Minister said he would discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa regarding free treatment as he has also said a committee of experts would be set up to prepare a roadmap for treatment of those infected and how to curb the infection. "Mucormycosis or black fungus is commonly seen among those who have less immunity or because of use of steroids. Those who have diabetes and are infected by Covid 10-15 days after they take steroids, the infection begins through the nose and spreads to the eyes and its parts like optic nerves and optic chiasm," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said there is danger of losing vision because of this and if timely treatment is not taken there are chances of death. "After the infection was noticed in Maharashtra, we held discussions with eye specialists and experts (ophthalmologists) and from Monday at Bowring hospital, we are starting treatment for it," he said adding: "We are starting on a pilot basis, and will later continue in all medical colleges and some district hospitals." Noting that Amphotericin B, the drug for black fungus infection is a bit costly, the Minister said a patient would require seven weeks of continued treatment to be cured and treatment may cost Rs 2-3 lakh per person. "I will discuss with the Chief Minister and will suggest free treatment. Ultimately, he will decide," the Minister said adding those with black fungus issues should immediately consult doctors. The Centre is rationing the Amphotericin B drug and would be distributed to the state also, Sudhakar said adding that it was decided at the Covid task force meeting on Saturday to request the Centre to provide 20,000 vials of the drug. He said he was in constant touch with Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadanada Gowda and his Ministry in this regard and would also talk to the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. "There is no need for people to worry, but those with diabetes or other secondary infections, those who are immuno-compromised, with TB, HIV, cancer, with kidney or any other organ transplant, I advise all of them to exercise caution and not to use steroids without the doctor's consent," he said. Also, he advised doctors to exercise caution while administering steroids to such patients. In response to a question, the Minister said it was difficult for now to say exactly as to how many are affected by black fungus or died of it, as people with such issues may have gone to private eye doctors. He said he was constituting by Monday a committee consisting of eye specialists (ophthalmologist), endocrinologists, diabetologists on how to bring black fungus infections under control and how to treat patients with such infections. Also, the Minister cautioned the people about dengue caused due to mosquito bite, especially during day time. About 15,000-20,000 people get infected with dengue every year in the state, he said while asking people to take preventive measures like cleanliness particularly with the onset of monsoon in days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/treatment-for-black-fungus-at-bowring-hospital-karnataka-govt-to-form-expert-panel-k-sudhakar-986585.html
16-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 31,531 new Covid-19 cases, 403 deaths||Karnataka has reported 31,531 new cases of Covid-19 and 403 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 22,03,462 and deaths to 21,837 so far, the Health Department said on Sunday. The day also saw 36,475 patients getting discharged. Out of the 31,531 fresh cases, 8,344 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of May 16 evening, cumulatively 22,03,462 positive cases have been confirmed in the State, which include 21,837 deaths and 15,81,457 who got discharged, the department said in its bulletin. The total number of active cases stood at 6,00,147. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 27.84 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.27 per cent. Of the 403 deaths, 143 were from Bengaluru Urban. Ballari saw 26, Uttara Kannada (24), Hassan (18), Bengaluru Rural (17), Mandya (15), Shivamogga (14) followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 8,344, Tumakuru 2,138, Mysuru 1,811, Belagavi 1,762, Ballari 1,729, Hassan 1,182 and Davangere 1,155 followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases with a total of 10,51,058 followed by Mysuru (1,12,127) and Tumakuru (81,479). Among those discharged, Bengaluru Urban topped with 6,80,194, Mysuru 96,281 and Ballari 54,991. A total of over 2,78,79,697 samples have been tested so far out of which 1,13,219 were tested today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-31531-new-covid-19-cases-403-deaths-986602.html
16-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two Karnataka districts among top 5 with highest Covid test positivity rate in India||At least two Karnataka districts – Ballari and Uttara Kannada – are among India’s top five districts reporting the highest Covid-19 test positivity rate in what may be an indication of how the epidemic is moving from large urban centres to the districts. While Mahe in Puducherry report the highest positivity rate of 60.3%, followed by Bharatpur (52%) and Rajsamand (50%) in Rajasthan, Ballari with 46.9% positivity comes to a close fourth followed by Uttara Kannada (46.4%). Three other Karnataka districts with more than 40% test positivity rates are Mysuru (44.4%), Shivamogga (42.5%) and Hassan (41%), according to the district-wise test positivity data released by the Union Health Ministry on Sunday. While making a list of top 10 districts, DH excluded districts in Arunachal Pradesh or Lahaul and Spiti in Himachal Pradesh where the positivity rate is very high because of the districts’ ultra low population level. Other districts reporting more than 40% positivity are Bikaner (46%), Puducherry (45.3%) Katni (45.3%), Rewari (45%), Panipat (42.4%), 24 Parganas North (43.9%), Kolkata (42.3%), North Goa (41%) and Tirivannamalai (40.9%). While the national positivity rate stands at 18.5%, there are 490 districts that report more than 40% test positivity rate, giving clear evidence of runway Covid-19 infections in large parts of the country including the hinterland. According to the union health ministry, Karnataka has 30 such districts of which five record more than 40% positivity whereas 13 logs a positivity between 30-39%. In Belgavi, it is 39.4% while in Bengaluru Urban the positivity rate is 32%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-karnataka-districts-among-top-5-with-highest-covid-test-positivity-rate-in-india-986612.html
16-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt cautions about vector-borne diseases in Covid times||With the state experiencing wet weather, the health department, anticipating a fresh surge of vector-borne diseases, has appealed to the general public not to ignore any symptoms as they are identical to Covid-19 symptoms. The officials have particularly cautioned about the outbreak of vector-borne diseases such as dengue, chikungunya and malaria. Coinciding with the National Dengue Day events on Sunday, the health department kick-started a campaign to create awareness on dengue on the theme - prevention of dengue starts from home. Speaking to media persons Dr Sudhakar said, "Every year about 15,000 to 20,000 people are prone to dengue infection in Karnataka. What is even more worrying is the fact that the symptoms are identical to Covid-19. Hence special care needs to be taken." Urging the people to approach fever clinics Dr Sudhakar said, "Citizens must not ignore any symptoms. For any type of fever, people must report to the fever clinic and seek the opinion of the doctors. Testing is key to assess the type of infection and accordingly, treatment can be initiated." Karnataka had reported a spurt in dengue cases in 2017 and 2019 with close to 18,000 cases and more than 10 deaths in both the years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-cautions-about-vector-borne-diseases-in-covid-times-986632.html
16-05-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra has passed second wave peak, says Organised Medicine Academic Guild||Maharashtra, which has been the worst Covid-19-affected state, has passed the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, according to the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), an umbrella organisation of professional medical associations of post-graduate doctors. The Covid-19 peak in Maharashtra including Mumbai, may have passed possibly during April 11-25, perhaps on April 18 with the highest single-day figure of 68,631 cases, considering different parameters. After almost 16 months into the Covid-19 pandemic, and almost 3 months into the second wave, Maharashtra, which had gone through horrifying three months, however, is still grappling with containing the spread of the virus in some of its districts. “Mumbai has definitely passed peak, as well as several other districts,” said OMAG Secretary General Ishwar Gilada. The districts that are still peaking are – Ahmednagar, Nashik, Solapur, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Amravati, Buldhana, Beed, Chandrapur, Jalna, and Parbhani. Pune is still at top and volatile, though daily cases have reduced. “After the goals of saving people from morbidity and mortality, passing the peak is indeed the most important goal. The caveat being - subsequent surges can come; some parts of the state may peak at different times as they are still posing serious challenges,” he said. Similarly, the states of Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh may have also passed the peak, feels OMAG. “Some states may have different peaks. We cannot loosen our guards. Mask remains the most important tool and prevents infections from any of the variants and mutants of the Coronavirus, and the next being the vaccine – the faster we do, better are the chances of a lighter third wave,” he said. Many states are still witnessing a severe surge, with cases showing a 30 to 200 times jump in eight weeks and may see a peak only after a few weeks. Cases continue to skyrocket in states which went to poll — Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal — alongside Uttarakhand, which hosted the Kumbh Mela, where scores tested positive for Covid. Contrary to popular belief, Maharashtra ranks 8th among all states and union territories for cases per million population and 4th for deaths per million population. Goa stands at number one in both these parameters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-has-passed-second-wave-peak-says-organised-medicine-academic-guild-986420.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Mumbai civic body shifts 580 Covid-19 patients||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation shifted 580 patients from Covid care centers in the city as a precautionary measure after India Meteorological Department warned that Cyclone Tauktae is likely to pass close to the city, a BMC official said on Sunday. The BMC on Saturday night shifted 580 patients from BKC (243), Dahisar (183), and Mulund (154) jumbo Covid care facilities to state and civic-run hospitals in Mumbai, the official said. Officials are also contemplating a possible shut down of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link as a precautionary measure because of IMD's announcement that the cyclone may pass close to the city on Sunday. The BMC had on Friday alerted city hospitals to avoid last-minute confusion over beds and availability of oxygen devices. Suburban rail services in Mumbai will operate on Sunday, the official said. The IMD on Saturday night said the cyclonic storm Tauktae, the first to hit the Indian Coast this year, has intensified into a "severe cyclonic storm" and is heading towards the coast of Gujarat and the Union Territory of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The IMD had said the storm is likely to pass the Mumbai coast late Saturday or early Sunday from a distance, so minimal damage is expected. It will, however, cause gusty winds and heavy rain in a few places in Mumbai, Thane, and Palghar. The IMD had also informed the BMC that Mumbai is not in the direct line of the threat of the cyclone. However, as it will pass through the sea near the Mumbai coast, its effect is likely to be accompanied by rain and strong winds. The BMC has asked ward officers to ensure hoardings do not fall on the road and to remove them if they fall. The 24 ward officers have been told to be ready with manpower and equipment and prepare shelter homes in case people living near low-lying areas need to be relocated, the official said. The cyclone is likely to move north-northwestwards and cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18 with wind speed gusting up to 175 kmph, the IMD said. On Saturday night, the storm was around 220 km south-southwest of Panaji and 590 km south-southwest of Mumbai, resulting in heavy rainfall, gusty winds, and thunderstorms in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-mumbai-civic-body-shifts-580-covid-19-patients-986421.html
16-05-2021||West||After commissioning of a new tank, Goa hospitals get medical oxygen||The oxygen supply at the Goa Medical College and Hospital was getting streamlined following commissioning of a new tank of the life-saving gas at the facility, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Sunday. Over last five days (till Saturday morning), 83 patients died at the state-run medical facility during the "dark hours" between 2 am and 6 am, as per official figures. A 20,000 kilo litre oxygen tank was commissioned at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Saturday. Rane told PTI that the oxygen supply at the GMCH was getting streamlined after commissioning of the tank. "Now, we should not have problems regarding the oxygen supply. The commissioning of the tank is a major step towards solving this problem," he said. The tank was shifted from Bicholim industrial estate and the move would reduce the GMCH's dependence on oxygen cylinders, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday. On Saturday, GMCH Dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar said it was not right to attribute all the deaths during the "dark hours" over the last few days to drop in oxygen levels as Covid-19 fatalities were taking place throughout the day. "There can be several reasons," he had said. The Goa government earlier told the Bombay High Court that there were "logistic issues" related to supply of medical oxygen to patients. The HC's Goa bench had asked the state government to take corrective steps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-commissioning-of-a-new-tank-goa-hospitals-get-medical-oxygen-986436.html
16-05-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra's Hiware Bazar shows the way of breaking the chain||The ideal village of Hiware Bazar in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra has shown the way how to combat the Covid-19 pandemic From 1-15 May, there has not been a single case of Covid-19 in Hiware Bazar, located in the Nagar tehsil. The village that has a population of 1,600 to 1,700, over the last three decades has seen a transformation from a drought-prone village to a model village known for rainwater harvesting, water conservation, and management programmes. “We have successfully managed to break the chain during the second wave,” Popatrao Pawar, the Sarpanch of Hiware Bazar, told DH over phone Pawar, who has been the Sarpanch since the nineties, said that during the second wave, the first case was detected on 28 March and by 2 April, there was a spurt of cases. “Between March-April, 52 cases were reported in the village but now over the past fortnight there are zero cases... So far only one death because of Covid-19 have been reported in the village…a lot of efforts have gone in breaking the chain. However, we are not going to lower our guard,” he said Pawar, a recipient of Padma Shree and several other awards and honours for leading the way in community participation Speaking about how Covid-19 was controlled, he said: “When the cases were reported initially, we decided to check body temperatures and oxygen saturation level of all villagers compulsorily. Since the RT-PCR report was taking 8 to 10 days, we decided to conduct Rapid Antigen Test on the suspect cases...there were some false negatives. The people who were suspected to have Covid-19 were quarantined at the training centre of the Yashwant Krishi Gram and Watershed Development Trust (YKWDT), a non-governmental organization set up by Hiware Bazar’s Gram Sabha (GS) in 1994. “The reports were shown to expert doctors and some patients were shifted to hospitals, of which four needed oxygen support,” he said, adding that every day, he speaks to 23 to 30 families. “They also call me on the phone or our volunteers,” he said. "Four vehicles of the village have been kept in readiness in case patients need to be moved to the town for treatment," he said. All protocols/SOPs are being followed and the vaccination is also conducted in the village. According to him, the people who got the infection are among those who go to the Ahmednagar town for jobs or work or go to milk collection centres, vegetable markets, ration shops, bank/ATMs. “We told people about the importance of physical distancing and quarantine,” he said. Ahmednagar’s Collector Rajendra Bhosale and Zilla Parishad CEO Rajendra Kshirsagar have appreciated the efforts of Hiware Bazar and Pawar. On the ongoing agricultural activities, Pawar said that nearly 300 to 400 people come and work in the fields. “We have made arrangements for their stay near the villages,” he said, adding that in agricultural fields also Covid-appropriate behaviour has to be maintained.  Two patients from the village are in the hospital - and they have tested negative - and expected to be back home soon, while one person in quarantine will be discharged on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtras-hiware-bazar-shows-the-way-of-breaking-the-chain-986450.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae intensifies into 'very severe cyclonic storm', yellow alert issued for Gujarat coast: IMD||Cyclone Tauktae has intensified into a "very severe cyclonic storm" and is approaching the Gujarat coast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. "It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of 17th (May) and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) around 18th May early morning," the IMD said. The IMD has also issued a yellow alert for the coasts of Gujarat and Diu and Daman. According to the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD, by May 18, the wind speed is expected to increase to 150-160 kilometres per hour, gusting up to 175 kmph. The IMD said wind speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph is likely along and off south Maharashtra-Goa and adjoining Karnataka coasts, and 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph along and off the north Maharashtra coast on May 16. It is likely to increase to 65-75 kmph, gusting to 85 kmph along and off the north Maharashtra coast from May 17 till the morning of May 18. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is likely over the northeast Arabian Sea and along and off south Gujarat and Daman and Diu coasts from morning May 16. It will gradually increase, becoming gale with speed reaching 150-160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph over the northeast Arabian Sea and along and off Gujarat coast (Porbandar, Junagarh, Gir Somnath, Amreli) and 120-150 kmph gusting to 165 kmph over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar districts of Gujarat from the early hours of May 18. Winds with speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph are likely to prevail along and off Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman, Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Bharuch, southern parts of Ahmedabad and Anand districts from the midnight of May 17 and till the morning of May 18. A nearly 3-metre-high tidal wave is expected in Junagarh, 1-2.5 metres above astronomical tide is likely to inundate coastal areas of Diu, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Ahmedabad, Anand, Surat and about 0.5-1 metres over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Kutch and the remaining coastal districts of Gujarat during the time of landfall, the IMD said. According to the weather department, in Gujarat's Bhavnagar district, total destruction of thatched houses, extensive damage to kutcha houses and some damage to pucca houses is expected. There could be a potential threat from flying objects with bending or uprooting of power and communication poles. Major damage to kutcha and pucca roads, flooding of escape routes, minor disruption of railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems is expected, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-intensifies-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-yellow-alert-issued-for-gujarat-coast-imd-986451.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Strong winds, heavy rain in Goa; power supply hit||Gusty winds and heavy rains lashed several parts of Goa on Sunday morning due to cyclonic storm Tauktae, uprooting electric poles and affecting power supply in many parts of the coastal state, officials said. No casualty was reported so far, they said. Power supply in majority areas of Goa was disrupted as several electric poles got uprooted due to the high speed winds, state Power Minister Nilesh Cabral told PTI. "Hundreds of electric poles are broken and scores of power conductors have snapped. Many high tension 33 KV feeders are down due to the falling of trees. Even the 220 KV lines bringing power to Goa from neighbouring Maharashtra have been damaged," he said. The electricity department deployed its full force for the restoration work, but it was getting hampered due to the strong winds, he said. The state Fire and Emergency Services control room was flooded with hundreds of calls from locals about falling of trees and blocked roads, its director Ashok Menon said. "Our force has been working since last night to clear the roads and remove trees which have fallen on the power lines," Menon said. No casualty was reported so far, he added. At the Cacra village in Bambolim near state capital Panaji, fishermen were seen rushing back from the sea with their canoes as gusty winds hit the coast. Local fisherman Sanjay Pereira claimed this was the worst cyclone since 1994. "The water level in the sea has increased and it is expected to rise further by afternoon. All the fishermen are on alert to ensure their canoes are not pulled into the waters by strong currents," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-strong-winds-heavy-rain-in-goa-power-supply-hit-986454.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Western Railway takes stock of preparations||The Mumbai-headquartered Western Railway, whose extensive rail network runs through Gujarat, took stock of the situation and made necessary arrangements in the wake of the Tauktae cyclone along India's west coast. The cyclone is likely to hit the Saurashtra and Kutch regions of Gujarat. Western Railway General Manager Alok Kansal held a video conference meeting with the Principal Head of Departments and concerned Divisional Railway Managers to review the preparations in order to face this force of nature. The GM gave detailed instructions with regards to arrangements of various logistics, train movement including speed restrictions and cancellation of trains as safety and precautionary measures. He stressed adhering to the guidelines stipulated in the Disaster Management Manuals promulgated by Zonal Railway and National Disaster Management Authority and to maintain close coordination with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) as well as State Government. WR Chief Public Relations Officer Sumit Thakur said that the Tauktae cyclone is likely to hit the Saurashtra and Kutch region of Gujarat, covering mostly Bhavnagar Division, the western part of Rajkot Division and a very small region near Gandhidham of Ahmedabad Division. Various precautionary measures have been set in motion by Western Railway as part of its preparedness for facing this cyclone. A close liaison is being maintained by Divisional officers for regular updates with IMD and State Government through WhatsApp. Hotlines between HQ Disaster Control and Divisional Disaster Control have been ensured for smooth functioning. Detailed instructions have been issued to all the departments to start rescue operations immediately if needed. The engineering dept. of the concerned Divisions have been put on alert to tackle the situation with arrangements for tree-cutting equipment, DG sets, diesel-driven pumps, earth moving equipment, JCBs, utility vehicles, adequate fuel resources have been kept in readiness for any assistance as and when needed. These authorities have also been instructed to maintain constant communication with respective field officials to ensure necessary immediate action. The platform shelters and cover sheds are being inspected for loose sheets and the condition of any material susceptible to degradation is being checked for strength and functionality. All equipment and resources under construction organisation have been kept in readiness. The relief trains such as ART /ARME/ SPARTs/SPARMEs have been equipped with adequate medicines and sufficient rescue and re-railing equipment including power packs have also been kept in readiness. He further informed that the OHE gangs have been alerted & put on standby with adequate equipment and mobility. The communication system is also being strengthened with adequate facilities like wireless communication, satellite phones V-SAT and drone recording. Necessary arrangements are also being made to ensure the availability of rolling stock, locomotives, manpower for the rescue & relief operations. The RPF has also been instructed to keep the disaster management team of RPF ready with essential equipment to reach the spot and start performing relief work with other departments, in case of emergency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-western-railway-takes-stock-of-preparations-986466.html
16-05-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray asks family doctors to join fight against Covid-19||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday appealed to doctors who serve as family physicians to join the state's fight against Covid-19 and advise their patients under home isolation about the right treatment protocols. During a virtual interaction with private medical practitioners and members of the state Covid-19 task force, Thackeray said patients trust their family doctors more than anyone else. "The treatment protocols of Covid-19 patients in home isolation can be managed more effectively if their family physicians join the battle against the viral infection," the chief minister said. He said family physicians can evaluate the Covid-19 patient's condition, co-morbidities and oxygen level during home isolation and guide them effectively regarding the need for hospitalisation. "If the asymptomatic patients in home isolation are treated effectively, it would help reduce the Covid-19 mortality rate," he said. He said family doctors should also take into account the increasing sugar level of Covid-19 patients and how it can be restricted. He appealed to family doctors in the state to join the Covid-19 care centres in their vicinity as consultants. Maharashtra's Covid-19 task force member Sanjay Oak stressed the need to ensure hygiene in oxygen pipes and concentrators as well as during home quarantine of patients with uncontrolled co-morbidities to prevent other infections. Another task force member Shashank Joshi spoke about how home care was crucial and of critical importance for patients. Thackeray had last week also stressed the role of private doctors, especially family physicians, in the fight against Covid-19, saying they can help in early diagnosis of the infection in their patients and facilitate timely treatment for them. On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 34,848 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 53,44,063, while 960 deaths pushed the toll to 80,512, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-asks-family-doctors-to-join-fight-against-covid-19-986508.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae to reach Gujarat coast on Monday evening: IMD||The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae is likely to intensify during the next 24 hours and reach the Gujarat coast on Monday evening, the IMD said. It would cross the state's coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district by early Tuesday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its latest bulletin on Sunday. Tidal waves are likely to inundate several coastal districts during the landfall, it said. "The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae over the east-central Arabian Sea moved nearly northwards with a speed of about 11 kmph during the past six hours," the bulletin said. Around 5.30 am on Sunday, the cyclone lay centred about 130 km west-southwest of Panjim-Goa, 450 km south of Mumbai, 700 km south-southeast of Veraval (Gujarat) and 840 km southeast of Karachi (Pakistan), it said. "It is very likely to intensify during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach the Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross the state coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district around May 18 early morning," the IMD said. With the cyclone intensifying, the wind speed along and off Gujarat coasts in Porbandar, Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Amreli districts will reach 150-160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph by Tuesday morning. It will reach a speed of 120-150 kmph gusting to 165 kmph over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar districts during the same period, the IMD said. "Gale winds with speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph are likely to prevail along and off Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Bharuch, southern parts of Ahmedabad, and Anand districts, as well as Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman (Union Territories) from May 17 midnight till Tuesday morning," it said. The sea conditions will become "very rough to high" along and off the south Gujarat coast from Monday morning, and "very high to phenomenal" from Monday midnight. A tidal wave of about 3 metres, 1-2.5 metres above the astronomical tide, is likely to inundate several coastal areas of the state during the time of the landfall, it said. By Sunday afternoon, the coastal areas of Saurashtra region will start getting light to moderate rainfall, with heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places over Saurashtra and Kutch and Diu on Monday, and extremely heavy rainfalls at isolated places on Tuesday. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea, the state government said, adding that 107 out of the 149 fishing boats which were out into the waters returned to the coast by Sunday morning. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held a high-level meeting on Saturday and said the state government was fully prepared, while the administrations of districts likely to be affected by the cyclonic storm have been alerted. The government was working with "zero casualty" approach, Rupani said. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed along the south Gujarat and Saurashtra coast. Rupani said hospitals in coastal areas have been instructed to ensure that treatment of critical COVID-19 patients is not disrupted in case of power outage or other adverse events. All patients who are on oxygen or ventilator should be shifted to COVID-19 hospitals in nearby districts if needed, he said. Ambulances with advanced life support systems and ICU ambulances should be sent from other parts of Gujarat to Jamnagar, Rajkot, Kutch and Junagadh, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-to-reach-gujarat-coast-on-monday-evening-imd-986523.html
16-05-2021||West||No Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae||The Mumbai civic body on Sunday decided to keep its Covid-19 vaccination drive suspended for the third day on May 17 in view of the warning about cyclone Tauktae, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had on Friday announced that there would be no inoculation on May 15 and 16 considering the India Meteorological Department's cyclone warning. The vaccination programme will now be implemented on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, Chahal said. According to the IMD, cyclone Tauktae has intensified into a "very severe cyclonic storm" and is very likely to reach the Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross it between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district around the early morning of May 18. A BMC official had earlier said that the civic body has shifted 580 patients from Covid care centres in the city as a precautionary measure in view of the warning that cyclone Tauktae is likely to pass close to the city. Meanwhile, Chahal also said the central government has issued directions to maintain a gap of 12 to 16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. Hence, nobody except health care workers and frontline workers will be eligible for the second Covishield dose at present as vaccination for other categories had commenced on March 1. "Due to this change, the civic body has decided to extend the walk-in (vaccination) facility for citizens above 60 years of age for the first Covishield dose during May 18- 20," he said. Last week, the BMC had announced that the citizens above 60 years of age, who are waiting for the second dose of Covishield vaccine, the beneficiaries yet to get the second dose of Covaxin and the disabled person can opt for walk-in vaccination from Monday to Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-mumbai-on-monday-due-to-cyclone-tauktae-986529.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: India to start evacuating parts of west coast||India is preparing to evacuate thousands of people from low-lying areas along its western coast as powerful Cyclone Tauktae is expected to make landfall on Tuesday morning in Gujarat. "It is very likely to intensify further during the 24 hours, and move north-northwestwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening of 17th (May)," the India Meteorological Department said in a statement. Cyclone Tauktae, which formed in the Arabian sea, is expected to cross Gujarat with wind gusts of up to 175 kmph (109 mph) and is expected to make landfall in the state the following morning. The meteorological agency also warned that there could be a destruction of houses and flooding of escape routes. Disruption to railway services was also expected until May 21. The National Crisis Management Committee also chaired a meeting with different states on Sunday and said that nearly 80 disaster management teams have been deployed in different states. Rescue and relief teams from the army, navy and coast guard along with ships and aircraft have also been deployed. "All measures being taken to evacuate people in the areas affected by the cyclone so as to ensure zero loss of life," the government said in a statement. Evacuation of people from the coastal areas has started, said Gujarat's revenue secretary Pankaj Kumar. "We will be evacuating more than 100,000 people." The cyclone will also pose challenges for the state administration that is dealing with a high caseload of Covid-19 patients. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has asked officials to ensure that electricity supply to Covid-19 hospitals and other medical facilities is not disrupted while oxygen supply is maintained, the state government's statement said. Vaccinations have also been suspended for the next two days. In Maharashtra, the government has moved Covid-19 patients admitted to makeshift centres in Mumbai, to other hospitals as the cyclone advances towards Gujarat, the chief minister's office said. Gujarat is also home to large refineries and sea ports that may end up being in the storm's path. All necessary precautions are being taken at the Jamnagar refinery, the world's biggest oil refinery complex, owned by Reliance Industries, a company spokesperson told Reuters. Operations at Mundra port, India's largest private port, in Gujarat are continuing normally, two officials at the port told Reuters on Sunday morning. "We are observing the situation, and will take action accordingly," an official said. Authorities at Kandla Port, the largest government-run port in the country, said that steps have been taken to evacuate around 5,000 people from low lying areas. "We have already issued an advisory, and have stopped taking any vessels inside. There will be no berthing tomorrow morning, and all vessels will be sent to the high seas," S.K. Mehta, chairman of Kandla Port, said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-india-to-start-evacuating-parts-of-west-coast-986540.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae hits Maharashtra coast, as it moves to Gujarat coast||Cyclone Tauktae hit the Konkan coast of Maharashtra on Sunday, causing heavy rains and uprooting trees as it moved towards Gujarat. After Goa, the cyclone has hit the twin South Konkan districts of Sindhudurg-Ratnagiri and is now moving towards the North Konkan districts of Raigad. After midnight, it is expected to be along the North Konkan districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban and parts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts that comprise the Mumbai metropolitan region. During the day, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a series of review meetings and also attended a video conference with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “The entire coastal districts have been put on alert,” Thackeray said. “In Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, trees were uprooted…there has been damage to crops like mango, cashew, coconut and kokum…we have asked the local administrations to conduct panchanamas immediately,” said state Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant, who is camping in Konkan. “The Konkan coast have been asked to prepare for the cyclone. The Chief Minister has taken stock of the matter. I've informed him about the rehabilitation work. We have given instructions for the preparation of large shelters in these areas," state Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-hits-maharashtra-coast-as-it-moves-to-gujarat-coast-986560.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: 1.5 lakh people being shifted out of coastal areas in Gujarat||The Gujarat government on Sunday said that nearly 1.5 lakh people living in low lying areas of coastal villages and towns are being shifted to safer places in view of approaching cyclone Tauktae. Saying that the impact of the storm will be felt across the state, the government suspended vaccination drive on May 17 and May 18 and urged people to stay indoor for next two days. The decision was announced by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani Sunday evening after reviewing the preparedness to tackle the cyclone. The impact of the cyclone is likely to be felt across the state with predictions of heavy rains. A government release stated that an estimated 1.5 lakh people living in coastal villages and low lying areas are being relocated to safer places. The concerned district collectors have been asked to complete the relocation work by Sunday night. According to India Meteoroglogical Department, the cyclone has intensified into a "very severe cyclonic storm" which was located 490 kilometers south-southeast of the union territory of Diu and is likely to make landfall on Tuesday morning.   According to forecast, the cyclone will cross the state coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavanagar on May 18 morning with 175 km per hour wind speed during its landfall. Quoting the weather department, state government said in a note that "heavy to very heavy rains are expected in various parts of Saurashtra, Kutch, Diu." On May 17 and May 18, Porbandar, Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Amreli, Bharuch, Anand, South Ahmedabad, Botad, Surendranagar, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Morbi, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Dadarnagar Haveli, Valsad, Navsari and Kheda will witness wind speed ranging 70 km per hour to 175 km per hour. 44 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and 10 teams of State Disaster Response Force have been deployed across the coastal districts to ensure relief. Besides, local police, coast-guard and fire brigade officials have also been deputed for assistance. The army, air force and navy have also been instructed to be on standby.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-15-lakh-people-being-shifted-out-of-coastal-areas-in-gujarat-986573.html
16-05-2021||West||Coast Guard ensures return of 5,600 fishing boats||As Cyclone Tauktae builds up over the Arabian Sea, the Indian Coast Guard has ensured the safe return of 5,600 boats to the shores. Besides, the ICG alerted and safe routed 335 merchant vessels and timely rescued 6 personnel.  "As the first indications of formation of a cyclone commenced streaming in from 11 May onwards, ICG geared up its preparation towards the preventive and response measures on Western coast including Lakshadweep islands as well as the adjacent coastal state of Tamil Nadu," officials of the Mumbai-based ICG (West Region) said The massive deployment of ICG assets towards preventive measures for the cyclone has translated into 37 ship days and 75 aircraft hours at sea till date. The ICG Remote Operating Stations are incessantly relaying weather alert messages in vernacular languages on MMB radio for the seafarers and fishermen.  Navtex warnings are being issued regularly and International safety Net (ISN) has been activated to alert the vessels in/transiting through area. Ships at anchorage have also been advised to take shelter and necessary safety measures.  Port authorities, oil rig operators, Shipping, fisheries authorities and fishermen associations have been informed about the impending cyclone and a close liaison and coordination for safety of boats, vessels and fixed platforms are being maintained.  In addition, 40 Coast Guard Disaster Relief Teams (DRTs) with inflatable boats, life buoys and lifejackets are standing by all along the western coast for undertaking Disaster response operations. Medical teams and ambulances have also been kept on standby for swift mobilisation. "The painstaking efforts put in by ICG paid dividends by resulting in no loss of fishermen life at sea as the storm crossed the states of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa as well as Lakshadweep islands," officials said.  The fisheries authorities of these states reported that all the boats were accounted for and safely tucked in harbour. Response operations for Tug Alliance and MV Coromondel, both off the coast of Karnataka are going on. The pre-emptive measures by ICG continue ahead with full steam with a focus on Maharashtra and Gujarat as the Very Severe Cyclonic Storm ‘Tauktae’ travels northwards and is predicted to make landfall at Gujarat coast on the morning of May 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coast-guard-ensures-return-of-5600-fishing-boats-986608.html
16-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae intensifies after ploughing through coastal Kerala, Karnataka, Goa; 6 dead||Gale-force winds, heavy rainfall and high tidal waves swept the coastal belt of Kerala, Karnataka and Goa as Cyclone Tauktae hurtled northwards towards Gujarat on Sunday, leaving six people dead, damaging hundreds of houses, uprooting electricity poles and trees and forcing evacuation in low-lying areas. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Tauktae, which has taken the form of a "very severe cyclonic storm," is likely to intensify further during the next 24 hours and reach the Gujarat coast on Monday evening. Strong winds with speed reaching up to 90 km/per were lashing the western coastal region. According to the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD, by May 18 the wind speed is expected to increase to 150-160 km per hour, gusting up to 175 km per hour. An estimated 1.5 lakh people are being shifted from low-lying coastal areas in Gujarat while 54 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed in the state. Maharashtra too was bracing for the storm as the Met department predicted heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places in north Konkan, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar and extremely heavy rainfall in Raigad on Monday. The water level in many dams across Kerala showed a rising trend after heavy rains in the catchment areas, prompting authorities to sound an alert. Four deaths were reported from Karnataka’s Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts and two in Goa in cyclone-related incidents. Gusty winds and heavy rains started lashing several parts of Goa since Saturday night disrupting power supply in a large part of the state. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the major impact of the cyclonic winds was felt in Bardez taluka in North Goa district and Mormugao in South Goa. He said there was power disruption for some time at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment, but it did not affect the functioning. "Hundreds of houses suffered major damage due to the cyclonic winds. Some highways were blocked at several points after trees got uprooted. However, the roads were cleared by the disaster management teams," Sawant said. The power supply was disrupted as electric poles were uprooted due to the high-speed winds, state Power Minister Nilesh Cabral told PTI. "Many high tension 33 KV feeders are down due to the falling of trees. Even the 220 KV lines bringing power to Goa from neighbouring Maharashtra have been damaged," he said. The electricity department deployed its full force for the restoration work, but it was getting hampered due to the strong winds, he said. In Karnataka, over 70 villages in seven districts including Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu and Hassan have been affected by the cyclone, the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials said. The highest rainfall of 385 mm was recorded at Nada Station in Kundapura taluk of Udupi district, which was the worst affected, and 15 stations recorded more than 200 mm of rainfall in the district. Officials said nearly a dozen relief camps are functioning in the state. There has been damage to 112 houses, 139 electricity poles and other infrastructure in coastal areas. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has asked in-charge Ministers of coastal districts and Deputy Commissioners there to visit the affected areas and carry out rescue and relief works. The IMD has issued orange alerts --a warning indicating heavy to very heavy rain-- on Sunday in three Kerala districts-Ernakulam, Idukki and Malappuram. Many houses were damaged in coastal areas across the state as seawater seeped in following high waves. According to the state government, at least nine districts have been severely affected by sea incursion. The Thrissur district administration said spillway shutters of the Peringalkuthu dam will be opened if the water level crosses the permitted limit of 419.41 metres. In a statement, the administration has urged the people living on the banks of Chalakudy river to be cautious. Shutters of Malankara dam in Idukki district will be opened on Sunday, as the water level has increased, the district authorities said. Families living in coastal areas and low-lying areas of the state have been shifted to relief camps. Indian Navy deployed its diving and quick reaction teams in the coastal village of Chellanam in Ernakulam district, which was heavily hit by tidal waves. The teams, braving harsh weather conditions, undertook rescue and rehabilitation of people who were trapped in houses. High tidal waves have also lashed Kaipamangalam, Chavakkad and Kodungallur in Thrissur, Pallithura in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrikkannapuzha in Alappuzha and Beypore and Koyilandy in Kozhikode districts. The cyclone, which is the first this year, has added to the woes of the states which are already grappling with the devastating third wave of Covid. IMD Director General M Mohapatra said the cyclone has seen a rapid intensification. The gradual intensification stages are cyclonic storm, severe cyclonic storm, very severe cyclonic storm, extremely severe storm and super cyclonic storm. The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba met on Sunday in the national capital, where the top bureaucrat of the country directed agencies to ensure "uninterrupted" functioning of the Covid hospitals in the states affected by Cyclone Tauktae and secure "zero loss" of lives. Home Minister Amit Shah reviewed the preparedness for Cyclone Tauktae in Gujarat, Maharashtra and the Union territories of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Havel and "specifically" stressed that all health facilities, including those for Covid-19 treatment, falling in the affected areas should be secured along with the patients. Shah also advised them to ensure adequate stocks of all essential medicines and supplies in the hospitals, keeping in view a likely disruption in the movement of vehicles, a statement issued by the Union home ministry said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Saturday reviewed the preparedness of states, central ministries and agencies concerned to deal with the situation arising out of Cyclone Tauktae. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said an alert has been sounded in coastal districts of the state and the administration is prepared to ensure uninterrupted electricity and oxygen supply in Covid-19 hospitals. The IMD said Tauktae would cross Gujarat’s coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district by early Tuesday morning and tidal waves are likely to inundate several coastal districts during the landfall. "The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae over the east-central Arabian Sea moved nearly northwards with a speed of about 11 kmph during the past six hours," it said. "It is very likely to intensify during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach the Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross the state coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district around May 18 early morning," the IMD said. With the cyclone intensifying, the wind speed along and off Gujarat coasts in Porbandar, Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Amreli districts will reach 150-160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph by Tuesday morning. It will reach a speed of 120-150 kmph gusting to 165 kmph over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar districts during the same period, the IMD said. "Gale winds with speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph are likely to prevail along and off Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Bharuch, southern parts of Ahmedabad, and Anand districts, as well as Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman (Union Territories) from May 17 midnight till Tuesday morning," it said. The sea conditions will become "very rough to high" along and off the south Gujarat coast from Monday morning, and "very high to phenomenal" from Monday midnight. A tidal wave of about 3 metres, 1-2.5 metres above the astronomical tide, is likely to inundate several coastal areas of the state during the time of the landfall, it said. Heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places was likely over Saurashtra and Kutch and Diu on Monday, and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places on Tuesday, according to IMD. The Indian Coast Guard said on Sunday evening hat all fishing boats have reached their harbours in Maharashtra and Gujarat. "With the cyclone likely to affect power supply, hospitals treating Covid-19 patients have been asked to ensure power back-up. Arrangements have also been made to ensure uninterrupted generation of medical oxygen in the eight manufacturing units and buffer stock has also been created," Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters after attending a cyclone review meeting in Gandhingar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-intensifies-after-ploughing-through-coastal-kerala-karnataka-goa-6-dead-986609.html
16-05-2021||West||Rajasthan gasps for oxygen as new Covid-19 cases rise; Fast spread in rural areas a concern||Rajasthan continues to be ravaged by Covid-19 with over 2.1 lakh active cases, the fourth highest in the country, as patients struggle to get hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, injections and medicines. The state is facing a dearth of oxygen as cases continue to rise. From searching for an oxygen cylinder until getting a patient hospitalised, every step is a tough task. “For the last two days, I am trying everything to get a ventilator bed for my mother, whose CT score is 60 and keeps dropping. It took me a full day to search for an oxygen bed. All the hospitals in the Bikaner district are overwhelmed and we don’t have private facilities here. Travelling to Jaipur is also not advisable. I feel helpless," Sumit Kalla, a son struggling to find a hospital bed for his mother, told DH. Sumit is not alone. There are thousands of families going through similar struggles to save their loved ones who have contracted Covid-19. “The spike in the rural areas is worrying. We are seeing at least 50 per cent of cases coming from the villages. The health department has deployed community health officers (CHOs) to provide counselling to residents on Covid-19 and conduct door-to-door surveys in the rural areas”, Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma told DH. “To minimise the gap between the demand and the supply of medical oxygen, we have started importing oxygen concentrators from Russia and China and plan to purchase more than 28,000 such machines from different countries this month. The first batch of 100 oxygen concentrators arrived last week from Russia. The state government will purchase more than 28,000 oxygen concentrators this month”, Sharma added. Highlighting the dire situation, the Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot took on Twitter and said, “Rajasthan now has the 4th highest active cases at 2.11 lac, which is 5.72 per cent of the total active cases of the country." Mentioning the inadequate supply of oxygen, the chief minister wrote in the next tweet, "The present oxygen allocation is 435 MT including 125 MT of ASU. The situation is extremely fragile as there are also constraints in lifting 100 metric tonnes (MT) of allocated oxygen from Burnpur and Kalinganagar in the East and this quota has not been adequately utilised by us despite our best efforts.” Stressing on the need for mass vaccination in the state, health expert Dr Narendra Gupta of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan told DH, "The situation is deteriorating in Rajasthan. The infrastructure is already overwhelmed and the vaccination rate has come down. The only thing that can ease out the situation is more vaccination and utilisation of resources". Looking forward to mass vaccination across the state, the Rajasthan government is exploring the possibility of purchasing Covid-19 vaccines from other countries through global tenders. Rajasthan has joined other states in imposing a complete lockdown for two weeks from May 10 to 24. Weddings in the state have been banned till May 30. As of Saturday, Rajasthan state recorded 13,565 fresh Covid-19 cases and 149 deaths owing to the deadly virus. The cumulative positive cases in the state are 8,49,379 whereas the total number of patients recovered so far is 6,16,589. A total of 6,621 have died due to coronavirus in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-gasps-for-oxygen-as-new-covid-19-cases-rise-fast-spread-in-rural-areas-a-concern-986613.html
16-05-2021||West||Covid infection rate drops in Goa, but Opposition targets govt over mismanagement||Despite the onslaught of Cyclone Tauktae which claimed two lives on Sunday, people in Goa heaved a sigh of relief over the weekend as the state's Covid infection rate dipped from a record 51 per cent to nearly 33 per cent on Sunday. While the opposition has demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane for the spate of deaths in the state's apex health institute, Goa Medical College, Sawant claimed that the lockdown has resulted in the lowering of the infection rate. He also said that a slew of measures undertaken to beef up the oxygen management system at the apex institute had managed to resolve the oxygen shortage issue for now.  "The situation is getting under control. We have seen the infection rate drop over the last couple of days," Sawant said.  Dean of the Goa Medical College, Dr Shivanand Bandekar said that slowly but surely the number of cases was also coming under control. "The high spike was not reported in Goa, most places in the country were suffering a similar fate. But as you can see from the numbers, the cases are coming down now," Bandekar said.  On Sunday, 1,314 persons tested positive compared to the nearly 3,000 to 4,000 positive cases in the state earlier this week.  Currently, Goa's active cases (28,252) account for nearly 4 per cent of the state's population of 1.5 million, while nearly 9 per cent of Goa's resident population has tested positive for Covid-19 since the outbreak last year. The Opposition has squarely blamed the BJP-led coalition government for the deaths as well as alleged corruption in the procurement of medicine and creation of infrastructure to tackle the pandemic.  "It is shocking that oxygen supply in various Covid wards was not even close to sufficient. There was no adequate supply of oxygen from the central system which hampered effective functioning of ventilators and other medical equipment, which led to the deaths," state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.  The Congress has also alleged a scam worth crores of rupees in the procurement of ivermectin tablets, which the state government has now recommended as a preventive treatment of Covid-19 for all residents of Goa.  Health Minister Vishwajit Rane has however said that the Opposition should come up with constructive suggestions during a time of crisis, rather than making baseless allegations. "If the Opposition has constructive criticism, it is welcome. This is a pandemic and we are doing the best of what we can to save lives of the people of Goa," Rane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-infection-rate-drops-in-goa-but-opposition-targets-govt-over-mismanagement-986653.html
16-05-2021||West||Local govt bodies to ensure proper last rites of Covid victims in Rajasthan||Alarmed at water burials in Uttar Pradesh, the Rajasthan government on Sunday stepped in to ensure “dignified” last rites of those dying of Covid-19. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot issued directives to local bodies to ensure that last rites of patients dying due to Covid-19 be done with dignity and according to Indian rituals following proper health protocol. “It is our duty to ensure that last rites of those leaving this world are performed in a dignified manner and their relatives also feel assured,” Gehlot said. The announcement came after a political row broke out over dead bodies found floating in river Ganga in several districts in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, raising doubts over the number of actual deaths due to Covid-19 in the state. Gehlot also issued directions to provide free ambulance services to ferry the dead bodies from hospitals to the cremation or burial grounds. The state government has also empowered district collectors to acquire private ambulances to help those ferry patients to hospitals free of cost. The chief minister said separate funds have been provided for carrying out cremations and free ambulance service to the local bodies. Gehlot said the state government has been running a free bus service for the next of kin of the dead to immerse the ashes of the dead in river Ganga as per Indian traditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/local-govt-bodies-to-ensure-proper-last-rites-of-covid-victims-in-rajasthan-986660.html
