17-05-2021||First Edit||More needs to be done in Karnataka to curb Covid-19||The Karnataka government which was caught napping when the second wave of Covid-19 hit the state, finally seems to have got its act together, though much more needs to be done. Had it woken up earlier and tied all loose ends, as it has attempted to do now, there would not have been any need for a lockdown which has caused much more misery than the pandemic itself. While lack of cohesion marked the decision-making process right through, a semblance of order has now been restored with Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan being appointed head of the Covid-19 task force. A series of decisions in the last few days—setting up of 24X7 triage centres in all assembly constituencies of Bengaluru, move to establish 100 ICU beds permanently at the district level, procurement of medicines and consumables for the next 90 days at Rs 260 crore, global tender for vaccines and augmenting oxygenated/ICU/ventilator beds, among others—inspires confidence that the government might have woken up from its stupor which had cost the state dear. In a humanitarian gesture, the state has assigned a senior officer to identify children orphaned by Covid and to plan their long-term rehabilitation. The government has also appointed a panel under the chairmanship of cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty to prepare for the third wave, though some medical professionals feel the team should have been headed by an epidemiologist with experience in the public health sector. The appointment of Gagandeep Kang, a prominent microbiologist as advisor on vaccination strategy, has, however, been welcomed by all quarters. With the government failing to get the basics right in the first place until now, the night and weekend curfews and the ongoing lockdown, failed to break the chain of virus spread. Though the number of new cases appear to have fallen in the past few days, giving a false sense of security, the real reason is that the tests have dropped drastically, while the positivity rate continues to hover around 32 per cent.  It is also a matter of concern that tests have not been ramped up in areas like Dasarahalli in Bengaluru where the positivity rate is among the highest. Now that the government has swung into action, it is some consolation that the situation is not as grim as it were some days ago and experts believe there could be a drop in cases by month-end if the same efforts continue.  While patients still struggle for beds and essential drugs,  there is at least a glimmer of hope that the state might have embarked on the right path, though belatedly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/more-needs-to-be-done-in-karnataka-to-curb-covid-19-986693.html
17-05-2021||In Perspective||Sustainable drop in poverty||Due to general economic growth over the past decades, poverty in India has reduced. And particularly during 2006-12, it witnessed faster drop by about 10 per cent due to implementation of the MNREGA all across poorer rural regions as corroborated by many international agencies/observers. Unfortunately, due to slower growth, demonetisation, widespread accumulation of inventory, slow employment, low levels of bank loan, capital investment, income growth etc, poverty did not diminish as expected since 2016. And worse, Covid-19 lockdown overwhelmed the world and India during 2020; large scale loss of employment and income and the consequent urban-rural exodus in crores made 7.5 crore(?) people poorer. The government has yet to come up with credible survey numbers as to how many crores have migrated and been added to BPL numbers. The previous experience of reduction of poverty thus showed itself to be merely a palliative and not sustainable. To remedy this widespread slow down and trend increase in poverty, the government undertook some measures under many heads to reach incomes to the distressed, in cash and kind. Since poverty is multi-dimensional, its sustainable and irreversible reduction also have to be multi-pronged, through various official and private envisagements, agencies and efforts. Clearly, any sustainable reduction in poverty depends on reaching steady supra-minimal incomes to the poor possibly including policy doles and election manifesto assurances like the NYAY, nyunatham ay yojana or a minimum income programme to cover all the surveyed BPL households, particularly their women heads. This will naturally be an addition to their systemically low incomes, all owing to widespread underemployment and unemployment; enables them to spend on necessities and over time save, and spend on capital like livestock, cargo auto rickshaws, rural taxis, tools for the gig economy etc, sending children to schools for longer years and skill development institutions like ITIs and polytechnics; and of course on nutrition provisions and long-term health of children, pregnants and lactating mothers. These prolonged measures essentially are human development activities, perhaps sufficient conditions towards sustainable increase in incomes and reduction in poverty. And it will act strongly and un-disruptively to shift manpower from the over-populated agriculture to service and industry, rural as well as urban; the latter are seen to yield better and more incomes following from continuous spread of education and skills, concomitant with industry needs and its expansion all across geographical regions. Poverty reduction, as anything else in interventional public/government administration, has to be policy driven and institutionalised; and politicians or elected representatives, legislators and ministers have not proved to be effective making this institutional delivery of administrative services and goodies substantial, sustained and focused on the really needy or beneficiary classes or families. Rather, these politicians are concerned about their next elections and personal, family and supporters’ benefit; not on local schools, ITIs and hospitals; and local water bodies, roads, bridges and vents, indeed the tangible modes of poverty reduction. Their attention towards institutional effectiveness and endowments, personnel and material appurtenances are largely seldom; perhaps it does not readily yield much publicity or electoral benefits.  Service delivery Citizens and beneficiary classes have to organise and thus fend for themselves vis-à-vis effectiveness of service delivery institutions; an act of social and political mobilisation, development and awareness education. A heuristic or plausible cost in reaching income grants to the country’s poor: There are about 20 per cent or about 28 crore poor in the country all in seven crore households; and about 80 crore are said to belong to the middle class category. If each poor household woman head is given Rs 5,000 per month, it amounts to Rs 35,000 crores, and the annual expenditure will be Rs 4,20, 000 crore. Already the banks have parked Rs 7-8 lakh crores of their idling funds with the RBI. And the Centre is proposing to sell bonds to the RBI (worth Rs 12.06 trillion during 2021-22), a plan describable as quantitative easing. These proceeds may be part used to fulfil this expenditure towards reaching incomes to the poorest households and is a distributive justice, inequality reducing endeavour. With 60 per cent of the people or 84 crore living in rural areas, we have the poor mostly living in villages. Their productivity and income is closely linked with agricultural productivity and multi-crop dry land farming combined with rain harvesting and water body conservation all across; and these are all on-going programmes involving rural labour and perhaps MNREGA activities. Reaching drinking water and sanitation facilities including provision of latrines universally will be a highly labour intensive rural activity. These have an environmental upgradation dimension too; this upgradation is tantamount to increasing commons facilities for the poor in rural precincts, hill slopes, river banks and coastal regions. With the poor facilitated to spend on necessities and also households thus enabled to save at the grass roots level, there will be capital investment by the poor, and resulting in increased demand for urban industry and services. This will be a germane aspect of sustained poverty reduction activity and distributive justice in the country. (The writer, a public affairs enthusiast, is former Professor, Maharaja’s College, Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/sustainable-drop-in-poverty-986691.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cyclone Tauktae leaves behind trail of destruction in Dakshina Kannada||The rough seas and gusty winds caused by Cyclone Tauktae caused extensive damage to structures, houses and roads along the coast in Dakshina Kannada district. Broken pipes, a damaged roof of a toilet and the kitchen of a partially damaged house are a testimony to the fury of the waves that lashed the district’s coast on Saturday. A portion of the wall of Govardhan’s house, which has collapsed, is a proof of the devastation in Meenakaliya near Baikampady. The house, which had withstood many rains, collapsed following the lashing of rough waves on Saturday.  Another house, owned by Dharmapal Kotian, was also damaged due to impact of huge waves. “What is the point in repairing these damaged houses?. We do not know whether the structure is safe or not?. Even if rebuilt, we are not sure whether it can withstand the next storm?” says Praveen, a resident of Meenakaliya. Though it had been raining in the region since Sunday morning, the sea continued to remain rough  and waves continued to lash the shore. A fishing auctioning yard at Panambur too was completely damaged. Only remains of a resting shelter constructed on the shores of beach at Meenakaliya-Baikampady was visible. The remains of driftwood and coconut trees washed away in the fury of waves were found scattered on the shores of Sasihithlu beach. A few structures constructed while hosting the surfing festival also had been damaged at Sasihithlu beach. Further, the road from Surathkal Light House to NITK beach was washed away. With the sun shining during the day, fishermen in Chitrapura were seen engaged in repairing  the fishing nets and cleaning boats for the next fishing venture. “We are preparing our fishing nets and drying it. Even the boats are cleaned, so that we can venture into sea in order to earn our bread,” said a fisherman, who was busy drying his net at sea shore in Chitrapura. Anand Kotian, who works in Sasihithlu beach, said, “I had never seen such waves hitting the shore in past 40 years. I have been working at the beach for past 13 years.” Debris, soil, plastic wrappers and thermocol were found littered on the entire stretch from Sasihithlu gate to the surfing spot. Damages The roof of two classrooms of Government High School in Poonjalkatte has crashed while the roof of other classrooms looks precarious and can collapse any moment. Madantyar Gram Panchayat member Haneef after discussing with headmaster had shifted benches and desks to other classrooms. Three houses in Konaje, Manjanady and Mudipu limits were damaged due to gusty winds. After a compound wall collapsed, a house belonging to Rahiman at Kalingahithlu in Mundoor village is crumbling and can collapse. A temporary mud road constructed to cross the water body near Laila was washed away in the rain. As a result, families residing in the area were forced to use a longer route. Salt water intrusion from the river had affected farmland at Kolachikambala, Chitrapu, Mattu, Koluvaily, Karitota, Moodukoppala and Pavanje. The huge waves in Sasihithlu had entered seven houses and all the household items were damaged. Construction materials Following sudden rise in water-level in River Nethravathi, construction materials dumped on the bank of the river for the ongoing construction of Rs 192-crore bridge-cum-barrage were washed away. Though the structure of under construction bridge  was not damaged, heaps of soil dumped to facilitate the construction work were washed away. Harekala gram panchayat member Badruddin said, “As heavy rain lashed for more than 24 four hours due to cyclone effect, water flow in River Nethravathi increased and hampered the work of the bridge. Labourers, who were involved in the work were shifted to a safe place. There are three excavators and machines that are struck in the mud. The water-level had receded by evening."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cyclone-tauktae-leaves-behind-trail-of-destruction-in-dakshina-kannada-986689.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Village-level task force should break transmission of Covid'||Dakshina Kannada District In-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary directed village-level task force to work on breaking the transmission of Covid-19. He was speaking during a video conference with gram panchayat presidents and PDOs of Sullia taluk. "People from rural areas should stay at home and come out only during an emergency. There is a need to create awareness on the spread of Covid-19 and covid appropriate behaviour," he stressed. "Any symptoms of cold, cough and fever should not be neglected. Instead, people should go for covid testing and remain in home quarantine till the test results are out. The government has already released additional quantity of rice for BPL card holders," he said. Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Kumar said that if the houses of covid infected are situated in far away places, then officials can rent a vehicle for contact tracing and other follow up work. Funds available under 14th Finance Commission can be used for the purpose, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/village-level-task-force-should-break-transmission-of-covid-986694.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Actor Upendra buys onions from Chitradurga farmer||Popular Kannada actor Upendra purchased 60 sacks of onion from a farmer in Karnataka's Chitradurga.  The actor had shared a phone number on his social media handles saying that he would purchase farm produce from farmers and distribute the same to those who need it. Mahesh, a farmer from Patrehalli in Hiriyur taluk of the district, phoned the actor and sought his response. Later, he went to Bengaluru and sold onion at Rs 37,000.  Speaking to DH, the farmer said he had grown 70 sacks of onion on his one acre of land. Of them, 10 sacks were rotten. He could not sell them in the market due to the absence of remunerative price. He saw the actor's post and contacted him. The actor purchased the onions from him.  He said he is glad that the actor distributed onion to labourers. He would not have got such a price in the market. He did not feel like making a profit when the actor is involved in charity work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/actor-upendra-buys-onions-from-chitradurga-farmer-986866.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid effect: 52 released from Mysuru Prison on parole||With a rise in the cases of Covid-19, a few convicted persons, serving a sentence at the Mysuru Central Jail were released on special parole for a period of 90 days. As many as 55 convicted persons received the release order and 52 of them were sent on parole on Sunday and Monday. Another three persons will be released soon. For undertrails, the jail authorities have sent a proposal to District Legal Committee and the committee will issue bail orders to those who are considered, said Jail Superintendent K C Divyashree. The jail has around 700 inmates, including the 55 eligible for parole. It has to be noted that about 30 inmates tested positive for Covid during the second wave and the authorities have taken all the measures to ensure safety of the inmates. Considering the safety of the inmates, the Supreme Court had ordered release of inmates to de-congest the prisons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-effect-52-released-from-mysuru-prison-on-parole-986958.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers accuse police of 'harassment' during lockdown||A section of the farmers in Mysuru district are accusing the police of harassing them, in the name of lockdown, to contain the spread of Covid-19. The farmers, who depend on vehicles to reach their farmland from home, are worried to travel between their home and farmland. Many people stay in Mysuru city and visit their farmland in the villages. Shyamanna, a farmer, said that he was harassed by a policemen near Yelwal, when he was heading to his farmland from Mysuru. Shyamanna, a retired government employee, owns three acres of land near Bilikere and he visits once a week. “When I was heading towards the farmland, a  police constable stopped me. I was forced to return, despite showing all necessary documents. The police personnel are better. But, home guards are more dangerous. They don't have the patience to listen," he said. A farmer, who owns lands in Jayapura, accused the police of misusing power during lockdown. In a video, he said that his vehicle was seized when he was heading to his farmland in Jayapura and the police collected a fine from him. “The police stopped me near Jayapura and seized my bike. Later, I approached the higher officials, who ordered release of the vehicle. But, when I returned to the police station, they imposed a fine as there was no emission test report. They also abused me, claimed misbehaviour,” he said.  It has to be noted that a video of a farmer on a tractor, warning the police, for stopping his vehicle, had gone viral on the social media. The police had asked the farmer transporting mangoes to stop his vehicle and he charged the police of complaining to the superintendent of police. The farmer had said, though the government has allowed farming activities, the police are looting the farmers and making money in the name of lockdown. However, a police officer said, “We, the police, are working for the safety of the people. The farmers must understand it. We have to act tough during emergency. However, we definitely allow them, if they proved their purpose.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-accuse-police-of-harassment-during-lockdown-986959.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM approves nod for oxygen supply to 150 beds at MIMS||District In-charge Minister Narayana Gowda said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has given approval for supplying oxygen to the new 150-bed ward of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) that has been identified for treating Covid patients. Speaking at a taluk-level meeting here, on Monday, the minister said that he met the CM and explained that the 150-bed ward could not be used as there is no sufficient oxygen supply. The CM responded positively and gave an approval for supplying oxygen to the beds, so that it can be used for treating more patients, he said. The minister said that the quality of food supplied to the patients at the Covid Care Centres is good, and asked the officials to consume food supplied at the centres to instil confidence among the patients. There is no shortage of funds for Covid management in the district as the state government has allocated sufficient funds, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-approves-nod-for-oxygen-supply-to-150-beds-at-mims-986961.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||JSS Medical Institute to buy Rs 3 cr worth oxygen concentrators||JSS Medical College and Hospital is preparing to handle the Covid-19 third wave and Rs 3 crore will be invested on oxygen concentrators, said Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami of Suttur Mutt on Monday. The seer was speaking to reporters here, after holding a meeting with the authorities of the JSS Medical College and Hospital. He obtained details about the preparations at the hospital, to treat infected patients and also visited various departments. The pontiff, who obtained Covid second dose vaccine, interacted with the relatives of the patients, who are undergoing treatment at the hospital. He said that it needs approximately Rs 3 crore for oxygen and a team of experts are working on it. “For emergency, the hospital is procuring oxygen concentrators and 60 oxygenated beds will be ready soon after the oxygen concentrators are available,” he informed. At present, an oxygen tank with the capacity of 5,000 litre is available at JSS Medical College and another similar unit will be established. As many as 600 oxygenated beds will be established once the second unit starts functioning, he informed. In addition, the institution will procure an oxygen production unit, with a capacity to generate 500 litres of oxygen per minute. A shed is needed for the purpose and the works will be completed in six weeks, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jss-medical-institute-to-buy-rs-3-cr-worth-oxygen-concentrators-986962.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Delay in early screening causing more infections’||The rise in positive cases in Chamarajanagar district is due to the negligence of the people, who undergo Covid tests, only when their health condition worsens, according to Health department officials.  As the blood test indicates typhoid, a number of patients in rural areas undergo treatment for it, even though they suffer from Covid symptoms. As a result, they go to hospitals only after suffering from breathing problems. As soon as they get the symptoms of Covid, people visit private clinics at hobli or taluk levels and get blood test done as per the doctor's advise. Most of such patients test positive for typhoid, and begins treatment, officials said. Though blood tests show typhoid, most of them would have contracted Covid. Despite treatment for typhoid, they continue to suffer from fever. Only after facing breathing problems, they get tested for Covid, it is said. It is alleged that the local physicians too suggest Covid test only when the patient face breathing issues. By the time Covid results are available, their health condition deteriorates. By the time they come to the hospital, their oxygen saturation level depletes. Though treatment is initiated, the body does not respond. This is said to be the reason for the rising Covid cases in the district. A local physician, on condition of anonymity, explained that the fear of Covid is the main cause for the villagers' hesitation to get tested for Covid. They get upset when the doctors express that it may be the symptoms of Covid. They plead for treatment, saying that they would test positive for even slight cold and cough. Even if we deny treatment, they go in search of another private clinic, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/delay-in-early-screening-causing-more-infections-986963.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister’s intervention sought over school fee||A parent of a student has tweeted a copy of a letter from a private school, setting a deadline of May 22, to pay the fees for the first semester, tagging it to state Education Minister S Suresh Kumar. Amidst the Covid pandemic, the state government is yet to announce a policy for admission to the academic year 2021-22. However, many schools with national and international syllabus function independent of the announcements of the state government. In the letter, from De Paul International Residential School, dated, May 13, 2021, it is stated: “The online classes for grade II commences from June 2. The clearance of dues as well as fees of I Semester for the year 2021-22 is mandatory on or before May 22, 2021. The yearly fee for Standard II for the year 2021-22 is Rs 1.5 lakh (excluding consumable deposit). Thus, the I semester fee to be paid is Rs 75,000. Kindly, make the payments through the online portal only.” User @DivyaGowda1947 has tagged @nimmasuresh and has stated: “sir why private school are still taking 100% of their tuition fee in this pandemic situation also now we deal with online classes we spend for internet and other stuffs but why not they At least cutting down some percent of fee amount?” (Sic) In a reply to her own tweet, she has said: “Really this has made life miserable to several parents, @nimmasuresh why not Govt responding to this issue and passing any mandatory rules for private schools? Why don’t you take some action on this issue? once again I kindly request you to take a step forward on this issue” (Sic). The minister is yet to react to the tweet, while the school management did not respond to a mail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-s-intervention-sought-over-school-fee-986964.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Supply medical kits to patients under home isolation: MLA||MLA L Nagendra directed the officials concerned to deliver the medication kits to Covid-19 patients, under home isolation, at their respective house. He chaired a meeting of the Chamaraja Assembly Constituency Task Force on Covid, at the Mysuru City Corporation Hall here, on Monday. He said, "Sanitising and fogging should be done on a war footing, especially in slum areas, under all wards, to check the spread of diseases, including Covid. He availed the information on Covid patients, those under home isolation, those admitted to hospitals and those in intensive care centre (ICU) under his Chamaraja segment. As on Monday, there were 2,041 infected persons, including 1,011 under home isolation, and 923 in various Covid Care Centres and hospitals under Chamaraja Assembly segment. A total of 89,903 persons have been administered Covid vaccination. A Covid Mitra Centre has been started at Panchakarma Ayurveda Hospital. Those with symptoms are advised, provided medication and referred for hospitalisation, the officials said. The MLA said that there are 104 small hospitals, under his constituency, which are not members of Mysore Association of Hospitals and Nursing Homes (MAHAN). “Even though such small hospitals do not have adequate facilities, they admit Covid patients and treat them. Due to lack of equipment and facilities, the patients’ health deteriorates. Thus, the rate of death is increasing. As these hospitals are not registered, they do not get oxygen, ventilator and Remdesivir,” he pointed out. He said, "The district health officer should issue notices to such hospitals, barring them from treating Covid patients. Otherwise, they should be empanelled and provided all facilities and medicines, to treat Covid patients.” “Only a few students of a few postgraduate departments of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC & RI) have been deputed for 21 days, in the Red Zone ward of the Trauma Care Centre of the college, on the premises of Princess Krishnarajammani Tuberculosis (PKTB) Sanitorium on KRS Road. This small section of the students are under stress, as they cannot concentrate on studies. The remaining students are deputed only for entry of swab collection for Covid tests. The students of all departments must be given equal responsibilities and work,” the MLA said. Health Officer of Mysuru City Corporation Dr D G Nagaraju, Mayor Rukmini Madegowda, Commissioner Shilpa Nag, Dean of MMC & RI Dr C P Nanjaraj and District Health Officer Dr T Amarnath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/supply-medical-kits-to-patients-under-home-isolation-mla-986972.html
17-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Reduce Covid fatality rate in Kodagu: Somanna tells doctors||District In-charge Minister V Somanna has appealed to the doctors to reduce the Covid fatality rate in Kodagu district. For the last 18 days, the district is recording an average of seven deaths daily. He said this while speaking to the heads of the institute and the final year students of Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences on Sunday. A total of 233 lives have been lost in Kodagu so far. “Kodagu is a tiny district. The district has one government medical college, two taluk hospitals, in addition to community health centres and PHCs. The hospitals are fullfledged with expert doctors. In spite of it, why is the district not reducing the fatality rate? he sought to know. The doctors should discharge their duties effectively and should bring the death rate to 0. It looks like there is a lack of willpower among the doctors, along with social concern, said the minister. The doctors should showcase their talent now in treating the patients. The Covid infected should be given medicines within the time frame to save their lives, he added. CCTV cameras should be installed in all the hospitals including the Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences. The doctors should interact with the deputy commissioner daily via video conference, he said. MLA M P Appachu Ranjan said the doctors in Covid hospital should enquire about the health of the patients after wearing a PPE kit. They should instil confidence in the patients. It is a challenge for doctors to treat patients, he added. MLA K G Bopaiah said that the doctors should respond well when people call the helpline. MLC Sunil Subramani, Deputy Commissioner Charulata Somal, Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reduce-covid-fatality-rate-in-kodagu-somanna-tells-doctors-987003.html
17-05-2021||Main Article||Coronavirus lockdown: Wipe their tears||Lockdown, either partially or fully, has become an unavoidable drastic step to contain the surge of cases and deaths due to coronavirus. The poor are affected more adversely than the rich and upper middle class, both by the virus itself and the lockdown and curfews.  The upper class can stock weeks of rations and supplies before lockdown, the poor does not have that luxury. When the daily wages are not coming, small incomes are not generated and petty loans are denied, how will they face these trying times? They don’t see the virus, but they feel the hunger pangs, kids crying and hear the ambulances hooting and see the sick and dying being carried to hospitals. In October 2020,"Hunger-Watch"  conducted a survey among 3,994 households in 11 states and found that starvation conditions had intensified due to lockdown. Some 55 per cent of the people had a decrease in income and 36 per cent of the people had zero income. The lack of income also had an impact on food security. Overall food consumption decreased and specifically staple cereal rice among 48 per cent respondents, pulses in 70 per cent and vegetable consumption in 77 per cent. In Gujarat, 21 per cent had to sleep without single meal amid the pandemic. We have seen the plight of lakhs of migrant workers walking back home thousands of kilometres and collapsing on the way with dehydration and hunger. These painful experiences of last year should not be repeated this time. While the administration both at state and district level will be pre-occupied with the compliance of lockdown guidelines, ensuring law and order, gathering information and reporting to higher authorities, the health department will be engrossed in saving lives and minimising complications of the Covid-19 illness. Who then cares for the poor? To show empathy and get involved in reducing human miseries, we need more human eyes and helping hands. Like in any disaster management and pandemic control, ensuring community participation is the key to success. Deploying readily available human resources charged with motivation and clear instructions as to what to do, where and when is of paramount importance. Mobilising more volunteers who are ready to go an extra mile was a deliberate strategy adopted by Kerala to improve their great asset of social capital. They had 45,000 extra, registered volunteers for Covid-19 control activities. This was in addition to 26,310 ASHA workers, 33,115 anganwadi workers and 45.4 lakh neighbourhood women entrepreneurs under the banner of Kutumbashree at grassroot level in 2,90,723 groups including 48 transgender groups. In addition, the 21,682 elected ward members of 978 village panchayats, 60 municipal, five corporation councils joined this army of unpaid workers to control the pandemic. These volunteers were helping at kiosks at airports, railway stations, inter-state borders and bus terminals day and night. Also, they were in community kitchens for feeding the quarantined people, especially elderly, patients in isolation hospitals, destitute, poor and homeless and distributing dry ration kits. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh etc, can learn these good lessons from Kerala. The states must ensure community and local self-government participation for the prevention of further community transmission, contact tracing and containment measures.  They also must emphasise on people's behavioural change and enable that change rather than blame people. The law-and-order approach is, in effect, seen as monitoring how many are fined on a daily basis for not wearing masks. There is no target segmentation of audiences for developing appropriate messages with media-medium-communicator links. Do not spare people without fixing accountability on them. Arresting the second wave is in the hands of people more than with anyone else. Wearing masks, sanitiser use, keeping physical distance and avoiding crowding are the keys in stopping transmission. The vaccine is not the panacea for Covid-19 disease when already there are reports of 20-30 per cent vaccine failure and poor seroconversion with any brand. How to show a caring face of the government? Don’t allow the people to go to sleep hungry. While saving lives, save their livelihood too. Or compensate the wage loss. Every labourer, daily wager, small businessman, domestic aids etc, should be compensated for loss of work and wage loss. Distribute weekly kits of dry rations to the lower and middle class families like the LDF government did in Kerala. Ten kg of rice was given free for every family for many months. Continue dry rations (rice, lentils, egg, oil and other dry ingredients) in lieu of hot cooked meals from anganwadi and school mid-day meals to every beneficiary family as it was in the pre-lockdown period. Additional ration The Right to Food Campaign and Jan Swasthya Abhiyan in Chhattisgarh demanded reintroducing the additional ration (cereals and pulses) given under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana like last year till lockdown ends. They also demanded re-starting of community kitchen at ward or panchayat level. These community feeding centres should not end up as showcasing models for media in towns, neglecting the starving remote rural habitations. The MNREGA workdays can be adjusted against the number of days these members serve in community kitchens, quarantine facilities and even isolation centres. Fully utilise perishable farm products, animal husbandry and of pisciculture through bulk purchasing and procurement from the field for community kitchens for the poor. As it happened in previous lockdowns, vegetables, milk and eggs must not perish for want of transport and marketing mechanism. Free food should be arranged for migrant labourers at bus stations and railway stations. A helpline number in every district for food assistance could be set up. Fewer revenue officials in all these operations will ensure lesser corruption, better efficiency and client satisfaction. Chief secretary-level approval for such a civil society participation to the district collectors may be issued. All these multi-pronged approach with participation of NGOs and citizens’ groups will go a long way in creating a new face for the government, being with the people, caring and protecting.  Let lockdown be tough with virus not with human beings, especially the poor. (The writer is a Paediatrician and Public Health Consultant in Kochi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-lockdown-wipe-their-tears-986697.html
17-05-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Is the Indian-origin B.1.617 Covid variant behind the second wave?||B.1.617, a variant of the novel coronavirus first found in India in October last year, has been classified as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organisation (WHO). A variant of concern is considered more troublesome because it spreads faster and has a higher ability to evade the body's natural defence. B.1.617 is reportedly behind the surge in coronavirus infections in many parts of India, and has been detected in at least 44 countries as of May 11. Here's what we know about it so far:  What makes B1.617 different?  B1.617 underwent genetic changes or mutations through the natural process of evolution. This lineage is defined by 15 genetic mutations, including six such changes in the spike protein of the virus. One of these mutations, E484Q, is involved in immune escape, while the other, L452R, is involved in increased infectivity. The resurgence in Covid-19 cases and deaths in India has raised questions on the potential role of B.1.617 and other variants (e.g. B1.1.7 or the UK variant) in circulation. The WHO says B1.617 appears to have higher rates of transmission, including observed rapid increases in prevalence in multiple countries.  What is the evidence that B1.617 is behind India’s second wave?  Indian scientists analysing the genome sequences of SARS-CoV-2 in the country had flagged B1.617's role behind the surge at least in parts of Maharashtra since March. But the health ministry recognised it as a “variant of concern” only in the first week of May. The WHO report says a recent risk assessment of the situation has found that resurgence and acceleration of Covid-19 transmission in India had several potential contributing factors, including an increase in the proportion of cases of SARS-CoV-2 variants with potentially increased transmissibility, besides several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social-mixing. The exact contributions of each of these factors on increased transmission in India are not well understood.  Are there any sub-categories of B1.617? What’s known about them? There are three sub-lineages of B1.617, namely B1.617.1, B1.617.2 and B1.617.3. The first two have been reported from 34 and 31 countries, respectively, while B1.617.3 has been found in four nations. B1.617.2 does not carry the mutation known as E484Q but it contains the T478K gene which is not found in the other two variants. It is the variant that is spreading fast in the UK. All the three sub-lineages carry two other mutations named P681R and D6146. The clinical significance of these genetic changes is yet to be fully understood. The WHO has underlined the need for more targeted sequencing and epidemiological studies to gain a deeper understanding of the clinical significance of these sub-lineages.  Will the existing drugs, diagnostics and vaccines work on B1.617? A WHO official says that although B.1.617 has been classified as a “variant of concern” at the global level, there is no evidence to suggest that the existing vaccines and diagnostics would not work against it. Preliminary evidence, however, suggests potential reduced effectiveness of Bamlanivimab, a monoclonal antibody used for Covid-19 treatment, and potentially slightly reduced susceptibility to neutralisation antibodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-is-the-indian-origin-b1617-covid-variant-behind-the-second-wave-986683.html
17-05-2021||National||Khan Chacha owner Navneet Kalra arrested in oxygen concentrator black marketing case||The Delhi Police arrested businessman Navneet Kalra Sunday night for alleged black marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators amid the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. The businessman had been on the run for over a week since the seizure of more than 500 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants owned by him in the national capital. The concentrators are a crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 patients and are on high demand amid the second wave of the pandemic. On Friday, the Delhi High Court had declined to grant Kalra interim protection from arrest in the case. Kalra had moved the high court for anticipatory bail on May 13 late evening after a sessions court denied him the relief. During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra -- Khan Chacha, Nega Ju and Town Hall. The case was subsequently transferred to the Delhi Police Crime Branch. The police claimed that the concentrators were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs 50,000 to 70,000 a piece as against its cost of Rs 16,000 to Rs 22,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khan-chacha-owner-navneet-kalra-arrested-in-oxygen-concentrator-black-marketing-case-986687.html
17-05-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan, Rajnath launch first batch of DRDO Covid-19 drug 2-DG||The first batch of anti-Covid oral drug 2-DG, developed by the DRDO, was released on Monday by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. The Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) approved the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients earlier this month. In his brief remarks, Singh said the drug has brought a new ray of hope for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. "This is a great example of the scientific prowess of our country," he said. At the same time, the defence minister said that it is not the time to relax and get tired as there is nothing definitive about the course of the pandemic. "We do not need to be relaxed, nor should we get tired. Because this wave has come for the second time, and there is nothing definite about this. We have to take steps with full caution," he said at the event in DRDO headquarters. Singh said the government has taken the overall situation seriously, whether it is the matter of oxygen supply or ensuring ICU beds or the arrangement of cryogenic tankers for transportation of liquid oxygen. "I am happy to say that the Medical Corps has also decided to take back its retired doctors so that our health system can be strengthened further. I heartily commend such physicians who are joining this campaign even after their service," Singh said. The defence minister also listed efforts of the armed forces in helping civilian authorities deal with the situation across the country. However, he asserted that deployment of the armed forces for Covid-relief measures has not impacted their operational preparedness at the borders. "Even after going through all these difficulties, we have ensured that our preparedness at the border does not have any impact. There is no shortage of enthusiasm and enthusiasm of our forces anywhere. We know this very well, no matter how big the difficulty is, we will overcome it," he said. The Defence Ministry on May 8 said that the clinical trials of the drug 2-DG showed that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. The approval of the drug has come at a time India has been grappling with a record-breaking wave of coronavirus pandemic that has stretched the country's healthcare infrastructure to its limit. The anti-Covid-19 therapeutic application of 2-DG drug has been developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a leading laboratory of DRDO, in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL) in Hyderabad. The drug comes in powder form in sachet and is taken orally by dissolving it in water, the ministry said. In efficacy trends, the ministry said, patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than the standard of care (SoC) on various endpoints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-rajnath-launch-first-batch-of-drdo-covid-19-drug-2-dg-986706.html
17-05-2021||National||B.1.617 Covid variant found in 22% cases in samples sent by PGIMER||The presence of the double mutant variant of the coronavirus has been found in 22 per cent samples that were recently sent by the PGIMER here for sequencing. Reports of sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 from 23 swab samples that were sent were received from the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, last Thursday. "Presence of the double mutant B.1.617 variant having the signature mutations L452R and E484Q has been confirmed in 22 percent (5/23) of the samples after sequencing," PGIMER Director Jagat Ram said on Sunday. A PGIMER release quoting Ram stated that the B.1.617 variant, first identified in India last year, had been found in more than 40 countries and recently classified as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organization. "It has been found by researchers that the mutations in the double-mutant strain render it to be more transmissible and vaccine-induced antibodies are somewhat less potent in neutralising this variant," he said. "The surge of cases during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has somewhat been attributed to the B.1.617 variant strain," he said. "Of the other samples, the UK variant -- B.1.1.7 -- which is also a variant of concern and associated with higher transmissibility was found in 39 per cent (9/23) samples."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/b1617-covid-variant-found-in-22-cases-in-samples-sent-by-pgimer-986708.html
17-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Centre occupies the room for complacency in Covid fight||While some states show a decline in the daily Covid-19 cases, Centre continues to be under fire for overall mismanagement of the second wave of the pandemic. Wide-spread vaccine shortage continues to create public fury across the country.  Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh on Sunday pasted posters asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi where has Covid-19 vaccines disappeared at his residence in the national capital protesting against Delhi Police arresting at least 25 people for pasting similar posters in the capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-centre-occupies-the-room-for-complacency-in-covid-fight-986715.html
17-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 17||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections in India was 2.81 lakh on Monday. This takes the country's total caseload to 2,49,65,463 according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,49,65,463   as of May 17, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,74,390  as of May 17, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged:  2,11,74,076 Total Vaccination:  18,29,26,460  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-17-986721.html
17-05-2021||National||With 2.81 lakh single-day Covid cases, daily infections lowest in a month; 4,106 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally reached 2,49,65,463 with 2,81,386 fresh cases, the lowest daily tally in 27 days, while the death toll climbed to 2,74,390 as 4,106 more people succumbed to the disease, according to Union Health Ministry data as of Monday morning. The number of active cases stands at 35,16,997, accounting for 14.09 per cent of the total infections. The national recovery rate has improved to 84.81 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,11,74,076, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.10 per cent, it stated. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 31,64,23,658 samples had been tested up to May 16 with 15,73,515 tested on Sunday. The 4,106 new fatalities include 974 from Maharashtra, 403 from Karnataka, 311 from Tamil Nadu, 308 from Uttar Pradesh, 262 from Delhi, 202 from Punjab, 188 from Uttarakhand, 156 from Rajasthan, 147 from West Bengal, 144 from Chhattisgarh, 139 from Haryana and 101 from Andhra Pradesh. Of the total 2,74,390 deaths reported in the country, 81,486 were from Maharashtra, 21,837 from Karnataka, 21,506 from Delhi, 17,670 from Tamil Nadu, 17,546  from Uttar Pradesh, 13,284 from West Bengal, 11,895 from Punjab and 11,734 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-281-lakh-single-day-covid-cases-daily-infections-lowest-in-a-month-4106-deaths-986734.html
17-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Covishield, Covaxin release fewer antibodies against B.1.617 variant, still potent||Covishield and Covaxin both induce an immune system response against the B.1.617 variant but produce only half the number of antibodies, an early research by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found. The variant, first identified in India, with critical mutations that make it more infectious and elusive to the immune system, has been a driving force in India’s unprecedented second Covid-19 wave, sparking fears that existing vaccines may not be as effective against it. The reports authored by scientists at the ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune, indicate a reduction in antibodies but scientists say the vaccines still provide protection. The scientists found that when the B.1.617 was tested against the blood serum of someone with two doses of Covaxin, it produced 55% fewer antibodies than those stimulated against the B1 variant that had become the dominant strain in India last April. The results were roughly the same for Covishield. When antibody levels were compared with the variant that emerged out of the United Kingdom, there was only a 6% drop, whereas against the Brazilian strain, they reduced by a half. However, scientists have allayed fears over vaccines’ reduced effectiveness against the variant, saying protection against the variant does not solely depend on the number of antibodies they produce but also on the generation of T cells, a type of white blood cells that launch a far more specific attack against the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-covishield-covaxin-release-fewer-antibodies-against-b1617-variant-still-potent-986739.html
17-05-2021||National||India's virus cases lower but WHO expert says positive tests ominously high||India reported a further decline in new coronavirus cases on Monday, but daily deaths remained above 4,000 and experts said the count was unreliable due to a lack of testing in rural areas where the virus is spreading fast. For months now, nowhere in the world has been hit harder than India by the pandemic, as a new strain of the virus fuelled a surge in infections that has risen to more than 400,000 daily. Even with a downturn over the past few days, experts said there was no certainty that infections had peaked, with alarm growing both at home and abroad over the highly contagious B.1.617 variant first found in India. "There are still many parts of the country which have not yet experienced the peak, they are still going up," World Health Organization Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan was quoted as saying in the Hindu newspaper. Swaminathan pointed to the "very high" national positivity rate, at about 20 per cent of tests conducted, as a sign that there could be worse to come. "Testing is still inadequate in a large number of states. And when you see high test positivity rates, clearly we are not testing enough. "And so the absolute numbers actually don't mean anything when they are taken just by themselves; they have to be taken in the context of how much testing is done, and test positivity rate." Having begun to decline last week, new infections over the past 24 hours were put at 281,386 by the health ministry on Monday, dropping below 300,000 for the first time since April 21. The daily death count stood at 4,106. At the current rate India's total caseload since the epidemic struck a year ago should pass the 25 million mark in the next couple of days. Total deaths were put at 274,390. Hospitals have had to turn patients away while mortuaries and crematoriums have been unable to cope with bodies piling up. Photographs and television images of funeral pyres burning in parking lots and corpses washing up on the banks of the Ganges river have fuelled impatience with the government's handling of the crisis. It is widely accepted that the official figures grossly underestimate the real impact of the epidemic, with some experts saying actual infections and deaths could be five to 10 times higher. 'Illusion' Whereas the first wave of the epidemic in India, which peaked in September, was largely concentrated in urban areas, where testing was introduced faster, the second wave that erupted in February is rampaging through rural towns and villages, where about two-thirds of the country's 1.35 billion people live, and testing in those places is very patchy. "This drop in confirmed Covid cases in India is an illusion," S. Vincent Rajkumar, a professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic in the United States, said on Twitter. "First, due to limited testing, the total number of cases is a huge underestimate. Second, confirmed cases can only occur where you can confirm: the urban areas. Rural areas are not getting counted." A cyclone on course to hit the coast of Gujarat on Monday is expected to disrupt both testing and vaccination efforts in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state, where infections have risen 30 per cent since May 2. While lockdowns have helped limit cases in parts of the country hit during an initial surge of infections in February and April, such as Maharashtra and Delhi, rural areas and some states are dealing with fresh surges. The government issued detailed guidelines on Sunday for monitoring Covid-19 cases, with the health ministry asking villages to look out for people with flu-like illness and get them tested for Covid-19. Modi has come under fire for his messaging to the public, a decision to leave key decisions on lockdowns to states, and the slow rollout of an immunisation campaign in the world's biggest vaccine producer. India has fully vaccinated just over 40.4 million people, or 2.9 per cent of its population. A top virologist told Reuters on Sunday that he had resigned from a forum of scientific advisers set up by the government to detect variants of the coronavirus. Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of the forum known as INSACOG, declined to say why he had resigned but said he was concerned that authorities were not paying enough attention to the evidence as they set policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-virus-cases-lower-but-who-expert-says-positive-tests-ominously-high-986753.html
17-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae: Mango farmers in Gujarat fear serious losses||Apart from wreaking widespread devastation, Cyclone Tauktae might also affect the mango yield in Gujarat this year. Mango growers in the Saurashtra region are worried due to the expected landfall and heavy rains. Farmers in Gujarat are yet to harvest 75% of their mango cultivation for this year. The fruits and the trees can survive normal rain, but farmers are scared that heavy rains and strong winds will damage the fruit. “The major harvest begins after Akshaya Tritiya, which was celebrated. But since markets were also closed because of Eid and the weekend, farmers were going to start plucking over the weekend and next week,” Vinod Desai, a farmer in Valsad told the publication. After Akshaya Tritiya, the markets are filled with varieties of mangoes at a price benefitting both sellers and buyers. However, this year due to the cyclone, the farmers are expecting to have very few good-quality mangoes to be available in the market, so the prices will be increased to cover the losses. Right now, 20 kg of Alphonso costs around Rs 1,400 to Rs 1,800, Kesar costs Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,600 and Rajapuri costs Rs 900.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-mango-farmers-in-gujarat-fear-serious-losses-986759.html
17-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Here's all you need to know about top virologist Shahid Jameel||Jameel confirmed his resignation to multiple media outlets, but declined to state the reason for his exit. Insacog had been established in January this year, with Jameel as its head, to pick up the pace of genome sequencing of the Covid-19 virus and its variants in the country, managing a network of 10 laboratories for the task. The internationally-acclaimed virologist holds the position of director at the Ashoka University’s school of biosciences, where his work centres on synthetic biology, infectious diseases and chronic diseases. Jameel spent 25 years prior to that researching human viruses at the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology. Much of Jameel’s work has been focused on studying viruses, his early work concentrating on the hepatitis B virus, and later turning towards studying hepatitis E and the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). He is known to have identified the characteristics of these viruses and their routes of transmission, which helped in the development of diagnostic and preventive protocols. Jameel had also spearheaded the group that worked on developing vaccines for the HIV-1 subtype C, the most dominant form of the infection in India. As one of the most respected names in virology in the country, Jameel is an elected member of all three of India’s major science academies — National Academy of Sciences India, Indian Academy of Sciences and Indian National Science Academy. The government of India awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, one of India’s highest awards in the field of medical science.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-heres-all-you-need-to-know-about-top-virologist-shahid-jameel-986760.html
17-05-2021||National||Only five militants active in Srinagar: J&K Police||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday said that only five militants were active in Srinagar, who are being helped by a vast network of overground workers (OGWs). He said that there was a vast network of OGWs active in Srinagar of which many have already been arrested and booked under PSA, while others are on the police radar. “There are C-category OGWs who are being counseled and handed over their families,” Kumar said. Asked whether there were any foreign militants active in Srinagar, the Kashmir Police chief said inputs about the movement of foreign militants continue to pour in “but as of now no foreign militant is permanently active in Srinagar district.” On the improvised explosive device (IED) turning out to be a challenge, he said that security forces were effectively dealing with the threat as was evident with the recent seizure of 10-kg IED material in Shopian followed by the detection of another one by the Army. “We are aware of the IED threat and are effectively dealing with the same by timely detection,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-five-militants-active-in-srinagar-jk-police-986780.html
17-05-2021||National||No deferment of privacy policy, trying to get users on board: WhatsApp tells Delhi HC||Facebook-owned mobile messaging service WhatsApp on Monday told the Delhi High Court that it has not deferred its May 15 deadline for the users to accept the new privacy policy, while the Centre demanded for maintaining status quo. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing WhatsApp, submitted before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, the court that it was trying to get users on board, but if they did not agree to the privacy policy, then the company would slowly delete these users accounts. Sibal submitted before the court, “there is no deferment of policy.” Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, submitted there are concerns that the policy was in violation of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Rules thereunder. He said that the government has written to the CEO of the company and it was waiting a reply. The updated policy will allow WhatsApp to share some data about users' interactions with business accounts with its parent company Facebook. The ASG submitted the court should record the WhatsApp’s counsel statement that the company will conform with the Indian law. He added that the company should maintain status quo where neither the account or the data is deleted if users’ revoke their consent for the new privacy policy. WhatsApp’s counsel objected to the stay and submitted that they would not make any such statement. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, representing WhatsApp along with Sibal, maintained "our privacy policy does not violate the IT Rules, we can go by rule." Sibal further argued that that question is that does India have a public policy for privacy. “If a public policy of privacy is there in India, does it apply to WhatsApp policy," he asked. The High Court posted the matter for consideration on June 3.  It was hearing a plea filed by Seema Singh and law student Chaitanya Rohilla who sought directions to the Centre to direct WhatsApp to roll back their policy or provide an option to the users of opt-out of the January 4, 2021 update.  In February, the High Court had issued notice on the plea. The Centre had told the court that the new privacy policy does not provide the opportunity to review or amend the full information submitted by a user. In the backdrop of 2011 IT Act, the Centre had argued that the new privacy policy fails to specify the types of “sensitive personal” data being collected, and with whom this information was being shared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-deferment-of-privacy-policy-trying-to-get-users-on-board-whatsapp-tells-delhi-hc-986794.html
17-05-2021||National||10 states have over 75% of India's active Covid-19 cases||India's total Covid-19 active cases have decreased to 35,16,997 with a net decline of 1,01,461 cases in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. It said Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh cumulatively account for 75.04 per cent of India's total active cases. The daily new Covid-19 cases being registered in India was less than 3 lakh after 26 days, the ministry said. A total of 2,81,386 new cases were registered in a day. There has been an average decline in daily new cases since May 9. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana reported 75.95 per cent of the new cases in a span of  24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 34,389, followed by Tamil Nadu with 33,181 new cases. A declining trend in the weekly positivity rate is also observed which stands at 18.17 per cent, the ministry said. Total daily tests conducted in a span of 24 hours stand at 15,73,515 and cumulatively 31,64,23,658 tests have been conducted so far for detection of Covid-19. Karnataka has the most number of districts (27) with more than 20 per cent positivity rate and Madhya Pradesh comprsing the highest number of districts (38) with more than 10 per cent positivity rate. The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.10 per cent, the ministry said.  A total of 4,106 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 75.38 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (974). Karnataka follows with 403 daily deaths. India's cumulative recoveries have reached 2,11,74,076 with 3,78,741 patients recuperating in a span of 24 hours. The single day recoveries have outnumbered the daily Covid-19 cases for the sixth time in the last 7 days and consistently in the last 4 days, the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached nearly 18.30 crore. A total of 18,29,26,460 vaccine doses have been administered through 26,68,895 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am.  These include 96,45,695 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,43,661 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,44,44,096 FLWs who have received the first dose, 81,96,053 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 52,64,073 beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group who have received the first dose. Besides, 5,72,78,554 and 91,07,311 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,45,15,352 and 1,78,01,891 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have taken the first and second dose. The ministry said 4,35,138 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 52,64,073 across 33 states and UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive.   Nearly 7 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours. As on day-121 of the vaccination drive (May 16), 6,91,211 vaccine doses were given. Across 6,068 sessions, 6,14,286 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 76,925 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccination, In addition, foreign aid has been sent to states and UTs to combat Covid-19.  Cumulatively, 11,058 oxygen concentrators, 13,496 oxygen cylinders; 19 oxygen generation plants, 7,365 ventilators/Bi PAP and nearly 5.3L remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-have-over-75-of-indias-active-covid-19-cases-986802.html
17-05-2021||National||Apollo Hospitals, Dr Reddy's announce Covid-19 vaccination drive with Sputnik V||Apollo Hospitals and Dr Reddy's Laboratories on Monday said they are collaborating to initiate a Covid-19 vaccination programme with Sputnik V. The first phase of the programme will kick off with vaccinations in Hyderabad on Monday and in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday (May 18) at Apollo facilities. The vaccinations would follow the SOPs as recommended by the government including registration on CoWIN.     "This pilot phase will allow Dr. Reddy's and Apollo to test the arrangements and cold chain logistics and prepare for the launch. We are confident that with the Sputnik V vaccine, we will be able to make a significant contribution to ease availability and access to Covid vaccines to the community at large," Apollo Hospitals President – Hospitals Division  K Hari Prasad said in a statement. With the opening up of the vaccination programme for the private sector, the healthcare major has intensified efforts to accelerate the rate of vaccination through opening vaccination centres across its hospital network, he added. "We are also in discussions with corporates to undertake vaccination on their premises. We are currently administering Covid vaccine at 60 locations across the country including Apollo Hospitals, Apollo Spectra hospitals and Apollo Clinics," Prasad said. Dr Reddy's Laboratories CEO – Branded Markets (India & Emerging Markets) MV Ramana noted that the two entities were working to scale up the pilot and take the vaccine to other cities with an aim to inoculate as many Indians as possible. The Sputnik V vaccines for the pilot programme would be supplied by Dr Reddy's from the first batch of 1.5 lakh doses imported so far. After Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam, the pilot programme will be extended to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, and Pune. In August 2020, Russia became the world's first country to register a coronavirus vaccine, dubbed as Sputnik V. Following that, in September, Dr Reddy's Laboratories and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V, which is developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apollo-hospitals-dr-reddys-announce-covid-19-vaccination-drive-with-sputnik-v-986806.html
17-05-2021||National||Centre defends Covid-19 vaccine pricing strategy in RTI||The Narendra Modi government has justified the Covid-19 vaccine pricing strategy adopted for states and private hospitals with an RTI saying that it was done by the companies factoring in "scaling up and expanding" production capacity, cost for innovation and expensive manufacturing process. In its response to the RTI filed by transparency activist Vivek Pandey, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare also expressed hope that the prices are "automatically expected to come down" once the availability of vaccines increases. The Ministry’s assertion in the RTI response issued on Sunday comes amid the Opposition questioning the Centre for not procuring vaccines for states and making them buy vaccines directly from the manufacturers for inoculating people between 18 and 44 years. Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, is selling it at Rs 300 for states and Rs 600 for private hospitals, while Bharat Biotech sells its Covaxin for Rs 400 and Rs 1,200 respectively after the Centre put in place the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy. At the same time, the Centre is buying both the vaccines at Rs 150. The RTI said the present cost of vaccines for the Centre has been "agreed by the manufacturers for the initial quantity of doses before the implementation of" the liberalised policy, which was unveiled in late April to allow states and the private sector to buy directly from the manufacturers. "The price for subsequent procurement will be re-negotiated with the manufacturers. However, the aim of liberalised pricing is to incentivise the manufacturer to augment vaccine production capacity and attract new manufacturers with an aim to increase availability of vaccines," it said. Under the Liberalised Pricing Strategy, it said, the manufacturers were requested to make an advance declaration of the vaccine price for supply that would be available to states and private hospitals. Both SII and Bharat Biotech had made the announcements. The pricing "factors in the investment for scaling up and expanding production capacity, cost for innovation and expensive manufacturing process. As the availability of vaccines increases, the prices are automatically expected to come down". In an affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court on May 9, the Centre has said that "differential pricing is based on the concept of creating an incentivised demand for the private vaccine manufacturers in order to instil a competitive market resulting in higher production of vaccines and market driven affordable prices for the same". It said this also attracts offshore vaccine manufacturers to enter the country and result in increased availability of vaccines, the affidavit added. Further defending the liberalised scheme, the Centre said it places large purchase orders for vaccines by nature of its large vaccination programme compared to the states and private hospitals and "therefore, this reality has some reflection in the prices negotiated". The Supreme had earlier noted that compelling the states to negotiate with manufacturers on the ground of promoting competition and making it attractive for new vaccine manufacturers will result in a "serious detriment" to those in the age group of 18-44 years, including the underprivileged. It had suggested that the "rational" method would be that the Centre procure all the vaccines and negotiate the price with manufacturers. However, the apex court said it was not passing a "conclusive determination" on the constitutionality of the policy but emphasised that the manner in which the current policy has been framed would prima facie result in a detriment to the right to public health which is an integral element of Article 21 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-defends-covid-19-vaccine-pricing-strategy-in-rti-986808.html
17-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Pandemic parenting in a whirlpool amidst fears of a third wave||"The world needs a wash and a week’s rest," WH Auden penned in The Age of Anxiety. Reflections of a painful time in history. The age of anxiety has overstayed though. The horrors unfolded by a merciless pandemic vouches that collective misery is no less in 2021. Raising kids, to be precise, in these trying times, has been a rollercoaster ride for parents — the fears of a third wave looming around, only adding to the agony. Bratati Roychowdhary, a mother of two young girls — aged nine and four — has been on her toes. Over the last year, she has been adapting herself to pandemic parenting. But with a deadly virus hovering around, she is worried. “I just hope before the third wave comes, as a nation, we prepare ourselves with enough paediatric health infrastructure,” she said. The pandemic has, indeed, deprived teenagers of their freedom; stolen childhood from kids. “Being inside for more than a year now has taken a toll on the immunity of all urban kids,” Bratati said. “No matter how much nutritious food we put on their plate, the real immune power forms at this age — by playing outside on the mud. This was anyway rare, now it’s defunct.” Bratati’s kids loved playing outside. Screen time was an occasional affair. And then pandemic happened. Settling into her daughters’ online studies and working from home took some time for her to adjust. She quit her job recently. The kids are getting to spend plenty of time with their parents but they are ‘caged’ at home, without any physical activity, and this has affected them, she explained. “I see increased stubbornness, especially with the younger one. Lack of social exposure has impacted her behaviour as her age is meant for mingling with friends.” Young adults are slowly getting used to the imposed norm. But growing up in the midst of uncertainty, fear, disease and deaths is taking a toll on them. Every day brings in new challenges for them. The question then is how prepared the parents should be for the third wave, if it happens. Dr Deepak Krishnamurthy, the father of a 13-year-old son, is apprehensive. A Senior Consultant - Interventional Cardiology, he said, continuing online schooling from home is the best protection we have against Covid infection in children. He explained that adults who go out to work are the ones who bring the virus home. So, once home, one needs to preferably take a bath and change clothes before getting in contact with children, he said. Children, he pointed out, should be taught to wash their hands frequently and wear a mask whenever they go outside home. "Avoid going out of home as much as possible,” he said. “If there is a maid or cook or nanny visiting your home, make sure that family members and kids are masked up appropriately. Do not allow staff with symptoms to come home.” As the scramble for vaccines continues and the common man runs from pillar to post to get themselves inoculated, parents feel it would be quite a wait for their children too before they get their shots. Vaccination for children Dr Deepak mentioned that If the Pfizer vaccine, which has evidence in children, is approved and becomes available in India, it will be a good thing. “Still, cost and logistics are concerns for us that need to be addressed,” he said. “Bharat Biotech trials are also underway. Hopefully, it should be safe and available for children soon,” he added.  By all accounts, how the next wave is going to be is something only the future can lay out. The responsibility of protecting children becomes paramount at the moment. “This is a new virus with unprecedented circumstances, so all hypothesis and predictions are just that -- hypothetical scenarios,” Dr Seema Misra, a consultant paediatrician and neonatologist, opined on the third wave. “This time around also, one has seen an increasing trend — of the child in the family getting infected first and then passing on the infection to elders. Since recommendations have not yet come in for vaccination in less than 18 years of age, we are expecting a surge of infections among them in the next wave,” she said. ‘Parents should not let their guard down’ Parents should not let their guard down after the second wave starts waning off, Dr Seema emphasised. “The only thing which works to prevent getting infected is not multivitamins, steaming or putting oil in the nose; it’s masking, social distancing and frequent hand-washing.” Urging parents to not believe in WhatsApp forwards, Dr Seema’s advice to parents is to get children vaccinated against all preventable diseases of childhood that are included in the vaccination schedule on time. “Try not to delay them due to the fear of catching the disease. Take all precautions and get it done.” In Bengaluru, like other places, various pandemic-related issues among children/teenagers are on the rise. Obesity is one of them. “Physical and mental well-being measures for children should not take a backseat in this pandemic,” Dr Deepak said. “Minimise screen time - be it with TV, PC, devices or video games. Instead, make them read age-appropriate books and enroll them for music lessons, coding or other hobbies. There are various resources to help children work out at home too.” He cites stationary bicycle, flexibility-enhancing yoga and meditation as great stressbusters for young minds and board games and indoor games as a good opportunity for parents to bond with children. “Watching movies and TV can be given a stipulated time of few hours per week too, to beat the boredom,” he said. Moreover, he feels children should be taught cooking, sewing and other lifeskills in their free time. “Make them do some household chores which builds a sense of responsibility and ownership.” But most importantly, Dr Deepak feels parents should sit and talk to children about the pandemic, what is happening around and reassure them. “Don’t brush away their concerns and fears or commit the mistake of avoiding talking about these issues altogether." Psycho-social issues of kids, teenagers Parents should not let their guard down, explained Dr Seema. Developmental delay in infants that is undetected is a constant worry for paediatricians,” she said adding, “for teenagers staying at home always, FOMO (fear of missing out), missing hanging out with friends where stress levels are negated, increase in screen time are some issues that lead to constant conflict in the house and depression. If the child shows symptoms of Covid… “In case the child shows symptoms of Covid, contact your GP or paediatrician and get tested,” said Dr Deepak. He also emphasised that it is important not to panic in front of the child and to maintain calm and composure in times of stress. “Isolation and monitoring for temperature and oxygen levels with an oximeter are crucial. Do not over medicate your child based on hearsay knowledge. Keep them on a nutritious diet,” he said. The silver lining for Bratati is her children’s love for books. “The good part is I could manage the screen time of my kids because they love reading books,” she said.“Engaging them in household chores and fixing a board game and storytime, baking together helped,” she said. “Having both of them made it much easier as they spent a lot of time playing together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-pandemic-parenting-in-a-whirlpool-amidst-fears-of-a-third-wave-986811.html
17-05-2021||National||Rajnath Singh reviews Covid-19 relief efforts of armed forces||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday reviewed efforts of the armed forces, defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in India's fight against a severe wave of the coronavirus pandemic. At a video conference, Singh was briefed about specific initiatives of the three forces as well as other wings of the Defence Ministry in helping civilian authorities deal with the crisis. The meeting was attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and DRDO Chairman G Satheesh Reddy, among others. "Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh chairing a meeting of secretaries, CDS, service chiefs and Ministry of Defence officials via video conferencing to review the actions taken by the ministry and armed forces in India's fight against COVID-19 pandemic," Singh's office tweeted. Officials said the contribution of the DPSUs and other agencies of the Defence Ministry to the country's fight against the pandemic was also reviewed. In responding to the crisis, the Indian Army and the Indian Navy have set up a number of hospitals in various states for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. On its part, the Indian Air Force deployed a significant number of its transport aircraft to bring cryogenic oxygen tanks and other emergency medical supplies from several countries, including Singapore, Thailand and United Arab Emirates. The Indian Navy also deployed nine warships to bring filled oxygen containers to India from countries in the Gulf region and Southeast Asia. Last month, Singh granted emergency financial powers to the three services to allow formation commanders to establish and operate hospitals as well as quarantine facilities for Covid-19 patients. The emergency powers have been granted initially for a period of three months from May 1 to July 31 and are in addition to the similar powers delegated to the medical officers of the armed forces last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-reviews-covid-19-relief-efforts-of-armed-forces-986817.html
17-05-2021||National||Indian Railways reaches milestone of carrying 10,000 tonnes of O2 on Monday morning||Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said that the normal transporter has reached the milestone of transporting 10,000 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) on its "Oxygen Express" trains on Monday, and the service now covers 13 states. Nearly 160 Oxygen Expresses have transported 600 tankers and for the past few days, the trains have been delivering nearly 800 tonnes of LMO. The service was launched in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic on April 19 with seven empty trucks being moved out of Mumbai to be loaded with LMO. "Despite the Cyclone (Tauktae), the Railways ran early this (Monday) morning two Oxygen Expresses from Gujarat to beat high winds and deliver 150 tonnes of oxygen while one of them left from Vadodara at 4 am with two RO-RO trucks and 45 tonnes of LMO for delivery in the Delhi region, the other left Hapa at 5.30 am with six tankers loaded with 106 tonnes of oxygen relief for deliveries for Uttar Pradesh and the Delhi region," Sharma said. The Railways has been picking up oxygen from places like Hapa and Mundra in the West and Rourkela, Durgapur, Jamshedpur and Angul in the East, and then delivering it to Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-reaches-milestone-of-carrying-10000-tonnes-of-o2-on-monday-morning-986816.html
17-05-2021||National||WhatsApp privacy policy not conforming to Indian IT laws, Centre tells HC||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that it views the new privacy policy of WhatsApp as a violation of the Indian Information Technology (IT) law and rules, and sought directions to the social media platform to make it clear whether it was confirming to the same. The central government's claim was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh during hearing of several pleas challenging WhatsApp's new privacy policy, which according to the platform has come into effect from May 15 and has not been deferred. WhatsApp told the bench that while its new privacy policy has come into effect from May 15, it would not start deleting accounts of those users who have not accepted it and would try to encourage them to get on board. The platform said there was no universal or uniform time limit after which it will start to delete accounts as each user would be dealt with it on case-to-case basis. The bench issued notice to the Centre, Facebook and WhatsApp and sought their stand on one of the pleas by a lawyer who has claimed that the new policy violates users' right to privacy under the Constitution. During the hearing, the Centre said that according to it the policy was in violation of Indian IT laws and rules. It said it has written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on the issue and a reply is awaited and therefore, there was a need to maintain status quo with regard to implementation of the policy. WhatsApp, opposing the contention, said it was conforming to Indian IT law and rules and added that its policy has come into effect from May 15, but it won't be deleting accounts right away. When the matter was initially listed before a single judge, the Centre had said that WhatsApp was treating Indian users differently from Europeans over opting out of its new privacy policy which was a matter of concern for the government and it was looking into the issue. It had also said it was also a matter of concern that Indian users were being "unilaterally" subjected to the change in privacy policy by the instant messaging platform and that the government was looking into it. The court listed the matter for further hearing on June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-privacy-policy-not-conforming-to-indian-it-laws-centre-tells-hc-986820.html
17-05-2021||National||839 homes damaged in Maharashtra's Raigad as cyclone Tauktae strikes||Raigad in coastal Maharashtra received 23.42 millimetres of rainfall till 9 am on Monday in the wake of cyclone Tauktae, with the region also experiencing gusty winds since midnight that partially damaged 839 houses, a senior official said. A release from the district collector's office said 8,383 people belonging to 2,263 families staying in homes along the seafront had been evacuated as a precautionary measure. It said a 50-year-old woman, identified as Neeta Naik, died in Uran in a wall collapse while selling vegetables by the roadside. A red alert has been sounded in the district, the release said.  Assistant Fisheries Commissioner Suresh Bharti said all boats that were out in sea along the 240-kilometre coastline of the district had returned safely, while 25 boats from Mumbai were anchored in Dighi Port in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/839-homes-damaged-in-maharashtras-raigad-as-cyclone-tauktae-strikes-986822.html
17-05-2021||National||Congress MP Rajeev Satav's last rites performed at native place in Maharashtra||The mortal remains of Congress MP Rajeev Satav, who died after recovering from Covid-19, were consigned to flames with state honours at his native place Kalamnuri in Maharashtra's Hingoli district on Monday. Several key Congress leaders, including AICC in-charge of Maharashtra H K Patil, party's Maharashtra unit chief Nana Patole and state ministers Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat, Vijay Wadettiwar, Aslam Shaikh, Nitin Raut, Varsha Gaikwad, Satej Patil, Vishwajeet Kadam and other party workers were present at the funeral. Satav (46), considered as a close associate of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, died at a hospital in Pune on Sunday, days after recovering from the coronavirus infection. The late Rajya Sabha member's family members bid him an emotional farewell as his mortal remains were consigned to flames at his native place on Monday. Paying tributes to the late leader, Shaikh said, "...he would always talk about the issues concerning the people of Maharashtra...the farmers have lost their leader. He is not among us. I am speechless." Kadam described Satav as his "big brother and mentor". Satav was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Pune after testing coronavirus positive last month and was on ventilator support. A media release by the Jehangir Hospital in Pune had said Satav succumbed to "secondary pneumonia with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome". He had become "RT-PCR swab negative" on May 9, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-mp-rajeev-satavs-last-rites-performed-at-native-place-in-maharashtra-986826.html
17-05-2021||National||Blood clot risk after Covishield far less in India than UK, Germany: Report||Incidents of rare bleeding or blood clotting after Covishield vaccination in India is six cases per 10 million compared with 40 such cases in the UK and 100 in Germany, an expert panel that examined adverse effects has said in its first report. “The AEFI (Adverse Events Following Immunisation) data in India shows a very minuscule but definitive risk of thromboembolic events,” the Union Health Ministry said in a statement after the National AEFI Committee submitted its report analysing over 7.5 crore vaccine shots, of which 700 cases were considered serious. With data available up to April 3, the panel completed an in-depth case review of 498 serious and severe events of which 26 cases have been reported to be potential thromboembolic. Such cases may lead to the formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and be carried by the bloodstream to plug another vessel. “The reporting rate of such events in India is around 0.61/million doses, which is much lower than four cases per million reported by the UK regulator, Medical and Health Regulatory Authority. Germany has reported 10 events per million doses,” the ministry said. There were no such potential thromboembolic events reported following the administration of the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech. Public concern on the reports of blood clotting associated with the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine was considered one of the factors contributing towards vaccine hesitancy seen in India. This is the same vaccine, which is being made by the Serum Institute of India, with the brand name Covishield. While such blood clotting does occur in the general population as background, scientific literature suggests that the risk is almost 70% less in people of South and Southeast Asian descent in comparison to those of European descent. The ministry will now issue advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries to encourage people to be aware of suspected thromboembolic symptoms occurring within 20 days after receiving Covishield and report preferably to the health facility where the dose vaccine was administered. Despite the risk, Covishield continued to have a definite positive benefit-risk profile with tremendous potential to prevent infections and reduce deaths due to Covid-19 in India and across the world, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blood-clot-risk-after-covishield-far-less-in-india-than-uk-germany-report-986827.html
17-05-2021||National||Congress MLA Pargat Singh accuses Punjab CM's political advisor of threatening him||Congress MLA Pargat Singh on Monday accused Sandeep Sandhu, political advisor to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, of threatening him for questioning the state government over the sacrilege incidents. Addressing the media here, he said Sandhu had called him up last week. “After calling me up Thursday night, Sandeep Sandhu threatened me. He said papers have been collected against me and asked me to get ready to face action,” the Congress MLA claimed. The Jalandhar Cantonment legislator said he was ready to face any “punishment” for speaking the truth and raising the issues of sacrilege and review of power purchase agreements. Sandhu, however, rejected the charges. Pargat, considered close to Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, had last month questioned his own government over its "intent” in ensuring justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents. He had even suggested Amarinder Singh to conduct a survey to know about the latter’s performance as the chief minister of the state. Notably, a section of Congress legislators, including two ministers, had regrouped themselves to exert pressure on the CM for early action against the perpetrators of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing incidents in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-mla-pargat-singh-accuses-punjab-cms-political-advisor-of-threatening-him-986829.html
17-05-2021||National||Pragya Thakur drinks cow urine every day to keep Covid-19 at bay||BJP MP Pragya Thakur on Monday claimed that she has kept Covid-19 at bay because she consumes cow urine every day, as per multiple media reports. "If we have urine from an Indian cow every day, then it cures lung infection of Covid. I am in deep pain but I take cow urine every day. So now, I don't have to take any medicine against coronavirus and I don't have coronavirus," Thakur is heard saying in a video that has gone viral on social media. Incidentally, she was seen not wearing a mask in the video, where she is addressing a gathering.   Earlier, doctors warned against the practice of using cow dung and cow urine to ward off Covid-19, saying there is no scientific evidence for its effectiveness and that it risks spreading other diseases. "There is no concrete scientific evidence that cow dung or urine work to boost immunity against Covid-19, it is based entirely on belief," Dr JA Jayalal, national president at the Indian Medical Association, had told Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pragya-thakur-drinks-cow-urine-every-day-to-keep-covid-19-at-bay-986837.html
17-05-2021||National||SC orders medical examination of arrested YSR Congress MP||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered for giving medical care to YSR Congress MP Kanumuri Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, at an Army hospital in Secunderabad as he allegedly suffered custodial torture after his arrest on sedition charges. The MP had criticised the party chief and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai directed that he should be taken to the hospital for his examination by a board of three doctors under the supervision of a judicial officer. The court also directed that his medical examination should be videographed. "We direct that the petitioner, Raju shall be admitted in the Army Hospital and kept there for medical care until further orders, which shall be treated as his judicial custody," the bench said. The court directed Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary to carry out its order forthwith and ensure that Raju reached the Army hospital on Monday itself. The top court passed its order on two separate petitions filed by the MP against Andhra Pradesh High Court's orders of May 15, declining him bail and ordering his medical examination at a government hospital, Guntur. In a related development, TV5, which telecast the speech of the accused MP, approached the top court through advocate Vipin Nair for quashing of FIR against it. The FIR sought to criminalise the act of airing the views of a sitting MP, who is a public figure, which is not only clearly violative of the petitioner’s right to freedom of speech and expression and also creates a chilling effect for media houses in the state, it claimed. Narsapuram MP, Raju was arrested by the Andhra Pradesh Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on May 14 for sedition, weeks after the rebel leader asked a CBI special court to cancel the bail granted to his party founder, Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, in a disproportionate assets case. Appearing for the politician, senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and B Adinarayan Rao contended that the FIR was filed against the MP because of political vendetta. They claimed charges against him were bogus. The bench, however, said at this stage, it was not inclined to go into the merits of the allegations.  "We are concerned with the medical condition of the petitioner," the bench noted and referred to Judicial Magistrate having noted the contention that the police had used third-degree methods against him during his custody and he was unable to walk and also that he had undergone heart by-pass surgery in December 2020.  Senior advocates Dushyant Dave and V Giri, appearing for the AP government agreed to the medical examination of the petitioner at the Army hospital. They sought two days time to file their reply to the petitions against the HC's orders. The court posted the matter for consideration on May 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-medical-examination-of-arrested-ysr-congress-mp-986842.html
17-05-2021||National||Bombay High barge de-anchors, but all 261 onboard safe: ONGC||State-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) on Monday said a barge with 261 of its personnel deployed for offshore drilling in Bombay High in the Arabian Sea got de-anchored and started drifting because of the cyclonic storm Tauktae. However, all the 261 people on board barge P305 are accounted for at 1300 hrs and barge has also been "steadied", an official spokesperson told PTI. "Ahead of the cyclone, the barge was anchored at a safe distance but with the impact of the cyclone, it got de-anchored and drifted. However, it has been steadied again and is brought under control," the spokesperson said. As the cyclone is still active and yet to make a landfall, the situation is being constantly monitored. The spokesperson also said that the Navy has pressed the warship INS Kochi and other assets into service to meet any eventuality. Bombay High off the Mumbai cost is the largest oil and gas assets of ONGC. ONGC carries on offshore drilling from platforms in the Arabian Sea. As per a recent media report, the company produces 50,000 barrels of crude per day from the Heera platform. Typically, staff are taken for offshore drilling operations by air.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-high-barge-de-anchors-but-all-261-onboard-safe-ongc-986853.html
17-05-2021||National||India loses ONGC Videsh Ltd-discovered Farzad-B gas field in Iran||India on Monday lost the ONGC Videsh Ltd-discovered Farzad-B gas field in the Persian Gulf after Iran awarded a contract for developing the giant gas field to a local company. "The National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) has signed a contract worth $1.78 billion with Petropars Group for the development of Farzad B Gas Field in the Persian Gulf," the Iranian oil ministry's official news service Shana reported. "The deal was signed on Monday, May 17, in a ceremony held in the presence of Iranian Minister of Petroleum Bijan Zangeneh in Tehran." The field holds 23 trillion cubic feet of in-place gas reserves, of which about 60 per cent is recoverable. It also holds gas condensates of about 5,000 barrels per billion cubic feet of gas. The buyback contract signed on Monday envisages daily production of 28 million cubic meters of sour gas over five years, Shana said. ONGC Videsh Ltd (OVL), the overseas investment arm of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC), had in 2008 discovered a giant gas field in the Farsi offshore exploration block. OVL and its partners had offered to invest up to $11 billion for the development of the discovery, which was later named Farzad-B. PTI had on October 18, 2020, reported that NIOC had informed OVL of its intention to conclude the contract for Farzad-B development with an Iranian company, in an apparent rejection of the Indian firm's bid. After this, it kept sitting on OVL's investment proposal for years. The 3,500 square kilometre Farsi block sits in a water depth of 20-90 metres on the Iranian side of the Persian Gulf. OVL, with 40 per cent operatorship interest, signed the Exploration Service Contract (ESC) for the block on December 25, 2002. Other partners included Indian Oil Corp (IOC) with 40 per cent stake and Oil India holding the remaining 20 per cent stake. OVL discovered gas in the block, which was declared commercially viable by NIOC, on August 18, 2008. The exploration phase of the ESC expired on June 24, 2009. The firm submitted a Master Development Plan (MDP) of Farzad-B gas field in April 2011 to Iranian Offshore Oil Company (IOOC), the then designated authority by NIOC for the development of Farzad-B gas field. A Development Service Contract (DSC) of the Farzad-B gas field was negotiated till November 2012, but could not be finalized due to difficult terms and international sanctions on Iran. In April 2015, negotiations restarted with Iranian authorities to develop the Farzad-B gas field under a new Iran Petroleum Contract (IPC). This time, NIOC introduced Pars Oil and Gas Company (POGC) as its representative for negotiations. From April 2016, both sides negotiated to develop the Farzad-B gas field under an integrated contract covering upstream and downstream, including monetization/marketing of the processed gas. However, negotiations remained inconclusive. Meanwhile, on the basis of new studies, a revised Provisional Master Development Plan (PMDP) was submitted to POGC in March 2017, sources said, adding that in April 2019, NIOC proposed development of the gas field under the DSC and offtake of raw gas by NIOC at landfall point. However, due to the imposition of US sanctions on Iran in November 2018, technical studies could not be concluded which is a precursor for commercial negotiations. The Indian consortium has so far invested around $400 million in the block.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-loses-ongc-videsh-ltd-discovered-farzad-b-gas-field-in-iran-986869.html
17-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: DRDO’s anti-Covid oral drug 2DG released||In your evening news brief, DRDO’s anti-Covid oral drug 2-DG released; WhatsApp says there is no deferment of its privacy policy, and over 400 stranded in barges in Arabian Sea as cyclone Tauktae wrecks havoc along the Maharashtra coast.  Here is the top news of May 17, 2021:   The first batch of anti-Covid oral drug 2DG, developed by the DRDO, was released on Monday by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. The Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) approved the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) drug for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients earlier this month In his brief remarks, Singh said the drug has brought a new ray of hope for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.   Facebook-owned mobile messaging service WhatsApp on Monday told the Delhi High Court that it has not deferred its May 15 deadline for the users to accept the new privacy policy, while the Centre demanded for maintaining status quo. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing WhatsApp, submitted before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, the court that it was trying to get users on board, but if they did not agree to the privacy policy, then the company would slowly delete these users accounts. Sibal submitted before the court, “there is no deferment of policy.”   More than 400 persons are stranded in two barges in the Arabian Sea as the cyclone Tauktae wrecks havoc along the Maharashtra coast as it heads towards Gujarat. The Indian Navy has launched a Search and Rescue (SAR) operation and prepared for a major Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR).  As many as 273 persons are stranded on a drifting barge 'P305' off the Heera oilfields of Bombay High region in the Arabian Sea, nearly 175 km off the Mumbai coast.  INS Kochi has left for SAR, while INS Talwar is being readied for a cast-off. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-drdo-s-anti-covid-oral-drug-2dg-released-986879.html
17-05-2021||National||PM Modi speaks to Goa CM on damage caused by cyclone Tauktae||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant over the phone on Monday to enquire about damage caused in the state by cyclone Tauktae, an official said. Two persons had died on Sunday in separate incidents caused due to gusty winds triggered by cyclone Tauktae, which also damaged around 100 houses and blocked some highways due to the falling of trees, the CM had earlier said. The major impact of the cyclonic winds was felt in Bardez taluka in North Goa and Mormugao in South Goa, he had said. In a tweet on Monday, Sawant said, "Hon'ble Prime Minister @narendramodi ji personally called to enquire about the impact of cyclone Tauktae on the state of Goa. He has assured all possible assistance from the Central Government." Earlier in the day, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had assured Sawant of full cooperation to restore normalcy in the state, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-to-goa-cm-on-damage-caused-by-cyclone-tauktae-986882.html
17-05-2021||National||Top TMC leaders arrested: What is the Narada sting operation?||Three senior Trinamool Congress leaders  were arrested by the CBI on Monday, in relation to the Narada sting operation case. Hundreds of party supporters had gathered outside the CBI following the development. The arrested leaders include Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and Madan Mitra. What is the Narada sting operation? The sting operation was a series of secret tapes recorded by Mathew Samuel of Narada TV news channel in 2014. The tapes showed TMC ministers, leaders and an IPS officer taking money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. Subrata Mukherjee, Sovan Chatterjee, Madan Mitra, Firhad Hakim, Saugata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Prasun Banerjee were the leaders who were allegedly caught on camera. TMC turncoats and currently-BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari were also accused in the case. MH Ahmed Mirza, a senior police officer, was the first accused in the case to be arrested in 2019. Interestingly, the 'sting operation' was carried out in 2014, but the tapes were released right before the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal. Despite this, the TMC managed to win the election with two-thirds majority. Later, the Calcutta High Court ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-tmc-leaders-arrested-what-is-the-narada-sting-operation-986883.html
17-05-2021||National||HC concerned about mucormycosis cases in Gujarat; seeks govt's action plan||The Gujarat High Court on Monday said it was concerned about cases of mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, emerging in the state and asked the government to prepare for the new challenge. It directed the state government to place on record a road-map on how it intends to proceed if the number of cases of the fungal infection rise. Of late, the black fungus, a rare but serious infection, has been found in several Covid-19 patients in Gujarat and some other states. A division bench of Justices Bela Trivedi and Bhargav D Karia asked Advocate General Kamal Trivedi to take instructions on how the Gujarat government plans to supply the injections needed for its treatment to private hospitals, if demanded by them. The court said this after Trivedi informed that the government has placed orders for 1,14,430 vials of three injections needed for the treatment of the fungal infection directly from manufacturers.  "You will have to place on record the road-map as to how you will proceed further in case the number of cases increase, how you can give injections to private hospitals if demanded, because you have procured everything...," the HC said. The court was hearing a PIL taken up suo motu (on its own) on issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Trivedi told the court that while injections for the treatment of mucormycosis are not easily available, the government was trying to procure them privately from a few manufacturers to meet the demands of government hospitals where special wards have been set up to treat the infection. "We have placed an order of 1,14,430 vials of all the three injections, and are awaiting the supply...there will be sufficient stock to take care of the present situation," he told the court. Trivedi said they have a protocol in place and separate wards in all the district hospitals, and an expert team has also been constituted which comes up with a bulletin at regular intervals. "Today, we are prepared, but once again, it depends upon the dynamics of this particular disease," Trivedi said in his submission before the court. The HC asked the government whether private hospitals treating mucormycosis patients will have to go to government hospitals if the former did not have the required injections. The court said "this is a new challenge which is incidental to the main challenge". So, the government should prepare itself for the new challenge. "What is the policy of distribution of injections, as it appears the number (of cases) is going to increase. We are very much concerned about this issue," the HC said. Advocate Anand Yagnik, who moved a civil application regarding mucormycosis on behalf of Congress MLA Gyasuddin Sheikh as part of the suo motu proceedings, said in his submission that there is need for a mechanism to allocate a certain quota of injections to private hospitals treating such patients. He said while private hospitals have made requests (for medical supplies) as per the regular channel for Covid-19 patients, no such system exists for mucormycosis patients. While civil hospitals in larger centres like Ahmedabad may have enough supply of the injections, government hospitals in rural and tribal parts may not have enough supply, he said. In a related submission, advocate Amit Panchal, representing one of the applicants, sought the HC's direction to the state government to declare mucormycosis as a notified disease as per the Gujarat Public Health Act-2009, so that like Covid-19, the government could collect data and have some control over it. "This will be helpful to patients. Maximum number of mucormycosis cases are in Gujarat, especially in south Gujarat," Panchal claimed. The court then asked the Advocate General to make notes and come up with a suggestion by the next date of hearing on May 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-concerned-about-mucormycosis-cases-in-gujarat-seeks-govts-action-plan-986885.html
17-05-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi speaks to Chief Ministers, Lieutenant Governor about cyclone Tauktae response plans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa besides the lieutenant governor of Daman and Diu regarding preparation and response to deal with cylone Tauktae.   Cyclonic storm Tauktae over the Arabian Sea led to very strong winds blowing at a speed of 114 kmph in Mumbai, civic officials said. Two persons died in Maharashtra's Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe the cyclonic storm.    The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that Cyclone Tauktae has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm". It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening and cross the state coast between 8 pm and 11 pm, the IMD said.    Modi had on Saturday reviewed the preparedness to deal with the cyclone's fallout in a high-level meeting which was attended by several ministries and agencies concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-speaks-to-chief-ministers-lieutenant-governor-about-cyclone-tauktae-response-plans-986890.html
17-05-2021||National||Indian Railways puts its cyclone emergency response teams, vehicles on high alert||The railways on Monday said its emergency response teams and vehicles are on high alert in view of Cyclone Tauktae intensifying into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm". The cyclonic storm over the Arabian Sea led to very strong winds blowing at a speed of 114 kmph in Mumbai Monday afternoon, civic officials said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Cyclone Tauktae has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm", and is likely to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening and cross the state coast between 8 pm and 11 pm. The Ministry of Railways, in a press statement, said the zonal and divisional control rooms are monitoring the situation and are constantly in touch with all railway stations in Southern Railway, South Western Railway, Konkan Railway, Central Railway and Western Railway. Railway divisions and zones are also in constant touch with state governments to monitor and plan for any contingency, it said. “All emergency response of railways like Accident Relief Trains (ART), Medical Relief Vans (MRV) and Tower Wagons are put on high alert and readiness for quick turnout in case of any contingency. Reserves of stone dust, boulders, among others, are kept ready for attending to any breaches. “Special intensive patrolling of vulnerable sections as done in monsoon season is being carried out. Wind speeds are being monitored constantly in vulnerable sections and speed restrictions of train movement being imposed as per instructions,” the statement said. The national transporter has also temporarily cancelled or pre-terminated certain long distance and short distance passenger trains keeping in view the evolving weather conditions. A disaster management cell has also been opened from 1600 hours of May 14, it said. “Railway lines serving Goa port, VSG (Vasco da Gama railway station) and other stations are being provided with proper announcements. If the intensity of the cyclone is more, then trains will be stopped. However, very few trains are running. “Loading and unloading for railway rakes at ports is calibrated and adjusted as per intensity of cyclone and all concerned have been asked to adjust the operations and ensure that loss of human life and property is avoided,” the ministry said in the statement. The ministry also said that all vulnerable areas and important bridges are being constantly monitored by engineering wings, and relief material has been kept at convenient locations for quick response. The railways however, managed to load two of its oxygen expresses bound for Delhi and NCR regions before the storm picked up speed. “Despite the cyclone, railways run early morning two Oxygen Expresses from Gujarat to beat high winds and deliver 150 tonnes of oxygen to the nation. While one of them left from Vadodara at 4 am with two RORO trucks and 45 tonnes of LMO for delivery in Delhi region, the other left Hapa at 5.30 am with six tankers loaded with 106 tonnes of oxygen relief for deliveries for UP and Delhi region,” the statement stated. Gale-force winds, heavy rainfall and high tidal waves swept the coastal belts of Maharashtra and Goa as Cyclone Tauktae hurtled northwards towards Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-puts-its-cyclone-emergency-response-teams-vehicles-on-high-alert-986895.html
17-05-2021||National||Plea in Supreme Court against FIRs, arrests over posters critical of PM Modi||A plea was filed on Monday in the Supreme Court for immediate direction to quash multiple FIRs registered by the Delhi police for putting up posters for criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for exporting the Covid-19 vaccines. At least 25 people were arrested by the police which granted them bail after initial questioning as provisions invoked in the matter were bailable. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and AAP members had dared the police to arrest them too in their social media post. On Monday, an advocate, Pradeep Kumar Yadav, filed the petition for quashing of these FIRs and sought a direction against the Commissioner of Police not to register any case in the matter. He said the top court had in a number of cases has held that freedom of speech and expression with regard to the public cause was a fundamental right of every citizen guaranteed under the Constitution.  He cited the Shreya Singhal case wherein the apex court set aside Section 66-A of the Information Technology (IT) Act and held that information sharing on social media does not constitute any criminal offence under the IT Act. He also pointed out the top court in a Suo Motu case recently also passed a specific direction to the States not to register any criminal case over the public seeking medical help in the social media. He said a 19-year-old school dropout, a 30-year-old e-rickshaw driver, a 61-year-old maker of wooden frames were among the 25 people arrested by Delhi Police, in the middle of a raging pandemic. The arrests from across the capital city started late on May 12 after the Special Branch informed Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava about the posters that read, “Modi ji hamare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya (Why did you send our children’s vaccines abroad?)" The FIRs were lodged under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and those under the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act and Epidemic Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-supreme-court-against-firs-arrests-over-posters-critical-of-pm-modi-986897.html
17-05-2021||National||Scindia writes to Goyal to upgrade MP railway hospital||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia has requested Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to upgrade the railway hospital in Guna in Madhya Pradesh in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter addressed to Goyal dated May 16, Scindia demanded the three-bed hospital be upgraded to a 50-bed facility with an oxygen plant. The hospital at the Guna railway station is catering to nearly 2,000 railway employees in the region, BJP spokesman Pankaj Chaturvedi said on Monday quoting the letter. "These people are facing a lot of problems in getting treatment during the pandemic," Scindia said. He said an upgraded facility equipped with an oxygen plant will serve the medical needs of railway employees of Guna, Ashoknagar, Pagara, Shadora, and Ruthiyai stations besides the common people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scindia-writes-to-goyal-to-upgrade-mp-railway-hospital-986900.html
17-05-2021||National||Alleging witch-hunt, ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh moves SC||Senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh has approached the Supreme Court for transfer of all inquiries ordered against him outside the state of Maharashtra, claiming he faced witch-hunt after he accused the then-home minister Anil Deshmukh of fixing Rs 100 crore monthly extortion target during his stint as Mumbai police commissioner. He alleged framing up in cases unless he withdrew his complaint against Deshmukh. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai would take up the matter on Tuesday. In a writ petition, Singh asked the top court to transfer all investigations already initiated or contemplated against him to the CBI, which was already probing the charges against the former minister. The CBI had already lodged an FIR in the matter on April 21 after the top court declined to interfere with the Bombay High Court's order for preliminary investigation against Deshmukh. Singh, who himself faced proceedings afterwards, sought a direction to the state authorities not to initiate any inquiry or investigation or coercive action against him without permission from the top court. Within days of his transfer to Homeguards department on March 17, Singh had accused the then-Minister of setting a collection target of Rs 100 crore for API Sachin Vaze of the Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, who was arrested in the Antilia bomb scare case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alleging-witch-hunt-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-moves-sc-986907.html
17-05-2021||National||Rising Covid spends, fuel prices, online delivery to increase inflation pressure, warns SBI report||The massive increase in healthcare spends, especially in the hinterland, steadily rising fuel prices and online delivery of articles will increase inflation pressure much higher on one hand and crowd out other consumer spending on the other, putting a big question mark on overall growth that's still being driven by consumption demand, according to a report. Soumya Kanti Ghosh, the group chief economic adviser at State Bank, in a note also noted that the steep fall in retail inflation in April to 4.29 per cent from 5.52 per cent in March is deceptive, as the CSO inflation number is primarily due to easing food prices as the rural core inflation has jumped to 6.4 per cent. As the pandemic rages through the country, it is worthwhile to look beyond the headline inflation as the rural core has now jumped to 6.4 per cent in April and will rise further in May. The increasing health spend due to the pandemic is having a meaningful impact in rural areas, Ghosh said. Item-wise inflation of health CPI shows a persistent month-on-month increase in inflation of non-institutional medicines, and X-ray, ECG, pathological tests. Therefore, the headline inflation may not be correct to look at. A more important price concept is the relative prices which are not a monetary phenomenon but their movements convey important information about the scarcity of particular goods and services as now like health, he said. For example, overall CPI declined in April because of a significant decline in food CPI, but when the relative prices of food items as compared to overall CPI the deceleration was not sharp as it was seen in actual food CPI. Similarly, for certain items like fuel and health, the increase in relative prices is maximum. Interestingly, core CPI that declined 57 bps, increased in relative terms by 18 points. According to him, given this, there are three key points to assess the price pressures, such as health, fuel price and rising commodity prices. Health expenditure, which currently constitutes five per cent of the overall inflation basket, may jump to at least 11 per cent due to the pandemic, Ghosh said. This is likely to also result in a squeeze in expenditure on other items of discretionary consumption, a recipe for a cutback in consumption spending, he said. Secondly, rising fuel prices since is having a direct impact on squeeze in consumption spending on discretionary items, other than on health which is currently unavoidable, he said. "And if we look at credit card spends since December, CPI computed inflation for the five month ending April is higher than the CSO estimate on an average by 60 basis points and the higher oil prices had forced consumers to ration out discretionary spends in December". In fact, the share of non-discretionary spend has jumped to 59 per cent in April from 52 per cent in March and this does not augur well for the economy, he said. The only way out is to cut oil prices by tax rationalisation, otherwise non-discretionary spends will continue to get distorted and crowd out discretionary expenses, said the report and warned that this will also impart a clear upward bias in inflation. Also, there has been an increase in use of online delivery platforms which is not considered by the NSO and if the NSO considers online prices, there will be 10-15 bps impact on CPI inflation. Thirdly, the rising commodity prices may lead to rate hike by US Federal Reserve and all these three forces will make it difficult for the RBI to manage the conflicting targets of inflation, exchange rate and adequate liquidity amidst weak growth. The report attributed the massive spike in rural core increasing to 6.39 per cent in April from 5.85 per cent in March, to the increase in health inflation, the weighted contribution of which has increased to 0.50 per cent from 0.36 per cent in March. Inflation in personal care and education has also risen marginally. The report further warned that health expenditure will rise significantly because of the pandemic. It may be noted that health expenditure was around Rs 6 lakh crore or 5 per cent of the private final consumption expenditure (PFCE).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rising-covid-spends-fuel-prices-online-delivery-to-increase-inflation-pressure-warns-sbi-report-986909.html
17-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up | May turning into deadliest month in Jammu and Kashmir||BJP MP Pragya Thakur claimed that she had kept Covid-19 at bay because she consumed cow urine every day. Meanwhile, the first batch of anti-Covid-19 oral drug 2-DG, developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, was released by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-may-turning-into-deadliest-month-in-jammu-and-kashmir-986911.html
17-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae: Indian Army puts 180 teams and 9 engineer task forces on standby||The Indian Army said on Monday it has put 180 teams and nine engineer task forces on standby to face any contingency as Cyclone Tauktae is likely to hit the Gujarat coast on Monday evening. "Sector commanders and Divisional HQ (headquarter) are in touch with District Collectors and the Revenue Commissioner who is the nodal agency for relief activities in Gujarat," the Army said in a statement. The Army said it has identified likely areas -- talukas as well as districts -- where the impact could be higher and it has geared up its columns to react immediately. "Focus is to save lives, speedy clearance of routes to ensure movement of oxygen and standby arrangements at Covid hospitals," it mentioned. Gale-force winds, heavy rainfall and high tidal waves swept the coastal belts of Maharashtra and Goa as Cyclone Tauktae hurtled northwards towards Gujarat. The cyclonic storm will intensify further and reach the Gujarat coast by Monday evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Army said it is continuously monitoring the situation for likely intensity, maximum impact areas and anticipated relief effort in coordination with civil administration, IMD, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and other agencies. The cyclone's maximum impact is likely to be in Saurashtra region, including Diu. Ten integrated teams are poised to be employed for aid to the civil administration of Diu, the Army said. It said 10 teams have already been positioned in the Junagadh area while others are ready to move on short notice of the state administration after analysis of situation as it builds up. "GOC (General Officer Commanding) of the Army Division located at Ahmedabad attended a coordination meeting chaired by the Honourable Chief Minister of Gujarat and has assured all support," the Army noted. At this meeting, it was discussed that all efforts should be made to open the roads at the earliest as Gujarat is a critical supplier of oxygen from its ports to outside state destinations. The Army said it is providing assistance in creating power back up and making preparations for other contingencies at Covid Hospitals in the affected region including Dhanvantri Covid Hospital in Ahmedabad. "180 teams (three teams in each column) and 09 engineer task forces (ETFs) spread over the geographical area are on standby at short notice factoring in all possible contingencies and Covid situation," it noted. The IMD said on Monday that over one lakh people have been shifted from low-lying coastal areas in Gujarat, while 54 teams of the NDRF and SDRF remained deployed after IMD's warning that Tauktae will reach the state coast by Monday evening and cross it between 8 pm and 11 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-indian-army-puts-180-teams-and-9-engineer-task-forces-on-standby-986913.html
17-05-2021||National||Co-WIN portal in Hindi, other languages from next week, says Centre||The CoWIN portal will be made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week, while 17 more laboratories will be added to the INSACOG network to monitor the variants of Covid-19, the health ministry said on Monday. According to a statement by the ministry, these decisions were announced at the 26th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19, chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, on Monday. Vardhan informed his colleagues that 17 new laboratories are going to be added to the INSACOG network to increase the number of samples screened and allow for more spatial analysis, the ministry said. The network is presently served by 10 laboratories located at different corners of the country. Speaking on their contribution to the country's achievements today, Vardhan said, "India's new Covid-19 cases have dropped to less than three lakh for the first time after 26 days. Also, a net decline of 1,01,461 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in the last 24 hours." He lauded the efforts of defence scientists and the leadership of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for launching the country's first indigenous anti-Covid drug, 2-deoxy-D-glucose or 2-DG (developed by the DRDO in collaboration with the INMAS and the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories), the ministry said. The research efforts for the drug started in April last year and ended recently, when the DCGI gave it the emergency-use approval (EUA). The minister informed the members that the drug can become a gamechanger in the country's response to the pandemic as it reduces the dependence of patients on oxygen administration and has the potential of getting absorbed differentially and in a selected manner. In the Covid-infected cells, it inhibits virus synthesis and energy production for the process. He noted that the Centre continues to help the states under a "whole of government" approach to tide over the pandemic. Over 4.22 crore N95 masks, 1.76 crore PPE kits, 52.64 lakh Remdesivir injections and 45,066 ventilators were distributed among the states and Union territories, according to the statement. The Union health secretary apprised the meeting that the CoWIN platform is being made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week. Dr Sujeet K Singh, Director, NCDC, presented a detailed report on the mutations of SARS-CoV-2 and the Variants of Concern (VoCs) being reported in India. He showed figures related to the state-wise prevalence of VoCs like the B.1.1.7 and B.1.617. The B.1.1.7 lineage (UK variant) was found predominant in the samples collected in Punjab and Chandigarh between February and March, the statement said. Dr Balaram Bhargava, Secretary, Health Research and DG, ICMR, made a presentation on the innovative changes in testing policy that would widen its scope of application and help in mass screening for Covid, particularly in peri-urban and rural settings, where the health infrastructure is relatively weak. Deployment of mobile RT-PCR testing vans and amplification of RAT tests were presented as the way forward. While the present capacity is around 25 lakh (RTPCR 13 lakh, RAT 12 lakh), this is projected to exponentially increase to 45 lakh (RTPCR 18 lakh, RAT 27 lakh) under the new testing regimen. The DG, ICMR also informed regarding the home-isolation guidelines, which have been converted into Hindi and other regional languages for a wider reach. Warning signs for hospitalisation, admission to ICU and for potential administration of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab were also highlighted. S Aparna, Secretary (Pharma) informed that a dedicated cell has been created to coordinate production and allocation of the drugs in demand to treat Covid-19. Stress was laid on the procurement and allocation of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and Amphotericin-B. She notified that the demand for Favipiravir too has increased, although the drug is not recommended in Covid medical guidelines. She suggested IEC campaigns for a judicious use of these drugs. The secretary (pharma) also highlighted that Remdesivir production has more than tripled in the country with government intervention from around 39 lakh to 1.18 crore vials per month. The demand for Amphotericin-B, which is used in the treatment of mucormycosis, has also increased. Five suppliers have been identified and efforts are being made for an optimal allocation of the drug. The states were given one lakh vials from May 1-14, while avenues for import are being actively explored, the statement said. The secretary (pharma) further emphasised that the states must make an equitable distribution among the government and the private hospitals and keep the public informed on availability and shop details, help prevent unnecessary stockpiling and ensure timely payments to the manufacturers. Vardhan expressed his appreciation to all Covid warriors who have remained steadfast in their duty during the pandemic, "without showing any signs of deprivation and fatigue". He was joined by Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways (I/C) and Chemical and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State, Ministry of Home Affairs Nityanand Rai. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health, joined the meet digitally. Dr Vinod K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog was also present virtually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-portal-in-hindi-other-languages-from-next-week-says-centre-986917.html
17-05-2021||National||Alcoholic beverage body urges Meghalaya govt to scrap 'Central Bonded Warehouse'||The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), the apex body of the Indian Alcoholic Beverage Industry, has written to the Meghalaya Government seeking an immediate end to the creation of Central Bonded Warehouse (CBW) which is to function as the sole wholesaler for all alcoholic beverages products to be sold in Meghalaya. In its letter to Sarika Aggarwal Synrem, Commissioner & Secretary, Excise Registration Taxation Stamps (ERTS) Department, a copy of which has also been sent to Meghalaya Chief Minister Mr Conrad K Sangma, the CIABC has urged to “put implementation of the CBW on hold until the time its commercial rationale and legality is validated”. Stating that the Meghalaya Government has neither consulted stakeholders including the CIABC before introducing the CBW nor has it has given reasons that warrant the introduction of this CBW in the supply chain, CIABC Secretary General Vinod Giri said: “CBW is an additional layer added in the distribution chain which will add to the cost of operation in the state. Current market structure is working fine without glitches and it is very unclear what purpose will CBW serve.” “It is commonly held principle that an additional cost must deliver additional benefit and the additional cost must be borne by the party which gets additional benefits. Therefore, if the CBW is being created by the Government for its own benefit, then its margin should come out of government revenues. Alternatively, if it is being introduced for a benefit to the consumers, then this cost should be passed on to the consumers,” the CIABC said in its letter to the Meghalaya Government. Pointing out that the CBW was created in a very arbitrary manner, Giri said creation of the single point wholesaling entity for the entire state would lead to creation of a privately held monopoly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alcoholic-beverage-body-urges-meghalaya-govt-to-scrap-central-bonded-warehouse-986920.html
17-05-2021||National||Centre's helpline for elderly receives 475 actionable calls from 5 states since April-May||The Centre has launched a helpline for the elderly in five states, including Karnataka, to address their problems related to the Covid-19 pandemic, providing emotional support and an avenue for them to report abuse. The helpline number – 14567 – named as Elderline builds upon the experience of Telangana which had launched the initiative in the state in 2019. The facility has been made operational with assistance from Tata Trusts and NSE Foundation. The Elderline service is operational in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu and has been handling calls for assistance from the elderly. “Efforts are being made to make them functional in all states by end of May 2021,” an official statement said. According to data shared by the ministry, 71 actionable calls were received from Tamil Nadu, 163 from Madhya Pradesh, 25 from Rajasthan and 122 from Karnataka since April 28. In Uttar Pradesh where the helpline was started on May 14, a total of 94 actionable calls were received, it stated. The Elderline initiative is part of the efforts of the Ministry for Social Justice and Empowerment aimed at the welfare of senior citizens. After the Union Budget, the government had said it would launch special schemes under the Senior Citizen Welfare Fund (SCWF) for assisting start-ups in the space of Silver Economy promoting innovative products and processes for the welfare of the elderly. Apart from this, CSR funds would be encouraged to invest in promoting the silver economy, a senior official said, adding that an amount of Rs 50 crore has been allocated from the SCWF for 2021-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-helpline-for-elderly-receives-475-actionable-calls-from-5-states-since-april-may-986922.html
17-05-2021||National||Politicians like Gambhir helped people in getting Covid medical aid, no one defrauded: Police to HC||The submissions of the Delhi Police that politicians, including BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, who were alleged to have been hoarding Covid-19 medicines, were voluntarily helping people in getting medical aid and no one has been defrauded, did not go well with the Delhi High Court which Monday expressed dissatisfaction over the "vague and whitewashed enquiry" report. “Just because some political figures are involved, you will not investigate, we will not allow this,” said a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh which was hearing a plea over the allegations against politicians hoarding and distributing medicines, including Remdesivir, in the national capital. Gambhir, in his statement given to the police which forms part of the status report, said being a public representative, he is duty bound to do whatever is possible within his means to extend whatever support people require especially during the present time of the pandemic and that any effort by any citizen towards relief for the common man should be welcomed in these testing times. He stated that the distribution of medicines was done absolutely free of cost for public welfare and support. Regarding the query on distribution of tablet fabiflu, used for treating Covid-19 patients, through his Jagriti Enclave office in east Delhi and office of his foundation at Pusa Road in central Delhi, the BJP leader said he is one of the trustees of Gautam Gambhir Foundation which had organized a free medical camp from April 22 to May 7 for providing assistance to the people suffering from the infection. The MP from East Delhi Lok Sabha seat said the camp remained under the supervision and control of Dr Manish of Garg Hospital who had volunteered his services for the camp and dispensation of medicines to patients’ attendants and a total of 2,628 strips of Fabiflu were purchased from authorized vendors against the doctor’s prescription. Gambhir said invoices were also taken by the foundation from the vendors and though the payments were made by the foundation, the medicine was directly delivered by vendors to Dr Manish. He said 2343 strips were distributed free of cost to the patients’ attendants by the doctor after seeing the prescription of their respective doctors and remaining 285 strips of the medicine are still in the custody of Dr Manish who has been requesting the foundation to distribute them to the needy ones. The police said the enquiry in the alleged instances is being conducted on a day-to-day basis and the officials have examined Lok Sabha MP and BJP leader Gautam Gambhir, President of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee Chaudhary Anil Kumar, ex Congress MLA Mukesh Sharma, BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana, AAP MLA Dilip Pandey. The others who have been enquired are Vice President Congress (Delhi) Ali Mehdi, Block adhyaksh of Congress (Delhi) Ashok Baghel, ex MP Bijnor Shahid Siddiqui and President of All India Youth Congress Srinivas BV. The police sought six weeks to examine the issue and conclude the enquiry, which was declined by the court on the ground that pandemic is going on right now and the police force shall stand up as it owes a duty to citizens. The bench, which gave a week's time to the police to file better status report, said it shall clearly mention how medicines, which were in huge shortage and sold at higher rates in black market, were procured by few persons in large quantities. The police, in its status report, said the political leaders, including cricketer-turned-politician Gautam Gambhir, have been actually helping people in getting medical aid in the form of medicines, oxygen and others and have not charged any money and no one has been defrauded. “The enquiry conducted so far has revealed that all the persons alleged to have been hoarding medicines etc, have been actually helping people in getting medical aid in the form of medicine, oxygen, plasma or hospital bed, the person enquired into have not charged any money for the help provided, and thus no one has been defrauded. The distribution/ help has been voluntary and without discrimination,” the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/politicians-like-gambhir-helped-people-in-getting-covid-medical-aid-no-one-defrauded-police-to-hc-986933.html
17-05-2021||National||ADR moves SC challenging practice of executive alone appointing Election Commissioners||The Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) has moved the Supreme Court challenging the constitutional validity of the executive alone appointing the Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners, saying it creates apprehension regarding the poll body's neutrality. The NGO also sought establishment of a neutral and independent collegium/selection committee for appointment of members of the Election Commission. The plea said the executive cannot be the sole participant in the appointment of members of the Election Commission as it gives unfettered discretion to the ruling party to choose someone whose loyalty to it is ensured and thereby renders the selection process vulnerable to manipulation. The PIL stated that democracy is a facet of the basic structure of the Constitution and in order to ensure free and fair election and to maintain healthy democracy in the country, the Election Commission should be insulated from political and executive interference. The practice of appointment of members of the Election Commission by the government creates apprehensions regarding its neutrality, it said. The plea contended that this practice violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India and is incompatible with free and fair elections. “Democracy is a facet of the basic structure of the Constitution and in order to ensure free and fair elections and to maintain healthy democracy in our country, the Election Commission should be insulated from political and/or executive interference.  “There is no doubt that in order to ensure the purity of the election process it was thought by our Constitution-makers that the responsibility to hold free and fair elections in the country should be entrusted to an independent body which would be insulated from political and/or executive interference,” the plea said. The appointment of members of the Election Commission on the whims and fancies of the executive violates the very foundation on which it was created, thus, making the Commission a branch of the executive, the plea stated. "The petitioner by way of present petition is also seeking a direction for constituting a neutral and independent collegium/selection committee for appointment of members of the Election Commission on the lines of the recommendations of Law Commission in its 255th Report of March 2015,” the plea said. The NGO in its plea alleged that in recent years questions have been raised about the conduct of the Election Commission in its supervision and management of the election process.  "There has been a growing impression that the Election Commission is indulgent towards the ruling government at the Centre, and the commission has a different standard to determine the actions of the members of the ruling government and the complaints that arise during the campaign/elections," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adr-moves-sc-challenging-practice-of-executive-alone-appointing-election-commissioners-986938.html
17-05-2021||National||Ensure telemedicine in rural areas, PM Modi tells doctors||With Covid-19 spread in rural areas, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked doctors form teams, train final year MBBS students and interns to ensure telemedicine services across all tehsils and districts of the country. Interacting with doctors, the Prime Minister also asked them to ensure that home-based care of every Covid-19 patient was driven by standard operating procedures and urged them to create awareness about mucormycosis. “Vaccines have ensured safety of most of the doctors,” the prime minister told the doctors and noted that 90% of the health professionals have already got the first dose of the vaccine. Modi asked the doctors to include oxygen audit in their daily efforts. The suggestion came against the backdrop of shortage of oxygen in some parts of the country and deaths of patients due to non-availability of the life saving gas. He noted that the steps taken to augment human resources, like including MBBS students in Covid treatment, and ASHAs and Anganwadi workers in rural areas, provided extra support to the health system. He said that telemedicine has played a big role for patients in home isolation, and this service needs to be expanded in rural areas as well. The Prime Minister praised doctors who are forming teams and providing telemedicine service in villages. On the challenge of mucormycosis, Modi said that doctors may need to put in extra effort towards taking active steps and spreading awareness about it. He also highlighted the importance of psychological care and said that continuously fighting this long battle against the virus must be mentally challenging for the medical fraternity. The Prime Minister is scheduled to interact with field officials from states and districts to hear about their experiences in handling the pandemic. Officials from Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, MP, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi will take part in Tuesday’s meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-telemedicine-in-rural-areas-pm-modi-tells-doctors-986944.html
17-05-2021||National||Meet Navneet Kalra, the man held for allegedly black marketing oxygen concentrators||Arrested for allegedly hoarding and black marketing oxygen concentrators during the second wave of Covid-19, businessman Navneet Kalra opened an optical shop at Delhi's upscale Khan Market area back in early 2000. But his rise as a restauranteur began following a partnership with popular rolls chain Khan Chacha in the same area. Kalra currently owns a series of food joints including Town Hall, Public Affair, Mr Choy, Khan Chacha -- all in the Khan Market area -- and Nege and Ju on Lodhi Road and Kakapo in Mehrauli. His restaurants were frequented by celebrities and his social media profiles boast of his pictures with top cricketers. "Kalra had initially started off with clothes business but after that did not work, he opened Dayal Opticals in Khan Market between 2000 and 2005. Dayal Opticals was a brand started by his Kalra's father," claimed sources close to the family. In 2009, Khan Chacha, originally started by Haji Banda Hasan and had been there for decades at the Khan Market area, was shut down after they had a tiff with their landlord. Following this, they forged a partnership with Kalra and Khan Chacha resumed operations. In 2016, Kalra and Haji Banda Hasan's sons had a fall out and parted ways. Next year, Hasan's sons approached the Delhi High Court to get trademark rights of Khan Chacha. But by 2020, Hasan's sons opted for an out of court settlement. "We had a fallout with our landlord when we used to put up a small kiosk at Shop number 75 but the landlord wanted to give our franchise to someone else and we were not in agreement. So we shut it. During that time, we received many partnership offers but we liked the offer given to us by Kalra. He offered us a 50-50 partnership and told us, 'I have vision and you have the talent,'" Hasan's son Mohammad Saleem told PTI. Saleem claimed that Kalra treated them like "slaves" and when they said they wanted to walk out of the partnership in 2016, he claimed their father had sold him the copyright to Khan Chacha. The brothers then approached the court in 2017 and also opened 'Rule The Rolls' at Khan Market while the court battle dragged on. "It was 2020 and the coronavirus-induced lockdown happened. We had to think of our expenses, our loans and the court battle was also proving to be costly. So we sold him the brand name in 2020 and parted ways," he added. Saleem said the day oxygen concentrators were seized from Khan Chacha, he and his brother were questioned by the police. The brothers were at their outlet 'Rule The Rolls' in Khan Market when the police had approached them. "We took them to our house and made them see our father, who is suffering from Parkinson's disease and dementia. "We also went to the police station and told them that we had sold the brand name to Kalra in an out of court settlement. My brother Javed gave his statement at the Lodhi Road police station," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-navneet-kalra-the-man-held-for-allegedly-black-marketing-oxygen-concentrators-986945.html
17-05-2021||National||Karnataka, Kerala among top 5 states driving India's Covid-19 epidemic||Since the last two weeks, four southern states – Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have been driving India’s Covid-19 epidemic along with Maharashtra, where the numbers are on a steady decline. At the beginning of May, the southern states accounted for 30% of the total number of new Covid-19 cases reported daily. But their contribution has now risen to more than 40% in the last three days. On Monday, more than 42% of the daily new cases came from these four states in the last 24 hours, as per the union health ministry data. Tamil Nadu has emerged as the new state of concern because of a huge number of fresh cases every day, high positivity and low vaccination rate. In the last 24 hours, it reported more than 33K new cases, which is only next to Maharashtra that occupies the top slot with 34K cases. In three out of the last seven days, Karnataka replaced Maharashtra as the state with the maximum number of new cases. “The surge in cases occurs at different points in time due to differential onset time, triggered by a combination of testing levels and health system response. The southern states currently see active outbreaks as of now,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. Nearly 100 districts in the four southern states report more than 10% test positivity rate with eight districts reporting more than 40% positivity. Five of the eight are in Karnataka – Ballari (47.2%), Uttara Kannada (46.1%), Mysuru (44.7%), Hassan (42.6%) and Shivamogga (42.1%). On Tamil Nadu, a health ministry official said the state witnessed a sharp rise in the positive cases in the last one week. Chennai, Chengalpattu and Coimbatore are three TN districts that saw continued rise in the cases since the last two weeks. The positivity rate is more than 40% in two districts – Nagapattinam (42.9%) and Tiruvannamalai (40.5%). “The rise in southern Indian states should be tackled with early public health measures. Relatively better functioning health systems in these states are assurance of effective handling. However, there can not be any complacency and effective measures should be implemented in a timely manner to respond,” said Chandrakant Lahariya, a public policy and health systems expert in Delhi. While Uttar Pradesh and Delhi were major concerns at the beginning of the month, the number of new cases in both states came down with UP reporting just about 10,000 cases in the last 24 hours. Delhi on Monday recorded less than 5000 cases in the last 24 hours, which is the lowest since April 5. The experts, however, are worried about the ground reality in the absence of adequate testing that may lead to the creation of an artificial peak in the Covid-19 curve. “The testing levels are suboptimal in most states. In the absence of reliable testing levels in the country, the distorting data is confounding the response; it is difficult to explain which states have actually contained the transmission and which are not,” said Babu. “In north Indian states including UP, we are not sure of the current situation till we scale up the testing and get a better picture,” added Lahariya. After 26 days, the number of new cases dropped below 3 lakh as 2,81,386 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours. As many as 4,106 deaths were reported in the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-kerala-among-top-5-states-driving-indias-covid-19-epidemic-986952.html
17-05-2021||National||World Economic Forum cancels 2021 annual meeting||As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to unravel in various parts of the country, the World Economic Forum on Monday announced the cancellation of its high-profile annual meeting for 2021 after postponing it at least twice along with two changes in venue. The next annual meeting will now take place in the first half of 2022, while the location and date would be determined after assessing the situation later this summer, said the Geneva-based organisation that has been hosting a yearly congregation of the rich and powerful from across the world in Swiss ski resort town of Davos for 50 years. This year's Davos summit was originally scheduled for January 2021, but was later moved to a different location in Switzerland, Lucerne, and then to Singapore with an August 2021 schedule. The last time the meeting was held outside Davos was in 2002 when it was held in New York City. At the time of its annual schedule this January, an online meeting was hosted by the WEF, which describes itself as an international organisation for public-private cooperation. It was attended by a large number of global leaders, just like its physical annual meetings every year. In an advisory, the WEF said it has been preparing a Special Annual Meeting in Singapore to take place just three months from now. "Regretfully, the tragic circumstances unfolding across geographies, an uncertain travel outlook, differing speeds of vaccination rollout and the uncertainty around new variants combine to make it impossible to realise a global meeting with business, government and civil society leaders from all over the world at the scale which was planned. This is despite the excellent support provided by the Government of Singapore," it added. "It was a difficult decision, particularly in view of the great interest of our partners to come together not just virtually but in person, and to contribute to a more resilient, more inclusive and more sustainable world,” said Professor Klaus Schwab, Founder and Executive Chairman of the WEFG. "But ultimately the health and safety of everyone concerned is our highest priority," he added. The WEF said it will continue to engage its increasing number of partners into our numerous work streams addressing the key issues on the global agenda through public-private cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-economic-forum-cancels-2021-annual-meeting-986953.html
17-05-2021||National||Nishank seeks suggestions on CBSE exams, reviews NEP with states||Centre on Monday assured additional funds to the tune of Rs 2,500 crore for continuity of various educational initiatives as schools and colleges shifted classes online during the Covid-19 pandemic. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank gave the assurance at a meeting of school education secretaries of all the states and union territories and also sought suggestions on Class 12 Board exams, which have been deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Among the suggestions that were made at the meeting were connecting all schools to BharatNet, the broadband network and provision of digital devices to secondary school students. “A Covid action plan to ensure uninterrupted education is required,” Nishank told the meeting. Earlier this month, the ministry had decided to focus on out of school children, ensuring sustained enrolment, retention, and transition; capacity building with a focus on blended and home-based learning and cognitive development of students as part of its Covid Response initiative. Under the Samagra Shiksha initiative, the Centre had identified areas such as the provision of supplementary material to children, support for out of school children of the age group of 16-19 years through open schools, teacher’s grants for awareness on safety and security in online mode and for enabling them to use online means of education. “Further, ad-hoc grants to the tune of Rs 5,228 crore have already been released to the states under Samagra Shiksha and an amount of Rs 2,500 crore will be released soon to ensure continuity of various educational initiatives by the states and UTs,” an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nishank-seeks-suggestions-on-cbse-exams-reviews-nep-with-states-986957.html
17-05-2021||National||Rs 1 lakh reward for information on wrestler Sushil Kumar||Delhi Police has announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information about Sushil Kumar’s whereabouts, according to ANI. The two-time Olympic medallist is one of the accused in the case related to the brawl at the Chhatrasal Stadium that led to the death of a wrestler.  A reward of Rs 50,000 has also been announced for co-accused Ajay, who is also at large.  Case relating to killing of Sagar Rana at Chhatrasal Stadium | Reward of Rs 1 Lakh on info leading to arrest of wrestler Sushil Kumar announced. Rs 50,000 reward announced for Ajay, who is absconding too: Delhi Police Earlier, a Delhi Court had issued non-bailable warrants against Sushil Kumar and six others in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl that led to the death of a wrestler here, police said. A lookout notice was also issued against Kumar in the same case. A senior police officer said, "We moved an application before the court to issue non-bailable warrant (NBW) against wrestler Sushil Kumar and six others in the case and as per request, the application was approved and accordingly NBWs have been issued against them." The police have already recorded the statements of the victims allegedly involved in the brawl. The clash had taken place over vacating a flat in the Model Town area, police said. Kumar, who has been named in the FIR, is on the run, and efforts are on to trace him, a senior officer had said earlier, adding that raids were being conducted in the Delhi-NCR region and neighbouring states to nab him. The victims alleged that Kumar was present at the spot when the clash took place, he had said. The wrestler who died was 23 years old. He and two of his friends were brutally assaulted allegedly by other wrestlers inside the Chhatrasal Stadium in the northern part of the city last Tuesday night. According to the police, the brawl involved Kumar, Ajay, Prince Dalal, Sonu, Sagar, Amit and others. A case was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act at the Model Town Police Station. Dalal (24), a resident of Jhajjar in Haryana, was held in the case, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-1-lakh-reward-for-information-on-wrestler-sushil-kumar-986967.html
17-05-2021||National||Centre releases first tranche of Rs 5,968 crore to 15 states under Jal Jeevan Mission||The Centre has released Rs 5,968 crore to 15 states for the implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission, the first of the four tranches to be released this financial year, the Jal Shakti Ministry said on Monday. The rest of the states and Union territories have been asked to send their proposals to the National Jal Jeevan Mission for the release of funds. Of the central funds allocated under the Jal Jeevan Mission, 93 per cent is to be utilised on developing water supply infrastructure, five per cent on support activities and two per cent on water quality monitoring and surveillance activities. The funds are released by the Centre based on the output in terms of tap water connections provided in the states and the utilisation of the available central funds and the matching state share. The states have to transfer the central funds released, along with the matching state share, to the single nodal account within 15 days of the release of the central funds. The states have to make a provision for the matching state share and ensure that there is no shortage of funds for the implementing agencies, with a proper expenditure plan prepared so that the expenses are evenly spread throughout the year. "Government of India has released Rs 5,968 crore to 15 states for the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission in the financial year 2021-22. This is the first tranche of the four to be released in this financial year," the ministry said in a statement. The budgetary allocation for the Jal Jeevan Mission has increased significantly to Rs 50,011 crore in 2021-22. In addition to this, 15th Finance Commission-tied grants of Rs 26,940 crore will also be available to the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) for "water and sanitation" services. In addition, funds are also available through the matching state share and externally-aided projects. "Thus, in 2021-22, more than Rs one lakh crore is planned to be invested in the country on ensuring tap water supply to rural homes. It is expected that this kind of investment will continue over the next three years to achieve the goal of 'Har Ghar Jal'," the ministry said. The Jal Jeevan Mission was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2019, with the aim to provide assured tap water supply to every rural home by 2024||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-first-tranche-of-rs-5968-crore-to-15-states-under-jal-jeevan-mission-986968.html
17-05-2021||National||SJM launches campaign for Covid vaccine availability||Amid a massive campaign of the Opposition parties questioning the Modi government on the issue of vaccine paucity and medicine scarcity, RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagaran Manch has kicked off a digital signature campaign asking the government to grant a compulsory licence to more pharmaceutical companies for the production of Covid vaccines and medicines. "Do you know why vaccines are not available? Why there is a massive scarcity of medicines. It is because the big companies have got sovereign rights to manufacture them. They have got patents. We will have to build pressure on WTO as well to build pressure to ensure universal access to vaccines and medicines to fight Covid-19. "We will have to build pressure even on the government so that these medicines and vaccines are freed from patients so that it is available to all our countrymen and everybody in the world," Mahajan said in a video message. "SJM has urged citizens to digitally sign the petition that asks WTO to grant waiver in the provisions of TRIPS to make Covid-19 technology accessible to all, and asks the global pharma companies to voluntarily offer patent free rights," Ashwani Mahajan, National Co Convenor, SJM tweeted. Apart from patriotic citizens, SJM activists are also reaching out to the top academicians including vice chancellors, prominent professors; scientists, opinion makers, political personalities, past and present bureaucrats, people in policy making and others separately to sign this petition. Taking the argument further, Mahajan will be delivering a talk on ‘Universal Access to Vaccine and Medicine-A Human Rights Issue’ organised by the Kerala unit of Swadeshi Jagran Manch on Tuesday. The SJM is of the view that when the government was developing Covaxin with Bharatbiotech, more PSUs could have been asked to produce this vaccine, which would have saved the mounting criticism of the Modi government now over the lack of vaccines. Earlier SJM took the issue up on social media with the hashtag #Patent_free_vaccine_and_medicine. In a video message, Mahajan said that it is necessary that everyone receives medicines and vaccines to tide over the disease. "As we are aware that humanity is facing the worst medical crisis these days due to the second wave of the Covid-19. To deal with the situation, the country needs a sufficient supply of vaccines, medicines and different types of medical equipment. "SJM firmly believes that many Indian manufacturers have the capacity and expertise in the production of essential medicines and vaccines, provided intellectual property rights hurdles are removed with technology transfer and trade secret issues resolved. Patent protection is the major barrier to the generic production of these medicines," it said. SJM noted that many Indian companies are already making Remdesivir under the voluntary license, however, the quantity is not sufficient to meet the demand, and the price is also very high from the point of view of affordability. 'We understand that the government needs to use the public health safeguards in the Patents Act and permit more companies to produce these medicines in the coming days. As we may be requiring nearly two billion doses of vaccine in the next six months, we need to involve many more companies in manufacturing of these vaccines," the SJM said. The four-point petition appeals for asking the WTO for granting a waiver in the provisions of TRIPS, and the global pharma companies for voluntarily giving patent-free rights including technology transfer, passcodes and raw material to other pharma manufacturers for the sake of humanity.  SJM has also appealed to the government for taking necessary steps including using its sovereign rights to grant the compulsory license to other pharma manufacturers to produce vaccines and medicines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sjm-launches-campaign-for-covid-vaccine-availability-986992.html
17-05-2021||National||4.32 lakh railwaymen vaccinated: Railway Board chairman||With railway unions giving ultimatum of June 30 to the government to vaccinate them, Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said on Monday said around 4.32 lakh railwaymen have been vaccinated so far and the Railways is insisting that state governments inoculate the remaining. "The Railways have so far vaccinated 4.32 lakh employees. We have been in touch with state governments for vaccination for the balance staff. The first stage was 45 years and above and the frontline workers like medical staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF). They have been completed," Sharma told media here. He also said the railway officials are in touch with the states, firstly, to finish vaccinating the 45 years and above group of people and secondly, to quickly cover our 18-45 age group in different states. "We are in touch with the states, as the Railways carries essential commodities, we run the Oxygen Expresses and meet the coaching requirements of passengers. We have been insisting on state governments to quickly take action in inoculating our people," Sharma said. The government's list of frontline workers does not include railway staffers, something that the unions have been complaining about for a long time. The Railways has around 13 lakh employees. "More than 100 vaccination centres are there in the Railways. We have increased our number of beds. Till last year, we had 2,539 Covid beds, now we have 6,972 beds. We had 253 isolation beds, now we have 573. We have four oxygen plants and 50 others have been sanctioned by divisions and zones," Sharma said.  The Railway Ministry spokesperson also said that the Railways cannot decide who should be designated as frontline workers as it is the decision of a specially formed body within the government. Currently, the definition of frontline workers include personnel from state and central police organisation, armed forces, home guards, prison staff, disaster management volunteers, civil defence organisation, municipal workers and revenue officials engaged in surveillance and containment activities. The All India Station Masters' Association has given an ultimatum of June 30 to the government to vaccinate them and other "frontline" railway employees involved in train operations in a letter to the Union Health secretary. It has said that if the government fails to do so, the non-vaccinated staff will have no option other than abstaining from duty. According to railway unions, almost 2,000 rail employees have lost their lives due to Covid-19 since last year  March  and around 1,000 are infected daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/432-lakh-railwaymen-vaccinated-railway-board-chairman-986999.html
17-05-2021||National||Plasma therapy dropped as treatment for Covid-19||The Centre on Monday dropped use of plasma therapy from its Covid-19 treatment protocol easing the life for scores of patients' family members who often have to run from pillar to post searching for plasma. The joint monitoring group of the Union Health Ministry comprising experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, here, and  ICMR National Task Force revised the clinical guidance for management of adult Covid-19  and dropped off-label use of convalescent plasma, health ministry sources said. The government decision follows after several research studies failed to find out any additional benefits of using convalescent plasma while treating moderate or serious Covid-19 patients. The first such study was the PLACID trial conducted by the ICMR involving 39 public and private hospitals across India. It found no difference in 28-day mortality or progression to severe disease among patients with moderate Covid-19 treated with convalescent plasma. Another major study known as Recovery trial came up with the same conclusion. Last week a group of researchers wrote to the Principal Scientific Advisor asking him to review the treatment guidelines on plasma therapy in the absence of any scientific evidence as it significantly adds to the harassment faced by the patient family. Experts at the ICMR also deliberated on plasma therapy and reviewed the scientific evidence as the therapy was being prescribed rampantly across hospitals in India, sources said. In the revised guidelines, off level use of Tocilizumab and emergency use of Remdesivir have been retained. The guidelines also allow continuing with the use of ivermectin and HCQ tablets for mild disease even though there is scant scientific evidence on the benefits of both medicines, repurposed for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plasma-therapy-dropped-as-treatment-for-covid-19-987006.html
17-05-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with field officials from states, districts on Covid-19 situation on May 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact on Tuesday with field officials from states and districts, many of which have seen a huge surge in Covid-19 cases and widespread infection, his office said.  In their interaction with the prime minister, officials will share some best practices, suggestions and recommendations for continuing the ongoing battle against Covid-19, especially in semi-urban and rural areas, it said.  Officials from these districts in their relentless efforts to manage the situation also have success stories that could be replicated across the country, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.  Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi will take part in meeting. Official sources had earlier said that in the meeting district magistrates from 46 districts across nine states will participate.  The prime minister will have a similar meeting on May 20 in which top officials of 54 districts from 10 states are scheduled to attend, they had said. The PMO statement said on Monday that the battle against Covid-19 across various districts and states is being led at the cutting edge by field-level officials.  "Many of them have shown great initiative and come out with imaginative solutions. A better appreciation of such initiatives will help towards developing effective response plan, targeted strategy implementation and support necessary policy interventions," it said.  Many effective measures have been taken, from ensuring strict containment measures are undertaken to control the infection's spread, to preparing healthcare facilities for handling the raging second wave, to ensuring availability of healthcare workforce and a seamless supply chain for logistics, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-field-officials-from-states-districts-on-covid-19-situation-on-may-18-987019.html
17-05-2021||National||Supreme Court to hear Param Bir Singh's plea for transfer of inquiries to agency outside Maharashtra||The Supreme Court will hear on Tuesday a fresh plea of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking transfer of all inquiries against him to an independent agency outside Maharashtra like the CBI. Singh, a 1988-batch IPS officer, was removed from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner on March 17 and was made the General Commander of Maharashtra State Home Guard after he levelled allegations of corruption and misconduct against then Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. The Bombay High Court had ordered a CBI probe into allegations of Singh against Deshmukh who had to resign as the minister. The senior police officer, in his fresh plea before the top court, has alleged that he has been made to face several inquiries by the state government and its instrumentalities and sought their transfer outside Maharashtra and a probe into them by an independent agency like the CBI.  A vacation bench of justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai would hear the plea of Singh on Tuesday, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who has been representing Singh in courts, told PTI. The former top cop of Mumbai, in his fresh plea, has made the state government, CBI and the Maharashtra Police chief as parties. Singh, in his earlier plea filed before the top court, had sought a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. The top court had then asked him to go the Bombay High Court which ordered CBI probe into Singh's allegations and against that order the state government and the NCP leader subsequently failed to get any relief from the apex court. Deshmukh denied any wrongdoing and had said there was not an iota of substantive evidence to even prima facie establish that any of the allegations made by Singh had an element of truth. In its 52-page judgement, the high court had said Singh's allegations against Deshmukh had put at stake the citizen's faith in the state police. Such allegations, made by a serving police officer, against the state home minister could not be left unattended, and were required to be probed into, if prima facie, they made a case of a cognisable offence, the high court had said. The high court's verdict had come on three PILs including one filed by Singh seeking several reliefs as also a CBI probe into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-param-bir-singhs-plea-for-transfer-of-inquiries-to-agency-outside-maharashtra-987020.html
17-05-2021||National Politics||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar roams around like a mad dog: TMC MP||TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee on Monday claimed that West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is 'whimsical, and a b*********r". Banerjee said Dhankhar should not stay here for even a minute. "He is roaming around here like a mad dog," he told ANI. That Governor is whimsical, and a bloodsucker. He should not stay here for even a minute. He is roaming around here like a mad dog: TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee He also alleged that Dhankhar is trying to secure a ticket before the 2024 elections from the BJP, that is why he is doing whatever he pleases against the TMC. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-roams-around-like-a-mad-dog-tmc-mp-986810.html
17-05-2021||National Politics||Yashwant Sinha tweets 10-second clip to ‘expose’ PM Modi||Senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha on Sunday shared a video of an Indian representative’s speech at the United Nations (UN), joining the backlash against the short-sightedness of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “vaccine diplomacy” as states run out of stock amid the country’s brutal second wave of Covid-19. The former Union minister shared the 10-second clip of an Indian representative in May, saying the country at the time had exported more vaccines to 70 other countries than it had used for its own population. The government has since halted exports as cases grew at an alarming pace. Sinha joined the ranks of several other leaders who have taken a defiant stance against the Modi government after the Union-controlled Delhi police arrested at least 25 people in the national capital over posters that criticized the government, questioning why the prime minister “send our children’s vaccines abroad”. Sinha’s fellow TMC MP Mahua Mitra and the Congress’ Rahul Gandhi also sent out scathing tweets opposing the development. Arrest me too.   Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders have come out and said they were behind the posters criticising the government and asked Delhi police to arrest party MLAs instead of their workers. “Today, when people are asking why crores of vaccines were exported to Pakistan, Bangladesh, Iran and Iraq, Modiji’s Delhi police is filing FIRs and putting our workers in jail,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said at a press conference on Sunday. He added that the Delhi police and the BJP could not arrest people for asking questions in a democracy. Many vaccination centres in the city, being run by the Delhi government, had to pause their drives last week after they ran out of jabs. The vaccine crunch facing the city prompted top members of the ruling AAP party to hit out at the Modi government, saying it had sent millions of doses abroad in service of “image management”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yashwant-sinha-tweets-10-second-clip-to-expose-pm-modi-986818.html
17-05-2021||National Politics||We have to think big like BJP to succeed, says Congress leader Salman Khurshid||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid wants his party to think big like the BJP, and refuse to accept "pessimistic view" that the outfit has now become too small, weak and cannot regain its lost ground. "One take-away that I have from (West) Bengal and Assam (Assembly elections) is: You should never, never accept that you are too small, you are too weak and that you can't make it big in a particular region or State", he told PTI in an interview on Monday. "I think, BJP has done that (think-big strategy) where they had no existence at all. They tried to do it in other places where they still don't have any existence," Khurshid said. The Congress, the former Union Minister insisted, should not accept the "pessimistic view" that it has lost too much ground and it cannot now regain. "I think with determination and confidence, we can and that's what we should do." Khurshid agreed with analysis in some quarters that there was tactical voting in the recent Assembly elections in West Bengal, where the Congress and the Left were "wiped out". "That's true. One analyst said the extent of tactical voting that happened in Bengal may not have happened in Assam but obviously tactical voting happened in both the places," he said. "...what do you do with it (tactical voting) as a party for the future, it's something that we will have to consider". Khurshid was asked about his take on assessment by some of his party leaders who blamed a tie-up with Indian Secular Front contributing to the rout in West Bengal and those who claimed that the partnership with AIUDF cost the party dearly in Assam. "Whenever you don't succeed, this is the kind of explanation that you are given; when you succeed, you are given a different explanation," he said. "So, I don't think post-hoc explanations are sensible although they help you analyse your decision-making process and merits of that decision. All I can say is: much can be said on both sides." Khurshid also said that the Congress manifesto for Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, due next year, would be a manifesto "from amongst" the people. "Idea is to be a little more analytical about what is it that people want and see if we can give it," he said. Khurshid added: "Of course, we continue to face that problem of irrational division along castes and communities, and that will get resolved over a period. That (the division) can't be something which can be wished away. It will get resolved over a period." In the Assembly elections, the results of which were declared on May two, the Congress was decimated in West Bengal, where the Trinamool Congress won with a tally of 213 of 294 seats. The Congress also failed to defeat incumbent governments in Kerala and Assam. In Puducherry, the party was defeated by the NR Congress-led National Democratic Alliance. However, in Tamil Nadu, the Congress was a constituent of the winning Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-have-to-think-big-like-bjp-to-succeed-says-congress-leader-salman-khurshid-986860.html
17-05-2021||National Politics||Centre should make data on vaccine allocation to states public: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia urged the Centre on Monday to make the data on vaccines supplied by it to the states public and sought 3.82 lakh doses of the vaccines for people aged 18-44 years in the city. Currently, Delhi has a vaccine stock of four days for those aged 45 years and above, he said, adding that for the 18-44 age group, the city will run out of the stock in three days. Sisodia said he has written to the Centre citing three requests. "The Centre has written to us, saying we will get 3.83 lakh doses for the 45-plus age group but we will not get vaccines for the 18-44 age group in May," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader told an online media briefing. "We need more vaccines for the 18-44 age group. We are ready to buy those but at least make those available. We will have to close the vaccination centres for the 18-44 age group after three days," he said. Sisodia urged the Centre to make the data of allocation of vaccines to the states public. "There should be transparency in the data. For Delhi, we need to know how much is being given to the government and how much to the private sector and even for other states, we need to know the figures. "Please let us know about the vaccine availability for the next two months so that we can chalk out the vaccination programme for June and July," the deputy chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-should-make-data-on-vaccine-allocation-to-states-public-manish-sisodia-986871.html
17-05-2021||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi nowhere in sight when needed, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Monday that the government has failed to manage the Covid-19 crisis and the prime minister is nowhere to be seen. He also lauded individuals who are helping out people in this crisis and expressed gratitude to them. "While GOI has failed not just in managing Covid crisis but also in standing with the people, there are numerous individual stories of strength and altruism every day," he said on Twitter. While GOI has failed not just in managing Covid crisis but also in standing with the people, there are numerous individual stories of strength & altruism everyday. Immense gratitude to these heroes dedicated to serving others and showing the world what India truly stands for. "Immense gratitude to these heroes dedicated to serving others and showing the world what India truly stands for," he also said. In another tweet, he took a jibe at the prime minister, drawing a comparison between him and the ventilators provided through PMCARES Fund. "There's a lot common between PMCares ventilator and the PM himself: - too much false PR, don't do their respective jobs, nowhere in sight when needed," he tweeted. There’s a lot common between PMCares ventilator and the PM himself: - too much false PR- don’t do their respective jobs- nowhere in sight when needed! Some states like Punjab, Rajasthan and Maharashtra have complained that the ventilators provided from PMCARES Fund have not been functioning properly. Gandhi has been critical of the government's handling of the Covid-19 situation in the country and the shortage of essential medicines and oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-nowhere-in-sight-when-needed-says-rahul-gandhi-986877.html
17-05-2021||National Politics||Congress targets Centre over noted virologist Shahid Jameel's resignation||The opposition party alleged that the "Modi government's aversion for 'evidence-based policy-making' has pushed India into the current crisis." "The resignation of Dr. Shahid Jameel, one of India's best virologists, is really sad. Modi Sarkar has no place for professionals who can speak their mind freely without fear or favour," senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted. "How much longer will India suffer due to their ignorance," the party asked on its official Twitter handle. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari asked if Jameel quit on his own or was "forced to quit". "No wonder top virologist Shahid Jameel has quit Govt Covid Panel because BJP Brigade believes in quack formulas rather than scientific facts," he tweeted. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi cited Jameel quitting as head of INSACOG to target the prime minister. "INSACOG had warned PM in early March about the dangerous Indian mutant but govt paid no heed. Jameel has frankly said that govt didn't 'take science into account. We're paying for Modi's scientific illiteracy," he alleged on Twitter. Days after pointing out that scientists are facing "stubborn resistance to evidence-based policymaking", Jameel quit as the head of INSACOG, a central government panel that conducts genome sequencing of coronavirus. An official said the virologist did not give any reason for his decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-targets-centre-over-noted-virologist-shahid-jameels-resignation-986880.html
17-05-2021||National Politics||BJP MP Pragya Thakur stokes row with 'gaumutra for fighting Covid-19' remark||BJP MP Pragya Thakur has again kicked up a row by presenting herself as the evidence of how cow urine can fight Covid-19, a remark that led to severe criticism on social media. Rajya Sabha MP from BSP Danish Ali slammed the "unscientific and illogical" statement from the BJP MP which said that drinking cow urine saved her from Covid-19. "This will ultimately discourage people from vaccination and invite more devastation," he said. Ali also posted the link of the news video in which the Bhopal MP while addressing a group saying "I am taking cow urine. If we take the essence of the urine of indigenous cow (desi gaay ke mutra ka ark), it removes the infection from our lungs. I am in distress but I daily take the essence of cow urine (gomutra ka ark). Hence I am not needing any medicine for corona now. Neither am I Corona affected. cow urine is life-giving (jeevan dayini) for us." In the background of similar such remarks having made by some other leaders of BJP, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, addressing a lecture series ‘Positivity Unlimited’ organised on Saturday, had given a word of caution against the practice of prescribing just any kind of therapy in the name of Ayurveda without it having gone through adequate scientific testing. "So many things keep on going on in the name of Ayurveda. if you are using something and think you are benefitting from it, it is ok but this should not be prescribed to everybody, till this has not been scientifically proven....," the RSS chief had said. The media in Gujarat have reported that a 40-bed hospital has been set up in Banaskantha, Gujarat, to treat Covid patients with 'Panchgavya' therapy and mantras. Cow products— three direct constituents (dung, urine, and milk) and the two derived products (curd and ghee)— form 'Panchgavya'. An MLA from BJP in UP Surendra Singh had also earlier claimed that drinking cow urine essence has protected him from Covid-19. He said that he has remained healthy using this even as he mingles with people most of the time. He had done a video demonstration of taking the cow urine essence (gaumutra ark) and advised people to go for fresh cow urine if they can not buy the bottled essence. Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur had last Tuesday made an appeal to people to perform "yagya'' and offer "aahuti" to purify the environment from coronavirus. "The pandemic has sent out a message that we have to return to the Vedic lifestyle", she had said in March as well, prescribing 'havan' during sunrise and sunset with cow dung cake mixed with ghee from cow milk and rice to help eliminate viruses. A video of cow dung therapy from a cow shelter Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Pratishthanam in which people were seen smearing cow dung and urine also went viral a few days ago, evoking strong criticism and jeers on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-stokes-row-with-gaumutra-for-fighting-covid-19-remark-986905.html
17-05-2021||National Politics||PIL against Central Vista a disguise to stall project: Centre to Delhi HC||The Centre on Monday opposed in the Delhi High Court a PIL to halt the construction of the Central Vista project in view of the pandemic and alleged that the plea was a "facade" to stall the work. The petitioners on the other hand contended they were only interested in the safety of the workers at the site and the citizens lives and compared the project to "Auschwitz", a German concentration camp during World War-II. Hard hitting arguments against the maintainability of the plea and the continuation of the project were made during the over three hour long hearing before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh which reserved its judgement in the matter. Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd, which has been awarded the tender for the project, also opposed the PIL, saying it lacks bona fide and the company was taking care of its workforce. Opposing the claims of the petitioners, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that the plea was a "facade", a "disguise" in the form of a PIL to stall the project which they always wanted to stop. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, told the court that his clients were only delivering a message of health and safety for the people of Delhi and if the government cannot see it, then it was a "sorry reflection" of their concerns for the lives of the citizens. Referring to the ongoing project work as not Central Vista, rather "central fortress of death" and comparing it to "Auschwitz", Luthra contended that the Centre's submissions with regard to availability of medical facilities, testing centre, etc on site were all falsehoods. He said that only empty tents have been set up at the place and there were no beds or bedding for workers to stay or sleep there. Mehta was displeased with the project being referred to as Auschwitz saying one can criticise and be venomous about it, but such terms should not be used in court. Luthra also contended that while the Centre claims some workers stayed back willingly to work on the project, no proof of their willingness has been shown. He also said that if any facilities have been created at the site, it was for the reason that the high court agreed to hear the matter. Countering the claims of the petitioners, the Solicitor General said one of the petitioners has been opposed to the project long before it got the go ahead from the Supreme Court in January this year. He said the petitioners were not concerned for the health and safety of workers at the other constructions going on in the city. "Public interest is very selective (in the instant case) with regard to health of workmen," he added and urged the court to dismiss the plea. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for Shapoorji Pallonji, told the court that there was no law under which he has to place on record a worker's willingness to work. He said the petitioners cannot decide what was the safe time line for completing the project and the company had to finish it by November so that the Republic Day parade can be held on the Rajpath. He further said that half of Rajpath has been dug up and if the work is stalled then when the monsoon comes, the pits there would fill up with water which could lead to collapse of adjacent areas and also creation of a breeding ground for vector-borne diseases. The court was hearing the plea by Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary film maker, who have contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, it can be put on hold for now during the pandemic. The project entails construction activity on Rajpath and the surrounding lawns from India Gate to Rashtrapati Bhawan, said the petition, filed through advocates Gautam Khazanchi and Pradyuman Kaistha. The project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the Vice-President, as well as several new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate Ministry offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pil-against-central-vista-a-disguise-to-stall-project-centre-to-delhi-hc-986937.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||AAP owns up to pasting posters critical of Modi, alleges arrest & harassment of its workers by cops||The AAP on Sunday owned up to putting up posters in many parts of the city criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine, and said that its several workers were arrested and hundreds were being "harassed" by Delhi Police. Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said the police action will not deter the party and it will put up similar posters across the city and the country on a campaign mode. "The AAP is behind these posters. I am behind the posters. Arrest me and our MLAs but do not harass poor people who paste posters for a meagre payment," Pathak said in a press conference. Meanwhile, in a tweet AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was not a time to point fingers at each other and appealed to AAP volunteers to serve people devastated by Covid-19. "Corona has wreaked havoc. People are very distressed. This is not the time to point fingers at one another but to support others. It's my appeal to every AAP volunteers to help people in their neighbourhood by all means. It's dharma and true patriotism at this time," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The Delhi Police has registered 25 FIRs and arrested as many people for allegedly pasting the posters, reading "Modiji humare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (PM why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)", in several parts of the city amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The FIRs were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections, including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, across various districts of the Delhi Police, officials had said. Pathak said the people in the whole country were asking the same question why the prime minister and the BJP government exported crores of vaccine doses to 94 countries, including Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran and Iraq, which could have helped save thousands of lives in India. "People are dying across the country due to Covid and there is no space in crematoriums and corpses are being seen floating in the rivers. These lives could have been saved if vaccines were not exported," he claimed. There is a severe vaccine shortage in the country and people spend hours looking for vaccine slots on their computers. The youth and the elderly are running from pillar to post for vaccines but it is not available, he claimed further.  "Delhi Police under the central government is registering FIRs and arresting people when they are questioning why vaccines meant for them and their children were given to other countries by the Prime Minister and the BJP government," he said. Several AAP workers from Mongolpuri, Ghonda, Karawal Nagar, Rithala and other parts of the city have been arrested. Also nearly 500 volunteers are being "harassed" by making them sit for hours at various police stations in this connection, he charged. Delhi is facing vaccine shortage, with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and other AAP leaders blaming the BJP-ruled Centre for exporting the doses abroad for "image management". “Who sold vaccines meant for our children to other countries for event management?” Sisodia tweeted on Sunday. Earlier on the day, Delhi Chief Minister said that his government has written to the central government and two manufacturers but there was no indication of vaccine supply as yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-owns-up-to-pasting-posters-critical-of-modi-alleges-arrest-harassment-of-its-workers-by-cops-986707.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis | Modi has no place for professionals: Congress on Shahid Jameel resignation||The Congress on Monday targeted the Narendra Modi government over the resignation of top virologist Shahid Jameel as the chair of a group of scientific advisers to detect coronavirus variants in the country. “The resignation of Dr Shahid Jameel, one of India’s best virologists, is really sad. Modi Sarkar has no place for professionals who can speak their mind freely without fear or favour,” senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said. Jameel quit as the chair of Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia — a 10-laboratory consortium tasked to carry out genetic sequences of different variants of the coronavirus in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-modi-has-no-place-for-professionals-congress-on-shahid-jameel-resignation-986743.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Portals of Kedarnath open in Uttarakhand||The portals of Kedarnath opened on Monday after a six-month winter break with a select few people attending the temple's opening ceremony amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The first puja was held by priests on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the gates of the famous Himalayan temple were opened at 5 am, a Chardham Devasthanam Board official said.  It is for the second consecutive year that Covid has cast a shadow on the pilgrimage to the temple which has been kept out of bounds for pilgrims in view of rising coronavirus cases. A limited number of temple priests, including Rawal Bhim Shankar Ling and Chief Priest Bagesh Ling, and officials of the administration and Devasthanam Board attended the ceremony. Expressing happiness at the opening of the temple, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat prayed for the welfare and good health of the people. The yatra to the temple is temporarily suspended for the sake of people's safety, Rawat said, asking people to have virtual "darshan" of Baba Kedar and perform puja at home. Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj said Chardham Yatra will be started soon after the coronavirus pandemic subsides. The temple was decorated with eleven quintals of flowers on the occasion, the Devasthan Board officials said. Covid norms like wearing of masks and social distancing were strictly followed by those attending the event, he said. While Yamunotri and Gangotri temples were opened on May 14 and May 15 respectively, Badrinath will open on Tuesday for the priests to perform regular prayers. However, no pilgrims will be allowed to visit any of these temples till further orders in view of the Covid surge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/portals-of-kedarnath-open-in-uttarakhand-986756.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Two Al-Badr militants killed in outskirts of Srinagar||Two local militants affiliated with Al-Badr outfit were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Khonmoh area in Srinagar's outskirts on Monday. Reports said the gunfight erupted during wee hours after a joint team of police and army cordoned off Khonmoh area following inputs about the presence of militants there. Inspector General of police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the hiding militants were repeatedly asked to surrender, but they turned down all offers. “This morning, the encounter started and both the terrorists were killed. They are locals from the Al-Badr outfit,” he told reporters. He said that Khonmoh and Khrew areas are connected with Tral belt of Pulwama district and this stretch usually witnesses militant movement. On May 11, three militants affiliated with Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit were killed in a similar encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. Earlier on May 6, three newly recruited militants of Al-Badr outfit were killed and one surrendered before the security forces in neighbouring Shopian district. Pertinently, 48 militants have been killed in J&K so far this year and most of them belong to south Kashmir. Last year, 203 militants, including 166 locals were killed by security forces across the Valley. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018, the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-al-badr-militants-killed-in-outskirts-of-srinagar-986758.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: May turning out to be the deadliest month for Jammu and Kashmir||May is turning out to be the deadliest month for Jammu and Kashmir in terms of Covid deaths and cases with healthcare infrastructure in the Union Territory (UT) overwhelmed due to the exponential increase in the coronavirus cases. In just the first 16 days of this month, the UT recorded 867 deaths and 68,525 infections. Although there has been a drop in positive cases from a peak of over 5,400 last week to less than 4,000 now, the same can be attributed to the lesser number of tests conducted. On May 7, J&K had reported the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases with 5,443 fresh infections coming out of 49,718 tests, a week later on May 14, the infections dropped to 3,027. But the number of tests had also fallen to 31,552. On May 16, the number of fresh infections rose to 4,141 from 36,716 tests. However, while the number of fresh cases are declining due to the lesser number of tests conducted, the mortality rate has been on the rise. On May 7, while the UT reported 50 deaths, the number reached 60 a week later. The low supply of oxygen and medicines as well as poor testing has marred Covid-19 management as Jammu and Kashmir sees an increasing number of deaths in the hospitals. Doctors said there were no oxygen facilities in the rural areas and the low supplies at hospitals in Srinagar and Jammu were a major worry. Srinagar and Jammu districts have been hotspots of Covid-19 in the UT with the twin districts contributing nearly 85 thousand cases out of total 244608 and 1500 deaths out of 3149. Dr Saleem Khan, head department of Social and Preventive Medicine at Government Medical College (GMC) said that he did not believe that the actual cases were reducing. “The low cases last week were due to low testing. Also, there were three official holidays prompting people to stay at home,” he said. The vaccination drive in the UT, particularly in Kashmir valley has also lost momentum since the beginning of the month. Due to the shortage of jabs, majority of the vaccination centres in Srinagar remain shut for the last several days. Amid the unprecedented surge in Covid, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had a series of meetings with senior officers where he sought district-wise feedback pertaining to testing, impact of corona curfew, hospital referral system, functionality of oxygen generation plants, availability of Covid dedicated beds and other issues. Opposition Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad expressed concern over the high number of fatalities in J&K. Days after being nominated as the head of the party's Covid Task Force, he urged for immediate measures to save the loss of lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-may-turning-out-to-be-the-deadliest-month-for-jammu-and-kashmir-986763.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Central Vista should be called 'Central Fortress of Death': Petitioner says in Delhi HC||Petitioner Siddarth Luthra during a plea hearing at the Delhi High Court which sought to halt the construction at Central Vista in Delhi said that the area should instead be called as the Central Fortress of Death, news agency ANI reported. Central Vistas should not be called as it is so, it shall now be said "Central Fortress of death", says Sidharth Luthra seeking court direction to stop Construction at the Central Vista site "Central Vistas should not be called as it is so, it shall now be said 'Central Fortress of death'", he said. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-should-be-called-central-fortress-of-death-petitioner-says-in-delhi-hc-986764.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Politicians have no business hoarding Covid-19 medicines, should surrender them: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday said politicians have no business to hoard stocks of Covid-19 medicines and drugs in view of shortage in supply. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Sanghi also expressed dissatisfaction on the Delhi police status report in connection with the allegations of politicians involved in hoarding and distributing Covid-19 medicines, including Remdesivir, in the capital. Delhi police, in its initial inquiry, gave clean chit Cricketer, BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, Delhi Congress President Anil Kumar Chaudhary, Ex MLA Mukesh Sharma, BJP leader Harish Khurana, AAP MLA Dilip Pandey and Youth Congress chief Srinivas B V, among others. The bench said political leaders have no business to hoard these medicines, especially at an hour when there is a shortage of supply and citizens are running around for these drugs. “If their (politicians) intention is to do public good, then they should surrender the same to Director General of Health Services (DGHS) who will then distribute it to government hospitals," the High Court said. The bench also observed that it is projected that these medicines were procured for public charity and not for political gains, political leaders are expected to surrender their stocks. The government can use these medicines for poor and needy persons at its hospitals, the bench said. On the Delhi police inquiry, the High Court said it expects the police to do a proper investigation and file a better status report in the court within a week. The observations were made by the High Court during the hearing of a PIL seeking registration of an FIR on allegations that politicians are procuring large quantity of Covid-19 medicines even as patients were running around to get these medicines. The Delhi police counsel submitted before the court that it will seize such hoarded drugs. The High Court told the Delhi police counsel that it owes a duty to people. When police asked for six weeks to conduct the probe, the bench replied, “This is not the way. By six weeks, this issue might not exist.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/politicians-have-no-business-hoarding-covid-19-medicines-should-surrender-them-delhi-hc-986803.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Private hospital in Uttarakhand 'hides' 65 Covid-19 patients' deaths from authorities, probe on||A private hospital in Haridwar allegedly withheld information about deaths of 65 Covid-19 patients from the health authorities for over a fortnight in violation of the norms, officials said on Monday. Cabinet Minister and state government spokesman Subodh Uniyal said the matter is being probed and appropriate legal action will be taken against those responsible for the negligence. Sixty-five Covid-19 patients died at Baba Barfani Hospital between April 25 and May 12 but the facility hid the figure from the State Covid Control Room here, officials said. When the hospital management was threatened with action it disclosed the truth, state Covid Control Room officials said. However, the hospital management offered excuses like shortage of staff for not being able to provide the information on time, they said. Hospitals across the state are supposed to inform the Covid Control Room within 24 hours about the death of patients suffering from the infection, Chief Operating Officer Abhishek Tripathi said on Monday. With many attributing the sudden rise in Covid-19 mortality figures in Uttarakhand in recent weeks to private hospitals not updating their death tallies daily, Health Secretary Amit Negi wrote a letter to all hospitals asking them to regularly provide figures to the state control room or face action. Death summary of Covid-19 patients should be sent to the state control room daily by the hospitals or else tough action will be taken against the guilty under the Epidemic Act, he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/private-hospital-in-uttarakhand-hides-65-covid-19-patients-deaths-from-authorities-probe-on-986805.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||China backs developing countries' call to waive IP rights on Covid-19 vaccines||China supports developing countries' appeal for the waiving of intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday. Zhao Lijian, a spokesman at the foreign ministry, was speaking at a regular news conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/china-backs-developing-countries-call-to-waive-ip-rights-on-covid-19-vaccines-986809.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi logs 91,000 recoveries, against 70,000 cases over last one week||Around 91,500 people have recovered from COVID-19 in Delhi in the last one week as compared to 70,000 infections detected during the period, according to government data. The number of cumulative cases increased from 13.23 lakh on May 9 to 13.93 lakh on May 16. Recoveries rose from 12.17 lakh to 13.09 lakh during the period. The number of recoveries has been greater than the number of infections since May 8, the data revealed.    Delhi reported 9,706 recoveries on Sunday, 11,592 on Saturday, 14,140 on Friday, 15,189 on Thursday, 14,071 on Wednesday, 13,583 on Tuesday and 13,306 on Monday. It registered 6,456 coronavirus cases on Sunday, 6,430 cases on Saturday, 8,506 on Friday, 10,489 on Thursday, 13,287 on Wednesday, 12,481 on Tuesday and 12,651 on Monday.   The number of active cases in the capital have also reduced from 85,258 on May 10 to 62,783 during the period. On April 28, Delhi had 99,752 active cases, the maximum since the pandemic began ravaging countries. The capital reported 1,843 fatalities due to the virus in the last one week -- 263 deaths a day on an average.  The toll rose from 19,663 on May 10 to 21,506 to May 16. The national capital had 262 deaths on Sunday, 337 on Saturday, 289 on Friday, 308 on Thursday, 300 on Wednesday, 347 on Tuesday and 319 on Monday. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. On Sunday, Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 10.40 per cent, the lowest since April 11. It was 11.32 per cent on Saturday, 12.4 per cent on Friday, 14.24 per cent on Thursday, 17 per cent on Wednesday, 17.8 per cent on Tuesday and19.10 percent on Monday.    On April 22, a positivity rate of 36.2 per cent, the highest so far, was recorded. The COVID-19 situation has been improving in Delhi with the number of cases and positivity rate going down steadily in the past few days. Medical experts have attributed the lockdown as the main factor behind the dip amid the second wave of the pandemic.  However, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Sunday extended the lockdown till May 24, saying the gains made so far in combating the coronavirus cannot be lost due to relaxations now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-logs-91000-recoveries-against-70000-cases-over-last-one-week-986825.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 4,524 new Covid cases, positivity rate dips to 8.42%||The national capital reported 4,524 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since April 5, and 340 fatalities on Monday while the positivity rate dipped to 8.42 per cent, according to the latest health bulletin released by the city government. The Covid-19 situation has been improving in Delhi with the number of cases and positivity rate going down steadily in the past few days. However, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended the lockdown till May 24, saying the gains made so far in combating coronavirus cannot be lost due to relaxations now.       At 8.42 per cent, the positivity rate is the lowest since April 9 when it stood at 7.8 per cent. The number of new infections is the lowest since April 5 when 3,548 people were diagnosed with the disease, according to government data.         However, the lesser number of fresh cases on Monday came from a relatively smaller number of tests -- 53,756-- conducted on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-4524-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-dips-to-842-986847.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||92 inmates test positive for Covid-19 in two prisons in Jammu and Kashmir||Ninety-two inmates have tested positive for Covid-19 in two prisons of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Monday, and asserted that all the positive cases are asymptomatic and have been isolated in separate barracks. The latest detection in Udhampur and Kupwara district jails through special Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) screening pushed the active cases among inmates to 115 out of a total of over 4,570 prisoners in all the jails, officials said. The special drive in the two jails was carried out nearly two weeks after a prominent separatist leader and chairman of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, who was lodged in Udhampur district jail under Public Safety Act, died of Covid-19 at a government hospital on May 5. Officials said the highest 72 prisoners and seven staff members tested positive in Udhampur district jail. A total of 479 inmates were subjected to RAT testing in the jail premises, they said, adding that 20 inmates tested positive for Covid-19 among 272 prisoners in Kupwara district jail. Officials said all the positive prisoners are asymptomatic and were lodged in separate barracks. Last year, two elderly prisoners -- one each in district jail Rajouri and Sub-jail Bhaderwah -- succumbed to the virus, while the rest of the 540 infected prisoners recovered after successful treatment. Earlier, 21 prisoners tested positive in Kathu district jail on May 10, while one inmate each was tested positive in district jail Jammu and central jail Kotbhalwal Jammu a few days earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/92-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-two-prisons-in-jammu-and-kashmir-986854.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||'Black-marketing' of oxygen concentrators: Delhi Police seeks 5-day custody of bizman Navneet Kalra||The Delhi Police on Monday sought a five-day custody of businessman Navneet Kalra from the court for interrogation in connection with alleged black-marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators. Metropolitan Magistrate Archana Beniwal will decide on the police's plea seeking grant of custody. The Delhi Police arrested Kalra on Sunday night. The businessman was on the run for over a week since the seizure of more than 500 oxygen concentrators from three upscale restaurants owned by him in the national capital. Oxygen concentrators are a crucial medical equipment used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients and are on a high demand amid the second wave of the pandemic. The district court had rejected Kalra's anticipatory bail plea on May 13, saying the allegations against the businessman were serious and his custodial interrogation was required to "unearth the entire conspiracy". Pursuant to this, the accused moved the Delhi High Court, which also declined to grant him interim protection from arrest in the case, agreeing with the reasons given by the trial court while denying him the relief. During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were seized from three restaurants owned by Kalra -- Khan Chacha, Nega Ju and Town Hall. The case was subsequently transferred to the Delhi Police's Crime Branch. The police claimed that the concentrators were imported from China and being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs 50,000 to Rs 70,000 a piece as against its cost of Rs 16,000 to Rs 22,000. On May 5, a case was registered against Kalra under sections 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code as also under the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/black-marketing-of-oxygen-concentrators-delhi-police-seeks-5-day-custody-of-bizman-navneet-kalra-986856.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi Airport to shut T2 terminal operations from Monday midnight as number of flights reduces||The Delhi international airport will shut down its T2 terminal from Monday midnight as the number of flights have reduced significantly due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, sources said. From Monday midnight, all flights will be handled at the T3 terminal only, they stated. Currently, the Delhi airport is handling around 325 flights per day, they mentioned. Before the pandemic, it used to handle around 1,500 flights per day. The sources said average passenger traffic at the Delhi airport was around 1.15 lakh per day in February, which has reduced to around 30,000 per day right now due to the second wave. The Delhi airport's decision has come at a time when India and its aviation sector has been badly hit by the second wave. During the last few weeks, the number of daily domestic air passengers in India have come down from more than 2.2 lakh to around 75,000 right now, according to the Civil Aviation Ministry's data. Similarly, international air traffic has also been affected by the second wave of the pandemic.  India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 2,49,65,463 on Monday with 2,81,386 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 27 days, while the death toll climbed to 2,74,390 with 4,106 fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry data. The number of active cases stands at 35,16,997, accounting for 14.09 per cent of the total infections. The national recovery rate has improved to 84.81 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-to-shut-t2-terminal-operations-from-monday-midnight-as-number-of-flights-reduces-986858.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||3 killed in encounter between Naxals, police in Chhattisgarh||Three persons were killed in an exchange of fire between Naxals and security forces in a forest along the border of Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh on Monday, a police official said. It was yet to be ascertained whether the deceased were Naxals or civilians, he said, adding that there was no casualty among the security personnel. The gunfight broke out after Naxals opened fire at a newly set up police camp at Silger in Sukma along the inter-district border, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. For the past few days, a group of villagers were staging a protest in Silger, considered as a core area of Maoists, against the police camp set up last week, he said. According to police, the villagers had staged the protest allegedly under pressure from Naxals. Amid the protest, armed Naxals opened fire at the camp taking cover of the villagers at around 12.30 pm on Monday, following which the security personnel retaliated, the official said, adding that intermittent firing was still underway at the spot. "Meanwhile, bodies of three persons were recovered from the encounter site. It was yet to be ascertained whether the deceased were Naxals or civilians," the IG said. Reinforcement was rushed to the spot and further details were awaited, he said. The encounter spot is located eight to 10 km away from the site of Naxal attack that took place on April 3 in Sukma district where 22 security personnel were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-killed-in-encounter-between-naxals-police-in-chhattisgarh-986876.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Village pradhan says 37 died of Covid; UP govt blames old-age||Amid allegations of under-reporting of Covid 19 deaths in Uttar Pradesh, a 'pradhan' (panchayat chief) of a village in Baghpat district, about 450 kilometres from Lucknow, claimed that as many as 37 people of his village died after exhibiting symptoms of coronavirus within a month. The pradhan of Lumba village prepared a list of 37 people, who died between April 18 and May 15, and uploaded the same on social media. It went viral within no time sending the district health officials into a tizzy. A team of health official, which rushed to the village after the list went viral, claimed that a majority of deaths had been caused by old age-related illness. "Only two-three people died from Covid... rest died from age-related illness," a senior health official in Baghpat claimed. He said that samples were being taken in the village for testing and medical kits were also provided to a few ill people. The pradhan, on the other hand, said that almost all those, who died during the period, had cough and cold. "No testing was conducted in the village till then," he added. The pradhan also said that as many as 200 people of the village, which had a population of 12,000, had been suffering from cough and cold and other illness. The opposition leaders have alleged that the UP government has been trying to hide the number of deaths from Covid-19. Sharp discrepancies were found in the death figures released officially and those cremated or buried.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/village-pradhan-says-37-died-of-covid-up-govt-blames-old-age-986894.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||UP govt to take help of religious leaders to spread awareness against dumping bodies||The Uttar Pradesh government will now take the help of religious leaders to create awareness among people not to dump bodies in the rivers, an official said on Monday, amid mounting criticism over such incidents. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials during a meeting that the process of burial on the banks of rivers or disposing bodies in rivers as part of last rite was not environment friendly. There should be a dialogue with the religious leaders in this regard as there is a need to make people aware about it, an official said. Adityanath asked for continued patrolling by water police of the State Disaster Response Force and Provincial Armed Constabulary around all the rivers of the state and asked for ensuring that the bodies were not disposed of in water under any condition, the spokesperson said. The chief minister stressed the last rites should be respectfully performed and financial assistance was also being provided for it, the spokesperson said. Even in case of bodies being left unclaimed, the last rites should be performed according to the religious beliefs, Adityanath said. A large number of dead bodies have been found flowing in the rivers in many districts of the state. There have also been reports of bodies being found buried on the banks of the Ganga. During the meeting, Adityanath said experts have warned about a third coronavirus wave and stressed on the need to be fully prepared. He asked for preparing paediatric, ICU wards of 100–100 beds in all medical colleges, the spokesman said. Adityanath said oxygen audit being conducted to balance the demand and supply of oxygen yielded good results Most refillers and medical colleges now have up to 48-72 hours of oxygen backup, the spokesman said, quoting Adityanath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-to-take-help-of-religious-leaders-to-spread-awareness-against-dumping-bodies-986914.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi has less than a day's stock of Covaxin for 45-plus age group: Atishi||AAP MLA Atishi said on Monday that Delhi has less than a day's stock of Covaxin left for the 45 plus age group and they will have to temporarily shut down centres administering it. The centres administering Covaxin to the 18-44 age group have been closed. While issuing the vaccination bulletin, Atishi said that Delhi also started walk-in vaccinations for 45-plus, healthcare workers and frontline workers from Monday. There are many people who don't have smartphones and can't register online, she said, adding that there were 97 schools where such centres have been opened. "We will have five days stock of Covishield, but less than a day's stock of Covaxin for 45 plus age group after today's vaccination," she said. Atishi said they have only four days of Covishield left for the 18-44 age group. "We urge the Centre to supply us vaccines for the 18-44 age group since the new strain of coronavirus is affecting the young people," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-has-less-than-a-days-stock-of-covaxin-for-45-plus-age-group-atishi-986915.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt will be forced to shut down vaccination centres for 18-plus for lack of vaccines: Sisodia||The Delhi government will be forced to close down vaccination centres for 18-44 years age group if the Centre fails to provide more Covid-19 vaccine doses to the city for the month of May, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday. In a letter received by the Delhi government on Sunday, the Centre informed to provide 3.83 lakh vaccine doses for those aged 45 years and above, but refused any more vaccines for the 18-44 years age group in May, he said during an online briefing. "We have four days of vaccine doses for 45 years and above people, and only three-day stock for 18-44 years age group. We will be forced to close the vaccination centres for 18-44 years age group if the Centre does not provide more doses for this month," Sisodia said. The minister said he has demanded the Centre to provide 3.83 lakh doses for the 18-44 years age group in Delhi. "There is a problem in supply of vaccines because the Centre exported crores of doses to many other countries. We are ready to purchase the vaccines but at least they (vaccines) should be available,” he said. "We understand there is a problem of production. But the Centre should make the data on vaccine doses provided by it to different states/UTs for different age categories public," he stated in the letter. The AAP leader further said manufacturers, likewise, should also provide information on how many doses produced by them are being supplied to the governments and private sector establishments. He also sought information from the Union government on the number of doses it will provide in June and July months so that the Delhi government can plan in advance the vaccination programme for the coming months. Meanwhile, the Delhi government officials said under the Centre's free supply, the national capital will receive 50,000 Covishield doses on May 21, 50,000 doses on May 25, 1,00,000 doses on May 26, and 83,970 doses on May 29. Delhi will also receive free 50,000 Covaxin doses on May 22 and 48,890 doses on May 26, they said. The AAP-led Delhi government is yet to make any direct procurement of Covishield and Covaxin from respective manufacturers, they added. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has, however, maintained that orders for supply of 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin were given to the manufacturers concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-will-be-forced-to-shut-down-vaccination-centres-for-18-plus-for-lack-of-vaccines-sisodia-986935.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||If I speak up, I face treason charge: Another BJP MLA questions UP government's handling of the Covid pandemic||The BJP’s Sitapur MLA has become the latest to join the list of ruling party lawmakers in Uttar Pradesh who have expressed resentment over Covid-19 management in the state, saying he feared a sedition charge for speaking up. “What standing do MLAs have? If we speak too much, treason and sedition charges will be slapped on us as well,” Rakesh Rathore told reporters last week, according to a video clip which surfaced Monday. The MLA was replying to a question about ICU facilities in Sitapur. Pressed further, he said, "Do you think any MLA can put forward his point of view?" “Everything is going fine. I will only say that things couldn’t be better,” he said in a sarcastic vein, while replying to another question. “I am not the government. But I can definitely say that whatever the government is telling you, it should be considered as correct," he said. Asked why the district administration is lacking in efforts to control the crisis, the MLA said the government and administration are two sides of the same coin. Other members of the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh too have questioned Yogi Adityanath’s handling of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On May 9, Union Labour minister Santosh Gangwar complained to the chief minister about the situation in his Bareilly constituency, saying officials don't take calls and government health centres send back patients for 'referrals' from the district hospital. In a letter to Adityanath, he also complained about the “big shortage” of empty oxygen cylinders and the high prices of medical equipment in Bareilly. A day later, BJP MLA from Jasrana in Firozabad Ramgopal Lodhi claimed that his coronavirus positive wife was not admitted to an Agra hospital for over three hours, with officials saying that beds were not available. The upset MLA posted a video clip with his complaint on social media, causing embarrassment to the government. Lodhi claimed that his wife was not given medicines and water on time. "What will happen to a common man when an MLA's wife cannot be given proper care," he said in the video, alleging that his wife had to lie on the hospital floor. In April, a "confidential" letter written by UP Law Minister Brajesh Pathak surfaced on social media. Pathak had lashed out at his state's health authorities, complaining that beds for coronavirus patients were falling short and ambulances took hours to arrive in the state capital. The minister did not reject the authenticity of the letter, which appeared to challenge the UP government's claim that it is on top of the situation. "I had written a confidential letter to the government," he had told PTI, declining to share its contents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-i-speak-up-i-face-treason-charge-another-bjp-mla-questions-up-governments-handling-of-the-covid-pandemic-986941.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan ranks second in India in implementing Smart City projects||Rajasthan has stood second among the 36 states and Union territories in the country in the implementation of the Smart City projects with four of its cities making the mark in the mission. In the online ranking accorded by the Union government, four Rajasthan cities, Udaipur, Kota, Ajmer and Jaipur have secured the 8th, 11th, 29th and 36th rank among the 100 smart cities of the country, the state government said Monday in a statement. The Centre accords the ranking taking into account various factors, including the smart city plan implementation, the ongoing work and tendering process besides the utilisation of funds and provision of the utility certificates to the Centre from time to time, the statement said. State’s Urban Development and Housing Minister Shanti Dhariwal said four cities of Rajasthan -- Jaipur, Udaipur, Ajmer and Kota -- have been secured the Smart City Mission rankings. Under the Smart City Mission, the four cities have incurred an expenditure of Rs 1,563 crore against a total amount of Rs 1,845 crore received for various projects. Out of the project amount of Rs 3,965 crore in four cities, 138 works worth Rs 448 crore have been completed and 178 works worth Rs 2,772 crore are in progress while 17 works worth Rs 145 crore are under process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-ranks-second-in-india-in-implementing-smart-city-projects-986948.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan government orders 2,500 vials of anti-black fungus drug||The Rajasthan government has issued orders to purchase 2,500 vials of a drug used in the treatment of black fungus, Health Minister Raghu Sharma said on Monday. Recently, several states have reported a rise in black fungus or mucormycosis cases among Covid-19 patients. The Rajasthan government is in talks with eight big pharmaceutical companies and is also going to issue a global tender for procuring amphotericin-B, the minister said and added that so far, 100 cases of the fungal infection have been reported in the state. Sharma said the state government has ordered purchase of 2,500 vials of amphotericin-B. Mucormycosis is caused by a group of moulds known as mucormycetes present naturally in the environment. It spreads through the nose and affects other parts of the body such as the eyes. Diabetics are more vulnerable to the infection. Rajasthan has received only 700 vials from the Centre. The Union health ministry has agreed to provide 50,000 vials to the state, Sharma said.  The Centre should distribute the medicine to states in proportion of patients so that people can be saved from this serious disease, the minister said. Sharma said it has been seen that after Covid-19, diabetes patients fall prey to black fungus due to prolonged stay in ICU, excessive use of steroid drugs and weak immune system.  Instructions are being issued to give limited amount of steroids during Covid treatment in government and private hospitals, he said. Sharma said a separate ward has been made for treatment of people suffering form black fungus in Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-government-orders-2500-vials-of-anti-black-fungus-drug-986949.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Fresh Covid-19 cases dip but mortality surges in J&K ||Daily cases of Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir continued to fall after hitting a peak earlier this month, but deaths continued to rise as highest-ever single-day fatalities – 73 – were recorded on Monday. According to a daily media bulletin, J&K reported 3,344 fresh cases on Monday, down from 4,141 reported on the previous day. The union territory (UT) recorded 73 deaths, the highest in a single day so far. The total Covid-19 tally in the Union Territory (UT) has reached 2,47,952 and toll 3,222. During the second wave, which has wreaked havoc in J&K, the number of deaths has been increasing at a rapid pace. While the seven-day average of daily cases has fallen steadily from a peak of 3,978 on May 8 to 3,362 on May 15, the average daily fatalities have risen. The seven-day average of daily deaths from May 1 to May 8 was 37.75 per day, which has crossed to 52.42 a week later on May 15. A significant number of deaths have taken place in young and healthy individuals, official data reveals. In the Jammu division, 56 per cent of deaths have been in people aged 60 years and above, while 44 per cent among those aged lesser. In Kashmir, 12 per cent (60) of the victims have been below 45 years of age, while 75 per cent of the victims have been over 60 years of age. At least 7 per cent of the victims were aged less than 45 years in Kashmir.  According to health experts, the current rise in death rate could be attributed to three factors - lack of ICU and ventilators as the UT handles over 50,000 active cases, delay in seeking timely care, and delay in being referred from periphery hospitals to tertiary centres. As per the details shared by the Health Department, 5,400 hospital beds have been designated for Covid-19 patients, of which 3,358 are occupied by patients admitted in various hospitals across J&K.  At least 2,875 Covid-19 patients are on oxygen support and 126 on ventilator support. Meanwhile, normal life continued to remain affected across J&K in view of Corona Curfew that entered into the 19th straight day on Monday even as many people were booked for violating the lockdown. The restrictions on the public movement and assembly continued on Monday. Most of the people stayed indoors. It may be recalled that on April 29, the J&K administration imposed curfew in 11 districts to curtail the spread of Covid-19, which was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-covid-19-cases-dip-but-mortality-surges-in-jk-986991.html
17-05-2021||North and Central||Remdesivir production capacity increased to 1.19 crore vials per month: Govt||Production capacity of Remdesivir, anti viral drug, increased to nearly 1.19 crore vials per month from 38 lakh vials, said the government on Monday. "With accelerated approval of 38 additional manufacturing sites, the number of approved manufacturing sites of Remdesivir in the country has increased from 22 sites to  60 sites. With the help of the Ministry of External Affairs, the manufacturers of Remdesivir are being facilitated for getting supplies of requisite raw materials and equipment from foreign countries," the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertiliser said in a statement. Remdesivir is being used to treat Covid-19 patients. "The drug is being manufactured in India under voluntary licenses granted by Gilead Life Sciences USA, the patent holder, to 7 Indian pharmaceutical companies - Cipla, Dr Reddy’s Lab., Hetero, Jubilant Pharma, Mylan, Syngene and Zydus Cadila," said the statement.  "To augment the domestic production capacity, all the seven domestic licensed manufacturers of Remdesivir were asked to ramp up production quickly. With combined efforts of the central government and the manufacturing companies, the production capacity of the licensed manufacturers has increased unprecedentedly from 38 lakh vials per month to nearly 119 lakh vials per month," said the statement. "The State Governments have been asked to monitor proper distribution within their jurisdiction covering both government as well as private hospitals and in line with judicious use as advised in the National Clinical Guidance for management of adult Covid-19 patients, issued jointly by National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. "State Governments have been advised to place adequate purchase orders with the marketing companies immediately for the quantity that they want to purchase out of allocation for the State as per supply plan in close coordination with liaison officers of the companies. The coordination with private distribution channel in the state is also to be made by the States," said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/remdesivir-production-capacity-increased-to-119-crore-vials-per-month-govt-987011.html
17-05-2021||Oasis||Redundant rituals||Lost in the ‘alleys of faith’, man could never find the spirit of spirituality. So true! Here, the ‘alleys of faith’ are the rituals that are so integral to all faiths and that have impeded our spiritual growth. There’s a famous English adage missing the wood for the trees. The same has happened to humankind in terms of spiritual upliftment. We’ve lost ourselves in the welter of mindless rituals and mistaken them for self-realization. We must weed out the rituals to pare our faith down to the simplest form. If at all god exists, they are not concerned whether you fasted or offered your prayers five times a day, or whether you ate non-veg on Tuesdays or had something sour on Fridays! That is insignificant for someone you believe to be the regulator of the universe. What matters is the purity of your intent and the purpose of your essentially spiritual existence on earth. There’s a beautiful parable in Islamic mysticism. The great Sufi, Bayazid Bastami, never fasted even during the month of Ramzan. Neither did he urge any of his disciples to observe the ritualistic strictness in the holy month of the Islamic calendar. Someone asked him whether he was not blasphemous by behaving in such an ‘unholy’ manner during Ramzan? Bayazid told him, ‘for a poor person, who can’t even make both the ends meet, the whole year is Ramzan because he has to fast perforce all the time. I’m like him, a mendicant who subsists on food and alms given by others. So, why should I make it all the more difficult for myself by further torturing and tormenting my body during the month of fasts?’ The point is, rituals serve no purpose. They make you a slave to religion and a fictional god. Rituals are the debris of a crashed aircraft. Remove them to get to the black box of self-realization. Don’t let rituals get the upper hand and dictate terms to you. Only when you feel spiritually emancipated from within can you evolve further and reach the state of blissful enlightenment. A pure heart needs no trappings or manacles of strict religiosity or ritualistic autocracy. It’s beyond all scriptural hegemony and ritualistic dictatorship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/redundant-rituals-986701.html
17-05-2021||Opinion||A not-so-human-centred vaccination booking system||A few days ago, vaccines were opened to people aged 18 and above. Amidst the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, this was indeed a piece of good news but the euphoria was short-lived. As soon as registration and appointment for slots opened, all hopes came crashing down upon realising the near-impossibility of finding a slot. This was infinitely worse for people who do not have any technological access and know-how. Without the support of high-tech laptops, smartphones, high-speed internet and coding skills to surpass the systematic complexities, their rate of surviving the pandemic also plummeted, just like their hopes. Last year in September 2020, our PM in his keynote address at the US-India Strategic Partnership forum gloated about a new and fresh “human-centric” approach to development and tackling the first wave of the pandemic. But the question that arises here is, to which “human” was he referring? We will look at three emerging patterns following the rollout of the infamous booking system narrative using a human-centred design lens. 1. People are viewed merely as data People are largely viewed as data in the process of designing systems and solutions. Involved engineers and designers, behind the scenes and screens, analyse copious data and figures and crunch numbers to determine use-cases of smartphones in the country to ensure an efficient vaccination drive within the scope of a well-designed app. The basic flaw in this quantitative method does not rest on the shoulders of the technology alone, but on the overall approaches to solving problems with only data-driven inferences. Our culture of hinging on data-driven solutions has ignored the actual lived experiences of the people in the process. The absence of internet literacy, lack of awareness in navigating the interfaces with captcha codes, OTPs and log-ins every few minutes have not just taken a toll on their seamless experience of using the app or website, but on their cognitive experience of using technology or the lack thereof. In a sense, the said people constitute the technologically discriminated “left out” majority. 2. Overuse and dependency on apps for solving system-related problems in India In the recent decade, there are about two million software developers in our country and, out of that, 50,000 focus on developing apps for mobile, as reported by India App Developers. Using apps to solve all of our problems has evolved to be policy makers’ crutch or the solution of first-resort. This level of obsession, dependency and over-use of screen-based solutions has left no scope for thinking about alternative ways of tackling the problem in front of us. Sure, apps have an (important) place in all of our lives. However, we should be cognizant of their limitations, the probability of failure and the cost of that failure. If we draw a comparison between a frequently used app-based platform like BigBasket and the government’s app-based vaccination drive, the impact of failure or delay in the latter on the lives of many will be catastrophic than the former. A recent report says even with the accessibility of smartphones, many people in the slum areas of Delhi have maxed out on booking the slot for four people at a time with one phone number. 3. The efficiency-versus-empathy debate while designing the system The objective of achieving efficiency in the complex process of vaccination has compromised the much-needed empathy towards the “left-out” majority. Designing with empathy is a key tenet of ‘Human-Centered Design’. To empathise would mean redirecting the focus of the vaccination drive to provide accessibility and equity beyond the technological barriers. Empathy isn’t just an emotion, it is taking action for and with different communities such as the marginalised communities, gig economy workers, slum residents, homeless, rural migrants and rural population by understanding the complexity that they might face, technological or otherwise, to get vaccinated. An empathetic vaccination process would have aligned, exacerbated and guaranteed the objectives of vaccination in the entire country with efficiency and efficacy. The irony of this solution, which prioritises efficiency over the inequitable distribution of vaccines, is in the least efficient of the lot. The privileged who can afford to pay for the vaccines or even stay and work from home have been protected than people whose lives and livelihoods depend on it. Adopting human-centred design approaches in preventive healthcare measures such as the vaccination drive would have made a difference in people’s lives. It would have drawn critical insights that could trigger a more robust response when designing the booking processes focusing on accessibility, convenience and efficiency towards the majority. Most importantly, the process begins with asking a potent question, which humans are at the heart of the solution? (The writer is a human-centred designer.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-not-so-human-centred-vaccination-booking-system-986830.html
17-05-2021||Panorama||Urban homelessness needs compatible public interventions||The month of October is being observed as the United Nations Sustainable Cities to prompt the member nations to initiate sustainable and effective measures for the human settlement issues. It encompasses safe housing and decent access to all the housing amenities like safe and potable drinking water, affordable energy for lighting, household sanitation, tide environs and proper drainage facility. From this perspective, urban India clearly portrays greater disappointment. The housing poverty exists quantitatively and qualitatively almost with equi-incidence. But the public intervention to erase the quantitative form of poverty over the years has been grossly inadequate, whereas the qualitative dimensions have not even given the due weightage. This apart, the housing amenities’ deprivations persists voluminously due to the marginal improvement. Therefore, India’s responsive performance to the UNs call is rather disappointing and far from satisfaction, as the housing poverty is experienced by 46 lakh families in urban India. Of this, 22.45 lakh facing the poverty absolutely and the remaining 23.48 lakh families facing the poverty relatively. If the homeless people have resort to housing adjustment with relatives and friends, the others dwell in deficient/collapsible houses without escape. These families face housing threats round the year either due to abnormal conditions or from incessant rain. The families would not have attended major repairs of their homes from time to time owing to their poor status and look up only for public intervention whereas the newly formed families separating from joint families resort to housing adjustments, uncaring the implications. Besides contributing to overcrowding, exerting pressure on the housing amenities like water, sanitation and others have been the other stresses of the adjustments. With these housing realities across the length and breadth of the country, the urban homelessness is in the order of 6 per cent of the total families although the incidence is almost double or more than the average in many states.          The ground realities are worrisome in 14 major states where the incidence more than the national average. Bihar with higher incidence registered the housing threat due to deficient dwelling over the crowded dwelling. The situation is similar in Punjab, West Bengal, Odisha and north-eastern states - Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura. The scenario is exactly opposite in Uttar Pradesh, which has occupied the second position and the incidence persists due to overcrowding. Implicitly, the number of new family formation is large in the case of UP, Sikkim, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. From these two perspectives, the major states account for 26.34 lakh families or 57 per cent of the total homeless people. The remaining 24 states have registered the problem at 19.59 lakh families or 43 per cent. Notwithstanding the typical difference, the average requirement of new housing for each state is in the order of 1.88 lakh units for the first category of states and 1.39 lakh units in the case of the others. Union Territories being small in their geography, demography and directly under the Central administration, are not free from the housing poverty. The total homelessness of all UTs is 2.43 lakh units or 5.29 per cent of the national incidence. But barring Delhi, all the other UTs have been together facing the incidence at 0.20 lakh units, not because of the resource crunch but due to scattered and sparse distribution of the families. Delhi on the other hand being the national capital account to a largest homelessness among the UTs at 2.23 lakh units (92 per cent). The scale and volume being no less than any independent state, the homeless families (1.33 lakh) of Delhi preferred and resort to housing adjustment largely owing to spiralling housing cost and the others (0.90 lakh) deprived preferred to live facing the housing threats of all measures. It only speaks of the ugly dwelling scenario of the poor in the national capital and ineffective housing governance. Housing is a concurrent subject with national and state governments equally share responsibilities to wipe out homelessness. The Centre, besides promulgating the policy, shall share housing expenditure of the states. Similarly, state governments are expected to effectively administer the housing development reflecting on the regional needs. But in reality, the housing administration and the governance have suffered largely due to political differences. That apart, housing poverty has been misconstrued that all the homeless families need same intervention but in reality, single development approach cannot offer solution to the diverse housing poverty. Some need new housing units altogether and the others need improvement of the existing dilapidated houses. This invariably calls for a combination of the development interventions with complementary roles of the public sector to meet the housing needs of the unaffordable sections and the market for affordable sections. It is indeed necessary to evolve a two-pronged strategy to erase housing poverty or homelessness. Unlike hitherto, redevelopment of the dilapidated housing stock needs priority, given its benefit and merit associated like retention of social life and cost effectiveness. Politically, redevelopment and in-situ improvement are the proven sustainable strategy. Equally important is the new housing units to meet the growing number of new families by augmenting government efforts to develop new settlements with amenities like  safe water, drainage, clean environment, solid waste management etc. The urban development authorities must also give up their indolent attitude to ensure these amenities in the already developed layouts. Lastly, housing the floating population or families on temporary in urban areas is also a need of the hour, given the expanding employment opportunities and migration. Municipal administration can no longer be blind to this segment of the housing, to put an end to pavement dwelling practices. The aspirations of the new Urban Housing and Habitat Policy – 2007 could be realised only by changing the present functioning style of the municipal and other urban development institutions. (The writer is Research Professor at the Institute of Finance and International Management, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/urban-homelessness-needs-compatible-public-interventions-986700.html
17-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Contest crazy schools||The pandemic has brought about a sudden shift from the classroom culture in schools to online classes in home comfort. It appears to be becoming the new normal. It may not be long before we are left with only fond memories of the school days. Along with the regular timetable, parents would be invited regularly for interaction with the teachers and the correspondent. They would chip in with their views on important issues concerning the students.  It was the usual parents-teachers meeting for kindergarten students. Every month, invariably, the last Sunday was earmarked for this event, or ritual, if one may call it. Strangely, the school authorities had some issue or the other to hark upon and advise the parents on the areas of concern in bringing up the children. Sometimes, it was the unbridled access to the television sets that hampered the children’s academic progress; sometimes, it was the smartphones that the doting parents pampered their children with. The reception at the gates would start with a bang, with the correspondent welcoming all with a big smile, followed by a sumptuous breakfast. As usual, the cyclostyled letter with the date and time of the meeting was sent to all the parents. This time they had to be accompanied by their wards. The footnote at the bottom read “contests for parents with exciting prizes to be won.” What contest the school would hold for parents? I thought aloud. My colleague, whose son studied in the same class as my daughter, remarked that they may have a quiz competition to test our knowledge or even ask us to sing a song. Being contest crazy, I jocularly stated that even if we were required to shake a leg, I would go for it provided there was an open competition and prizes were on the cards. My colleague burst out laughing. Breakfast over, we proceeded for the meeting. The correspondent readout, “Henceforth, we propose to hold contests exclusively for parents during every meeting. It is for fun but with a purpose, and we encourage parents to whole-heartedly take part. Participants may be required to complete some well-known quotes, correct some grammatically incorrect sentences or write multiplication tables. Are you game for it?” he asked, casting a searching look around and then announced a nursery rhyme contest for the parents. Many were seen squirming in their seats at the unexpected announcement. My colleague promptly stood up. He appeared to be the lone contestant sure to win, hands down. “For a healthy contest, there should be at least two participants,” the correspondent remarked, scanning the register where my colleague was entering the personal details and smiled at me. My colleague had entered my name in the first place before entering his.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/contest-crazy-schools-986698.html
17-05-2021||Second Edit||Climate Change: Scientific approaches required||A recent report has highlighted Asia’s extreme vulnerability to environmental threats. According to risk consultancy firm Verisk Maplecroft, of 100 cities that are at greatest risk to environmental issues such as air pollution and natural disasters, 99 are in Asia. Worryingly, 43 of these cities are in India. India and China account for 80 per cent of the 100 cities most vulnerable to environmental threats. The only non-Asian city to figure in the Top 100 is Lima, the capital of Peru. The study scored 576 of the world’s largest cities on air and water quality, water scarcity, heat stress, vulnerability to natural disasters and climate change. It found Jakarta to be the riskiest city in the world on account of its severe air pollution, seismic threats, perennial flooding and heat waves. Rising sea levels and land subsidence have added to the multiple pressures Jakarta faces. It is now the world’s fastest sinking city.  New Delhi is the second most vulnerable to environmental threats, followed by Chennai at third place. Bengaluru is the 25th most vulnerable city in the list. Air pollution has contributed majorly towards putting Indian cities at risk; 19 of the 20 cities that are most at risk on account of their poor air quality are from India. Poor water quality is another reason for Indian cities being at risk. Poor air and water quality, heat stress and natural disasters take a heavy toll on our health and well-being and cost heavily in terms of human lives.  According to a study published in The Lancet Planetary Health journal last year, air pollution claimed over 1.7 million Indians in 2019; that was 18 per cent of all deaths in the country that year. Water pollution-related diseases cost India around $9 billion annually and claims the lives of around half-a-million people. Some of India’s most densely populated cities are located along its coast. The threat posed by global warming and rising sea levels is already being felt in these cities. The study warns that climate change will enhance the magnitude and intensity of environmental threats. Given the immense vulnerability of its cities to these threats, India needs to work hard to address them. Most natural disasters are not possible to prevent although we can improve our preparedness for them. However, other environmental threats like toxic air and polluted water, as well as global warming, can be addressed. Although massive funds have been allocated for cleaning up our rivers, it has not produced the desired results. Scientific approaches need to be adopted to reduce the magnitude of environmental threats facing India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/climate-change-scientific-approaches-required-986695.html
17-05-2021||South||Cyclone Tauktae: Coast Guard rescues 12 fishermen off Kochi coast||he Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Monday said it rescued 12 fishermen stranded around 35 nautical miles off the Kochi coast amid rough seas due to the incoming Cyclone Tauktae on the night of May 16. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Tauktae has turned into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm" and is expected to hit the Gujarat coast by the evening. "Indian fishing boat Jesus stranded 35 nautical miles off Kochi. ICG ship Aryaman rescued the boat with 12 crew. Boat taken under tow by the ICG ship braving rough seas and brought to Kochi on May 16 night. All crew safe and healthy," the ICG said on Twitter. The IMD, which had earlier not predicted that Tauktae would intensify into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm", said its rapid intensification happened in the early hours of Monday. It now has a wind speed of 180-190 kmph, gusting to 210 kmph. Cyclone Tauktae's intensity will reduce when it hits the Gujarat coast this evening, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-tauktae-coast-guard-rescues-12-fishermen-off-kochi-coast-986751.html
17-05-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh extends Covid-19 curfew till May 31; 9 black fungus cases identified||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has decided to extend the Covid-19 restrictions in the state till the May end. Despite an 18-hour curfew imposed since May 5, the Covid-19 infections have not come under control yet. AP has been reporting over 20,000 cases daily for the last several days. On Sunday, when the samples tested went down to 73,749, the positive cases recorded were 18,561. There are over 2.11 lakh active cases in the state at present. During a review on the pandemic situation and vaccination status at his camp office at Amaravati on Monday, the Chief Minister said that a curfew of a minimum of four weeks is needed to contain the spread. CM said that the guidelines will be the same for the extended curfew, which will be in effect from 12 pm to 6 am. Reddy asked the officials to ensure that the cases do not rise in the rural areas and to focus on developing medical etc., facilities in the Covid Care Centers. Health officials said that they have identified nine black fungus cases across the state. The chances of black fungus infection are high among diabetics and patients using excessive steroids. The CM has directed the officials to include black fungus under the state-sponsored health insurance scheme - Arogyasri and to draft a protocol to identify the black fungus cases at an early stage. The Chief Minister has asked the officials to prepare an action plan to aid the children who lost their parents due to Covid-19. Reddy directed Rs 10 lakh per such child to be deposited in the banks in their name and the interest utilised for their needs. Officials informed that out of 47,825 beds in the 625 Covid care hospitals across the state, 38,492 beds are occupied and that 25,539 patients are given treatment under Arogyasri. While 590 MT per day oxygen is allocated to the state, the demand in all the government and private hospitals is varying from 590 MT to 610 MT. AP made a request to the centre to allot an oxygen express with 80 MT capacity every day from Jamnagar in Gujarat and requested that 130 MT oxygen be supplied from Bellary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-may-31-9-black-fungus-cases-identified-986769.html
17-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis: Don't take steam inhalation without doctors' advice, warns Tamil Nadu Health Minister||With steam inhalation stations cropping up at public places across the state, Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian on Monday warned people against inhaling steam without doctors' advice. He also said inhaling steam in public places could further spread coronavirus and advised authorities agaist allowing such facilities. Steam inhalation centres have come up in Chennai, Coimbatore and Tiruchirapalli over  the past few days – some of them were inaugurated by state ministers – leading to concern among doctors about the efficacy of the method. Several doctors and activists took to social media, requesting the Tamil Nadu government to put an end to the practice of inhaling steam in public places. Pictures of people inhaling steam at Chennai Central Railway Station and in Coimbatore went viral on Twitter. Doctors said such stations could emerge as potential super-spreaders. In a statement on Monday, Subramanian asked people not to inhale steam without doctors' advice as too much inhalation could damage their liver. He also asked organisations from the government and private sector not to promote such practices. “People should not self-medicate, and of late, there is a message that is spreading about inhaling steam. This method may not just damage their liver, but also lead to spread of Covid-19 to people who are next to them. This cannot be considered as medical treatment, and people should consult doctors rather than indulging in self-medication,” the Health Minister said. “People should not go for steam inhalation just based on forwards on WhatsApp and Facebook,” Subramanian added. Dr K Kolandaswamy, former Director of Public Health, Tamil Nadu government, told Deccan Herald thatsteaming is recommended only for those who have Covid-19 symptoms or people who have come in contact with them. He said steaming centres are quite dangerous as they can spread the virus easily because many people use the same equipment. “Taking hot water steam continuously could damage the mucous membrane, and such activities could also reduce the immunity. Steaming is recommended for those who have symptoms and they should do it alone. Everyone should understand that steaming does not possess any preventive action,” Dr Kolandaswamy said. Installation of steamers at public places evoked criticism from the ruling party as well, with Dharmapuri MP Dr S Senthilkumar, a radiologist by profession, saying it was sad to see the government indulging in unscientific and unproven non-clinical trials like Siddha medicine for Covid-19 treatment. “The Chief Minister should form a team of eminent doctors and form an advisory committee to do things in a scientific manner,” Senthilkumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-dont-take-steam-inhalation-without-doctors-advice-warns-tamil-nadu-health-minister-986782.html
17-05-2021||South||Covid-19 crisis: College girl volunteers to conduct funeral of 75-year-old victim in Kerala||In a heartwarming humanitarian gesture, a college girl at Kollam district in Kerala volunteered to conduct the last rites of a 75-year-old person who died of Covid-19. Vincent, a native of Klappana near Karunagapally, about 30 km from Kollam city, died on Friday. His kin were helpless on how to conduct a funeral as all members of the family as well as most of the neighbours were either Covid-infected or under quarantine. But a group of five youths from the locality, including college girl Thripathy, came forward to conduct the last rites. All of them are political workers as well. Although the initial idea was to conduct the funeral at a cemetery, watelogging due to rain led to change of plans. It was decided that the funeral will be conducted within the premises of Vinncent's house, while following all Covid-related protocol. A pyre was set up using a mobile gas crematorium. While Thripathy and others conducted the rituals, family members offered prayers from a distance. Thripathy, who is a second-year political science student, is being widely appreciated for the initiative. She said she had been engaged in Covid relief activities like sanitising infected areas. But this was the first time she had to get involved in a funeral. "In this pandemic situation, all sorts of unusual things are happening around us and, hence, I too did not feel odd having to conduct a funeral, despite being a girl," she said. As India battles the ravaging second wave of coronavirus, many young women are participating in voluntary activities like food supply and sanitisation drives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-crisis-college-girl-volunteers-to-conduct-funeral-of-75-year-old-victim-in-kerala-986863.html
17-05-2021||South||Pinarayi Vijayan's Cabinet to have 21 ministers||The second Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala, to be sworn in on May 20, will have a 21-member cabinet, LDF convenor and CPI(M) acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said here on Monday. The oath-taking ceremony of the new Left government would be a low-key affair with limited invitees in view of the Covid-19 situation, he said here after the crucial state committee meeting of the Left Democratic Front. He also said the portfolios of the ministers would be decided by the Chief Minister. "As the LDF has received immense support from every section of people during the Assembly elections, we want to form a government which has the representation of all sections that can rise to the expectations of everyone," Vijayaraghavan told reporters here. "As of now, the decision is taken to form a 21-member government,"the CPI(M) leader said. CPI(M), the largest coalition partner, in LDF would have 12 members in the new cabinet while CPI, the second largest party, would have 4 nominees while Kerala Congress (M), Janata Dal (S) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) would have one representative each, he said. As there are restrictions to accommodate more than 21 members in the cabinet, the LDF decided to share the ministerial berths to four of its allies, having a single MLA, on a term basis, he said. With this, it has become clear that Antony Raju, (Janadhipathya Kerala Congress), K B Ganesh Kumar (Kerala Congress-B), Ahammad Devarkovil (Indian National League) and Ramachandran Kadannappally (Congress-S) would be inducted into the cabinet in two phases. While the CPI(M) and CPI would hold the speaker and deputy speaker posts respectively, the Chief Whip post would go to a KC-M nominee. The LDF parliamentary party leader would be elected on Tuesday after which the Governor would be consulted with regard to the swearing-in ceremony, he added. Earlier, Vijayan, who chaired the LDF state committee meeting at the CPI(M) headquarters AKG Centre here, cut a cake in the presence of front leaders to celebrate their historic victory in the April 6 Assembly polls. The meeting also paid homage to Kerala Congress (B) former chief, late R Balakrishna Pillai who died earlier this month. The LDF has retained power in Kerala by winning 99 seats, beating its rivals-Congress-headed United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP-NDA. While UDF could manage only 41 seats, the saffron front failed to win any seat in the polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayans-cabinet-to-have-21-ministers-986870.html
17-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu boycotts Centre's meet on NEP 2020, says opposed to three-language policy||Tamil Nadu government on Monday boycotted a virtual meeting hosted by Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on the controversial New Education Policy (NEP) saying the Union Government should consult ministers and not officials on such important issues. State government officials stayed away from the meeting after the Centre did not respond to a letter written by Tamil Nadu School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi to Pokhriyal on Sunday seeking to involve ministers in the meeting. Anbil Mahesh said the state government feels it is only appropriate that ministers who are representatives of a democratically elected government are consulted on such policy decisions and not officials. However, he clarified that the state government is open to holding discussions with the Union Government and was waiting for their response. Addressing a press conference in his home town of Tiruchirapalli, 345 km from Chennai, the minister reiterated that the Tamil Nadu government is opposed to many contours of the NEP including three language policy and conduct of exams for students in standard three, five, and eight. “None of the suggestions proposed by the DMK to the draft policy has been accepted. In our opinion, the NEP will just help people who are settled well to get education. We do not see any schemes or policies that would uplift the backward class, Scheduled Castes, and other communities. We want poor students to benefit from any education policy,” Anbil Mahesh said. The minister also said the government suspected that the three-language formula was an “indirect” way of “imposing Hindi language” in Tamil Nadu, and maintained that the state had adopted a two-language policy since the days of C N Annadurai's Chief Ministership. “The policy also talks about vocational training to students from standard nine. We feel this is nothing but re-introduction of the hereditary education system. The NEP needs to be discussed,” he said. DMK, while in Opposition, had opposed the NEP and had even organised protests against the Union government. The party which owes its rise to the anti-Hindi agitation in Tamil Nadu is steadfast in its opposition to imposition of the language in the state. The previous AIADMK Government had also opposed the three-language policy, and constituted a committee to study the NEP. Anbil Mahesh said the Union Government should proceed with implementing the NEP only after consultations with state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-boycotts-centres-meet-on-nep-2020-says-opposed-to-three-language-policy-986918.html
17-05-2021||South||New govt in Kerala to swear in on May 20; CM's son-in-law among probable ministers||A 21-member second consecutive Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala led by Pinarayi Vijayan will swear in on May 20 afternoon.  Vijayan's son-in-law and DYFI national president Mohammed Riyas's name is also doing the rounds among the youngsters to make it to the new cabinet. Among the incumbent ministers, only Health Minister KK Shailaja was learnt to have ensured a place in the second consecutive cabinet also. Vijayan said that the members of the new Cabinet would be finalised by tomorrow. He said despite the triple lockdown in place in the state capital owing to Covid, at least 500 persons need to be allowed at the swearing-in ceremony to be held in the Central stadium adjacent to the government secretariat. Apart from 140 newly-elected MLAs and 29 MPs from the state, invited representatives of political parties, judiciary, executive and media would be allowed, provided they are tested Covid negative or taken two-dose Covid vaccination. The venue can accommodate up to 50,000 where only 500 would be allowed by strictly adhering to Covid norms. The swearing-in ceremony was delayed mainly to see if the Covid situation would improve, he said. Among the ten parties in the LDF, the CPM that heads the coalition with 62 MLAs is likely to have 12 ministers, while CPI that stands second with 17 may get four cabinet berths. JD(S) and NCP with two MLAs each may get one ministerial berth each, while five coalition partners with one MLA each may have to shares cabinet seats on a rotation basis. The Loktantrik Janata Dal, which is among the one MLA coalition party, was learnt to be denied seat as the CPM was insisting that the party should merge with JD(S). The LDF meeting on Monday was learnt to have reached understandings on seat sharing. LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan, who is also CPM Kerala secretary in charge, said that since all sections of the society have voted in favour of the LDF in this elections, representation of sections would be ensured in the Cabinet also. Sources said that the CPM would be giving prominence to youngsters and new faces in the Cabinet. Though Riyas was eligible to be a minister there were concerns that being the Chief Minister's son-in-law his entry to Cabinet may invite criticisms. Former MLA M B Rajesh and journalist turned politician Veena George are among the new young faces being considered in the cabinet. Even as there was a suggestion that all incumbent ministers from CPM should give way for new faces and youngsters, KK Shailaja would be retained in the cabinet considering her popularity especially in the fight against Covid and NIPAH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-govt-in-kerala-to-swear-in-on-may-20-cms-son-in-law-among-probable-ministers-986928.html
17-05-2021||South||SUN TV donates Rs 10 crore, Rajinikanth Rs 50 lakh to Tamil Nadu Covid-19 fund||The Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) in Tamil Nadu continues to receive donation ever since new Chief Minister M K Stalin made an appeal to contribute generously to help fund the state's fight against Covid-19. Tamil superstar Rajinikanth walked into the Chief Minister's Office at the Secretariat on Monday and handed over a cheque of Rs 50 lakh to the CMPRF. He also gifted a book to Stalin and refrained from presenting him with a bouquet of flowers or a shawl. After the meeting, Rajinikanth also asked people to wear masks and follow Covid-19 guidelines as announced by the government. The day also saw principal Opposition, AIADMK, announcing Rs 1 crore as donation to the CMPRF, while it said MPs and MLAs of the party will also contribute their one month's salary towards the fund. SUN Network, the television conglomerate in South India, donated Rs 10 crore towards the fund. The company's managing director Kalanidhi Maran, who is related to Stalin, met the Chief Minister at his residence and handed over the cheque. Actor Vikram transferred Rs 30 lakh to the fund, while CPI and CPI(M) donated Rs 10 lakh each to the CMPRF. The Tamil Nadu Petroleum dealers' Association donated Rs 50 lakh, Khazana Jewellers (Rs 1 crore), Kamala Theatre (Rs 50 lakh), Sri Muthukumaran Educational Trust (Rs 50 lakh), Prince Jewellery (Rs 25 lakh), and Tamil Nadu Mercantile Bank (Rs 3 crore). Stalin had last week said the amount donated to CMPRF will be used to buy medical equipment, oxygen, and other Covid-19 related activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sun-tv-donates-rs-10-crore-rajinikanth-rs-50-lakh-to-tamil-nadu-covid-19-fund-986929.html
17-05-2021||South||Peak of second Covid wave in Kerala over, says CM||Kerala is past the peak of the second wave of the Covid-19, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday, and told people not to lower their guard. "The experts are of the opinion that the peak of the disease spread is over but we should continue to restrain ourselves, Vijayan told reporters here. He said it is a positive sign that the average number of cases per day has started coming down as a result of the weekend restrictions, night curfews and the general caution implemented before the lockdown. "The number of cases today is a reflection of the infection that happened a week back or earlier. The change we are seeing now suggests that the lockdown may be effective", Vijayan said. He urged the people to exercise caution even after the lockdown. "The review meeting today observed that the declining test positivity rate is reassuring", the Chief Minister said. His statement comes as the State today reported 99,651 recoveries from Covid even as 21,402 people tested positive. Meanwhile, 87 recent deaths were confirmed as due to Covid and the related death toll in the State is now 6,515. "It was a day of relief. It is reassuring that there is a slight decrease in the number of active cases in the State as they have come down from 4,45,000 to 3,62,315", he said. The Chief Minister said strict lockdown restrictions continue. "Triple lockdown is being implemented successfully in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts," he said. Over the last two weeks, eight districts have recorded a decline of 10 to 30 per cent. The lowest decline was in Wayanad district. In Pathanamthitta district, the prevalence of the disease is stable, he said. However, the number of cases is increasing in Kollam, Malappuram, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad districts. In Kollam, there is an increase of 23 per cent, Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/peak-of-second-covid-wave-in-kerala-over-says-cm-986942.html
17-05-2021||South||Greater Chennai Corporation to introduce vaccination at doorstep||With the vaccination drive yet to pick up pace in the metropolis, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Monday announced that it will soon embark on vaccination at doorstep for those living in apartments or groups of people who can mobilise at a commonplace. The city, which had 47,330 active cases as of Monday morning, has vaccinated just 18.47 lakh of its population above the age of 45 in the past four months. Of this, only 4.1 lakh have taken both doses of the vaccine, while 9.92 lakh have taken their first dose as of May 15, 2021. With cases continuing to rise each passing day, the GCC is coming out with numerous ways to speed up the vaccination process – camps at parks, neighbourhood areas, and other places. Alby John, Deputy Commissioner (Health), GCC took to Twitter to announce the civic body's decision to vaccinate people at their doorstep. “If a company, apartment resident welfare association or any group can mobilise over 30 (above 45 age group) individuals, please fill this form. @chennaicorp will schedule a vaccination camp. Vaccination for below 45 age group will be at a later date,” John tweeted by sharing a form that needs to be filled by the needy. Officials said the move is aimed at ensuring hassle-free vaccination for the people so that they don't have to worry about travelling to get vaccinated. They said if the apartment can mobilise 30 or more people, a tent can be erected at the parking lot or some vacant area for the vaccination. Raja Gopal Sunkara, Regional Deputy Commissioner (South), told DH that such drives can be organised for any group that can mobilise more than 30 people. “Such initiatives were done for sanitary workers and others in the past, but this is the first time we are opening it up to everybody. While we will arrange the drive for those above 45 years of age at the earliest, we are also getting details of those below 45 so that we can prepare when we open up vaccination for that age group,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/greater-chennai-corporation-to-introduce-vaccination-at-doorstep-986969.html
17-05-2021||South||Kerala to launch global tender to buy 3 crore Covid vaccines||Amid a shortage of vaccine to fight Covid-19, the Kerala government on Monday announced a global tender for procuring three crore vaccine doses. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state has initiated steps to call for a global tender for sourcing the vaccine doses. "The tender notification will be issued today," he told reporters here. Vijayan said the vaccination of those in the 18-44 age group has started in the state. As announced earlier, vaccinations for those in the 18 to 44 age group will be first given to people who have a serious illness," he said. "In addition, they have to upload the Co-morbidity Form after getting it filled by a registered medical practitioner. Please note that applications without Comorbidity Form will be rejected," he said. So far, 50,178 applications have been submitted and of these, 45,525 applications have been verified, Vijayan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-launch-global-tender-to-buy-3-crore-covid-vaccines-987000.html
17-05-2021||South||Tamil news channels join 'Wear Mask' campaign||"Vanakkam. I welcome you to the news bulletin,” says the anchor wearing a face mask. “I am not wearing a mask since I am in a room, and there is enough distance between myself and the camera man,” the anchor adds after removing the mask. Tamil news channels have added this bit at the beginning of the news bulletin as part of their campaign to create awareness about Covid-19 and its spread. Though most channels have been creating awareness on the coronavirus in their own way, the announcements that underline the importance of wearing masks was added on Monday. This came after Chief Minister MK Stalin met with editors from the television media on Sunday and appealed to them to do their bit in controlling the spread of Covid-19. The government released slogans for the channels to carry them during news bulletins. Even before the meeting, many news channels had carried programmes emphasising the importance of vaccination, and the need to wear face masks. Some channels had also interviewed international experts hailing from Tamil Nadu to reach home the message in the native language. “We have added the phrase to our news bulletins from Monday. We have been airing several programmes since last year. We have been focussing on masking during advertisement breaks, and our bottom line is always about the need to get vaccinated,” S Karthigaichelvan, Managing Editor, Puthiya Thalaimurai, told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-news-channels-join-wear-mask-campaign-987005.html
17-05-2021||South||Bank employee held for siphoning off Rs 8 crore from accounts in Kerala||A bank employee in Kerala was held on charges of siphoning off over Rs 8 crore from various accounts. Vijeesh Varghese, who was a clerk at Canara Bank's Pathanamthitta branch, allegedly siphoned off cash by closing many inactive fixed deposits. His fraudulent activity came to notice in February after he accidentally closed the FD of another bank employee. Vijeesh, who was ex-navy personnel, was absconding. A police team nabbed him from a hideout in Bengaluru on Sunday and he was brought to Kerala. He was learnt to have told the police that he used the money for online games and share trading.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bank-employee-held-for-siphoning-off-rs-8-crore-from-accounts-in-kerala-987018.html
17-05-2021||State||8 killed as cyclone Tauktae pounds coast, Malnad||At least eight people were killed in Karnataka after cyclone Tauktae pounded coastal and Malnad districts with heavy rain and gusty winds on Sunday. The state government scrambled around 1,000 personnel for rescue and relief efforts in the coastal districts as the very severe cyclonic storm cut a swathe of destruction, damaging houses, public property, uprooting trees and electric poles. Cases of severe sea erosion were also reported from the coast. In a tragic incident, a tugboat ‘Alliance’ capsized on Saturday in high seas off Mangaluru coast. Three of the eight-member crew were rescued by locals after they floated ashore using tubes but two were found dead, while three are still missing. The official death figures released by the State Disaster Management Authority on Sunday evening was four, which is yet to include the deaths of ‘Alliance’ crew. Apart from it, an old woman and her grandchild died at Itagi in Belagavi district when the house wall collapsed due to heavy rainfall on Sunday. The tugboat ‘Alliance’ was under contract with the Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) to assist in offloading crude from Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCC). Mangaluru Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said despite warning from the IMD, it was not clear why the tug failed to return to shore on May 14 after completing work of VLCC crude discharge. Manoj Rajan, Commissioner of SDMA, citing survivors, said that a few crew members were sheltered at the boat bunker before it capsized. Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and Coastal Security Police (CSP) will survey the wreck to check for any survivors on Monday. In a second incident involving tugboats, nine members of ‘Coromondel’ were stuck in the boat at Mulki Rocks, located four miles away from Mulki coast near Mangaluru. With waves rising to six metres and wind speed above 25 knots (46 kph), the ICG and CSP were yet to rescue the crew. “ICG’s vessel INS Varaha is just 500 metres away from Mulki Rocks and is closely monitoring the situation,” Coastal Security Police SP R Chethan told DH. The tugboat had adequate essentials and all crew members were seen wearing life jackets. They had sent a video appealing for help, which went viral on social media. Sources said the Coromondel’s contract with the New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) had ended six months ago. After the rescue operations, the NMPT will have to submit a report on why the tug was anchored at port and not shifted to safe place despite cyclone warning, sources added. State authorities have also requested Indian Navy for a helicopter to rescue the crew, which will be deployed from Goa as soon as weather permits. According to IMD, heavy rainfall is forecast for parts of the state even as the intensity of Tauktae subsided as it moved northward towards the Gujarat coast. Widespread to fairly widespread rainfall is likely in Karnataka during the course of the week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/8-killed-as-cyclone-tauktae-pounds-coast-malnad-986677.html
17-05-2021||State||Reserving solitary post for SC/ST doesn't stand scrutiny of law: HC||The High Court has said that reserving a solitary post in favour of a candidate belonging to SC/ST would not stand the scrutiny of law. Allowing a petition filed by a mathematics lecturer, employed in an aided PU college at Mandya, the court said that the reservation should be subject/discipline-wise. The court said clubbing of vacancies and operating the roster is contrary to the judgments of the Supreme Court. The petition filed by M S Rashmi, working at PES College in Mandya since September 2007. She challenged the September 22, 2019 notification calling for applications from candidates belonging to SC (women) in mathematics subject. The petition said that fixing reservation for a particular category, single cadre post would amount to 100% reservation, which is impermissible. On the other hand, the government contended that as long as government orders are in force, directing clubbing of vacancies, even a single post can be notified in favour of candidates belonging to SC or ST. Justice M Nagaprasanna referred to judgments passed by the Karnataka High Court as well as the Apex Court where it has been held that reservation has to be subject-wise. “Insofar as clubbing of the vacancies is concerned, for application of reservation i.e., clubbing of all the vacancies in all the subjects and then notifying the post and reserving the same in favour of candidates belonging to either Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes will also fall foul of the judgments rendered by the Apex Court. The Apex Court following the judgments rendered earlier had clearly held that reservation shall be subject/discipline-wise. Clubbing of vacancies and operating the roster is contrary to the judgments rendered earlier,” the court said. The court granted liberty to the management to undertake a fresh exercise in accordance with law. However, the bench directed the college not disturb petitioner’s services till such exercise is undertaken. The petitioner had joined the college as a mathematics lecturer in September 2007. In 2019, the college issued a notification and determined the reservation on the basis of clubbing, in terms of the state government’s directive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reserving-solitary-post-for-sc/st-doesnt-stand-scrutiny-of-law-hc-986970.html
17-05-2021||State||Covid burials at private lands: HC seeks govt response||The High Court has directed the state government to respond to an Interlocutory Application (IA) filed raising concerns over recent permission granted for the burial of body at private places in the wake of surging cases of Covid-19. The IA referred to the circular dated April 21 wherein death certificate is made mandatory only in case of inter-district and inter-state transport of Covid-19 confirmed bodies. The IA is filed by Bharat Punarutthana Trust, an NGO. The April 21 circular, issued by the state executive committee under the Disaster Management Act, contains detailed guidelines on cremations. The applicant stated that many granite quarries on the outskirts of Bengaluru city have been converted into temporary burial grounds. In addition, the circular also stated that the relatives can bury the dead bodies in their own lands. According to the applicant, there is no state regulation or control on whether precautions and safety protocols are followed in case of privateburials.    Taking the IA on record, a special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar acknowledged that it as a serious issue and asked the state government to look into it. The applicant prayed for direction to the authorities to provide basic amenities at the burial grounds, particularly the ones established in the granite quarries and other non-designated places. The applicant also sought directions for strict compliance with the provisions of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969. The applicant, quoting media reports, said that there are allegations that huge amounts to the tune of even Rs 50,000 is being demanded for cremation services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-burials-at-private-lands-hc-seeks-govt-response-986974.html
17-05-2021||State||JSW Steel’s Covid hospital to open tomorrow||The newly created temporary hospital to treat Covid-19 patients by JSW Steel at Toranagallu near Ballari is likely to be inaugurated on Wednesday. The company has laid a five-km long pipeline from its steel plant to supply gaseous oxygen to this hospital, JSW Steel sources told DH. To begin with, the hospital is equipped with 200 beds and the capacity will be increased to 1,000 beds gradually, sources said. Although the Ballari district administration is yet to recruit the required medical staff to run the hospital, the Covid care hospital is ready for operations. The company has csompleted the construction of the hospital on the government school campus adjacent to its steel plant in Toranagallu with required medical equipment. The district administration of Ballari has invited applications for 50 posts of doctors to run this hospital. "We have completed the construction of the temporary hospital and provided the required infrastructure. It is up to the district administration to recruit the necessary medical staff and run the hospital," JSW Steel sources said. JSW Steel has provided beds, medical equipment, and oxygen pipeline to this hospital. The hospital will be catering to patients from Ballari and other neighbouring districts.  The steelmaker has also increased the supply of oxygen to 860 tonnes per day at its steel plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jsw-steel-s-covid-hospital-to-open-tomorrow-986978.html
17-05-2021||State||Karnataka govt to revive defunct oxygen plants: Jagadish Shettar||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who is in charge of oxygen supply management, tells Shruthi H M Sastry how the situation currently is and the way forward for Karnataka. Excerpts:  What’s the daily requirement of oxygen in Karnataka? The requirement of medical oxygen is increasing day by day. We need anywhere between 1,200 MT to 1,700 MT daily, depending on the severity of cases. The Centre has allocated 1,015 MT of oxygen to Karnataka.  During normal periods oxygen allocation to the state was 300 MT. When the pandemic began, it increased to 500 MT. From then it went up in stages to 765 MT, 865 MT and 965 MT. Now it has gone up to 1,015 MT. Isn’t this contempt of court? The High Court had directed the Centre to give Karnataka 1,200 MT of oxygen. No. It was a suggestion made by the High Court and the Supreme Court. The Courts asked the Centre to increase it to 1,200 MT based on the state’s submission of the oxygen required. The government said it will take the decision after discussion with the state. This is where the Court’s observation stands. This will not be a contempt. Will the government not ask the Centre to increase the allocation? We’ve already asked. In the current situation, even if the Centre gives us up to 1,700 MT, it’ll be useful. The government said it wants to use all the oxygen produced in the state. Has the Centre agreed? All the manufacturing units put together produce 1,100 MT of oxygen. We’re asking for this entire quantity to be allowed for our use. At present, we’re using only 765 MT here and sending the rest to other states. Meanwhile, we’re getting 160 MT from Odisha and 30 MT from Visakhapatnam. What we get from Odisha is usually delayed as it requires three days for it to reach Karnataka. I’ve personally spoken to Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and have also written letters. The Centre has said a decision will be taken at an appropriate time. They’ve neither denied nor approved the request. There’s been a spike in cases in districts across the state. However, the focus seems to be on Bengaluru alone.  There is a nodal team of officers working 24/7 to monitor the situation across the state. They’re assessing the daily requirement of oxygen in each district. Since Bengaluru has the highest number of cases and the population is large, it may appear that the focus is more here. But that does not mean we are neglecting other districts. Is it a sustainable option to continue waiting for the Centre to increase our oxygen allocation or wait for supply from other states? We definitely want to become self-sufficient. We’re working towards increasing the supply of oxygen concentrators and generators. The Centre has promised to give 7,000 concentrators. The Centre is also encouraging setting up of oxygen plants at taluk centres. If this is put in place, the fight for oxygen won’t be there. Oxygen concentrators are also cost-efficient. You’ll get a 5-litre concentrator for Rs 40,000- Rs 50,000 and a 10-litre one for about Rs 70,000. Individuals can also directly purchase. All this will be a step towards self-sufficiency. Is the government looking at increasing oxygen plants? Yes. We want to set up more oxygen plants. We’re looking at reviving defunct oxygen plants. There are such defunct plants in Yelahanka, Raichur and Bidar. We recently revived an oxygen plant in VISL, Bhadravati. This led to the supply of 150 oxygen cylinders from here. In addition, if we set up another compressor here, it can produce 500 cylinders. Our priority is to revive defunct plants first as setting up new ones will take at least three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-revive-defunct-oxygen-plants-jagadish-shettar-986980.html
17-05-2021||State||After oxygen buses, KSRTC to launch 'ICU on Wheels'||After introducing two oxygen buses, the KSRTC is set to unveil by Wednesday its 'ICU on wheels,' equipped with ventilators, ECG machines and other equipment. KSRTC officials said in rural areas, travelling to an hospital may take more than an hour, thus necessitating such emergency vehicles. KSRTC managing director Shivayogi C Kalasad said the bus will act like a step down ICU to save patients in the golden hour. "Each bus will accommodate six patients. We will have four ventilators, ECG and other equipment that are required during an emergency," he said. All the six beds will have oxygen supply with separate cylinders. Two auxillary oxygen cylinders and a concentrator will provide backup. A small electricity generator will also be placed on the bus. A private organisation has join hands with the KSRTC to provide trained medical personnel. Kalasad said the corporation may have to spend Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh to convert a bus into an ICU, depending on the facilities on board. "It is still very economical because most of the work on conversion and installation happens within our workshop. But we will require help from established hospitals to accomplish the dream of deploying one ICU bus in each district," he said. KSRTC had launched a similar bus back in 2018 to help flood victims in Kerala. The managing director said the first bus will act as a first and last-mile emergency ICU vehicle for its Jayanagar hospital. "We are working on giving a facelift to our hospital in Jayanagar. We want to enhance its bed capacity from 40 to 60 and make all of them oxygenated beds. We have reached out to Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya seeking further help, especially medical personnel," he said. The bus, he said, will provide service in the golden hour to the public along with the employees of the corporation. "We will give priority to employees in need of such facility. But the bus will welcome all," he said. On Monday, the KSRTC deployed two 'Oxygen on Wheels' buses in Chikkaballapur and Anekal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/after-oxygen-buses-ksrtc-to-launch-icu-on-wheels-986983.html
17-05-2021||State||Teacher on Karnataka bypoll duty, 3 family members die of Covid||In a shocking incident, a 41-year-old teacher who was deployed for the recently concluded Belgaum bypoll duty, and her three family members including her husband succumbed to Covid-19 infection in a span of 19 days. Rajeshwari, who was deputed to Gannur booth in Ramdurg taluk, died at a private hospital in Bagalkot on April 26. Days later, her husband Venkatesh Vantigodi (45), a BCM hostel warden at Batagurki, her parents Ramanna Udapudi (70) and Lakshmibai (65) also died due to Covid-19 complications. Her parents were retired teachers and natives of Saalur in Ramdurg taluk. "A week after the bypoll duty Rajeshwari contracted Covid-19. We admitted her to a hospital in Bagalkot. But she failed to respond to treatment and died on April 26. Four days later, her parents died while husband Venkatesh succumbed to infection on May 15," Tippanna Udapudi, deceased teacher's relative, told DH. As many as 36 teachers have died of Covid-19 in the district, so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/teacher-on-karnataka-bypoll-duty-3-family-members-die-of-covid-986986.html
17-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 lockdown, if extended in Karnataka, should be 'pro bono', says H D Kumaraswamy||Amid talks about extending the lockdown in Karnataka as the state battles the second wave of Covid-19, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Monday told the government that it should be "pro bono," where economic and food relief to the needy is taken care of. Noting that lockdown is a step towards saving lives, but livelihoods should also be taken care of, Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets, accused the Centre of leaving the responsibility of announcing the lockdown on the state and washing its hands off, as it would have to provide relief to the people if such announcements are made. "There are reports that the state government is mulling extending the lockdown. If at all it is extended it should be pro bono. The extended lockdown should take care of providing economic and food relief. At the all-party meeting too what we had suggested was a lockdown with an intention of public good," the former Chief Minister tweeted. ನೆರೆಯ ರಾಜ್ಯಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಲಾಕ್‌ಡೌನ್‌ ಹೇಗಿದೆ, ಜನರಿಗೆ ಹೇಗೆ ನೆರವು ಸಿಗುತ್ತಿದೆ ಎಂಬುದನ್ನು ರಾಜ್ಯ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಒಂದು ಬಾರಿ ಅವಲೋಕಿಸಬೇಕು. ಜನರನ್ನು ಮನೆಗಳಿಂದ ಹೊರ ಬಾರದಂತೆ ತಡೆಯುವುದಷ್ಟೇ ಈ ಲಾಕ್‌ಡೌನ್‌ನ ಉದ್ದೇಶವಾಗಬಾರದು. ಜನರ ಸಹಭಾಗಿತ್ವದೊಂದಿಗೆ ವೈರಾಣುವನ್ನು ನಿಗ್ರಹಿಸುವುದು ಉದ್ದೇಶವಾಗಬೇಕು. ಅದಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ಜನರಿಗೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಅಗತ್ಯ.2/4 ಲಾಕ್‌ಡೌನ್‌ ಜನರ ಜೀವ ಉಳಿಸುವ ಕ್ರಮ ಹೌದು. ಆದರೆ, ಈ ಲಾಕ್‌ಡೌನ್‌ ಜನರ ಬದುಕನ್ನು ಹೈರಾಣಾಗಿಸುತ್ತಿದೆ ಎಂಬುದೂ ನಮಗೆಲ್ಲರಿಗೂ ಅರಿವಿಗೆ ಬಂದಿರುವ ವಿಚಾರ. ಹೀಗಾಗಿಯೇ ನಾವು ಸೂಚಿಸುತ್ತಿರುವ ಜನಹಿತದ ಲಾಕ್‌ಡೌನ್‌ ಮಾಡುವುದರತ್ತ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಆದ್ಯತೆ ನೀಡಬೇಕು. ಜನರ ಜೀವ ಉಳಿಸುತ್ತಲೇ, ಜೀವನಕ್ಕೂ ನೆರವಾಗುವುದು ಜನಪರ ಸರ್ಕಾರವೊಂದರ ಕರ್ತವ್ಯ.4/4 Stating that the government should review how lockdown is being implemented in neighboring states and how the people are getting assistance, he said, "the intention of the lockdown should not only be restricting people from coming out of their houses, but should be aimed at containing the virus with public cooperation." Though the state is currently under complete lockdown till May 24, there have been voices, including by several senior Ministers in favour of extending it, aimed at controlling the spread of the virus. Accusing the Centre of putting the responsibility of lockdown on states, not wanting to take the onus of providing relief, Kumaraswamy said, the state government should not neglect the people as the Centre did and should focus on addressing their needs and provide relief during the lockdown. "It is true that lockdown is a step towards saving the lives of people, but we are also aware of its ill-effects on the livelihood of the people. So the state government should give priority towards the pro bono lockdown that we are suggesting," he said, adding that it is the duty of a pro- people government to support livelihood while saving lives. During the all-party meeting held on April 20 too, Kumaraswamy had advocated for imposition of lockdown to control the spike in Covid-19 cases, and had said that the government should announce financial assistance and provide relief for the needy. According to sources, there is discussion within the government to extend lockdown to control the spike in cases, as it seems to be yielding results. Karnataka on Sunday had reported 31,531 new cases of Covid-19, and 403 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 22,03,462 and the death toll to 21,837. Total number of active cases in the state stood at 6,00,147. The Congress' Karnataka unit too has urged the state government to announce a financial package and come to the rescue of those whose livelihood has been affected by the Covid-19 induced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-lockdown-if-extended-in-karnataka-should-be-pro-bono-says-h-d-kumaraswamy-986788.html
17-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||121 villages affected by Cyclone Tauktae in Karnataka, six dead||Six people have lost their lives so far in the Cyclone Tauktae-hit coastal and surrounding Malnad districts of Karnataka, officials said on Monday. According to a situation report by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials, till this morning, 121 villages and 22 taluks have been affected by the cyclone so far. A total of 547 people have been evacuated till now, it said, 290 people are currently taking shelter in the 13 relief camps that have been opened. Damages to a total of 333 houses, 644 poles, 147 transformers, 3,004.3 meters of lines, 57 km of road, 57 nets and 104 boats have been reported so far, it said adding that, agriculture crop loss has been estimated in about 30 ha till now and horticulture crop loss is about 2.87 ha. The Met department has forecasted thunderstorms accompanied by lightning with light to moderate spells of rain and gusty winds speed reaching 30-40 kmph is likely to affect Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Haveri, Dharwad, Chamarajanagara, Mysuru, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts. Officials on Sunday had said, as the cyclone system was moving further north, towards the Maharashtra coast, the impact of cyclone is likely to reduce from Monday over the state. Around 1,000 trained personnel from fire force, police, coastal police, home guards, SDRF have been deployed in the three coastal and neighboring districts for rescue and relief operations, and NDRF teams have also been roped in. Meanwhile, officials said, all 9 crew stranded on tug 'Coromandel' have been rescued. Indian Navy's ALH helicopter has rescued four seamen stranded onboard the Tug which had run aground close to the coast of New Mangalore, while 5 of them were rescued by boat, they said, adding that they are being provided medical treatment. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has thanked the Indian Navy and Coast Guard for the rescue operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/121-villages-affected-by-cyclone-tauktae-in-karnataka-six-dead-986855.html
17-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Discussions under way on extending lockdown in Karnataka, no decision yet, says CM||Discussions are on regarding extending the lockdown in Karnataka, but no decision has been taken yet on the matter, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Monday, as the State battles the second wave of Covid-19. "I'm discussing it, will let you know... no decision has been taken yet...," Yediyurappa told reporters in response to a question on extending the lockdown and announcing a package. Though the state is currently under complete lockdown till May 24, several leaders, including ministers, have expressed themselves in favour of extending it. The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the cases continued to spike. Revenue Minister, R Ashoka, also Vice-Chairman of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, who has been batting for the extension of curbs, today said lockdown has been useful as daily fresh cases in Bengaluru have come down from 22,000 to 8,000 and it will be good to extend the shutdown. Noting that because of lockdown, the number of daily cases has come down in Maharashtra and Delhi too, he said, three days before the current shutdown ends, senior ministers will meet under the leadership of the Chief Minister and take a decision. Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani too said, it will be good if lockdown is extended for some more days. Health Minister K Sudhakar, in response to a question about extending the restrictions, said it will be discussed at the meeting chaired by the Chief Minister. Union Minister Sadananda Gowda too recently had said lockdown has to be extended if need be, as it has been yielding results, with major cities including Bengaluru witnessing decline in daily Covid positive cases. Meanwhile, the Congress and JD(S) have urged the state government to provide relief, including financial and food, and come to the rescue of those whose livelihood has been affected by the Covid-19 induced shutdown. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy today urged the government that the lockdown, if extended, should be "pro bono", where economic and food relief to the needy is taken care of.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/discussions-under-way-on-extending-lockdown-in-karnataka-no-decision-yet-says-cm-986886.html
17-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||97 cases of black fungus reported in Karnataka since Covid-19 outbreak: K Sudhakar||As many as 97 people in the state contracted mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, as post-Covid complications in Karnataka, state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Monday. "Till yesterday 97 people contracted this (black fungus) disease in the state," Sudhakar told a press conference after a meeting with experts on the black fungal infection. He, however, appealed to the people not to panic as it does not spread like Covid. "It did affect a few people in the state, which I accept...compared to previous years, this year it is more in number," the Minister said. Sudhakar, who is a medical professional, suspected that this disease comes from the usage of tap water. "I appeal to the para medical staff, use only sterilised water extracted from the humidifier," Sudhakar told the doctors and paramedics. According to him, usage of excess steroids among the diabetic patients increased their sugar level, which eventually caused black fungus. After contracting Covid, diabetic patients will have to control their sugar level, Sudhakar said, adding, those who did not control it fell prey to black fungus. In view of the occurrence of mucormycosis among Covid patients, Sudhakar announced notifying regional centres in the state for its treatment. These Centres are Mysuru Medical College, Shivamogga Institute of Medical College, Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences in Kalaburagi, Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences at Hubballi, Kasturba Medical College and Wenlock District Hospital in Mangaluru. The state has already requested the Centre to supply 25,000 doses of Amphotericin B, an anti-fungal medication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/97-cases-of-black-fungus-reported-in-karnataka-since-covid-19-outbreak-k-sudhakar-986888.html
17-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 38,603 new Covid cases, 476 deaths||Karnataka reported 38,603 new cases of Covid-19, and 476 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 22,42,065 and the toll to 22,313, the Health department said on Monday. The day also saw 34,635 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 13,338 new cases. As on May 17 evening, cumulatively 22,42,065 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 22,313 deaths and 16,16,092 discharges, a department bulletin said. Total number of active cases in the state stood at 6,03,639. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 39.70 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.23 per cent. Among 476 deaths reported on Monday, 239 are from Bengaluru Urban, Hassan (29), Ballari (17), Kalaburagi, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada (15), Tumakuru (14), Bengaluru Rural (13), Mandya (10), followed by others. Hassan recorded 2,324 new cases, Ballari 2,322, Mysuru 1,980, Tumakuru 1,915, Belagavi 1,748, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 10,64,396, followed by Mysuru 1,14,107 and Tumakuru 83,394. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 6,90,291, followed by Mysuru 98,669 and Ballari 56,265. A total of over 2,79,76,933 samples have been tested so far, of which 97,236 were tested on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-38603-new-covid-cases-476-deaths-986977.html
17-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Stop 'hotchpotch' decisions, angry Minister confronts BSY||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa had to face the ire of Minor Irrigation Minister JC Madhuswamy who lashed out at the government on Monday alleging apathy in addressing Covid-19 problems in the Tumakuru district. Madhuswamy, who is the minister in charge of Tumakuru, told Yediyurappa during a video conference that the pandemic cannot come under control if the government continued taking "hotchpotch" decisions, which he said made things difficult. "We need 28 KL oxygen, but we're getting only 17-18 KL. I begged (Deputy CM) Ashwath Narayan to sanction an oxygen plant, but it wasn't done," Madhuswamy said. Tumakuru currently has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases after Bengaluru. The irate minister was also seen telling the CM to first ensure that those with him worked efficiently, before reviewing the work done in the districts. "Ask those with you to work liberally with the sense that the state belongs to everyone. Even when we point out issues, none bothers to addressing them. Later if you complain about lacunae, how can we solve the problems," Madhuswamy asked. "Our district hasn't received a single small solution to the problems." Madhuswamy cited testing as an example of the government's erratic decisions: "One day you stop, another day you say continue, then you send equipment, then you suddenly ask us to stop rapid antigen tests (RAT). If hotchpotch decisions continue, we may not be able to control this pandemic disease." Yediyurappa said Tumakuru received 23 KL oxygen on May 16, which Madhuswamy contested. The minister also red-flagged the availability of remdesivir, while seeking permission to allow Tumakuru to use up all its available vaccine stock. Madhuswamy is known to be outspoken. Last month, he publicly decried "authoritarian policies" of the Centre on state subjects. However, he is visibly keeping a low-profile ever since Yediyurappa reshuffled ministerial responsibilities, taking from him the law and parliamentary affairs portfolio early this year. In fact, Madhuswamy threatened to resign after he lost the minor irrigation portfolio, forcing Yediyurappa to give it back to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stop-hotchpotch-decisions-angry-minister-confronts-bsy-987008.html
17-05-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 survivor dies of mucormycosis||An employee of the Osmanabad Zilla Parishad in Maharashtra died of mucormycosis or black fungus infection, an official said on Sunday. He was recently recovered from Covid-19 infection but contracted the fungal infection which affected his eyes, he said. To stop the spread of the fungal infection, one eye of the patient was removed surgically during treatment. He died while undergoing treatment at a hospital in neighbouring Solapur, as per the official. The deceased was the first victim of mucormycosis from Osmanabad district, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-survivor-dies-of-mucormycosis-986678.html
17-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae now an 'extremely severe' storm; to reach Gujarat Monday evening: IMD||The severe cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' over the Arabian Sea has intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm and is expected to reach the Gujarat coast Monday evening, the India Meteorological Department said. Around 1.5 lakh people are being shifted from low- lying coastal areas in Gujarat while 54 teams of the NDRF and SDRF remained deployed after IMD's warning that Tauktae will reach the state coast on Monday evening and cross it Tuesday morning. "The cyclonic storm "Tauktae" has further intensified into an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm (ESCS) at 000 UTC and lay centred at 18.5N/71.5E, with a ragged eye," the IMD tweeted Monday morning. "Very Severe Cyclonic Storm "Tauktae" over the East-central Arabian Sea intensified into an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm: Cyclone Warning & post-landfall outlook for Gujarat & Diu coasts (Red message)," the IMD tweeted. Skymet, a private company that provides weather forecast and solutions said landfall is likely between Gujarat's Mahuva and Porbandar areas and close to Diu. "A swathe of 100 km on either side of the anticipated strike always remains vulnerable," it said. Gujarat additional chief secretary Pankaj Kumar said 25,000 people have already been moved to safer places. In Mumbai, five temporary shelters each have been put up in 24 civic wards of the metropolis so that citizens can be shifted there if necessary. The IMD has issued an orange alert for Mumbai warning of very heavy rains at isolated places with strong winds on Monday as Tauktae is likely to pass close to the Mumbai coast. Three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) stationed in the western suburbs of Mumbai have been put on alert. Teams of the Indian Navy are also kept on standby, officials said. Meanwhile, in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra, two persons died and another was injured after a tree fells on a hut, an official said. It wasn't clear if the incident was directly related to the severity of the cyclonic storm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-now-an-extremely-severe-storm-to-reach-gujarat-monday-evening-imd-986737.html
17-05-2021||West||Earthquake of 4.5 magnitude strikes Gujarat's Gir Somnath district||An earthquake of magnitude 4.5 hit Gujarat's Gir Somnath district in the early hours of Monday, officials said. No casualty or damage to property was reported, they said. The earthquake was recorded at 3.37 am with its epicentre one kilometre South-East of Una in the Gir Somnath district located in Saurashtra region, an official of the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research said. "There has been no damage or casualty," Gir Somnath Collector Ajay Prakash said. On July 16 last year, an earthquake of 4.8 magnitude was recorded near Rajkot in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/earthquake-of-45-magnitude-strikes-gujarats-gir-somnath-district-986741.html
17-05-2021||West||IMD upgrades rain forecast as Cyclone Tauktae brings heavy showers, strong winds to Mumbai||Gusty winds and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday as the "very severe cyclonic storm" Tauktae headed towards Gujarat, uprooting trees and disrupting local train services in the metropolis, officials said. The IMD has warned of extremely heavy rain and wind speed upto 120 kmph over the next few hours, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in the afternoon. Currently, several parts of Mumbai and neighbouring areas are witnessing heavy downpour coupled with strong winds. "The IMD has upgraded the warning to extremely heavy rainfall in Mumbai for next few hours," BMC's spokesperson Tanaji Kamble said. The Bandra-Worli sea-link was closed for traffic in view of the strong winds and people were asked to take alternate routes, another senior official of the BMC said. The Colaba area in south Mumbai recorded a wind speed of 102 km per hour around 11 am, the highest for the day so far, IMD Mumbai's senior director Shubhangi Bhute said. Between 8.30 am and 11 am, the IMD's Colaba observatory (representative of south Mumbai) recorded 79.4 mm rainfall, while the Santacruz observatory (representative of suburbs) recorded 44.5 mm rain, she said. Local trains services of the Central Railway were disrupted between suburban Ghatkopar and Vikhroli for about half-an-hour as a tree fell on an overhead wire while a train was heading towards neighbouring Thane, a railway spokesperson said. Services on the harbour line, that provides rail connectivity to Navi Mumbai, were also affected after a vinyl banner fell on an overhead wire between Chunabhatti and Guru Tej Bahadur stations around 11.45 am. The banner was removed after about half-an-hour and train services were resumed, he said. Due to the strong wind, some plastic sheets covering the roof of the common passenger area between the suburban and main lines at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) were blown away in the morning, he said. The area was cordoned off and the railway staff immediately attended to it, he said. Despite the civic body's claims of drains having been cleaned as part of preparedness for the upcoming monsoon season, there was water-logging in several low-lying areas of the city. The Mumbai police tweeted about water-logging in six low-lying areas, including the Hindmata junction, Andheri subway and Malad Subway, crucial for the east-west connectivity. A citizen in a Twitter post claimed a temporary pandal erected for vaccination in Dahisar was partially damaged due to the heavy rain and high velocity winds. However, civic officials did not confirm it. As a precautionary measure, the monorail services in the city were suspended for the day, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) said. This was a "prompt decision" taken for the safety of commuters, the MMRDA said. Earlier in the morning, KS Hosalilar, head SID, Climate Research & Services, IMD Pune in a tweet said, "#TauktaeCyclone. Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm now. Mumbai 160 km Veraval Guj 290 km Take care ...North Konkan, Mah coast and Guj." In another tweet, he said Mumbai was quite windy and asked citizens to take care and keep a tab on updates from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). "#TauktaeCyclone Today morning at 0700 hrs Mumbai much much windy now, Overcast Sky, now mod rains and can pickup soon. No water logging so far...," Hosalikar tweeted. The IMD earlier forecast moderate to intense spells of rain with gusty winds reaching 90-100 kmph are likely to occur at isolated places in Raigad, Palghar, Mumbai, Thane and Ratnagiri districts. According to civic officials, around 34 incidents of tree fall were reported in Mumbai since Sunday, but there no report of any injury to anyone. The civic-run Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking has deployed officers of its transport and power wings at various locations, including control rooms for disaster management. On Sunday, the IMD issued an orange alert for Mumbai, predicting heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places with strong winds on Monday. According to civic officials, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the Indian Navy were on alert as Cyclone Tauktae intensified to a very severe cyclonic storm and was passing close to Mumbai. Six flood rescue teams of the Mumbai fire brigade were deployed at chowpatties and five temporary shelters each were kept ready in 24 civic wards of the city to shift citizens there if required, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imd-upgrades-rain-forecast-as-cyclone-tauktae-brings-heavy-showers-strong-winds-to-mumbai-986749.html
17-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Mumbai Airport shut from 11 am to 2 pm||The operations at the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will remain suspended from 11 am till 2 pm on Monday in view of the cyclone alert, the private airport has notified. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for Mumbai, warning of very heavy rains at isolated places with strong winds on Monday as cyclone Tuaktae is likely to pass close to the Mumbai coast. “The operations at Mumbai Airport need to be closed from 11 am local time to 2 pm local time of May 17,” CSMIA said in a notification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-mumbai-airport-shut-from-11-am-to-2-pm-986750.html
17-05-2021||West||Tauktae, most severe cyclone in the past two decades, to make landfall in Gujarat between 8 and 11 pm Monday||Cyclone Tauktae is likely to make a landfall in Gujarat on Monday night between Porbandar and Mahua in Bhavnagar district in Saurashtra region from 8 pm to 11 pm as a "Very Severe Cyclonic Storm" with wind speeds of around 155 to 165 km per hour with an intensity of 185 km per hour, the latest bulletin released by India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Following instructions from IMD, the Gujarat Maritime Board, the regulatory body of ports in the state, issued hoisting of warning signal-10 at ports falling in the direction of the Cyclone. According to government officials, the Cyclone looks "extremely dangerous" and may be as devastating as the Cylcone in1998. Coastal districts such as Porbandar, Junagadh, Gir-Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar and Devbhumi Dwarka are likely to be worst affected. Besides, Botad, Surendranagar, Rajkot, Anand and Ahmedabad districts will be impacted.  In view of the approaching cyclone, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters that 1.5 lakh people have already been shifted from low-lying areas to safer places in 930 shelter homes and all 1,400 designated Covid-19 hospitals have been asked to keep power backup in case of power cuts due to the storm. Pankaj Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Home, said in a statement that people had been shifted to safer places from 655 villages of 17 districts which are likely to be affected. "Keeping in mind all the possibilities in view of the approaching storm, government is prepared to manage the crisis. We have shifted maximum people from coastal areas which are likely to be affected due to strong wind and heavy rains. So far, 1.5 lakh people from these areas have been shifted to safer locations. I appeal to people who are living along the coastline not to venture out," Rupani told reporters. He said that the state is going through an "extraodinary time" caused by coronavirus infection and cyclonic storm brewing in the Arabian sea. He said that 444 medical teams, 174 ICU on wheels and 607 emergency medical service ambulances have been put on stand-by mode to take care of any situation that might arise due to the storm. In Covid-19 hospitals. staff have been trained and oxygens reserves and power backups have been arranged to tackle any crisis." A government statement said that that 44 teams of NDRF and 10 teams of SDRF have been deployed for rescue operations. Besides, local police, coastguard and fire brigade officials have also been deputed for assistance. The army, air force and navy have also been instructed to be on stand-by. The government's note added that nearly 2,800 hoardings have removed from urban and rural areas to avoid any untoward incident in view of the cyclone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tauktae-most-severe-cyclone-in-the-past-two-decades-to-make-landfall-in-gujarat-between-8-and-11-pm-monday-986762.html
17-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Navy sends ships to rescue 273 stranded near Bombay High||In what triggered a huge concern, as many as 273 persons were stranded on a drifting barge off the Heera oilfields near Bombay High region in Arabian Sea, nearly 175 Kms off the Mumbai coast. The Indian Navy's Western Naval Command mounted on this major operation.On receipt of a request for assistance for  a Barge 'P305' adrift off Heera Oil Fields, INS Kochi was sailed with despatch for Search and Rescue (SAR) assistance. Several other ships have been readied for HADR tasking in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae that has wreaked havoc along the West coast of India. The ships are expected to reach the venue by evening, and other ships and aircraft also being prepared to go there for a search and rescue operation in the region clobbered by the passing Cyclone Tauktae. As the cyclone raged past the Maharashtra coast and inched closer to Mumbai Monday morning, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport announced the suspension of operations from 11 am to 4 pm. A red alert has been sounded in the adjoining Raigad district and an orange alert has been declared in Mumbai. The monorail services in Mumbai have been suspended for the day. Local trains services of the Central Railway were disrupted between suburban Ghatkopar and Vikhroli. Gale-force winds, heavy rainfall and high tidal waves swept the coastal belts of Maharashtra and Goa as Cyclone Tauktae hurtled northwards towards Gujarat. The cyclonic storm will intensify further and reach the Gujarat coast by Monday evening, the India Meteorological Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-navy-sends-ships-to-rescue-273-stranded-near-bombay-high-986784.html
17-05-2021||West||Maharashtra govt asks MMR civic bodies to procure Covid-19 vaccine||Days after the Mumbai civic body floated a global tender to procure the Covid-19 vaccine, the Maharashtra government has asked all the municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to purchase the vaccine and inoculate the citizens. The MMR covers the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and large parts of neighbouring Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts. Spread over 6,355 sq km, the MMR has nine municipal corporations, nine municipal council and 1,000-odd villages, which is home to nearly 2.5 crore people. The nine corporations are Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayender. Last week, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation floated a global tender to acquire one crore vaccines followed by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, which plans to import four lakh vaccines. The global tenders were floated after the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government decided to temporarily suspend the vaccination programme for the 18-44 age group because of a severe shortage of vaccine doses. The corporations within MMR must focus on procuring vaccines, state Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde said, adding that the state government is in touch with the Centre on regular basis to increase the quota for Covishield and Covaxin vaccines so that the two doses of the 45 plus age group could be prioritised. "Ahead of the third wave the vaccination programme has to be given a thrust," he said. The Maharashtra government is eying vaccines from Sputnik V, Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson. The BMC's bid is yet to elicit any response and the corporation is likely to extend the dates of the process. The MMR has been one of the Covid-19-hotspots, however, over the past fortnight, the per day cases have come down to an average between 5,000 to 6,000 but on average over 100 deaths are being reported every 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-asks-mmr-civic-bodies-to-procure-covid-19-vaccine-986785.html
17-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Over 410 stranded in barges in Arabian Sea||More than 410 persons are stranded in two barges in the Arabian Sea as Cyclone Tauktae wrecked havoc along the Maharashtra coast as it headed form Goa towards Gujarat. The Indian Navy has launched Search and Rescue (SAR) operation and prepared for a major Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR). As many as 273 persons are stranded on a drifting barge 'P305' off the Heera oilfield of Bombay High region in Arabian Sea, nearly 100 nautical miles off the Mumbai coast. INS Kochi has reached the site to undertake an SAR while INS Talwar would be reaching shortly. "It is an accomodation barge and it has unmoored as the anchor broke off," sources said, adding that the sea state was "extremely rough" making it difficult to stabilise the barge. With very rough sea conditions and wind speeds of over 100 kmph, the twin operations are taking time, leading to a cliffhanger-type situation. In response to another SOS received from barge 'GAL Constructor' with 137 people onboard about 8 nautical miles off Mumbai. INS Kolkata has reached the vicinity of the ship to render assistance - and may have to rescue the people in rafts and live boats. The barge is closing land and hence the operation was very tough. "Several other ships have been readied for HADR tasking in the wake of cyclone Tauktae that has wreaked havoc along the West coast of India," an Indian Navy official said. Meanwhile, 6 khalasis on board a vessel are stranded and they are in touch with the Indian Coast Guard, which is trying to bring it to the Uttan coast in Thane district. In the last four days, the Coast Guard and Navy ensured that 5,600 fishing boats along the west coast return to the ports and harbours and safe-routed 335 merchant vessel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-over-410-stranded-in-barges-in-arabian-sea-986798.html
17-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Strong winds at 114 kmph strike Mumbai||Cyclonic storm Tauktae over the Arabian Sea led to very strong winds blowing at a speed of 114 kmph in Mumbai on Monday afternoon, civic officials said. This was the highest wind speed recorded so far during the day, they said. The wind speed of 114 kmph was recorded around 2 pm at the weather station based at Afghan Church in south Mumbai's Colaba area, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release. Earlier, around 12.15 pm, the weather station recorded a wind speed of 111 kmph, it said. The BMC has set up 60 automatic weather stations across Mumbai for day-to-day monitoring of the climatic conditions in the metropolis. Earlier in the day, the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Mumbai centre said its Colaba observatory recorded a wind speed of 102 kmph around 11 am. The Bandra-Worli sea-link was closed for traffic in view of the strong winds and people were asked to take alternate routes, a BMC official said. Due to the strong winds, some plastic sheets covering the roof of a common passenger area at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai were blown away in the morning, a railway official said. The area was cordoned off and the railway staff immediately attended to it, he said. Cyclone Tauktae has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm". It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening and cross the state coast between 8 pm and 11 pm, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-strong-winds-at-114-kmph-strike-mumbai-986812.html
17-05-2021||West||Over 1.99 crore people vaccinated against Covid-19 so far in Maharashtra||A total of 68,811 people were inoculated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra in a single day, taking the state's vaccination count to 1,99,85,407, an official statement said on Monday. These beneficiaries were administered the vaccine doses on Sunday, it said. A total of 23,12,779 frontline workers and 18,48,358 health care workers have till now been administered vaccines (first and second doses included) in the state, it said. The statement further said 6,52,119 individuals from the age group of 18 to 44 were inoculated (first dose) till Sunday. Besides, 1,51,72,151 citizens aged 45 and above have so far been vaccinated (first plus second dose) in the state. On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 974 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 81,486, while 34,389 new cases of the viral infection pushed the tally to 53,78,452, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-199-crore-people-vaccinated-against-covid-19-so-far-in-maharashtra-986838.html
17-05-2021||West||PM Narendra Modi speaks to CM Uddhav Thackeray on Cyclone Tauktae situation in Maharashtra||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday on the Cyclone Tauktae related situation in the state, official sources said. The cyclonic storm over the Arabian Sea led to very strong winds blowing at a speed of 114 kmph in Mumbai on Monday afternoon, civic officials said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that Cyclone Tauktae has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm". It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening and cross the state coast between 8 pm and 11 pm, the IMD said. Modi had on Saturday reviewed the preparedness to deal with the cyclone's fallout in a high-level meeting which was attended by several ministries and agencies concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-narendra-modi-speaks-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray-on-cyclone-tauktae-situation-in-maharashtra-986859.html
17-05-2021||West||Packed with ferocious wind, monster cyclone Tauktae heads for Gujarat||A major cyclone packing ferocious winds and threatening a destructive storm surge bore down on India on Monday, disrupting the country's response to its devastating Covid-19 outbreak. At least six people died over the weekend in torrential rains and winds as Cyclone Tauktae, according to press reports the biggest to hit western India in 30 years, swept over the Arabian Sea with Gujarat in its sights. The "Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm" was due to make landfall on Monday between 8-11 pm (1430-1730 GMT) with winds of 155-165 kilometres per hour (95-100 miles per hour) gusting up to 185 kmph, the Indian Meteorological Department said. It warned of storm surges of up to three metres high (10 feet) in some of Gujarat's coastal districts. The colossal swirling system visible from space exacerbated India's embattled response to a huge coronavirus surge that is killing at least 4,000 people every day and pushing hospitals to breaking point. In waterlogged and windswept Mumbai, where authorities on Monday closed the airport for several hours and urged people to stay indoors, authorities on Sunday shifted 580 Covid patients "to safer locations" from three field hospitals. Around 150,000 people were evacuated in Gujarat, where all Covid-19 patients in hospitals within five kilometres of the coast were also moved. Authorities there were scrambling to ensure there would be no power cuts in the nearly 400 designated Covid hospitals and 41 oxygen plants in 12 coastal districts where the cyclone was expected to hit hardest. Chief minister Vijay Rupani told reporters that over a thousand Covid hospitals in coastal towns have been provided with generators and power backups, with 744 health teams deployed along with 174 ICU on wheels and 600 ambulances. "Besides the daily requirement of 1,000 tonnes of oxygen in Gujarat per day, an additional stock of 1,700 tonnes has been secured and could be used in case of emergency," Rupani said. Virus safety protocols such as wearing masks, social distancing and the use of sanitisers would be observed in the shelters for evacuees, officials added. The state also suspended vaccinations for two days. Mumbai did the same for one day. Thousands of disaster response personnel have been deployed, while units from the coast guard, navy, army and air force have been placed on standby. Maharashtra evacuated around 12,500 people from coastal areas. Four people died on Saturday as rain and winds battered Karnataka state, while two died in Goa as winds hit power supplies and uprooted trees. S M Bandekar, dean of the Goa Medical College Hospital, said that one Covid ward suffered minor flooding. "But there was no need to shift the patients," he said, adding that the state's hospitals were not affected by the power cuts because they had back-up generators. Two others were reported dead and 23 fishermen were feared missing in Kerala, local media said. India on Monday reported 4,100 deaths and 280,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total close to 250 lakhs -- a doubling since April 1. "This cyclone is a terrible double blow for millions of people in India whose families have been struck down by record Covid infections and deaths," said Udaya Regmi from the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. The organisation said it was helping authorities to evacuate people most at risk in coastal areas, providing first aid, masks "and encouraging other critical Covid-19 prevention measures". Last May, more than 110 people died after "super cyclone" Amphan ravaged eastern India and Bangladesh in the Bay of Bengal. The Arabian Sea previously experienced fewer severe cyclones than the Bay of Bengal but rising water temperatures because of global warming was changing that, Roxy Mathew Koll from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology told AFP. "(The) Arabian Sea is one of the fastest-warming basins across the global oceans," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/packed-with-ferocious-wind-monster-cyclone-tauktae-heads-for-gujarat-986884.html
17-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae wreaks havoc in Maharashtra||At least six persons were killed and nine injured as Cyclone Tauktae battered the Maharashtra coast leaving a trail of destruction on Monday. As many as 2,542 were partially damaged and six fully damaged in the coastal Konkan region and other districts, reports reaching here said. Crops have suffered extensive damage in the coastal areas and four cattle have died. More than 12,500 people living along the Arabian Sea coast have been evacuated and shifted to safety. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the situation and spoke to the Guardian Minsters and district administrative and police officials. During the day, areas of Mumbai metropolitan region received 100 to 250 mm rainfall, according to the reports collated by the IMD. These kind of figures during the month of May is a record of sorts in Mumbai and it's far suburbs. Strong gale winds, sometimes 100 to 120 kmph, and huge tidal waves lashed the coastal districts. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, one of the busiest airports in the country, shut it's operations from 11 am because of the cyclone warning. While three deaths were reported from Raigad, two died in Thane and one in Sindhudurg. In Mumbai, four persons were injured, two each in Raigad and Ratnagiri and one in Thane. Scores of trees were uprooted on South Konkan districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg and some houses are damaged. The North Konkan districts of Raigad, Thane, Palghar and the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban also experienced uprooting of trees. During the last two days, over 500 fishing boats have returned to safety. In parts of the MMR excluding Mumbai, power cuts were reported as part of precautionary measures. Water supply was also affected. People are also facing severe connectivity issues. Strong winds also tore off banners and posters and in several places tin sheets on roofs blew off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-wreaks-havoc-in-maharashtra-986930.html
17-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae makes landfall in Gujarat; heavy rains batter state||Cyclone Tauktae, classified as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with gusty winds up to 185 kmph, made landfall at coastal towns of Gujarat Monday night at around 8:30 PM after dumping heaving rains and killing at least six persons in neighbouring Maharashtra. The weather department stated the the landfall process will be continued for three to four hours, which are said to be critical for the state, which is already reeling with the Covid-19 pandemic. The cyclone has forced the state government to evacuate over 2 lakh people from low-lying areas and living in kuccha houses. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who is monitoring the situation from the Gandhinagar control room, said that reports disruption of power supply and uprooting of trees have been reported. He said that the cyclone with heavy rains and winds will continue to lash various parts of the state till 1 AM. India Meteorological Department in its latest update stated that the centre of the cyclone was 35 km east-southeast of Diu, a union territory bordering the state. It said that in next three hours the storm will cross Saurashtra to east of Diu. Coastal districts such as Porbandar, Junagadh, Gir-Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar and Devbhumi Dwarka are likely to be worst affected. Besides, Botad, Surendranagar, Rajkot, Anand and Ahmedabad districts will be impacted. Following instructions from IMD, the Gujarat Maritime Board, the regulatory body of ports in the state, issued hoisting of warning signal-10 at ports falling in the direction of the cyclone. According to government officials, the cyclone is looking "extremely dangerous" and may be as devastating as the cyclone of 1998. In view of the approaching cyclone, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters that 2 lakh people had been shifted from low lying areas to safer places to 930 shelter homes and all 1,400 designated Covid-19 hospitals have been asked to keep power backup in case of power cuts due to the storm. Pankaj Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Home, said in a statement that people had been shifted to safer places from 655 villages of 17 district which are likely to be affected. "Keeping in mind all the possibilities in view of the approaching storm, government is prepared to manage the crisis. We have shifted maximum people from coastal areas which are likely to be affected due to strong wind and heavy rains. So far, 1.5 lakh people from these areas have been shifted to safer locations. I appeal to people who are living along the coastline not to venture out," Rupani told reporters. He said that the state is going through an "extraordinary time" caused by coronavirus infection and cyclonic storm brewing in the Arabian sea. He said that 444 medical teams, 174 ICU on wheels and 607 emergency medical service 108 have been put on stand-by mode to take care of any situation that might arise due to the storm. In Covid-19 hospitals staffs have been trained and oxygen reserves and power backups have been arranged to tackle any crisis." A government statement said that that 44 teams of NDRF and 10 teams of SDRF have been deployed for rescue operations. Besides, local police, coastguard and fire brigade officials have also been deputed for assistance. The army, air force and navy have also been instructed to be on stand-by. The government's note added that nearly 2,800 hoardings have been removed from urban and rural areas to avoid any untoward incident in view of the cyclone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-makes-landfall-in-gujarat-heavy-rains-batter-state-986931.html
17-05-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray assesses damage caused by cyclone Tauktae||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday assessed the damage caused by cyclonic storm Tauktae in Mumbai and other districts in Konkan and asked officials to remain alert in view of the rainfall and gusty winds in the coastal region, where six persons died. Under the influence of the extremely severe cyclonic storm, Mumbai and its adjoining districts were lashed by heavy rains and high-speed winds during the day. According to an official statement, six persons died, while nine others were injured in storm-related incidents in the coastal region. Three persons died in Raigad district, while Thane and Sindhudurg districts reported two and one deaths, respectively, it said. A total of 12,500 people were shifted to safer places as a precautionary measure, the statement said. The statement said while damage to property was reported in the coastal and a few other districts, electricity supply to Covid-19 care centres there remained uninterrupted. The chief minister took stock of alternate power supply system, the statement said. Thackeray asked the district administrations to remove fallen trees and electricity poles from roads and ensure smooth vehicular movement. The CM also reviewed the damage caused by the storm to boats of fishermen from the affected areas, the statement said. The statement said the cyclone damaged 2,542 structures partially, while 6 got destroyed completely in Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur and Satara. Thackeray also held discussion with senior India Meteorological Department scientist KS Hosalikar and was told that the cyclone was 180km from Mumbais coast and its speed will get reduced to 70 km to 80 km per hour as the time progresses. The cyclone will reach Gujarat between 8 pm and 11 pm on Monday and its speed is likely to be 175 km per hour, an official said, according to the statement. The official said Mumbais suburbs received more than 120 mm rainfall, while the Colaba area (in the city) recorded 100 mm to 120 mm rainfall over the past six hours, the statement said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation informed the chief minister that patients from three Covid-19 centres in Mumbai were shifted safely elsewhere. The corporation said the work of removing uprooted trees and fallen electricity poles is on in the city. The statement said an orange alert ((heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places) was issued for Mumbai in view of the cyclone and added air services at the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport were suspended due to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-assesses-damage-caused-by-cyclone-tauktae-986936.html
17-05-2021||West||Maharashtra reports less than 30,000 new Covid-19 cases after nearly 2 months||Maharashtra on Monday recorded below 30,000 new Covid-19 cases after nearly two months.  With 26,616 new Covid-19 cases, the state's tally rose to 54,05,068, while 516 deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 82,486.  The last time the state recorded a below 30,000 figure was on March 23, when 28,699 cases were reported. At least 48,211 persons recovered from the virus.  The active cases in the state continue to be below the 5-lakh mark with 4,45,495 under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-less-than-30000-new-covid-19-cases-after-nearly-2-months-986946.html
17-05-2021||West||Sonu Sood notifies followers about fake Covid-19 donation campaign in his name||Actor Sonu Sood, who has been actively helping people amid the Covid-19 crisis, Monday warned people about a fake foundation using his name to seek donation to help those in need. The 47-year-old actor took to social media to alert his followers that there is an organisation that is asking people to donate using his name but has no link with him. “Please beware and report to your nearest police station,” he wrote on Twitter alongside the poster of the organisation named 'Sonu Sood Foundation' featuring his photograph. The actor labelled the poster and the foundation as 'fake'. Last year during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Sood had helped several migrant workers reach their home town and fed many underprivileged people. Amid the much-deadlier second wave of Covid-19, he is supporting people who need hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines and other medical facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sonu-sood-notifies-followers-about-fake-covid-19-donation-campaign-in-his-name-986951.html
17-05-2021||West||Goa Congress filed complaint against CM, Health Minister over oxygen-related deaths||Days after 75 Covid patients died due to oxygen shortage at Goa's largest Covid hospital, the Goa Medical College (GMC), state Congress president Girish Chodankar filed a criminal complaint against Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, claiming the deaths occurred due to mismanagement of health infrastructure. In the complaint, Chodankar has alleged that "hundreds of patients" had died at the same hospital due to oxygen shortage since April and alleged that Sawant and Rane were "equally responsible and liable" for their deaths due to "their intentional act and or omission on their part of not to supply adequate oxygen cylinders to GMC". "This complaint reflects the pain and the anguish of all Goans, who have been completely failed and let-down by the present state government on account of their sheer incompetence; criminal negligence; mismanagement and complete disregard to the lives of the peoples in handling the Covid-19 pandemic situation," Chodankar has said in his complaint. "Since the onslaught second wave of Covid-19 pandemic i.e somewhere since April 2021, hundreds of people have died at Goa Medical College (GMC) due to shortage and or failure of the Government to maintain uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen," the complaint, which has been filed at the Agacaim police station in North Goa also said. Between May 11-14, 75 persons reportedly died at the GMC, an apex health facility in Goa, due to oxygen shortage. While the Health Minister first insisted that 26 patients died on May 11 due to oxygen shortage, the dean of the medical college Dr. Shivanand Bandekar said that oxygen shortage could not be linked to the deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-congress-filed-complaint-against-cm-health-minister-over-oxygen-related-deaths-986965.html
17-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Over 14,000 moved to safer places in Maharashtra||More than 13,000 to 14,000 persons living near the coast have been shifted to safer locations as the cyclone Tauktae hit the coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra on Monday. Cloudy weather prevailed in Mumbai, the financial capital of India, with drizzles and strong winds being reported. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport has decided to shut operations between 1100 hours and 2000 hours because of cyclone alert and weather advisories of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Scores of trees were uprooted in South Konkan districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg and some houses were damaged. In Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg and North Konkan districts of Raigad, Palghar and Thane, over 13,000 to 14,000 people living along the coast of Arabian Sea has been shifted to safety, reports reaching here said. During the last two days, over 500 fishing boats have returned to safety. The whirling cyclone is moving toward the Gujarat coast creating havoc in Maharashtra's coastal areas as gale-force winds, rains, and tidal waves lash the shores. In parts of the MMR excluding Mumbai, power cuts were reported as part of precautionary measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-over-14000-moved-to-safer-places-in-maharashtra-986966.html
17-05-2021||West||Major Gujarat airports shut due to cyclone Tauktae||As cyclone Tauktae continued its relentless march towards the coast of Gujarat, where it is expected to make a landfall by Monday night, major airports in the state shutdown operations till Tuesday as a precautionary measure. Barring the Rajkot airport, which will remain shut for flights till May 19, other three major airports - Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara - will remain closed for both domestic and international flights till Tuesday, officials said. The Ahmedabad airport, which suspended its operations on Monday evening, will resume flights after 5 am on Tuesday. "The Ahmedabad airport is fully prepared for cyclone Tauktae, and as a precautionary measure our operations will remain suspended from 19:30 hrs, 17th May to 05:00 hrs, 18th May 2021," the airport said in a statement. Both Vadodara and Surat airports suspended take off and landing of flights at 11 am on Monday and will resume operations at 1 pm on Tuesday, the officials said. The Rajkot airport has announced that its operations, which came to a halt at 4 pm on Monday, will remain suspended till 11:15 hours on May 19. As per the latest forecast of the IMD, Tauktae, which has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm", is likely to cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district), around 20 km east of Union territory of Diu between 8 pm and 11 pm on Monday with maximum sustained wind speed of 155-165 kmph.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/major-gujarat-airports-shut-due-to-cyclone-tauktae-987010.html
17-05-2021||West||Night curfew in Gujarat to continue in 36 cities for another 3 days||The night curfew in 36 cities of Gujarat, including nine metros, has been extended by three more days to control the spread of coronavirus, the state government said on Monday. As per the decision taken by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, the limited restrictions, including the curfew between 8 pm and 6 am, will continue to be in place in 36 cities from Tuesday to Thursday, a government release said. Restrictions currently in force in other parts of Gujarat except these 36 cities will also continue between 6 am on May 18 till 6 am on May 20, it said. Rupani said the government will take a call on whether to extend the night curfew and other curbs beyond May 20 after assessing the COVID-19 situation. Gujarat on Monday reported 7,135 new coronavirus positive cases, taking its infection count to 7,59,754, while 81 deaths increased the toll in the state to 9,202, an official said. Meanwhile, the chief minister thanked the industry and the people for extending their support to the government, saying the joint effort has paid off as the number of COVID-19 cases has seen a decline. The government has only ordered the continuation of essential services and activities during these three days, in accordance with the Centre's guidelines, said the release. Services directly associated with the operation of COVID-19 and those specified as essential and urgent will not be affected. Medical, paramedical and allied health services, oxygen production and distribution systems will also continue, it said. The government has decided to allow shops of eyeglasses to remain open under the category of medical and health-related services. Distribution and sale of dairy, milk, vegetables, fruits and home delivery services of vegetables will continue in these 36 cities so that normal life is not affected. Offices will have to ensure that the employee strength remains only 50 per cent on working days. All types of manufacturing/ industrial units, construction, and raw material supply units will continue to operate with strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. A maximum of 50 persons will be allowed to attend marriages while 20 persons can attend a funeral/burial, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/night-curfew-in-gujarat-to-continue-in-36-cities-for-another-3-days-987012.html
17-05-2021||West||Mumbai airport resumes flight operations after 11-hour hiatus due to Tauktae||(Eds: Updates with flight operations resumption at airport) Mumbai, May 17 (PTI) Flight operations at Mumbai airport resumed on Monday night after being suspended for 11 hours due to the cyclone Tauktae. More than 55 flights, both incoming and outbound, were cancelled at the city's till around 7.30 pm due to the closure. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport had announced suspension of all air services, initially for three hours from 11 am on Monday due to the cyclone. This was later extended eventually to 10 pm in different phases. "Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has resumed operations with effect from 2200 hours of May 17," the private airport operator said in a statement. The airport operator said it has registered the cancellations of 34 arrivals and 22 departures, adding that a few airlines have decided to cancel services to Mumbai. CSMIA, however, did not provide specific details. Mumbai airport, which is the second busiest aerodrome in the country, is reportedly handling around 250 flights in a day due to low passenger demand amid the deadly and more virulent second wave of the pandemic. Pre-pandemic, the airport was handling close to 1,000 aircraft movements per day. The airport has also so far witnessed seven diversions, it added. Winds blew at 114 kmph in Mumbai on Monday afternoon as the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae was passing through the Mumbai coast barrelling towards Gujarat, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-airport-resumes-flight-operations-after-11-hour-hiatus-due-to-tauktae-987021.html
