18-05-2021||First Edit||Coronavirus in rural India, the bigger worry||One most worrying feature of the second wave of the pandemic is its spread into rural areas in all parts of the country. The problem is as serious as the shortage of vaccines, medicines and hospital beds and, in fact, increases the impact of these shortages. Estimates, projections and descriptions of the emerging situation in the villages, especially in the North Indian states, are revealing. Proper data is very difficult to get, and regular and social media accounts do not give the full picture. Some recent reports have said more than half of the current infections are happening in villages. This has to be seen along with the fact that there is much more under-reporting of cases and deaths in villages than in towns and cities. Testing and tracing facilities are also poor.  Last year, when migrant workers went back to their home states, a big surge in cases was expected in villages. But the spread was not as bad as feared. But now, it is much worse, perhaps because of the higher transmissibility of the virus, protocol fatigue or other reasons. In as many as 13 states, rural areas now have more cases than urban areas. In the five worst-affected states, the test positivity ratio is over 50 per cent. Most of these districts have inadequate health infrastructure. Nearly half of Bihar’s districts do not have any Covid ventilator beds. The situation in UP is no better. There are reports of missing doctors, drivers doing the work of ward attendants, overcrowding and complete lack of supervision even in ICUs. Private health facilities are non-existent. One Union minister and a number of state ministers have themselves gone public on the pitiable situation in UP. The situation is bad even in states like Maharashtra and Karnataka.  Deaths are increasing and there are the macabre sights of dead bodies piling up at crematoria, mass burials, and the dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga. Dogs prowl around bodies buried on riverbanks. These are dismal scenes and shows that the administration has lost control of the situation. There is also the fear of other diseases spreading from the dead bodies. The state was not able to protect people from the pandemic, it does not provide them treatment and they are being denied dignity in death. The situation only varies from state to state, and it is set to get worse when the pandemic moves further into the hinterland. Apart from lives, livelihoods will also be in danger. Governments should consider extending direct monetary assistance to those who are affected and their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-in-rural-india-the-bigger-worry-987051.html
18-05-2021||In Perspective||Israeli-Palestinian could draw in regional countries||The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has proved once again that it is one of the most intractable conflicts of the world. Worryingly, it is a tinderbox that can flare up anytime and assume vertical escalation within a short period of time, leaving very little time for the international community to arrest the crisis. As the current crisis worsens, a host of diplomats from regional countries have rushed to Tel Aviv to stave off a full-blown war. While Egypt and Qatar have sent their representatives to Tel Aviv to broker a truce, the US has sent a senior American diplomat to the Middle East to meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders “to urge de-escalation and to bring calm”. US President Joe Biden has pressed for immediate de-escalation in the aftermath of the bombing of several buildings, including one that housed the offices of prominent media companies Aljazeera and Associated Press. In the absence of a ceasefire, the two sides remain engaged in violence, with intermittent peaks of escalation. For the first time since 2014, Jerusalem has come under attack by Hamas. Israel has responded by targeted aerial bombardment in Gaza, taking out some of Hamas’ key leaders. Additionally, some of the most sophisticated technologies like the Ballistic Missile Defence system Iron Dome and drones have been used in the ongoing fight by Israel against perhaps the world’s most capable guerrilla fighters in Hamas. What has made matters worse during the ongoing conflict is the spread of sectarian violence and tension to mixed-religion cities like Lod, Sderot, Bat Yam, and central parts of West Bank like Bethlehem and Ramallah. As Israel continues attacks on Gaza with a possible ground invasion plan on the table and its troops lined up along the Israel-Gaza border, continued escalation risks bloodbath on the streets of Gaza, with the possibility of sucking other regional and extra-regional actors into this conflict. Despite Israel’s asymmetric military and technological edge over an enemy like Hamas, the option of overrunning Gaza is mired in various apprehensions and repercussions: the expected loss of international credibility for Israel; a war of regional proportions with the Hezbollah being drawn in, facilitating more support from Iran; and lastly, Hamas’ guerrilla warfare capabilities inside Gaza, a terrain that they know too well. It is estimated that Hamas has about 25,000-30,000 armed militants. The relative lull since 2014 has given Hamas enough time to not just increase missile firing silos but to train better and fortify its positions and plan for Israel’s possible ground invasion. After all, Israel had shown such intentions in 2014, too. Already, Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and Iraq’s top Shia cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani have urged Hamas to continue its fight against Israel, lending overt moral support. Hamas factions inside Lebanon have fired three rockets into Israel and have tried to enter Israel through the border, perhaps a signal of Hezbollah’s solidarity with Hamas. Qatar has witnessed rallies by Hamas leaders. Rockets launched from Syria in the direction of Israel on May 15 and violence near Israel’s border with Jordan further show the extent of current solidarity against Israel among Islamic fundamentalist factions in countries around it. These circumstances leave a lot to do for the international community, particularly the UN, Egypt, Qatar and the US, to diffuse the tension and restore normalcy. However, the role of these countries in immediately bringing down the escalation appears limited this time, as religious sentiments have been stirred and the Netanyahu government looks to consolidate his political position amidst the rise of alternative coalitions and the domestic political deadlock over the last two years. On the other side, Hamas’ political future in Gaza and its talks with Fatah in this regard are at a critical stage, with elections in the pipeline, and it may receive a boost by the way it fights against Israel. The unrest that has spread inside Israeli cities has the potential of reviving Fatah’s importance, too, as the group was going through an internal crisis after its recognition of Israel as legitimate after the 1993 Oslo Accords. The current breakdown of peace also jeopardises the Abraham Accords of last year. The US, a primary broker of truce in the past, is tiptoeing under Biden and doesn’t want to be drawn in just when it is trying to get out of the region from Afghanistan. Even though it blocked the publication of an UN-backed statement on the issue, the US had to give in to a UNSC meeting on it, led by China. As the United Nations Security Council met on May 16, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu declared that the campaign against Gaza will continue as long as Isreal feels it is necessary and its campaign against Hamas “will take time.” This leaves the conflict at a precipitous low, with the potential to draw in other countries and actors in the region. (The writer is Research Fellow, Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/israeli-palestinian-could-draw-in-regional-countries-987052.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Get ready to tackle monsoon: Minister||The officials should be prepared to tackle natural calamities and floods during monsoon, District In-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary stressed. Poojary, presiding over a preparatory meeting, said the houses in the low-lying areas near seashore were inundated. The flood victims should be tested for Covid-19 before shifting them to relief centres. If they test positive, they should be shifted to covid care centre, he said. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the flood-prone areas should be identified and residents should be shifted to safer locations during flood warnings in monsoon. The NDRF, SDRF, police and fire service personnel should work in coordination in flood-prone areas. Mescom officials should restore power supply at the earliest. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said the driftwood block the easy flow of water near dams during heavy rainfall. As a result, water enters houses in nearby areas. The minor irrigation department, along with taluk-level officials, should clear the driftwood. MLA Vedavyas Kamath said compensation should be paid to those, who lost their houses due to flood. Many road works are in progress in Mangaluru City Corporation limits. The work should be suspended till the end of monsoon, he added. MLA U T Khader said that district administration should take precautionary measures to check flood in Ullal and Someshwara areas. The silt filled in rivers and dams should be removed. MLA Harish Poonja said there are possibilities of trees falling on roads thus disrupting movement of vehicles. The trees fallen on road should be cleared immediately to facilitate the movement of vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/get-ready-to-tackle-monsoon-minister-987059.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 crisis: Private hospital hands over wrong body to family in Karnataka||When the body of a 44-year-old person, who died of Covid-19, was shifted to the crematorium in Kariyakallu in Karkala, the family realised that they had received the wrong body due to a mix-up by the staff at a private hospital in Mukka on Monday. The relatives immediately sent the body back to the hospital. Sources in Suratkal police station confirmed that negligence by hospital staff led to the  incident. A 65-year-old person from Surathkal and a 44-year-old person from Karkala died at the hospital on Monday. The staff handed over the bodies after due procedure. Relatives alleged that without confirming the identity, the bodies were handed over. The police had to rush to the hospital after members of a Hindu organisation began heckling the staff for the mess. An officer in the health department told DH that the relatives of one of the victims had failed to identify the body properly, which had led to the incident. Later, the bodies were returned to the respective family members for the final rites, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-crisis-private-hospital-hands-over-wrong-body-to-family-in-karnataka-987121.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cloudy weather prevails over Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Cloudy weather prevailed across Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Tuesday. Mangaluru and surrounding areas experienced drizzle in the morning. The sky remained overcast. According to IMD, Mangaluru and Udupi are likely to receive 5 mm to 15 mm rainfall. Rainfall in Chikkamagaluru district has finally stopped after two days. Rain water has also receded in Kodagu district. As the sea is rough, fishermen have been advised not to venture out for fishing. Efforts to salvage Tug Alliance Efforts are on to salvage Tug Alliance, that had capsized off Kadipatna shore near Padubidri on May 15. Revenue Minister Ashoka, during his visit to Mangaluru on Monday, directed officials to salvage the tug as it was loaded with 20,000-litres of diesel. Of the eight persons on board the tug, three swam to the shore using life jackets and the tube. Two bodies have been recovered. Three more on board — Pawan Chand, Ashfaq Ali and Mainuddin Sheikh are still missing. Efforts are on to trace them. The Tug Alliance was engaged by the MRPL for its SPM. Revenue Minister Ashoka, in a meeting on Monday, has directed MRPL to pay Rs 10 lakh each to the family of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cloudy-weather-prevails-over-dakshina-kannada-udupi-987132.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||123 people in Indiranagara and NMDC Halli in Chikkamagaluru taluk test Covid-19 positive||A total of 123 people in Indiranagara and NMDC Halli in Chikkamagaluru taluk have tested positive for Covid-19. The majority of those who tested positive had taken part in the funeral of a Covid-infected person. Assistant Commissioner Dr H L Nagaraj, Tahsildar Dr K J Kantaraj and others visited the village. The village has been sealed and medicine kits have been supplied to all the infected persons. Swab samples of all the primary contacts of 123 Covid-infected people have been sent for testing. Tahsildar Kantaraj said, "A man in the village was admitted to a hospital on May 13 and he failed to respond to the treatment and died on May 14. A large number of people had taken part in the funeral thinking it was a natural death. However, he tested positive for Covid-19." The family of the deceased had attended a marriage in the neighbouring village recently. All the family members of the deceased had tested positive. It is said that the family members have been working in a resort in the village. They might have contracted the infection from there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/123-people-in-indiranagara-and-nmdc-halli-in-chikkamagaluru-taluk-test-covid-19-positive-987159.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Probationary PSI succumbs to Covid-19||Probationary PSI Sharmili attached to Dakshina Kannada police succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday. She was 24 and was a native of Kolar. She passed away at RM Jalappa Hospital in Kolar. She was seven months pregnant. She was not vaccinated following her pregnancy, said DK SP Rishikesh Sonawane. She had joined DK Police on January 11, 2021 and was on leave following her pregnancy. She was admitted to hospital in Kolar on May 2 following a positive Covid-19 test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/probationary-psi-succumbs-to-covid-19-987167.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada DC will conduct probe into tug mishap: R Ashoka||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V had been asked to conduct a probe into the cause of the tug mishap. "Chief Secretary will be directed to issue an order in this regard," he said. Alliance Tug vessel that was engaged by the Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) for its single point mooring had failed to return even after issuing a warning about the cyclone. He had discussed the issue with officials and could not get satisfactory answers. Answers to questions like what led to the loss of lives and who were responsible would be known after the Deputy Commissioner submitted a report, Ashoka said. "Strict action will be initiated against those who are responsible for it," the Minister stated. He said that already two bodies had been recovered while the search was on for three more persons present on board of the tug Alliance. The MRPL had agreed to pay Rs 10 lakh each as compensation to families of the deceased. The capsized tug had 20,000 litre diesel in it and the contractor was asked to lift the tug and transfer the oil from tug in order to prevent any oil spills and pollution of marine ecology, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-dc-will-conduct-probe-into-tug-mishap-r-ashoka-987168.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cyclone Tauktae damages 87 houses in Dakshina Kannada: R Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Monday said that 87 houses had been damaged in the cyclone in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district and 24 among them were fully damaged. "A compensation amount of Rs five lakh will be paid to each of those whose houses have been fully damaged. Rs one lakh will be paid to owners of the houses that have been partially damaged while Rs 10,000 will be paid to owners of those houses which have been surrounded by sea water," he told reporters after a meeting with the officials. The DC had been directed to submit a detailed report after assessing the damage to roads, crops and Mescom within a week. The amount would be released immediately as per National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) guidelines. About 20 members of the National Disaster Response Force, 50 of the State Disaster Response Force, 50 civil wardens, 100 home guards and fire service personnel were ready to tackle any eventualities. The DC had set up a 24x7 control room to receive any grievances related to cyclone, he added. Minister said that the cyclone had affected 121 villages in 21 taluks across Karnataka. As many as 333 houses had been damaged, six lives were lost, 644 electricity poles and 104 boats had been damaged. All deputy commissioners had been directed to assess the damages and submit reports. A sum of Rs 106 crore was available with the district administrations of Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada.The amount could be utilised for relief works. Ashoka thanked the Indian Coast Guard and Navy for saving nine lives on board the tug, after interacting with the five survivors on board the India Coast Guard ship berthed at New Mangalore Port. He visited the cyclone-affected Sasihithlu beach and other affected areas. He would visit Bhatkal and Udupi to assess the damage on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cyclone-tauktae-damages-87-houses-in-dakshina-kannada-r-ashoka-987169.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MyGov identifies Balepuni GP’s Covid-19 initiatives as best practices||The best practices adopted to fight Covid-19 by Balepuni gram panchayat (GP) found place in MyGov of the Union government. After collecting details from the respective state governments, the Central government included various initiatives implemented at the individual panchayat level which were followed by others as examples of best practices in MyGov. Among the best practices, the initiatives in Balepuni Gram Panchayat in Dakshina Kannada, Hoddur GP in Kodagu and Munirabad GP in Koppa district have been included from Karnataka along with the best practices from GPs in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala, Maharashtra and Nagaland. Balepuni GP had taken up a free registration camp to facilitate vaccination drives. In addition, it trained members through the Viral Disease control task force. It also provided free vehicle and sanitisation services along with supplying medical kits and food kits for the families. According to Sheena Shetty, Trustee of Jana Shikshana Trust, the nodal NGO identified in Dakshina Kannada to increase public trust in Covid vaccine by creating awareness on the vaccination through information, education and communication activities said, "These activities are carried out in Balepuni GP by the village level task force comprising gram panchayat members to create awareness on Covid-19 and vaccination. The task force responds to the needs of the people.” Even the house visit to monitor the Covid infected in home isolation is also carried out regularly, according to officials from the GP. The wall writing initiative has been taken up in the gram panchayat as well. With the help of Fr Muller’s Homeopathic Medical College Hospital, immunity kits were distributed to 2200 families during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic. In addition, immunity boosting products were handed over to the SC/ST families last year. The best practices of Hoddur Gram Panchayat include conducting Covid tests to migrants supplying medical kit and food essentials to those under home quarantine and awareness and sanitisation activities. The Munirabad GP had taken steps to monitor movement of people and distribution of food packets, medical aid to the poor, and carrying out sanitisation activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mygov-identifies-balepuni-gp-s-covid-19-initiatives-as-best-practices-987204.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi to go into 3-day complete lockdown from Thursday||To break the chain of Covid-19 transmission in Kalaburagi, the district administration has announced a three-day complete lockdown from Thursday. The decision comes hours after a virtual meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the deputy commissioners on Covid situation. Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna has on Tuesday issued an order enforcing the complete lockdown for three days. The district will go into a complete lockdown from 6 am on Thursday to 6 am on Sunday. Except essential services like hospital, medical stores, milk among others, all other activities have been banned for three days in the district. Also, there will be no sale of vegetable, and grocery shops will remain shut on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Hotels have been permitted to function for takeaway only, the order stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-to-go-into-3-day-complete-lockdown-from-thursday-987320.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gopalapura records six Covid deaths on single day||Six persons have died due to Covid in Gopalapura village, Mysuru taluk on a single day on Monday. There are over 50 Covid patients in the village and all of them are under home isolation. A total of seven patients have died due to Covid-related complications. The patients are declining to join Covid Care Centres and get treated. Tahsildar K R Rakshit, Taluk Health Officer Dr Mahadevaprasad and Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Ramesh and other officials visited the village to convince the patients to join the Covid Care Centre, but in vain. The patients have been saying that they would better die at their home than join a Covid Care Centre. Health department officials said that health kits have been provided to the patients at their doorsteps, but the cause for concern is the free movement of the patients around the village. “They might spread the infection to others. Already, the village is being sanitised twice or thrice per week. The people are being urged to follow the Covid guidelines on loud speakers. But, they are neglecting,” the officials said. ASHA volunteers have been visiting each household and are screening the health of all villagers. They advise those with symptoms to get tested for Covid, but the people are not willing as they have to visit the Jayapura Primary Health Centre. This is causing more complications, said Panchayat Development Officer Shivanna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gopalapura-records-six-covid-deaths-on-single-day-987322.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vijayendra’s visit to Nanjangud temple draws flak||BJP state vice president B Y Vijayendra, along with his wife, offered special pujas at Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud, Mysuru district on Tuesday, drawing flak from the locals and netizens. As soon as the Covid second wave started, the temple restricted the entry of devotees and only priests were allowed to conduct daily rituals. Now, the visit of Vijayendra couple has attracted criticisms from the locals. Netizens too have criticised this on the social media. It is said that the pictures taken during the rituals were asked to be deleted. According to a priest, Vijayendra couple visited the temple at 8 am and offered prayers for around half-an-hour. “Vijayendra had come to fulfil his vow, after he and his father, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, recovered from Covid. Earlier, they offered bagina at River Kapila,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vijayendra-s-visit-to-nanjangud-temple-draws-flak-987325.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘4-day lockdown in Hassan’||In an effort to control the surge in Covid cases, in the second wave, District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah declared a four-day complete lockdown in Hassan district on Tuesday. It has to be noted that a similar complete lockdown is in force in Chamarajanagar district. Addressing media persons, after a virtual meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with deputy commissioners, Gopalaiah informed that during the four-day total lockdown essential items will be available on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between 6 am and 10 am. However, hospitals, pharmacies, milk booths, petrol bunks, parcel service from hotels will function. The lockdown will be in force till May 24, he said. As Covid cases are on a rise in rural areas, those above 60 years, under home isolation, will be identified and treated. “Those in home quarantine will be shifted to Covid Care Centres. Hostels of Morarji Desai Residential School and Social Welfare Department and Minorities department will be used for treating Covid patients. In all, 27 Covid hospitals have been opened and doctors and nurses are deputed. All measures have been taken to ensure that the Covid patients get medicines and proper food,” he said. “In an effort to ensure that the people get ration, fair price shops will be kept open from 8 am to 12 noon and 4 pm to 8 pm. The tahsildars have been directed to ensure that the infected patients get essential items at their doorsteps,” the minister said. Arrangements are made for 350 oxygenated beds and the district will get four KL medical oxygen in a couple of days. A proposal is submitted for 50 ventilators and they are expected in a week. There is no shortage of Remdesivir injections and the public should not heed to rumours, he said. Upon complaints that private hospitals are charging more for Covid patients, he said, a team has been constituted, which will visit private hospitals every day. Action would be taken against those who violate the government norms, he warned. District In-charge secretary Naveenraj Singh, Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda and ZP CEO B A Paramesh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-day-lockdown-in-hassan-987327.html
18-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Online property tax payment yet to be streamlined in Mysuru||Online payment of property tax, in Mysuru, is still a distant dream. The proposal is over a decade-old and the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) had made an announcement in this regard in 2010 itself. However, the officials claim that 90% of the system is online. “Online payment is not possible only in Saraswathipuram, Vijayanagar 3rd Stage and in some apartments,” they claim. The recent announcement was to start the online payment process on April 1. However, citizens are complaining that they are not able to make online payment of their property tax, even at this testing time of the Covid crisis. They are forced to come out, while the the Covid protocol stresses on staying at home.  K S Parthasarathy, a resident of 20th Main, B Block, 3rd Stage, Vijayanagar, Mysuru, said, “The MCC announced that we can now pay house tax online. But, when I tried, it is not working. Even smaller cities like Tumakuru and Shivamogga have good arrangement to pay house tax online. Why cannot Mysuru make a similar arrangement?” he asked. Over the past 11 years, several officials of the MCC, including commissioners, have got publicity making announcements about the online payment of property and other taxes. But, the announcements have not become reality, leaving the citizens, mainly property owners, disappointed. An advance announcement was made in December 2020, that the online payment of taxes would become a reality under ‘One corporation one number system’ from April 1, 2021. It was announced that the owners of properties, under the MCC limits, can pay the taxes in a simpler way, by just scanning the QR code provided to their respective property, for the financial year 2021-22. The MCC claimed to have come out with a unique concept ‘One Corporation One Number’ system. “To make the online mode of payment more simpler and effective, the authorities will conduct a survey and geo-stamping. The exercise, launched on December 21, 2020, is the first of its kind the country,” officials claimed. “The officials will survey the properties and initiate geo-stamping method, by taking photos of the buildings on all three sides and provide a QR code sticker for each property. In future, the property owners, can scan the QR code and know the details about property tax payment and all other information in connection with the MCC. This will help the people to know complete details about their property from the comforts of their houses. There will not be any need to visit the offices,” the officials claim. The MCC commissioner has appealed to the people to cooperate with the officials and Revenue Inspectors when they visit their houses or properties for the survey and provide all complete details, and also allow them to take pictures of their property. Ranjith Kumar, Assistant Commissioner, Zone 6, MCC, had said, ‘One Corporation One Number’, is a unique concept that is being experimented in Mysuru, for the first time. “The area of the property, number of floors and its use would be surveyed and the three sides of the property would be photographed for geo-stamping. The QR code would be developed and pasted on the property. Each property would get a QR code. By scanning the code, it becomes easy for the property owners to pay their taxes, including property tax, water bills, trade licence, new orders and notifications issued by the MCC,” he had claimed. The MCC commissioner was not available for a comment. Her personal secretary said that she was pre-occupied with Covid management work. The MCC Revenue Commissioner is on leave. Case worker for online payments Nagalakshmi claimed that the QR code work and other work related to online payment are pending as some of the staffers are on leave owing to illness, while those reporting to work are on Covid duty. Nagalakshmi claimed that online payment is functional since April 1 and almost 90% of the problems have been solved since May 1. “The problem exists only in Saraswathipuram, Vijayanagar 3rd Stage and in some apartments,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/online-property-tax-payment-yet-to-be-streamlined-in-mysuru-987331.html
18-05-2021||Main Article||From Atmanirbhar to Parmatmanirbhar||If we look at the events of the past one and a half years, we realise that the mishandling of the Covid crisis has shattered the very framework of our society. Fourteen months down the line, we are struggling for beds in hospitals, oxygen, medicines and ventilators. And that's not all. Unaccounted for deaths, bodies mixed up in hospitals, mass cremations/burials -- and the loss of hope. Though help is being rushed to us from all over the world, those who have lost their loved ones now fear losing more. Can it get any worse? The catchphrase "Atmanirbhar" has become "Parmatmanirbhar" (God-dependent).   With the lockdown came a migrant crisis, with workers leaving cities and walking hundreds of miles to reach their villages. Where things were worse because of the absence of any sort of medical facilities. There were no trains for them and those that were subsequently introduced, bled these migrants of their last pennies. It was made mandatory that tickets had to be bought. And the blame game started between the Railway Minister and the states. We will not easily forget that while these trains were belatedly introduced, for the Kumbh Mela, trains were made easily available. Organised presumably in keeping with the agenda of Hindutva, the Kumbh Mela turned out to be a giant wrong, held a year ahead of schedule and with crores in attendance. Last year, the Tablighi Jamaat was attacked by sections of people for being super-spreaders, when that congregation had only a fraction of the people allowed to convene for the Kumbh Mela. Is this what we believe to be a balanced society? In the same vein, the government explored the possibility of allowing the Amarnath Yatra with thousands of people, while there was bull-headed and mortifying opposition to allowing more than 50 people per mosque to offer daily iftaar during the period of Ramzan. In parallel, the BJP's "Mission 200" for Bengal became a greater objective than controlling the pandemic. A war of egos, words and all else in between. All the energies of the political stalwarts were directed at defeating Mamata, and they were spectacularly unsuccessful, in part because of the mishandling of the pandemic. Next year, we will have more state elections, including in UP, and the target will be "Mission 300," while people may struggle for beds and oxygen, and the dying will not get a dignified send-off. This is what we have become. There are other huge mistakes. The Covid vaccination story is the biggest collapse of governance. The world over, people have realised that vaccination is the only gamechanger. India watched, pondered and deliberated, while other countries bought vaccines in large orders. And so, while we prided ourselves on being one of the world's largest vaccine manufacturers, we were out of the race. Now we are begging foreign manufacturers to send vaccines to India. It was elementary and uncomplicated arithmetic -- we knew that we have to vaccinate more than a billion people. And yet, we bungled it. When the government realised that there was going to be an acute shortage, they postponed the administering of the second shot while declaring that everyone above 18 would be vaccinated. The universal vaccination programme is, however, a mirage. The Health Minister recently said that there was no shortage of vaccines. It is clear, however, that there is no truth in that statement since no slots are available on the much-touted Co-win site. Many states have also made fervent requests to the Centre citing shortages of vaccines, but to no avail. Those with the first shot need continuity, and the others are praying fervently for God's grace till they are vaccinated. The Urban Development Minister in his tweet said that we are spending two times the cost of the Central Vista on health. If he were to be believed, then we would not have people dying from a lack of oxygen and ventilators. We would not have patients dying under trees and inside ambulances. No one answers who is responsible. The Ayushman Bharat Scheme, launched in 2018, envisaged hospitals being set up in tier 2 and tier 3 cities. Someone should answer how many hospitals have actually come up. If metros, including the national capital, are witnessing such a shortage of medical facilities, one shudders to think of the situation in smaller towns and villages. At this time of colossal calamity, when a National Medical Emergency should be declared, is anyone even listening?! Even assuming that the rippling effect of the pandemic was not anticipated, is it not the duty of the Prime Minister to come forward and explain what went wrong and take ownership of the collateral damage? We all clapped with him, and switched off the lights when he asked us to last year, but did he do what needed to be done without asking? Instead of answers, we get press releases from the BJP explaining that nothing went wrong. The scientific adviser to the government told us that a third wave is inevitable and recanted the next day, saying that it could be prevented. The flip-flops must stop so that stock is taken of our readiness for a possible next wave. My father, the late Kuldip Nayar, crossed the Wagah Border during Partition. He is undeniably looking at us from the heavens with moist eyes and would be profoundly aggrieved and agonised looking at what we have done to ourselves. Regretfully, I say that this is no one's India, not yours, not mine and certainly not our children's. (The writer is a Senior Advocate at the Delhi High Court) (This column was first published on ndtv.com on May 16, 2021)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/from-atmanirbhar-to-parmatmanirbhar-987054.html
18-05-2021||National||Demand for MGNREGA work rises: Ministry data||Despite the second coronavirus wave entering rural areas and lockdown in several states, the demand for work under rural employment scheme MGNREGA is on the rise, according to the data released by Rural Development Ministry on Monday. As many as 1.85 crore people have been given work in May so far, which is 52 per cent higher compared to 1.22 crore in 2019 in the same period, the Rural Development Ministry said in a statement. In 2019, there was no lockdown in the country as it was not facing any pandemic. "As on 13th May, 2021, 2.95 crore persons have been offered work in FY 2021-22 completing 5.98 lakh assets and generating 34.56 crore person-days. The accomplishment has been achieved despite casualties either through death or infection among the operating staff at all levels, including those in the front line," the ministry said. The fight against Covid-19 in rural areas, training was provided to trainers on Covid-appropriate behaviours, vaccine hesitancy and encourage good health-seeking behaviours and immunity building measures in April this year. The training was given under the Deendayal Anyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM). Under the initiative, 13,958 state, district and block level nodal persons trained as master trainers, 1,14,500 community resource persons (CRP) trained by master trainers, it said. These CRPs trained 2.5 crore women self help group members, it said. "Even though rural India has been hit by the 2nd wave of raging Covid pandemic, the Ministry of Rural Development has ensured that the development works across the country should not be affected," it stated. The ministry also said that despite lockdown, the highest length of road has been completed this year compared to the same period over the last three years under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-mgnrega-work-rises-ministry-data-987050.html
18-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Posters critical of PM Modi kick up a row||At least 25 people were arrested (and granted bail later) and senior Congress leaders challenged authorities for arrests, even a PIL was filed in Supreme Court to squash FIRs filed against those who allegedly put up posters critical of PM Modi and his administration's handling of the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-posters-critical-of-pm-modi-kick-up-a-row-987076.html
18-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 18||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections in India was 2.63 lakh on Tuesday, with 4,329 deaths, the highest single-day toll ever. India is now the only country after the US with a total caseload of over 2.5 crore.  Rajasthan and Jammu Kashmir are new concerns in India's Covid-19 fight, even as the pandemic was driven by four southern states and Maharashtra. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,52,28,996 as of May 18, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,78,719  as of May 18, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged:  2,15,96,512  Total Vaccination:  18,44,53,149   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-18-987077.html
18-05-2021||National||World Economic Forum cancels 2021 annual meeting in Singapore||The World Economic Forum has cancelled its annual meeting - the blue-ribbon event for the global elite to discuss the world's problems - due to be held in Singapore this year, the organisers said on Monday. The Covid-19 pandemic meant it was not possible to hold such a large event as planned on Aug. 17-20, they said. "Regretfully, the tragic circumstances unfolding across geographies, an uncertain travel outlook, differing speeds of vaccination roll out and the uncertainty around new variants combine to make it impossible to realise a global meeting with business, government and civil society leaders from all over the world at the scale which was planned," the WEF said in a statement. The event, which attracts VIPs from the worlds of politics and business, has been held since 1971. It was shifted from the Swiss Alpine resort of Davos in December over concerns about safeguarding the health of participants. Separately, the Shangri-La Dialogue Asian security summit, which is to take place from June 4–5, plans to go ahead with the event. "IISS remains on track to convene the 19th Shangri-La Dialogue in person in Singapore in early June," the organiser, the International Institute for Strategic Studies said in a statement. "The World Economic Forum’s decision does not affect our plans. We have a full line-up of ministers and other senior leaders from around the world planning to attend our event," said IISS. In a statement, Singapore's defence ministry said it was "encouraged by the positive response to invitations" to the meeting. "Nevertheless, as the Covid-19 situation is fluid and continues to evolve in the run-up to the meeting, the Singapore government will continue to monitor the local and global Covid-19 situation and make the necessary adjustments." Singapore has in recent days imposed some of the tightest restrictions since it exited a lockdown last year to combat a spike in local Covid-19 infections. Acknowledging WEF's decision to cancel the event, the Singapore trade ministry said on Monday that it "fully appreciates the challenges caused by the ongoing global pandemic, particularly for a large meeting with a broad span of international participants." The WEF's next annual meeting will instead take place in the first half of 2022. Its location and date will be determined based on an assessment of the situation later this summer, it added in a statement. Last year nearly 3,000 participants from 130 countries came to the WEF in Davos, which bills itself as a place for global leaders to work together to shape the global, regional and industrial agenda. Speakers last year included environmental activist Greta Thunberg and U.S. President Donald Trump. Founder and Executive Chairman Klaus Schwab said the decision to cancel had been difficult, particularly as many people wanted to "come together not just virtually but in person, and to contribute to a more resilient, more inclusive and more sustainable world," "But ultimately the health and safety of everyone concerned is our highest priority," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-economic-forum-cancels-2021-annual-meeting-in-singapore-987090.html
18-05-2021||National||Eminent cardiologist Dr KK Aggarwal dies of Covid-19||Padma Shri awardee and eminent cardiologist Dr K K Aggarwal, who gained more prominence in recent months by posting informative videos about Covid-19 on social media, has died of the same disease, a statement posted on his Twitter handle said. Aggarwal, 62, who was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here and was on ventilator support since last week, died at 11.30 pm on Monday after a lengthy battle with Covid-19, according to the statement. The former Indian Medical Association (IMA) president is survived by wife Dr Veena Aggarwal, son Nilesh and daughter Naina. Aggarwal was one of the first frontline workers to take the first dose of the anti-Covid vaccine in January, which he revealed during a live video broadcast from his car. The broadcast, however, was the subject of gossip because it was interrupted by his wife's call and their personal conversation was heard by the general public. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal described his death as a "setback for the whole nation". "Passing away of Dr. KK Aggarwal is a setback for the whole nation. He acted all his life for the health rights of common people especially poor, deprived n marginalized. A great human being. RIP! (sic)," he wrote on Twitter. A statement posted in the early hours of Tuesday on Aggarwal's Twitter handle said he wanted his life to be celebrated and not mourned. "Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives," the statement read. Aggarwal regularly posted videos raising awareness about the deadly virus on his Twitter handle. His team at the Heart Care Foundation of India kept uploading videos about Covid-19 even while he was hospitalised,. He had received the Padma Shri, the country's fourth-highest civilian honour, in 2010. He was also honoured with the Dr B C Roy Award. Aggarwal's name was mentioned in the Limca Book of Records for training the maximum number of people in the lifesaving technique of hands-only CPR at one go. Aggarwal was born in Delhi on September 5, 1958. He completed his MBBS from MGIMS, Sevagram under the Nagpur University, where he was adjudged the best graduate in 1979. The IMA said his demise was "an unexpected and tragic loss". "Dr. K. K. Aggarwal was a true legend was iconic figure in mass education and awareness. He served millions of lives and his services proved a guiding torch to all of us even during the pandemic... IMA is poorer by the loss," it said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eminent-cardiologist-dr-kk-aggarwal-dies-of-covid-19-987098.html
18-05-2021||National||24 dead, dozens missing as cyclone Tauktae batters Covid-stricken India||At least 24 people were dead and almost 100 missing on Tuesday after a monster cyclone slammed into western India, compounding the country's woes as it battles a devastating coronavirus surge. Hundreds of thousands of people were left without power after Cyclone Tauktae hammered the Gujarat coast on Monday evening. Wind up to 130 kilometres (80 miles) per hour smashed seafront windows and knocked over power lines and thousands of trees, blocking roads leading to affected areas, officials said. The colossal swirling system is the latest of a growing number of increasingly severe storms in the Arabian Sea blamed on climate change. "I have never experienced such intensity in my life," a hotel owner in the town of Bhavnagar said. "It was pitch dark as power was cut off and winds were making a roaring sound. It was scary." One support vessel serving oil rigs that were walloped by eight-metre waves off Mumbai sank and 96 of the 273 people who had been on board were missing, the Indian Navy said Tuesday. The defence ministry said 177 people were rescued, with operations continuing in "extremely challenging sea conditions". Two other barges and an oil rig were also in trouble. Elsewhere, four fresh casualties were reported Tuesday, including a child crushed by a collapsing wall and an 80-year-old woman killed by a falling pole, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said. He added that over 16,500 houses were damaged, 40,000 trees uprooted and 2,400 villages without power. "Since the cyclone made landfall we have not had power or communications," local official Aayush Oak told AFP by phone from the coastal district of Amreli where 40-50 mobile phone towers were damaged. Although the cyclone was one of the fiercest in decades, better forecasting than in previous disasters meant that 200,000 people in danger zones were evacuated from their homes. "Our planning over the last three days has paid off. We have managed to minimise human casualties," said Rupani. But challenges remain. Forecasters warned of a tidal wave of 1-2 metres (3-6 feet) in some areas as the cyclone barrelled inland weakening slightly but still bringing heavy rains and gale-force winds. The deadly weather system hit just as India's healthcare system struggles with a coronavirus surge that in the past 24 hours killed a record 4,329 people. Mumbai shifted about 600 Covid-19 patients from field hospitals "to safer locations". In Gujarat, all Covid-19 patients in hospitals within five kilometres of the coast were moved. Authorities there scrambled to ensure there would be no power cuts in hospitals and 41 oxygen plants. "Out of the 1,400 covid hospitals, power was disrupted in only 16. In 12 hospitals power has been restored and four are working on generators," Rupani said. However one Covid-19 patient died in the town of Mahuva after he could not be moved in time before the storm hit, doctors said. The state also suspended vaccinations for two days. Mumbai did the same for one day. "This cyclone is a terrible double blow for millions of people in India whose families have been struck down by record Covid infections and deaths," said Udaya Regmi from the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. Last May, more than 110 people died after "super cyclone" Amphan ravaged eastern India and Bangladesh in the Bay of Bengal. The Arabian Sea previously experienced fewer severe cyclones than the Bay of Bengal but rising water temperatures because of global warming was changing that, Roxy Mathew Koll from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology told AFP. "(The) Arabian Sea is one of the fastest-warming basins across the global oceans," he said. The effects were felt far and wide with authorities in Nepal -- some 2,000 kilometres (1,200 miles) from Gujarat -- advising climbers on Everest and other mountains to stay put. But more than 200 climbers ignored the warnings and were heading up the world's highest mountain, eyeing the summit by the end of this week, a government official at the base camp said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/24-dead-dozens-missing-as-cyclone-tauktae-batters-covid-stricken-india-987103.html
18-05-2021||National||With 4,329 Covid-19 deaths, India sees highest single-day toll; 2.63L new cases||India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 2,78,719 with a record 4,329 fresh fatalities, while the single day rise in coronavirus cases stood at 2.63 lakh, the lowest in 28 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The country reported 2,63,533 new cases in a span of 24 hours, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,52,28,996, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 2,59,170 cases were reported in a span of 24 hours on April 20. The active cases further reduced to 33,53,765  comprising 13.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 85.60  per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,15,96,512, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 31,82,92,881 samples have been tested up to May 17 with 18,69,223 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-4329-covid-19-deaths-india-sees-highest-single-day-toll-263l-new-cases-987105.html
18-05-2021||National||H D Deve Gowda's 88th birthday: Things you may not know about the former PM||'Son of the soil' former prime minister H D Deve Gowda is celebrating his 88th birthday on May 18. The National President of the Janata Dal (Secular) party, Devegowda is known for his exemplary political career as the 11th Prime Minister, a four-time Member of Parliament in Lok Sabha between 1998 and 2019. He is presently a Member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha. Here are some less known facts about the former PM you may not have known. 1. Deve Gowda was born in 1933 in Haradanahalli, a village in Holenarasipura taluk of the erstwhile Kingdom of Mysore in a Vokkaliga caste family. He holds a diploma in civil engineering. 2. The former PM won his first election to the Karnataka Legislative Assembly in 1962 as an independent candidate, even though in his early political activities, he was part of the Indian National Congress from 1953 to 1962. He went on to secure that seat in six consecutive elections from 1962 to 1989, but not all of them were as independent.  3. During the emergency in 1975-1977 under Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, Deve Gowda was imprisoned in Bangalore Central Jail. 4. Deve Gowda served as President of the Janata Party twice, which later merged with smaller opposition parties to become Janata Dal (Secular). 5. Deve Gowda was chosen to be the 11th Prime Minister in 1996 and stayed in office for less than a year. When the P V Narsimha Rao government lost the elections, no other parties won the majority. The United Front coalition was then formed, a mixture of non-Congress and non-BJP regional parties, choosing Deve Gowda to be head of the government. 6. In 1994, Deve Gowda became the President of Janata Dal and was considered to be the driving force of the party in the Assembly elections that year. He served as the Chief Minister of Karnataka from 1994 to 1996. 7. Deve Gowda married Chennamma in 1954. They have six children — four sons, including politicians H D Revanna and former Karnataka CM H D Kumaraswamy, and two daughters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/h-d-deve-gowdas-88th-birthday-things-you-may-not-know-about-the-former-pm-987122.html
18-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Why are Haryana farmers destroying tomatoes and capsicum?||Farmers in Haryana are destroying their tomato and capsicum crops after prices of the produce crashed for the second consecutive year. The prices are so low at the Mandi that farmers can’t even recover the cost of production. The lockdown might have worsened the situation, but vegetable-growing farmers face this issue every year for some crop or the other. These farmers go into losses because the perishable vegetables can’t be stored for long, there’s no minimum support price (MSP) and prices drop right at the time of harvest and increase later. Agricultural experts advise a close involvement of the government in deciding the price and quantity of different crops to be produced. “Sometimes. the price of tomatoes will go up to Rs 100 per kg and sometimes the farmer will have to throw it. This happens when you have overproduction or little to no production. This price fluctuation is bad for both farmers and consumers,” said Dr Suman Sahai, scientist chairperson, Gene Campaign. Suggesting a solution, she said, “To avoid this issue, many countries in Europe map the areas under cultivation and advise farmers to not plant more of a particular crop if the target amount of production for the year is reached.” The government. along with our agriculture research centres, need to develop market intelligence and crop intelligence to solve this issue in the long term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-why-are-haryana-farmers-destroying-tomatoes-and-capsicum-987127.html
18-05-2021||National||Punjab rebel crisis deepens, #MeToo case against minister Charanjit Singh Channi resurfaces||As "old cases" and enquiries come up against critics of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the Punjab government faces a revolt. Many ministers have been vocal about their criticism for the government and its inaction in 2015 when Sikh religious text Guru Granth Sahib was desecrated, and police personnel open-fired during peaceful protests.  A three-year-old #MeToo case has resurfaced against Punjab minister Charanjit Singh Channi. According to this case, in 2018, he had sent inappropriate texts to a female IAS officer. However, the complaint was never filed, and Amarinder Singh claimed that the issue had been resolved. Earlier this week, however, the Punjab Women's Commission sent a notice to the state government, asking for a response to this allegation. The chief of the women's panel, Manisha Gulati, says the victim has been transferred outside Punjab and she wants to ensure justice for the victim. Gulati also said she would go for a sit-in protest if the government does not respond within a week.  Former hockey captain and Congress MLA Pargat Singh accused Amarinder Singh of threatening him. He said  the Chief Minister's political secretary Captain Sandeep Sandhu warned him about being ready to face action. "Being a former captain of the Indian hockey team, I was shocked to have got such a message. But if speaking the truth on sacrilege and police firing cases is not acceptable, let them do whatever they want," the MLA said. Pargat Singh is seen as an ally of Navjot Singh Sidhu, who last week took to Twitter to speak about the 2015 incidents.  All three leaders had, last week, attended a meeting of MLAs and ministers upset with the chief minister. Others in the meeting included Sukhjinder Randhawa and Partap Bajwa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-rebel-crisis-deepens-metoo-case-against-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-resurfaces-987156.html
18-05-2021||National||Covid second wave proves fatal for doctors, 50 died in one day: Report||Revealing shocking data, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday said 270 doctors across the country succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the second wave of the pandemic. Bihar saw the maximum number of 78 deaths of medical practitioners, followed by Uttar Pradesh (37), Delhi (29) and Andhra Pradesh (22). According to the IMA Covid-19 registry, 748 doctors had succumbed to the disease in the first wave of the pandemic. Dr Jayesh Lele, the General Secretary of IMA, told the news channel that, many doctors have not taken the vaccine and the organisation is doing all it can to inoculate the workers. "We want to highlight that the doctors are understaffed and overrworked. They sometimes work for 48 hours at a stretch without any rest. This adds to the viral load and they ultimately succumb to the infection," he added. "Last year, 748 doctors across India succumbed to Covid-19, while in the current wave, in a short period, we have lost 270 doctors. The second wave of the pandemic is turning out to be extremely fatal for all and especially for the healthcare workers who are at the forefront," IMA president Dr JA Jayalal told PTI.  The list of the deceased doctors includes former IMA president Dr K K Aggarwal, who succumbed to the deadly virus on Monday. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-second-wave-proves-fatal-for-doctors-50-died-in-one-day-report-987164.html
18-05-2021||National||PM, Yediyurappa greet Deve Gowda on his 88th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa joined several others in greeting JDS Supremo H D Deve Gowda, who turned 88 on Tuesday. Modi called up the former Prime Minister this morning to wish him. "I thank Hon'ble Prime Minister @narendramodi avaru for calling me early this morning to wish me for my birthday. I pray to God to give him the strength to lead our nation during this crisis caused by the pandemic," Gowda tweeted. In his message, Yediyurappa said, "Best wishes to veteran politician and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on his birthday. May God bless you." Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah in a tweet said, "Happy birthday to former Prime Minister and senior leader of JD(S) H D Deve Gowda. May you be blessed with long life and good health. May your experience guide the state and the country." Many union and state ministers, leaders cutting across political parties wished Gowda on his birthday. The veteran appealed to his followers not to celebrate his birthday, saying it was not the right time for congregations. He has asked them to provide relief to Covid affected people of the state. Born on May 18, 1933 in a remote village of Haradanahalli in Hassan district, the JD(S) supremo had served as the Prime Minister of India for 10 months from June 1996 to April 1997.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-yediyurappa-greet-deve-gowda-on-his-88th-birthday-987187.html
18-05-2021||National||Wrestler murder case: Court declines advance bail to Sushil Kumar||A Delhi court on Tuesday declined to grant anticipatory bail to Sushil Kumar, India's double Olympic medallist in wrestling, in connection with a brawl at Chhatrasal Stadium, which led to the death of a 23-year-old wrestler.   Additional sessions judge Jagdish Kumar said allegations against the accused, also the recipient of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna and Arjuna awards, were serious and the investigation prime facie revealed that he was the main conspirator. The court said at this stage, it was not inclined to grant anticipatory bail also because the statement of eye-witnesses has already been recorded. The 37-year-old Kumar has been booked for murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the applicant, contended the police had concocted the story to implicate Kumar in the matter. He also said there was no need for custodial interrogation in the matter after recovery of the alleged weapon. He also questioned the seizing of the passport of the applicant. The police, on the other hand, claimed Kumar is the main accused who has played a key role in the commission of the offence.  Police have announced a cash reward of Rs one lakh for anyone who provided information on Sushil and a Rs 50,000 reward on his associate Ajay Kumar, who is co-accused in the murder of Sagar Dhankar, a former international wrestler.  On May 4, two groups of wrestlers clashed at Chhattarsal Stadium, resulting in the death of Dhankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrestler-murder-case-court-declines-advance-bail-to-sushil-kumar-987192.html
18-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae: Amit Shah takes stock of situation with Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajashtan CMs||Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday spoke to the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan and took stock of the situation in their states after the landfall of Cyclone Tauktae, official sources said. They said the minister talked to the CMs over telephone and extended support of the Union government in aiding and mitigating challenges that arose in the aftermath of the 'extremely severe cyclonic storm' battering the costal areas on the country's western shore along the Arabian Sea. Home Ministry officials said Shah spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. They said that while Rajasthan did not face the direct brunt of the cyclone, a number of districts were stated to have witnessed rains and strong wings as an after effect of the furious sea storm. The landfall process of the eye of Tauktae, which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around midnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-amit-shah-takes-stock-of-situation-with-maharashtra-gujarat-rajashtan-cms-987193.html
18-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae snaps power of 18.43 lakh consumers in 2 coastal districts of Maharashtra||Cyclonic storm 'Tauktae', which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una on Monday night after passing close to the Konkan coast in Maharashtra, disrupted the power supply of 18.43 lakh consumers in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, an official release said on Tuesday. Supply of 52 per cent of these consumers from 3,665 villages in these two districts has been restored while efforts are on a war footing to restore electricity in the rest of the areas, it said. Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut said 13,172 staffers are working tirelessly to restore the supply of the remaining consumers, the statement said.  A total of 13,389 citizens from Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Raigad, Thane and Palghar districts were shifted to safer places, it said. In Raigad district, 8,383 people were evacuated to safer places, as per the Maharashtra disaster management department. Ratnagiri and Palghar districts saw the shifting of 4,563 and 200 people, respectively. In Sindhudurg and Thane, 190 and 53 persons were shifted, respectively. The landfall process of the eye of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around midnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The cyclonic storm lashed Mumbai and other districts in the Konkan region on Monday with heavy rains and high-speed winds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-snaps-power-of-1843-lakh-consumers-in-2-coastal-districts-of-maharashtra-987195.html
18-05-2021||National||Mallika Dua sends out Covid-19 SOS, gets prompt response from Hardeep Puri; netizens slam 'VIP culture'||Comedian, actor and social media influencer Mallika Dua faced heat from netizens after a Twitter interaction between her and Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri went viral on Monday.  Dua, the daughter of journalist Vinod Dua, sent an SOS on Twitter for Covid-19 medicines for her ailing mother, who is reportedly admitted to ICU at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. In a tweet, Mallika Dua tagged Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda to help her arrange for Tocilizumab, one of the medicines being used to treat coronavirus patients. Hooda responded to the tweet immediately and asked her to share the required details with one of his team members so that they can arrange for the medicine. In the same thread, BJP leader, Civil Aviation Minister, and Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri responded to Dua’s plea, saying he has arranged for the injection. He even shared his mobile number to contact him for help.    After a while, Dua tweeted that Tocilizumab had been arranged for her mother and thanked Puri for 'prompt action' on helping her at the time of need. While the Twitter interaction between Dua, Hooda and Puri has been deleted now, screenshots of the same have gone viral on social media with netizens slamming the minister for taking prompt action to help Dua and not thousands of others, struggling to find medicines for Covid-19.  "I have no problem with any top minister of BJP helping Mallika Dua who abuses BJP 24*7. The problem occurs when these ministers in Power ignore the common citizens of our country and rush to help privileged elite people like Mallika for their validation. This is the difference," a Twitter user said.  I have no problem with any top minister of BJP helping Mallika Dua who abuses BJP 24*7. The problem occurs when these ministers in Power ignore the common citizens of our country and rush to help privileged elite people like Mallika for their validation. This is the difference. Another Twitter user noted how "we live in a country where being rich & poor matters the most." Many users slammed Puri for helping Dua even as she didn't tag him. Columnist Shefali Vaidya tweeted that the Union minister was “acting like a supplier for one of his buddies, while thousands of other less privileged people are gasping for breath in hospitals”.  Following the outrage, Mallika Dua, known for her critical take on the government, seems to have deleted her Twitter account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mallika-dua-sends-out-covid-19-sos-gets-prompt-response-from-hardeep-puri-netizens-slam-vip-culture-987197.html
18-05-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 recoveries cross 4 lakh-mark for first time||India has recorded more than 4 lakh daily Covid-19 recoveries in a single day for the first time, while new coronavirus infections settled below 3 lakh for the second day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. A total of 4,22,436 patients have recuperated in a span of 24 hours, taking India's cumulative recoveries to 2,15,96,512. Average daily recovery of more than 3,55,944 cases has been recorded in the last 14 days, the ministry said. A total of 2,63,533 new cases were registered in a day. Ten states reported 74.54 per cent of the new cases in a span of 24 hours. Karnataka has reported the highest daily new cases at 38,603, followed by Tamil Nadu with 33,075 new cases. India's total Covid-19 active cases have decreased to 33,53,765 with net decline of 1,63,232 cases being recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. It now comprises 13.29 per cent of the country's total cases. Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal cumulatively account for 69.01 per cent of India's total Active Cases. The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.10 per cent, the ministry said. A total of 4,329 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 75.98 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (1000). Karnataka follows with 476 daily deaths. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached nearly 18.44 crore. A total of 18,44,53,149 vaccine doses have been administered through 26,87,638 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. These include 96,59,441 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,52,389 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,45,00,303 FLWs who have received the first dose, 82,17,075 FLWs who have taken the second dose and, 59,39,290 beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group who have received the first dose. Besides, 5,76,64,616 and 92,43,104 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have been administered the first and second dose respectively while 5,46,64,577 and 1,79,12,354 beneficiaries of more than 60 years have received the first and second dose. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.70 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. It said 6,69,884 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 59,39,290 across 36 states and UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive. As on Day-122 of the vaccination drive (May 17), 15,10,418 vaccine doses were given. Across 14,447 sessions, 12,67,201 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 2,43,217 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine. In addition, the foreign aid of relief materials continues to be swiftly cleared, apportioned and sent to states and UTs to combat Covid-19. Cumulatively, 11,321 oxygen concentrators, 15,801 oxygen cylinders; 19 oxygen generation plants, 7,470 ventilators/Bi PAP and about 5.5 lakh Remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-recoveries-cross-4-lakh-mark-for-first-time-987201.html
18-05-2021||National||INX Media case: Delhi High Court stays trial court proceedings against P Chidambaram, others||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday stayed the proceedings before the trial court in the CBI's INX Media corruption case involving former Finance Minister and Congress leader P Chidambaram and his son, MP Karti. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait issued notice and sought responses from Chidambaram and others on the CBI's plea challenging the trial court order directing the agency to allow inspection of documents kept in ‘Malkhana’ (designated place in police station to store seized property) by the accused and their counsel. The CBI has sought to set aside the special judge’s March 5, 2021 order to the extent that it directed CBI to allow inspection of documents kept in 'Malkhana' by the accused and their counsel. The agency contended that the trial court’s order reflected intrusion into the investigative process of the CBI and if accused persons were allowed to inspect documents available at the 'Malkhana', it would subvert the probe. It noted that there was every likelihood that they might tamper with the evidence available. It also claimed that this would impinge the power of the CBI to enquire and investigate the allegations of huge economic fraud and corruption at the highest level, having national and international ramifications. It said out of 14 accused, only Karti had made the prayer to inspect Malkhana documents. However, the trial court erroneously allowed all the accused to inspect it and exceeded the judicial powers by giving relief that was not prayed for. Besides, the CBI has also sought the setting aside of observations in the order, which says that the agency is required to file or produce before the court all the documents collected by it during the course of investigation of the case and that the accused are also entitled to copies of such documents or inspections thereof, irrespective of the fact whether they are being relied upon by the CBI or not. The CBI had registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance granted to INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007 during Chidambaram's tenure as finance minister. Thereafter, the ED had lodged the money laundering case. The Chidambarams are already on bail in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inx-media-case-delhi-high-court-stays-trial-court-proceedings-against-p-chidambaram-others-987205.html
18-05-2021||National||Kejriwal appeals Centre to cancel flights from Singapore over Covid strain ‘very dangerous' for kids||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday appealed to the Central government to immediately cancel all air services with Singapore, saying a new strain of coronavirus there is said to be "very dangerous" for children. This new strain of virus could invade India in the form of a third wave, he said in a tweet. "The new form of coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Cancel all air services with Singapore with immediate effect 2. Work on vaccine alternatives for children on a priority basis," Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi.  सिंगापुर में आया कोरोना का नया रूप बच्चों के लिए बेहद ख़तरनाक बताया जा रहा है, भारत में ये तीसरी लहर के रूप में आ सकता है। केंद्र सरकार से मेरी अपील:1. सिंगापुर के साथ हवाई सेवाएं तत्काल प्रभाव से रद्द हों2. बच्चों के लिए भी वैक्सीन के विकल्पों पर प्राथमिकता के आधार पर काम हो||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-appeals-centre-to-cancel-flights-from-singapore-over-covid-strain-very-dangerous-for-kids-987212.html
18-05-2021||National||Youth Congress chief Srinivas B V slams BJP over 'toolkit' remark||Youth Congress chief Srinivas B V on Tuesday slammed the BJP over the "toolkit" that the ruling party accused the Congress of using to dent the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Covid-19 mismanagement in the country.  Flashing papers from an alleged Congress document on its strategy for the campaign on Covid-19 mismanagement, party spokesperson Sambit Patra criticised the Opposition party’s direction to party workers to “use resources created on social media to question Modi’s incompetence from handles which look like Modi or BJP supporters”.  Hitting back, Srinivas pointed out that the Youth Congress has helped thousands of people "when the Government of India was sleeping."  "Dear all, Ask yourself, over the past few weeks thousands of you received help from #SOSIYC when GOI was sleeping. Our volunteers risked their lives to save your loved ones. Are you also part of fabricated BJP's toolkit? Hv we committed any crime by saving your lives? (sic)" he tweeted. Dear all, Our volunteers risked their lives to save your loved ones. ●Are you also part of fabricated BJP's toolkit? Hv we committed any crime by saving your lives? Srinivas was named among the politicians such as BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar Chaudhary, former MLA Mukesh Sharma, BJP leader Harish Khurana, AAP MLA Dilip Pandey in a case related to alleged hoarding and black marketing of Covid-19 medical supplies. Delhi police, in its initial inquiry, gave the clean chits. Hitting out at the BJP for "shamelessly making toolkits to demean the work done by the Youth Congress", Srinivas dared the saffron party to stop them from saving lives of people by arresting or filing cases against them. I am disappointed & anguished by the attempts of BJP in last one week. Saying it again, Arrest me or file the cases, we will continue saving lives||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-congress-chief-srinivas-b-v-slams-bjp-over-toolkit-remark-987227.html
18-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis | We have sort of reached a plateau, but it's a high plateau... have to be very, very careful: Dr Shahid Jameel||Dr Jameel mentioned that the annual mortality rate of India for 2019 was 7.3 per 1,000 per year. “If you convert that into deaths per day, it turns out to 27,600 deaths per day. Now let’s say we have 4,000 deaths per day because of Covid. This number, 4,000, is only a 15% increase over the natural deaths happening. Now, with that small a difference, you would not even notice it at crematorium grounds, at burial grounds. But what you are seeing is a completely different picture,” he told the publication. The scenes emerging from crematorium grounds around the country are heartbreaking -- people having to wait in serpentine queues to bury or cremate loved ones; ambulances and cremation ground workers charging exorbitant amounts of money from bereaved families. Several bodies were even found dumped in rivers in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar districts. Undercounting of deaths “There is maybe around 5-10 times undercounting of deaths. And that is happening because even in the best of times, deaths are not registered very well in the country and our registry is weak. But also when the healthcare system gets overwhelmed, people are unable to get a Covid-positive test. There are going to be thousands of cases where tests don’t come in, you don’t count as Covid-19 positive. Even if somebody who is Covid-positive dies of a heart attack, it would be called a cardiac arrest death rather than a Covid death,” Dr Jameel said. "Certainly the numbers tell us that we had a really devastating April-May. Although the curve seems to have flattened out, do realise that it has flattened out at a very high plateau. While it is showing some signs of coming down, I think it is a little too early to say much. I’ll remind everyone that it is a high plateau and we have to be very, very careful not to let it go any further but to bend it down," he further added. Complacency cost India The deadly second wave came to India because of the negligence of the government, according to Dr Jameel. After the first wave, when cases started to reduce between September and February, festivals were celebrated in mass gatherings and even the Bihar election took place. All this, despite the fact that every single country that peaked before us got a second wave -- we ignored that. “All through that time, as the graph was going down, we and our leaders started thinking that we have conquered Covid,” he said. “Let me just say that first, we became complacent, and then this sort of variant virus caught us at the right time for the virus, the wrong time for us. Finally, when we had the opportunity to get vaccinated in January and February, enough of us did not get vaccinated. By the time this peak hit us around the third week of February when numbers started going up, we had very, very poor vaccine coverage — only about 5% or less, possibly about 2% of people who had been vaccinated,” he told the publication. As of now, three per cent of the population in India has been vaccinated fully and 9.2 per cent of the people have received one dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-we-have-sort-of-reached-a-plateau-but-its-a-high-plateau-have-to-be-very-careful-dr-shahid-jameel-987229.html
18-05-2021||National||Navy, Coast Guard rescue 314 persons stranded due to Cyclone Tauktae||In a major Search and Rescue (SAR) operation in the Arabian Sea, the Indian Navy (IN) and Indian Coast Guard (ICG)  have rescued 314 persons stranded in two barges that were caught in the midst of cyclone Tauktae. All the 137 persons on board Barge GAL Constructor were rescued by the IN and ICG teams after daring helicopter operations. The CGS Samrat was in the vicinity for necessary assistance. A total of 273 persons were there on board P-305, which has sunk. Efforts are underway to trace the other people who were in the barge. The operations are still continuing, according to officials in the Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command and ICG West Region headquarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-coast-guard-rescue-314-persons-stranded-due-to-cyclone-tauktae-987237.html
18-05-2021||National||5 years on, Pakistani Hindu refugees at Majnu Ka Tilla await electricity connection||It has nearly been five years since they were given asylum and settled here at Majnu Ka Tilla, and nearly year-and-a-half since the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act, but a group of Hindu families from Pakistan still await basic amenities such as electricity for the lack of an Indian identity. Settled behind the Majnu Ka Tilla gurudwara, the community of some 700 people has largely remained unaffected by the coronavirus pandemic and has received vaccination for people over 45 years of age. However, getting an electric connection remains elusive to the refugee community, who claim to have written to the state and central government for a solution. "We have written to every possible person. Our application is with the DM, SDM and other authorities concerned, but we are told that getting a connection is difficult since we don't have Indian citizenship," complained Sona Das, the community chief or 'Pradhan'. Without electricity, mosquitoes are an added nuisance on top of the Delhi heat. "Living next to the Yamuna river and without electricity, we are drowning in mosquitoes. The situation is so bad that when we are eating in the dark, we end up eating some mosquitoes with our food," Das told PTI. Tata Power-DDL claimed that despite having an approved proposal for a Single Point Deliver (SPD) scheme to offer connections, it did not receive any amount from the authorities. "In this regard, a proposal of Rs 6.58 lakhs was also submitted to DM Central and the Social Welfare Minister, Govt Of Delhi. The in-principle approval was also granted by the DM Central on the proposed scheme at that time. "However, the amount has not been released by the authorities till date. We will issue the connections as soon as the amount, as per the current revised charges, is paid for the SPD connection by the DM Central," a Tata Power-DDL spokesperson told PTI. Das, the refugee community chief, added, "We have water, and medical facility is nearby. We have also received vaccination for 45+ people and there were hardly three-four cases of COVID-19 last year. We have been fortunate otherwise." The refugees, he claimed, also received ration from the Delhi government. "For now, electricity is our only concern," Das said. "I have 100-year-old parents. There are children and pregnant women among us. Living without electricity and so many mosquitoes can harm them in so many ways," Das rued. PTI MAH VIT MAH TIR TIR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-years-on-pakistani-hindu-refugees-at-majnu-ka-tilla-await-electricity-connection-987239.html
18-05-2021||National||Central Vista Project: Three iconic buildings to be demolished in Delhi||The Central Vista Redevelopment Project, worth Rs 20,000 crore, consists of building a new parliament building and new residential places for the Prime Minister and the Vice-President. Along with this, the government also plans on reconstructing the central Delhi area, which houses the legislatures and other important historical buildings. The present Parliament building, which is a 94-year-old structure built during British rule, will be turned into a museum. As a part of the project, three iconic buildings in Delhi -- the National Museum, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), the National Archives Annexe -- are set to be demolished, according to NDTV. The invaluable art, manuscripts, and other important documents from these buildings have been planned to be moved to a different location. The famous dancing girl of Harappa, Nataraja in Chola Bronze, relics of Buddha, Ganjifa cards, Tanjore paintings and wood carved doors, that are kept in the National Museum, will be shifted to North or South Block. The ancient archival records kept in the National Archives Annexe, including 45 lakh files, 25,000 rare manuscripts, more than 1 lakh maps and 1.3 lakh Mughal documents, will be shifted when the annexe building will be demolished. The main building will remain as it is. The heritage pieces, manuscripts and other historical art pieces will be shifted to the Janpath Hotel. It has been renovated for this purpose. Around 4,58,820 square metres in Delhi will be demolished as part of the renovation process, which includes Shastri Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Vigyan Bhavan, Vice President's Residence, Jawahar Bhavan, Nirman Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan and Raksha Bhavan. The entire project is expected to be completed by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-project-three-iconic-buildings-to-be-demolished-in-delhi-987241.html
18-05-2021||National||Covid-19: CBSE extends deadline till June 30 for schools to tabulate Class 10 marks||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has extended the deadline for schools for the tabulation of Class 10 marks and submitting it to the board till June 30. The board had earlier asked schools to complete the entire exercise of tabulation of marks by June 11 and the result was to be declared by June 20. “Keeping in view the situation of pandemic, lockdown in states and safety of teachers and other staff members of affiliated schools, the board has decided to extend the dates,” Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examinations, CBSE, said. The CBSE had earlier this month announced a policy for the tabulation of marks for Class 10 board exams, which were cancelled in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on the basis of the student's performance in various tests or exams throughout the year.   The board had asked schools to form a result committee consisting of principal and seven teachers for finalising results. Five teachers from the school should be from Mathematics, Social Science, Science and two languages, and two teachers from neighbouring schools should be co-opted by the school as the external members of the committee. For candidates who have not appeared in enough tests throughout the year, the CBSE has asked schools to conduct online or telephonic assessments. On April 14, the CBSE had announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and the postponement of Class 12 exams in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cbse-extends-deadline-till-june-30-for-schools-to-tabulate-class-10-marks-987242.html
18-05-2021||National||Journalist, activist booked under NSA for posts on deceased BJP leader||The Manipur Police has booked journalist Kishorchandra Wangkhem and activist Erendro Leichombam under the National Security Act (NSA) for their allegedly derisive social media posts involving state BJP chief S Tikendra Singh, following his demise due to Covid-19 last week, police sources said. The duo, both in their 40s, was arrested on Thursday after they took to Facebook to extend their condolences, while also writing that cow dung or cow urine was no cure for Covid-19, in two separate posts. The saffron party's state vice-president Usham Deban Singh and general secretary P Premananda Meetei filed a complaint against Wangkhem and Leichombam, and shortly after the police picked them up from their residences here. They were granted bail on Monday, but the government subsequently invoked the NSA. Th Kirankumar, the district magistrate of Imphal West, said in his order that the two might "resume activities which are prejudicial to the security of the state and maintenance of public order on being released on bail". Earlier, too, Wankhem, associated with news portal 'Frontline Manipur', had faced arrest on two occasions for his criticism of the BJP. Erendro is the convenor of political outfit Peoples' Resurgence and Justice Alliance (PRJA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-activist-booked-under-nsa-for-posts-on-deceased-bjp-leader-987244.html
18-05-2021||National||Indian Railways' says all of its Covid-19 hospitals to have own oxygen plants soon||All 86 of railways' Covid hospitals will soon have oxygen plants of their own, the national transporter said on Tuesday. A statement from the ministry said that it was planning massive capacity enhancement in 86 railway hospitals across India which have been identified as Covid hospitals. While four oxygen plants are already functional, 52 have been sanctioned and 30 are under various stages of processing. "All railway Covid Hospitals to be equipped with oxygen plants," it said. General managers of zonal railways have been delegated further powers upto Rs 2 crore in each case for sanctioning oxygen generation plants, it said. A series of measures have been initiated for the treatment of rail staffers and their families. The number of beds for Covid treatment have been increased from 2,539 to 6,972. The ICU beds in Covid hospitals have been increased from 273 to 573. Invasive ventilators have been added and their number has been increased from 62 to 296. "Constant efforts are being made to add critical medical equipment like BIPAP machines, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders etc in railway hospitals. The railways have also issued instructions that Covid affected employees may be admitted to empanelled hospitals on referral basis as per need. "This massive capacity enhancement in railway hospitals would usher in better infrastructure to handle medical emergencies," the railways said. Around 2,000 railway employees have so far lost their lives to Covid with about 1,000 getting infected daily, according to official data. So far, around 4.32 lakh rail employees have been vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-says-all-of-its-covid-19-hospitals-to-have-own-oxygen-plants-soon-987249.html
18-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: PM Modi asserts vaccination is a strong way to fight Covid||In your evening news brief, K K Shailaja finds no place in the new Kerala Cabinet; PM Modi asserts vaccination is a strong way to fight Covid and Delhi High Court stays proceedings before the trial court in the CBI's INX Media corruption case.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 18, 2021: The CPI, a key partner in the CPI(M)-led LDF, on Tuesday announced its nominees to be inducted in the second Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in Kerala. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran said the party has decided to nominate its newly elected MLAs, K Rajan, P Prasad, J Chinchu Rani and G R Anil as ministers in the new government, while senior party leader and Adoor MLA Chittayam Gopakumar as the deputy speaker. The swearing-in ceremony of the new government would be held on May 20 at the central stadium here by adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Health Minister in the outgoing Assembly, K K Shailaja, does not find a place in the new cabinet which has 11 new faces from CPI (M). The state committee of the Marxist party, which met at its headquarters AKG Centre elected Vijayan to lead the party, a CPI(M) statement said. The party state committee, chaired by senior leader Elamaram Kareem, decided to entrust Shailaja with the position of party whip, the statement added.   Describing state and district officials as "field commanders" in the fight against Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said localised containment zones, aggressive testing and sharing correct and complete information with people are weapon to defeat the pandemic. Interacting with them at a meeting, which was attended by district magistrates from 46 districts across nine states, through video-conferencing, Modi said they were free to innovate to suit their local requirements and asked them to share their feedback about any change in policy without any inhibition. Asserting that vaccination is a strong way to fight Covid, Modi said myths about it have to be collectively rooted out.   The Delhi High Court on Tuesday stayed the proceedings before the trial court in the CBI's INX Media corruption case involving Congress leader P Chidambaram and his son Karti. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait issued notice and sought responses of Chidambaram and others on the CBI's plea challenging the trial court order directing the agency to allow inspection of documents kept in ‘Malkhana’ (designated place in police station to store seized property) by the accused and their counsel. The CBI has sought to set aside the special judge’s March 5, 2021 order to the extent that it directed CBI to allow inspection of documents kept in Malkhana by the respondents/accused/their counsel. Source: PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-modi-asserts-vaccination-is-a-strong-way-to-fight-covid-987251.html
18-05-2021||National||DoT permits intra-circle roaming in cyclone-hit districts of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa||The Department of Telecom (DoT) has allowed telcos to make intra-circle roaming arrangement in cyclone Tauktae-hit districts of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa and union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu for 24 hours, a senior government official said Tuesday. The DoT has allowed ICR, which allows telecom operators to use each others network, in Gujarat's Amreli, Bhavnagar, Botad, Gir, Somnath, Junagadh, Valsad and Navsari, and also in districts of Daman and Diu, Dadar and Nagar Haveli, telecom secretary Anshu Prakash told PTI. "We have allowed ICR in districts where more than 10 per cent telecom networks have been damaged from the cyclone," Prakash said. He said that ICR has been allowed in Raigad, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts of Maharashtra as well as in north and south Goa. "We will review the situation this evening and decide on further action," Prakash said. The landfall process of the eye of Tauktae, which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around midnight, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the IMD, Diu reported wind speed of 133 kilometer per hour at 9.30 pm on May 17. Industry body COAI, whose members include Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea etc, said that its members are working closely with the DoT, infrastructure providers (IPs) and local state authorities to minimize the impact of cyclone Tauktae on telecom networks.  Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) director general SP Kochhar said that intra-circle roaming has been initiated so that mobile phone users can easily switch between telecom operators in case their native service provider is affected. "Priority Call Routing is helping government officials to coordinate and execute restoration work. We are taking every possible step to mitigate Cyclone Tauktae's impact on the people in ...Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Goa and Diu to ensure that the adverse impact of this cyclone is minimal and the disruption in telecommunications and internet services caused by the cyclone is restored at the earliest," Kochhar said. All telecom operators and equipment companies have deployed extra workforce on the ground to protect and restore telecom infrastructure, he said. To cater to the disruption in mobile towers, telecom service providers have "deployed additional Cell on Wheels (CoW) to support impacted telecom sites. In the absence of grid supply, adequate diesel and battery backup at telecom sites is ensuring continuity of services. Close coordination with the NDMA and their teams in the field is being done", Kochhar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dot-permits-intra-circle-roaming-in-cyclone-hit-districts-of-gujarat-maharashtra-goa-987252.html
18-05-2021||National||Started in July 2020, NDRF got just Rs 63,000 as donations: RTI||The Government allowed individuals and institutions to donate money to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) last July but it has received only Rs 63,014 till February, according to an RTI response. The Ministry of Home Affairs informed transparency activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retired) that between 13 July, 2020 and 26 February, 2021, there were only 14 donations from individuals ranging from Rs 100 to Rs 25,000 to the NDRF. The low level of public engagement highlights the provisions have not reached the public and the need for the government to publicise it like the way it did on the PM-CARES fund last March. Batra had send a series of letters to the MHA, Ministry of Finance and National Disaster Management Authority in April-May last year demanding that individuals and institutions be allowed to make donations to the NDRF, prompting Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla to approach the Ministry of Finance to stipulate a mechanism for such donations. The Department of Expenditure on June 19 last year gave clearance for contributions and grants by individuals and institutions in NDRF as per Section 46(1)(b) of Disaster Management Act, 2005. The June 19 order had allowed the State Disaster Response Fund also to collect the donations but five days later, that provision was withdrawn. Though the MHA had set up the NDRF in September 2010 under Disaster Management Act, 2005 to collect donations, the successive governments had not made a mechanism for this. After clearance from the Ministry of Finance, the NDMA on July 10 last year announced the modalities for contribution and the first donation was made on July 13 by Batra. Batra believes that there is a need for publicity for making people aware of the provision of contribution to the NDRF and has shot off an open letter to the Home Secretary. "It has been 10 months since the ‘contribution by Individuals and Institutions’ to NDRF, had become reality...India, at the moment, is in a state of ‘National Health Emergency’ due to wide spread of Covid-19 requiring huge resources and additional funding...The outcome was very disappointing. During the period 13 July 2020 to 26 February 2021, the total amount contributed to the NDRF was only Rs.63,014," he said in the letter. He said there is a need to "aggressively publicise" the need for contribution by individuals and institutions to NDRF in order to mobilize maximum contribution from India and abroad. Batra has also demanded that there should be Income Tax exemption for contributors and FCRA exemption for contributions from abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/started-in-july-2020-ndrf-got-just-rs-63000-as-donations-rti-987259.html
18-05-2021||National||SC judge recuses from hearing ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh's plea on witch-hunt||Supreme Court Justice B R Gavai on Tuesday recused from hearing a fresh petition filed by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh for transfer of all the probes, ordered against him, outside Maharashtra.  As soon as the matter came up for hearing before a two-judge vacation bench presided over by Justice Vineet Saran, Justice Gavai preferred to opt out due to "some difficulty" in taking up the matter. The case, in which Singh alleged witch-hunt until he withdrew his charges of fixing a monthly extortion target of Rs 100 crore against then Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, would now be posted before another bench. In his writ petition, Singh asked the top court to transfer all investigations already initiated or contemplated against him to the CBI which was already probing the charges against former Minister and NCP leader, Deshmukh. The CBI had already lodged an FIR in the matter on April 21 after the top court declined to interfere with the Bombay High Court's order for preliminary investigation against Deshmukh. Singh, who himself faced proceedings afterwards, sought a direction to the State authorities not to initiate any inquiry or investigation or coercive action against him without permission from the top court. Within days of his transfer to the Home Guards Department on March 17, Singh had accused the then Minister of setting a collection target of Rs 100 crore for API Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, arrested in the Antilia bomb scare case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-judge-recuses-from-hearing-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singhs-plea-on-witch-hunt-987271.html
18-05-2021||National||98% population in India still vulnerable to Covid-19 infection: Centre||Less than 2 per cent of the total population in India has been affected by Covid-19 so far and 98 per cent of the population is still susceptible or vulnerable to the infection, the government said on Tuesday. "Despite the high number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2 per cent of the population," said Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal. The government said that of the total population in India, 1.8 per cent has been affected by Covid-19 so far and 98 per cent of the population is still susceptible or vulnerable to the infection. The government said a continued decline has been noted in active cases in the last 15 days. From 17.13 per cent of the total caseload reported on May 3, it has reduced to 13.3 per cent, it added. Eight states have more than 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases and 22 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity, it said.  Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases and a decline in positivity, the government said. There are 199 districts showing a continued decline in Covid-19 cases and positivity since the last two weeks, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/98-population-in-india-still-vulnerable-to-covid-19-infection-centre-987273.html
18-05-2021||National||'God bless this country': Delhi HC slams officers who live in 'ivory towers' oblivious of Covid-19||Covid-19 has not spared even a single family and still central government's officers are living in "ivory towers" oblivious of ground realities, observed the Delhi High Court which on Tuesday was of the view that manufacturing of Sputnik V vaccine in India is giving an opportunity to the nation staring at a shortage of vaccines. “God bless this country”, was another remark of a bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla which castigated the Centre for not being alive to the pandemic situation that is taking so many lives. The bench said the collaboration of Panacea Biotec with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for manufacturing of Sputnik V vaccine should be seen as an opportunity to ensure its usage here and in such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes. It said "no one is applying its mind" when there is an opportunity for the government to get millions of vaccines and it should use this as a window. “Otherwise, deaths will continue to happen. Every day you are castigated by each and every court and still you are not awake. “Which bureaucrat is giving you instructions. Is he not alive to the situation? God bless this country. That is why we are facing this situation. In such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes,” the bench said. It added, “Does your officer not see so many deaths are taking place in the country and we are short of vaccines. Your client is not alive to the situation.” The bench, which was critical of the Centre's stand on the issue, said “You (government) are so short of vaccines and you are not taking it through. May be it is an opportunity for you. Don’t be so negative. It is like a raging fire and nobody is bothered. You people don’t understand the larger picture or what. “Tell your officers it is an opportunity for you, don’t lose it. No one is applying its mind. The virus has not spared any single family. Your officers are living in ivory towers,” the bench said. The high court’s observations came while hearing a plea of Delhi-based Panacea Biotec seeking to modify a July 2020 order, by which the firm had undertaken not to prosecute further the execution proceedings instituted by them in relation to an arbitral award, running into crores of rupees, passed in its favour and against the Centre. The company, in its fresh application, sought release of the arbitral award saying it needs funds at the earliest in the larger interest of humanity as it has already manufactured trial batches of Covid vaccine Sputnik V in collaboration with RDIF and the process of manufacturing scale-up batches is on. The bench said “This court is of the view that in today’s time there is acute shortage of vaccines in India and the collaboration of applicant (Panacea Biotec) with RDIF gives India an opportunity to ensure that the vaccine manufactured by the applicant is used for sale in India.” The court issued notice to the Centre and asked it to examine the plea and file a reply within a week and listed it for hearing on May 31.  The company, represented through senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, said, “If the awarded amount is not released…, the whole process of manufacture of vaccine at the fastest pace may get derailed and delayed which will not be in the larger interest of humanity.” Additional Solicitor General Balbir Singh, representing the Centre, submitted that the manufacturing of Sputnik V will not benefit the country as it will be for global supply by RDIF. He claimed that certain misleading statements were made in the plea and there was no urgency as the vaccines are to be sold outside India. The Centre was also represented through advocates Rajesh Ranjan and B S Shukla. Sethi, however, responded that no manufactured vaccines can be exported without the government’s consent. He said these vaccines are meant only for Indian use and it will benefit the government as the firm is one of the largest manufacturers of vaccines which supplies domestic and international markets. On the Centre’s objection to the plea, the bench said the government is short of vaccines and this company says they are willing to manufacture and deposit 20 per cent of sale proceeds in the court, so it should be taken as an opportunity. The application was filed in a pending appeal of the Centre challenging a single judge’s order dismissing its petition on a limited point of limitation period. Before the single judge, the Centre had challenged the arbitral tribunal’s award which was in the favour of Panacea Biotec and Bharat Biotech International Ltd and Serum Institute of India relating to an earlier agreement for pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccines in 2010. In its plea before the division bench, Panacea Biotec mentioned that Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech are also exporting Covid-19 vaccines to various countries and now there is huge shortage of vaccines which is not readily available for citizens of the age of 18 years and above, though officially it has been declared that they are eligible for vaccination since May 1. “It is one of the greatest challenges, humanity is facing which can only be overcome by vaccination and by following other protocols. Unless timely steps for manufacture of Covid-19 vaccine are taken, the death toll can go up to astronomical figures,” it said while maintaining that 100 million doses per year of Sputnik V vaccine for the global market would be manufactured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/god-bless-this-country-delhi-hc-slams-officers-who-live-in-ivory-towers-oblivious-of-covid-19-987277.html
18-05-2021||National||Never exported Covid-19 vaccine at cost of people in India: Adar Poonawalla ||Amid severe criticism, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday said exports of Covishield vaccines was part of commitment but not at the cost of Indians. Poonawalla, who along with his family is currently in London, issued a statement on Tuesday. "If we look at total doses produced and delivered, we rank amongst the top three in the world," he said. "We would like to reiterate that we have never exported vaccines at the cost of the people in India and remain committed to do everything we can in the support of the vaccination drive in the country. We have been working with the government tirelessly to do our best for humanity and will continue in the same spirit," Poonawalla, whose SII is the first Indian company to roll out Covid-19 vaccine, said. In January 2021 India had a large stockpile of vaccine doses. The vaccination drive had started successfully and the number of daily cases being recorded were at an all-time low. At that stage, most people, including health experts, believed that India was turning the tide on the pandemic, the statement said. According to Poonawalla, around the same time, many other countries in the world were facing an acute crisis and were in desperate need of help. "Our government extended support wherever possible during this period. It is this spirit that had initially led to cooperation between countries when the virus first emerged in the beginning of 2020. The cooperation between countries also forms the basis for us to get access to technology and aid for healthcare," he said. Poonawalla said that people must also understand that this pandemic is not limited by geographic or political boundaries. "We will not be safe until everyone globally is able to defeat this virus. Further, as part of our global alliances, we also had commitments to COVAX, so that they could distribute the vaccines around the world to end the pandemic," he said. The SII CEO also stressed on the fact that India is the second most populous country in the world, and said that a vaccination drive of such a large scale cannot be completed within 2-3 months, as there are several "factors and challenges" involved.  It would take 2-3 years for the entire world population to get fully vaccinated, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/never-exported-covid-19-vaccine-at-cost-of-people-in-india-adar-poonawalla-987280.html
18-05-2021||National||Delhi HC junks PIL for info on foreign firms' plans on vaccine sale; slaps Rs 10,000 cost||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed with Rs 10,000 cost a plea for information on foreign pharma companies' move to sell their Covid-19 vaccines here, saying it has become a fashion in Delhi to convert any idea into a PIL. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said such information and details can be sought under RTI Act, saying for every problem, a writ petition or PIL was not the solution. "We are dismissing the petition with cost of Rs 10,000 to be deposited in favour of the legal aid services," the bench said. A lawyer filed the plea seeking liberalisation of use of foreign vaccines here. The plea asked the court to direct the Centre and Delhi government to change the existing policies with regard to import, licensing and approval mechanism for foreign vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-junks-pil-for-info-on-foreign-firms-plans-on-vaccine-sale-slaps-rs-10000-cost-987282.html
18-05-2021||National||Narada case: CBI found nothing against Mukul Roy; sanction to prosecute Suvendu Adhikari pending for 2 years||The CBI has found nothing "so far" against Mukul Roy, who switched from the Trinamool Congress to the BJP, and Lok Sabha TMC member Aparupa Poddar in the 2014 Narada sting tape case, while its application seeking sanction to prosecute four others including Suvendu Adhikari was pending with the Lok Sabha Speaker for over two years, officials said on Tuesday. However, they added that the investigation is still open and no clean chit has been given to anyone. The officials said the CBI had written to the Lok Sabha Speaker on April 6, 2019, for sanction to prosecute Suvendu Adhikari, Sougata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Prasun Banerjee as all of them were members of the lower house when the alleged incident occurred. Adhikari, once a close confidant of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, joined the BJP in December 2020 and stole a narrow victory over Banerjee in his pocket borough Nandigram. He is the leader of opposition in the state assembly. The case pertains to a purported sting operation conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada TV news channel in 2014 wherein people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were allegedly seen receiving "illegal gratification" from representatives of a fictitious company in exchange for favours, the CBI has alleged. The infamous Narada scam tapes, which were clandestinely shot in 2014, were leaked ahead of the 2016 Assembly polls in West Bengal. However, it had no bearing on the poll results as Mamata Banerjee returned to power. The CBI started an investigation into the case on the direction of Calcutta High Court in April 2017. The agency had on Monday arrested and charge-sheeted West Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra, and former TMC leader and erstwhile Mayor of Kolkata Sovan Chatterjee, after the governor gave the sanction to prosecute them on May 7. IPS officer SMH Meerza, who is out on bail, was also among those charge-sheeted. Among the 13 accused named by the CBI in its FIR, the officials said sanction for prosecution was not sought for Roy, who joined the BJP in November 2017, and Poddar, who is in TMC and is an MP from Arambagh, West Bengal. The case against the then TMC MP Sultan Ahmed was abated and is likely to figure in column two of the charge sheet as he died in September 2017. The officials said that the CBI could not find corroborative evidence "so far" to prosecute Roy and Poddar and hence sanction was not sought against them. The CBI application seeking sanction to prosecute the then TMC MPs, purportedly caught in the sting tapes receiving money from the operator in 2014, remains pending with the Lok Sabha Speaker office for over two years, officials said. Firhad Hakim, the TMC minister arrested by the CBI, took to Twitter on Monday evening to allege that the leaders "who bent down to their pressure tactics and joined BJP are spared from the arrest today and harassment by CBI." The TMC has alleged that the arrests were political vendetta by the BJP after its loss in the Assembly election. The four senior politicians arrested by the CBI were ministers in the state cabinet in 2014 when the sting operation was conducted by the Narada news channel. The CBI had sought sanction for the four ministers from West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar who gave his nod under Article 164 of the Constitution on May 7 this year. Union Home Ministry had cleared the prosecution of Meerza after which the agency filed the charge sheet against the five. There was no word on the role of the 13th accused Iqbal Ahmed, the then TMC MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narada-case-cbi-found-nothing-against-mukul-roy-sanction-to-prosecute-suvendu-adhikari-pending-for-2-years-987283.html
18-05-2021||National||Bodies floating in rivers: Centre asks states to test water quality in villages||With the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic spreading across India, the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti has issued an advisory to states and union territories for monitoring and surveillance of water quality in villages to ensure potable drinking water.   "National Jal Jeevan Mission (NJJM) issued an advisory to States/ UTs to undertake water quality monitoring and surveillance (WQM&S) activities to ensure potable drinking water to every rural home and public institution in all villages across the country," said a statement from the Jal Shakti Ministry. The ministry issued the direction in the background of floating of several dead bodies or half-burnt bodies in many rivers, mostly in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Several health experts warned of the spreading of diseases and contamination of water due to floating dead bodies in rivers. "In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the criticality of public health including preventive action is well understood, making safe drinking water, improved sanitation and better hygiene a pre-requisite for improved public health," the statement said. "A number of water-borne diseases can be prevented with regular water quality testing and timely remedial action. The advisory urged that water quality monitoring and surveillance will not only saves people, especially children, from falling sick but also helpful in saving precious lives," the statement said. All drinking water sources are to be tested once a year for chemical contamination and twice a year for bacteriological parameters (pre and post-monsoon), the Ministry advised. With a view to empower the local community on water quality surveillance, states have been advised to identify and train 5 persons especially women in each village from the local community including ASHA workers, health workers, teachers, and Self Help Group (SHG) members, to conduct water quality tests. The NDA government had launched Jal Jeevan Mission to provide potable tap water connection to every household by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bodies-floating-in-rivers-centre-asks-states-to-test-water-quality-in-villages-987289.html
18-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India records 4,329 deaths, the highest single-day toll||The most vulnerable among us are often the most neglected.  The Indian Medical Association said that 270 doctors across the country had succumbed to the Covid-19 infection in the second wave of the pandemic. Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said that the institute had never exported Covid-19 vaccines at the cost of the people in India and reiterated his commitment to the nation's vaccination drive.   Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that an ex-gratia of Rs 50,000 would be paid to families who have lost a member due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-records-4329-deaths-the-highest-single-day-toll-987296.html
18-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae weakens; 7 killed in Gujarat so far||At least seven people were killed in Gujarat as cyclone Tauktae battered parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles and trees, and damaging several houses and roads, before weakening, officials said on Tuesday. Tauktae has now weakened into a "cyclonic storm" and will gradually become a "deep depression" as it moves northwards, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The cyclonic storm dumped heavy showers in parts of the state, with as many as 35 talukas receiving over one inch of rainfall. Heavy showers left many areas of Ahmedabad city inundated with knee-deep water during the day. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, and more than 40,000 trees and over 1,000 poles uprooted due to the cyclonic storm in Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said. The Indian Coast Guard on Tuesday rescued eight fishermen onboard a fishing boat that drifted into the sea off the coast of Veraval harbour due to the cyclone, officials said. Besides, two Coast Guard Chetak helicopters, operating from the CG airbase at the Union Territory of Daman, rescued eight crew members of the stranded ship 'Gal Constructor' from the sea off the Satpati coast (in neighbouring Maharashtra) amidst very rough and inclement weather conditions, a release said. The landfall process of the eye of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, which had hit the Gujarat coast in the Saurashtra region between Diu and Una last night, ended around midnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. As many as 35 talukas received more than one inch of rainfall, with Bagasara taluka receiving 9 inches of rainfall, Gir Gadhada 8 inches, Una 8 inches, Savarkundla 7 inches and Amreli 5 inches. Rajula, Khamba, and Babra talukas each received 5 inches of rainfall, the CM said. Many areas of Ahmedabad city were inundated with knee-deep water following incessant downpour since afternoon as cyclone Tauktae passed northward along the district's periphery. The city received a staggering 75.69 mm of rain between 6 am and 4 pm, said Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Kumar. Cyclone 'Tauktae,' crossed the Gujarat coast as an "extremely severe cyclonic storm" around midnight and gradually weakened into a "severe cyclonic storm," before further weakening to a "cyclonic storm" now, the IMD said. As it moved north-northeastward, it is gradually going to weaken into a "deep depression", it added.  The remnant of the system is very likely to move north-eastwards across Rajasthan to west Uttar Pradesh during May 19 and 20, the Home Ministry said in an advisory. As of late Tuesday afternoon, the cyclonic storm lay centred over Saurashtra, around 75 km south-southwest of Ahmedabad and 40 km west of Surendranagar, and 190 km of Deesa, with the wind intensity now reduced to 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph, the IMD said. IMD (Ahmedabad) chief Manorama Mohanty told reporters the cyclonic storm is likely to prevail with a wind speed of 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph, anddistrictssuch as Amreli, Bhavnagar, Navsari, Valsad, and Sabarkantha among others in Gujarat, and the Union Territory of Daman and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Sabarkantha arelikey to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall. "The cyclone completed the landfall in Gujarat at 1:30 am last night, with Amreli, Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Porbandar, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, and Botad districts in Saurashtra region remaining the worst affected," said Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) Pankaj Kumar. The intensity of the wind has gradually reduced and this process will continue till the evening, he said. "Looking at its movement, we need to take extreme precaution till night," he told reporters. Even as the cyclonic intensity weakened, it has left behind a trail of destruction, with at least seven people losing their lives - three in Bhavnagar, and one each in Rajkot, Patan, Amreli and Valsad, officials said. An official of the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) confirmed three casualties due to the cyclone, one each from Rajkot, Valsad and Bhavnagar. In Patan, an electric pole fell on a woman while she was sleeping on late Monday night amid strong wind, an official from Patan A-division police station said. In Badeli village in Palitana taluka of Bhavnagar district, a woman and her daughter were killed when the wall of their house collapsed, a local official said. In another incident, a girl died after the roof of her house collapsed on four members of the family at Rajula in Amreli district on Monday night, police said. The chief minister told reporters in Gandhinagar that 16,500 houses, mostly thatched ones, were damaged, and more than 40,000 trees and 1,081 poles, mainly of electric supply, were uprooted due to the cyclone. Also, 159 roads were damaged and 196 remained blocked due to different reasons, he said, adding that 45 of the roads were cleared for traffic so far. There was a power outage in 2,437 villages and the supply has been restored in 484 villages till now, the CM said. Rupani said the state government's major concern was to ensure the uninterrupted treatment to Covid-19 patients in around 1,400 hospitals across the state. Out of these facilities, 16 faced power outage due to the cyclone. The electric supply was restored in 12 of them, while the remaining four were operating on backup power generators, he said. The production of medical oxygen at a plant in Bhavnagar was disrupted due to the cyclonic storm, but the supply continued using the buffer stock, Rupani said. According to the IMD, most places in Gujarat and Saurashtra meteorological regions of the state are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall on Tuesday, with heavy to very rainfall and extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places. The wind speed is likely to decrease but "astronomical high" tidal waves would continue to inundate coastal areas, it said. "The administration remains on standby and is working to clear roads, restore power and water supplies. The animal husbandry department is taking care of the cattle by shifting them to safer places," Rupani said. The state government had shifted over two lakh people to safer locations before the cyclone hit the Gujarat coast on Monday night. The landfall process started with the entry of the "forward sector of the eye of the cyclone" into the land near the Union Territory of Diu with a wind speed of between 150 and 175 km per hour, IMD officials said. Landfall is the storm moving over the land after its intensification in the ocean (heat source). A major cyclone in Gujarat on June 9, 1998, had brought widespread death and destruction in its wake, particularly in the port town of Kandla. While official figures had then put the death toll at 1,173, adding 1,774 went missing, media reports, eyewitness and volunteer accounts suggested this was grossly an understatement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-weakens-7-killed-in-gujarat-so-far-987299.html
18-05-2021||National||National Gallery of Modern Art launches app for virtual tour||Now it will be possible for art aficionados to view the exhibits at the National Gallery of Modern Art here, listen to anecdotes and stories related to them on their smartphones anywhere, anytime with the launch of its audio-visual guide app. The NGMA made this announcement on Tuesday on the occasion of International Museum Day. The app is available on both the Google Play and the App Store. To listen to the narrations, users need to download the app and navigate the content using the numbers mentioned. The same numbers will be on display next to the artwork at the museum, the NGMA said in a statement. A web version of the app is also available and can be accessed by just scanning the QR code at location. The NGMA app and tours are free for all users. "The museum tours are a rich mix of images, videos and voice. They aim to enhance the viewing experience of the visitors at the museum and also enable one to 'visit' the art works virtually. "The text is written in an interesting storytelling format with details about the artist, the thought behind the art work and the techniques used in creating the piece," it said. Speaking about the launch, NGMA Director General Adwaita Gadanayak said the app was a major landmark. "It will help people connect with art in an intimate way. I especially hope that our children and youth will use the app prolifically, experiencing art as a vital expression of the human spirit," Gadanayak said. PTI ASG HMB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-gallery-of-modern-art-launches-app-for-virtual-tour-987301.html
18-05-2021||National||PM Modi's rating falls as India struggles to contain second wave of Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approval ratings have fallen to a new low, a survey showed on Tuesday, as the country struggles to contain a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Modi, who swept to power in 2014 and was re-elected in 2019 with the biggest majority of any Indian leader in three decades, has long fostered the image of a powerful nationalist leader. But India's Covid-19 caseload surged past 25 million this week, exposing a lack of preparation and eroding Modi's support base, according to US data intelligence company Morning Consult's tracker of a dozen global leaders. Modi's overall ratings this week stand at 63 per cent, his lowest since the US firm began tracking his popularity in August 2019. The big decline happened in April when his net approval dropped 22 points.  That sharp fall came as the pandemic appeared to be overwhelming large urban centres such as Delhi, where hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen and people died in parking lots, gasping for breath. Bodies piled up in morgues and crematoriums and anger grew on social media over the suffering and perceived lack of government support. The situation has since eased in Delhi and Mumbai as cases have fallen but the virus has penetrated deep into India's vast hinterland where public health facilities are weaker. "The people of India — or at least the vast majority — have... come to the conclusion that they have to rely only on themselves, and their families and friends, to protect their lives," said P Chidambaram, an Opposition leader. "In the battle against Covid-19, the state, especially the central government, has withered away," he said. Modi's government has said it is doing its best to tackle the "coronavirus storm", calling it a once-in-a-century crisis. A survey among urban Indians by polling agency YouGov this month showed public confidence in the government's handling of the crisis has plummeted since February when the second wave began.  Only 59 per cent of respondents at the end of April believed the government was handling the crisis 'very' or 'somewhat' well, down from 89 per cent a year earlier during the first wave, it showed. Modi does not face a national election until 2024 and despite the criticism he faces, the Opposition is yet to mount a credible challenge to his authority, political analysts say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-rating-falls-as-india-struggles-to-contain-second-wave-of-covid-19-987304.html
18-05-2021||National||More pharma firms should be allowed to make vaccine: Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday suggested that more pharma companies should be allowed to make the Covid-19 vaccine in the country during the pandemic to scale up production. Addressing Vice Chancellors of Universities in India virtually, Gadkari said he will also request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring a law for allowing more pharma companies to manufacture life-saving drugs by paying 10 per cent royalty to the patent holder of the drug. "If the demand of vaccine is more than its supply then it creates a problem. So, instead of one company, 10 more companies should be allowed to make vaccines by paying 10 per cent royalty to the original patent holder of the vaccine," he said. Recently, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to the Prime Minister, saying the Centre should share the vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other capable pharmaceutical companies to scale up production in the country. There are two vaccine makers in the country currently -- Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India -- which are manufacturing Covaxin and Covishield, respectively. These two firms can be given royalty from the profit of other companies for the use of their original formulas, Kejriwal had said. Only three vaccines have so far been approved to be sold in India --- Covaxin, Coveshield and Sputnik V. Sputnik V has been approved to be imported from Russia by Dr Reddy's but is yet to be widely available in the country. The road transport and highways minister lamented that India still has to import raw material for making medicines. "We want to make Atmanirbhar Bharat...All districts of India should be self-reliant for medical oxygen," he said, adding that India's health sector is facing a deep crisis. "We should try to remain positive and self-confident during the pandemic," he noted. India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 2,78,719, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The country reported 2,63,533 new cases in a span of 24 hours, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,52,28,996.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-pharma-firms-should-be-allowed-to-make-vaccine-nitin-gadkari-987312.html
18-05-2021||National||Black fungus killed 16 people in Aurangabad in 40 days||Sixteen patients suffering from Mucormycosis, a rare but serious infection, have lost their lives during treatment in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city between April 1 and May 10, a senior municipal official said on Tuesday. During this period, more than 200 Mucormycosis patients, hailing from various places, were admitted for treatment in health facilities in Aurangabad, the official said. Among them, 16 patients died of which only four were from Aurangabad city, Municipal Health Officer Dr Neeta Padalkar told PTI. As per data provided by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), between April 1 and May 10, a total of 201 patients were admitted for treatment of Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, in six medical facilities in the city. Out of these, 145 patients underwent surgical procedure, while others were treated with various medical interventions, another official said. Out of the total infected patients registered with the civic administration, 76 were diabetic, the official said. Talking to reporters, Dr Padalkar said, "Mucormycosis is a fungal infection. This fungus is present in the air and when immunity declines and blood sugar increases, this infection may attack a person." "Patients detected with this infection are mostly diabetic, who were on oxygen and given steroids during treatment." She said the fungus, now being found in recovering or recovered Covid-19 patients, goes inside the body through the nose and reaches the lungs, eyes and sinuses. "Over 200 patients were detected with this infection (in Aurangabad) and many of them recovered. Unfortunately, 16 of them have lost their lives," Padalkar said. The AMC has set up a group of ophthalmologists, ENT and other specialists for treating this infection, which requires a multidisciplinary approach, she said. Mucormycosis has a range of symptoms that depend on where in the body the fungus is growing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/black-fungus-killed-16-people-in-aurangabad-in-40-days-987313.html
18-05-2021||National||NGMA app tells stories behind rare artworks||Did you know that renowned painter Raja Ravi Varma’s younger brother helped him complete some of his paintings? A mobile app launched by the National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) on Tuesday lets you know interesting nuggets about paintings and installations as it takes a user on a virtual tour of the gallery. Now you can appreciate rare artworks at the NGMA from the safe confines of your home and even get to know how the artist might have visualised a scene before rendering it on canvas. “It will help people connect with art in an intimate way,” NGMA Director Adwaita Gadanayak said on the launch of NGMA’s Audio Visual App on International Museum Day. A clipping about Raja Ravi Varma’s artwork ‘Lady in Moonlight’ mentions that the renowned painter’s younger brother Raja Raja Varma helped him complete some of his paintings as he struggled with deadlines. While Raja Ravi Varma excelled in portraits, his younger brother’s forte was landscapes. “It will be possible for museum viewers to listen to anecdotes and stories related to the treasured Indian modern art exhibited at the Gallery, on smartphone, anywhere, anytime,” a Culture Ministry statement said. The app is available on both the Google Playstore and the Apple Appstore. Founded in 1954, the NGMA in Delhi has a collection of more than 2,000 artists of the stature of Raja Ravi Varma, Abanindranath Tagore, Rabindranath Tagore, Gaganendranath Tagore, Nandalal Bose, Jaimini Roy, Amrita Sher-Gil. Some of the preserved artworks at the museum date back to 1857.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngma-app-tells-stories-behind-rare-artworks-987316.html
18-05-2021||National||Govt chalks out strategy to ensure availability of anti-fungal drug amphotericin-B||The government has chalked out a plan to increase the availability of amphotericin-B, used in the treatment of a rare fungal infection mucormycosis, Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. "Reviewed requirement and supply position of #AmphotericinB which cures Mucormycosis. We have chalked out a strategy with manufacturers to ramp up domestic production as well as to import the drug from all over the world," Mandaviya said in a tweet. The minister observed that the supply of Amphotericin-B has been increased many-fold in the country. "We have already improved the supply of #AmphotericinB by many folds. But currently, we are facing a sudden demand surge. Let me assure that we are committed to moving heaven and earth to make it available to needy patients," he said in another tweet. Stating that the shortage of the drug will be resolved at the earliest, Mandaviya said, "We have also outlined the system for efficient distribution and supply chain management of #AmphotericinB. The shortage will get resolved at the earliest. I also urge states to use this drug judiciously by strictly following guidelines." The Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers had said that states have been requested to put in place a mechanism for equitable distribution of supplies of the drug amongst government and private hospitals and health care agencies. The arrangements for supply will be monitored by the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA), it had added. Later, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers Sadananda Gowda said he held a meeting with senior officials of the Department of Pharmaceuticals to review the availability of medicines being used in the management of Covid-19. "Held a meeting with Secretary (Pharmaceuticals) and other officials from the Department to review the availability of medicines being used in the management of #COVID19. @Pharmadept is working with states to ensure the uninterrupted availability of medicines across the country," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-chalks-out-strategy-to-ensure-availability-of-anti-fungal-drug-amphotericin-b-987335.html
18-05-2021||National||Children orphaned by Covid-19 can become victims of trafficking and abuse: Save the Children||Children orphanded by Covid-19 are extremely vulnerable to exploitation, abuse and trafficking, Save the Children, a global non-profit organisation alerted on Tuesday, while calling everyone not to share details of such children online. India has reported a record numbers of deaths from Covid-19, over the past weeks. Whilst some children who lost their parents are taken in by relatives or guardians, others are left to fend for themselves, putting them at risk of child trafficking, the NGO said in a statement. The NGO, which works for children in 120 countries, including 19 states in India said the desperate pleas by many on social media to adopt such children was leaving them vulnerable to trafficking and abuse. The NGO has projects in Assam too. The NGO cited an incident in eastern Assam's Jorhat district, where children of a family were left orphans after their mother succumbed to Covid-19 on May 10. Their father had died in February. “This is an incredibly confusing and difficult time for children, especially for those who have lost their parents. We’re concerned that things will get even worse for as the death toll continues to rise," said Chittapriyo Sadhu, deputy programs director for Save the Children in India. "Besides immediate threat to their safety, we’re also extremely concerned about the toll this crisis is taking on children’s mental health. In many cases, these children will have had to watch their parents suffer without access to oxygen or proper medical care, which is likely to leave them extremely distressed. Children from poorer families might also have to work to support their families, or care for younger brothers or sisters, which means they’ll have to drop out of school, trapping them in a cycle of poverty.” Save the Children provides mental health support to children who have lost their parents to the virus. Meanwhile, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said the state government was preparing a scheme on how to take care of the children who lost their parents due to Covid-19. Assam's death toll due to the virus since last year crossed 2,300, of which about 1,200 were in the second wave so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-orphaned-by-covid-19-can-become-victims-of-trafficking-and-abuse-save-the-children-987338.html
18-05-2021||National||PM Modi to visit Gujarat, Diu to review situation after cyclone Tauktae||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat and Diu on Wednesday to personally review the situation there and the damage wrought by cyclone Tauktae, government sources said. He will leave Delhi at around 9:30 am and land at Bhavnagar from where he will proceed for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, they said. Modi will also hold a review meeting at Ahmedabad. At least seven people were killed in Gujarat as the cyclone battered parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles and trees, and damaging several houses and roads, officials said on Tuesday. After reviewing the situation, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters that despite such a high-intensity cyclone hitting the state, his government has managed to prevent any major loss to life or property as over two lakh people were already shifted to safer places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-visit-gujarat-diu-to-review-situation-after-cyclone-tauktae-987339.html
18-05-2021||National||Total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses given in India crosses 18.57 crore||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 18.57 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. It said 5,14,408 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday and cumulatively 64,60,624 across 36 states and union territories since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive. The 64,60,624 beneficiaries include 10,10,263 from Rajasthan, 8,67,815 from Bihar, 7,69,590 from Delhi, 6,60,686 from Maharashtra, 6,38,790 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,46,468 from Haryana and 5,12,689 from Gujarat and 3,08,282 from Assam. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 18,57,66,518 according to the 8 pm provisional report, the ministry said. The total of 18,57,66,518 include 96,73,302 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose, 66,58,820 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,45,65,255 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 82,29,693 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 64,60,624 individuals in the 18-44 years of age group who have received the first dose. Besides, 5,80,37,874 and 93,49,575 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have been administered the first and second dose, respectively, while 5,48,13,626 and 1,79,77,749 beneficiaries aged above 60 years have taken the first and the second dose. As on day 123 of the vaccination drive (May 18), total 12,79,896 vaccine doses were given. The ministry said 10,96,815 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,83,081 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine according to the provisional report till 8 PM. Final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-number-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-given-in-india-crosses-1857-crore-987355.html
18-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Covaxin clinical trials in children to begin in 10-12 days||The first Indian trial of a homegrown Covid-19 vaccine on children is set to start in the next 10-12 days, a top health official said on Tuesday, amidst a global concern that the next wave of the pandemic may hit them in a big way. "The Covaxin trial on children would start in the next 10-12 days,” V K Paul, NITI Aayog member and chairman of the government task force on Covid-19 said here on Tuesday. Last week, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) accorded permission to Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech to conduct the phase II/III clinical trial of Covaxin on 525 healthy volunteers in the age group two to 18 years. During the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses at a gap of 28 days after which they would be kept under observation to see how many of them develop infections. The last ICMR sero-survey carried out in December showed a similar level of sero-positivity in adults and children. The sero-positivity was 21.4 per cent among adults, more than 18 years of age, whereas in children aged 10-17 years, the sero-positivity was 25.3 per cent. While most of the Covid-19 affected children are asymptomatic, Paul said the children should be encouraged to wear masks and follow the social distancing norms just like the adults. On Saturday, the USA's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended that all those 12 years and older should get a Covid-19 vaccination to help protect against the infection as widespread vaccination was a critical tool to help stop the pandemic. The CDC recommended the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, which was shown to protect children from the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Paul also pointed out that the government was keeping a close watch on cases where people develop serious Covid-19 disease even after taking two doses of the vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-covaxin-clinical-trials-in-children-to-begin-in-10-12-days-987360.html
18-05-2021||National Politics||When a district wins against Covid-19, the nation wins: PM Modi||Going micro on Covid management, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held interactions with District Magistrates of 46 districts of nine states and asked them to tailor the pandemic containment policy as per the local need, saying it is the victory of the nation over corona, when the district beats it. In the backdrop of the government facing flak from Opposition-ruled states on vaccine availability, Modi also told the meeting, that was also attended by Chief Ministers, that attempts are being taken to provide a 15-day advance schedule of the vaccination programme to states to get them enough time to prepare. "You understand the challenges of your district much better. So when your district wins, the country wins. When your district beats corona, the country defeats corona," Modi said at the meeting, in line with the changed strategy of the government during the second wave of the pandemic, after it has involved the districts and municipal corporations directly in order to thrash out aggressive localisted Covid containment strategy without any national level lockdown plan, which has been found to be having devastating economic repercussions. "Local containment zones, aggressive testing and correct and complete information to the people are the weapons against the virus," Modi said. In the meeting, the Prime Minister called the district officials as "field commanders" in the fight against Covid-19 and told them that they are free to make their own innovations at district level in the existing policy on Covid-19 management. He told them to share their feedback about any change in policy without any hesitation. Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Chief Ministers and officers from different government wings attended the meeting. Modi will address the CMs of 54 districts on May 20 as well. These are among 100 districts with top Covid caseload. Modi on Tuesday called the district officials "field commanders" in the fight against Covid-19 and told them that they were free to make their own innovations at the district level in the existing policy on Covid-19 management. He told them to share their feedback about any change in policy without hesitation. "There are as many challenges as many districts in the country. In a way, every district has its own challenge. You under the challenges of your districts in a better way. Hence when your district wins, the country emerges victorious. If your district defeats coronavirus, the nation defeats coronavirus," Modi said at the meeting with the DMs.  He batted for local containment zones, aggressive testing and providing information to people as the "weapons against the virus". The Prime Minister said that continuous efforts are being taken all the time to increase the supply of Covid-19 vaccines on a large scale and the health ministry is regularly streamlining the systems processes related to vaccines. He also called for busting all vaccination myths since vaccination is a powerful way to fight the virus. Asking for more caution now in the midst of the falling number of Covid-19 cases, the Prime Minister underlined the need to focus in a big  way on rural parts  and areas that are difficult to reach in order to save every life in this second wave of the pandemic. "At this time the statistics of Covid  infections are coming down in many states while they are rising in some. We need to be more careful in the time of the dwindling numbers," he said, asking for consistent attention on "testing, tracking and Covid appropriate behaviour." The Prime Minister advised the officials also to take care of the ease of living of every citizen of their district. He stressed on the need to stop infections and at the same time ensure unhindered flow of essential supplies. He also spoke about how getting vaccinated is instrumental to lowering the severity of the disease and reducing hospitalisations and mortalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/when-a-district-wins-against-covid-19-the-nation-wins-pm-modi-987149.html
18-05-2021||National Politics||BJP fishes out 'Congress toolkit' used to dent PM Modi's image; Oppn calls it fake||The BJP on Tuesday mounted a massive attack on the Congress, slamming the Opposition party for allegedly attempting to dent Prime Minister Narendra Modi's image with the help of what it called “Congress toolkit”. Flashing papers from an alleged Congress document on its strategy for the campaign on Covid-19 mismanagement, party spokesperson Sambit Patra slammed the Opposition party’s direction to party workers to “use resources created on social media to question Modi’s incompetence from handles which look like Modi or BJP supporters”. Congress called it “fake”, saying it is filing an FIR against Patra. “The BJP is propagating a fake toolkit on Covid-19 mismanagement and attributing it to AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against BJP chief J P Nadda and BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. When our country is devastated by Covid-19, instead of providing relief, the BJP is shamelessly concocting forgery,” said Congress spokesperson and Chairman of AICC Research Department Rajeev Gowda.   Earlier, Patra read out extensively from the purported document. He was particularly peeved at the portion of the document, which allegedly said, “the approval ratings of the Prime Minister have been very high and have not dipped despite crisis and mismanagement. This is an opportunity to destroy his image and erode his popularity.” Patra said it is “disgusting to say the least ..Rahul Gandhi wanting to use this opportunity of Pandemic to destroy the image of PM Modi. Congress workers were instructed to call the mutant strain the ‘Modi strain’”. Patra also alleged that “no stone left unturned to scar the name of India with the help of foreign Journalists”, citing references from the document, which also purportedly said, “international media coverage by foreign correspondents in India can be tailored to exclusively focus on Modi and his mismanagement. Liaise with foreign journalists and Indian Oped writers in foreign publications and brief them on talking points.” "Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of “Friendly Journalists” & “Influencers” than a soulful endeavour. Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress:#CongressToolKitExposed," Patra tweeted. The BJP’s move to go all out on the Congress, particularly Youth Congress's attempt, to help the needy during the pandemic came after huge traction on social media for the help extended by Youth Congress workers led by its President B V Srinivas. He, along with leaders from some other political parties, was also questioned by Delhi police on allegation of hoarding and black marketing of Covid-19 medical supplies. Later in its status report of preliminary findings submitted before Delhi High Court on Saturday, the Delhi police gave them a clean chit. The High Court later said that politicians have no business hoarding Covid-19 medicines and oxygen concentrators and questioned the clean chit given by the police to the politicians.   Patra cited the suggestion “Respond to help only if a person tags the IYC handle” made in the purported Congress document and the mention of Kumbh in it to accuse Congress of creating a divide. Patra's toolkit attack on Congress with #CongressToolKitExposed, is the latest addition in the war of hashtags between the Congress and the BJP on the Covid-19 issue.   The popular Twitter handles of Congress are with hashtag #Jan Ki Baat, #Jan Loot Sarkar, #DeshKiBaat, #COVID19India, #VaccineShortage, #ArrestMeToo, while the BJP earlier carried on with the simpler ones "#IndiaFightsCorona, #SevaHiSangathan. Clearly, the BJP is now looking to add some more teeth to its campaign. The Congress has also lapped catchy one-liners – “VISTA se Vinash Tak” and full sentences like “it is not the enemy which is invisible but the BJP government in this hour of crisis” and “The Modi govt is administering a lethal dose of incompetence to India” to hammer the point that “this is a reflection of the chaos that follows when the central govt is plagued by policy-paralysis” as “In a democracy like ours, collective conscience works best, not one man's ‘genius’". The Congress's emotive campaign has also taken use of poetry to hammer home the message of the government's indifference to people particularly at a time when there is talk that children are more vulnerable in the third phase of the pandemic. "Jo Bhara Nahin Hai Bhavo se, Bahti Jisme Rasdhar nahi, wo Hriday Nahin Pathar hai, Jisme Swadesh ka pyar nahin (one who does not have emotions, one has no sentiments, that is not heart but a stone, which has no love for the nation), the famous lines from a Hindi poem was used by Congress on Twitter to say Indian mothers asking why Modi sent vaccines meant for their children abroad sent abroad. Both the BJP and the Congress have kept the spotlight on Modi in their attack and counterattack with the former saying that the buck must stop at him as it is the PMO that is taking all decisions while the ruling party leaders hailed the work done by Modi in respect to all aspects of the pandemic. "PM Modi's vision is helping the poor and needy in fighting Covid. The Modi government is ensuring astute implementation of India’s vaccination programme. India is battling against Covid second wave bravely under PM Modi. India battling against Covid 2nd wave bravely under PM Modi. Modi government scaling up Sputnik V production in India. Modi government is ensuring astute implementation of India's vaccination programme," are some of the one-liners used by the BJP to counter the Congress campaign, indicating how the BJP is entirely banking on the personal image of the Prime Minister to face the growing criticism of the government's handling of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-fishes-out-congress-toolkit-used-to-dent-pm-modis-image-oppn-calls-it-fake-987171.html
18-05-2021||National Politics||Congress instructed to call new Covid strain Modi strain, BJP alleges||The BJP hit out at the Congress on Tuesday over an alleged toolkit of the opposition party, saying it wants to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by calling the new strain of the coronavirus the "India strain" or the "Modi strain". Citing the toolkit, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra said according to the document, it is clear that the Congress extending help to the needy during the pandemic is "more of a public relations exercise with the help of friendly journalists and influencers than a soulful endeavour". In accordance with the agenda of the toolkit, Congress has instructed its social media volunteers to call the new mutant strain of Covid-19 the "Modi strain" or the "India strain", Patra claimed in a tweet. "Disgusting to say the least Rahul Gandhi wants to use this opportunity of pandemic to destroy the image of Prime Minister Modi. Congress workers instructed to call the mutant strain as Modi strain," he wrote on Twitter. The BJP leader further alleged that no stone has been left unturned to tarnish India's image with the help of foreign journalists. The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that the new strain of the coronavirus would not be named after India, but the Congress wants to do so. The opposition party is ready to tarnish the country's image for its politics, Patra said. He further alleged that the "Congress toolkit" has also suggested calling the Kumbh Mela the "Super Spreader Kumbh". However, the Congress denied the allegation. "BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' on 'Covid-19 mismanagement' and attributing it to AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against BJP chief JP Nadda and Sambit Patra. When our country is devastated by Covid, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries," the research department chief of the opposition party, Rajeev Gowda, said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-instructed-to-call-new-covid-strain-modi-strain-bjp-alleges-987208.html
18-05-2021||National Politics||India's future wants Modi's system to be shaken out of sleep: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said India's future wants the present system under Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be shaken out of its sleep as children will need protection from the coronavirus. "In the time to come, children will need protection from Corona. Paediatric services and vaccine-treatment protocol should already be in place," Gandhi wrote on Twitter. "India's future needs for the present Modi 'system' to be shaken out of sleep," he said. In the time to come, children will need protection from Corona. Paediatric services and vaccine-treatment protocol should already be in place. India’s future needs for the present Modi ‘system’ to be shaken out of sleep. Gandhi has been seeking a proper vaccine protocol to be put in place for providing protection from Covid-19 to all Indians. The former Congress chief and his party have also criticised the government's vaccine policy by describing it as discriminatory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-future-wants-modis-system-to-be-shaken-out-of-sleep-rahul-gandhi-987214.html
18-05-2021||National Politics||Congress lodges police complaint against top BJP leaders over 'toolkit' charge||Hours after a BJP spokesperson fished out a purported "Congress toolkit", a massive controversy broke out between the BJP and the Congress on Tuesday with the Opposition party lodging a written police complaint against the ruling party chief J P Nadda and its senior leaders. The controversy began when BJP's Sambit Patra mounted a massive attack on the Congress accusing it of having made a detailed plan to tarnish the image of PM Narendra Modi with help of foreign media on Covid-19 handling of the government. Putting out screenshots of the purported document, Patra cited how Congress workers were instructed to call the mutant strain as "Modi strain". He also accused the party of creating a divide along religious lines by citing the content from the document in which the Congress allegedly asked the workers to call the Kumbh Mela as the "Super Spreader Kumbh''. Patra also slammed the Opposition party's direction to party workers to "use resources created on social media to question Modi's incompetence from handles which look like Modi or BJP supporters." The Congress was quick to deny the allegation with its spokesperson and head of AICC research department Rajeev Gowda calling the document "forged". "The BJP is propagating a fake toolkit on Covid-19 mismanagement and attributing it to AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against BJP chief J P Nadda and BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. When our country is devastated by Covid-19, instead of providing relief, the BJP is shamelessly concocting forgery,” he said. However, the BJP went big with what it called the revelations. "Dividing society and spewing venom against others… Congress is a master at this. India is seeing Congress’s antics, while the nation is fighting Covid-19. I would urge Congress to go beyond ’Toolkit Models’ and do something constructive," Nadda said. The party launched a hashtag on Twitter #CongressToolkitExposed to attack the Congress. "Shame Hindu, Blame Hindu’ tactic of “provisional” Jane Pudhari Rahul Gandhi ... blame Kumbh to shame Hindus," Union Minister Smriti Irani said asking the Congress leader that he "should have spared the religion of his grandmother (Indira Gandhi) at least." ‘Shame Hindu, Blame Hindu’ tactic of “provisional” Janeudhari Rahul Gandhi ... blame Kumbh to shame Hindus ... The Congress later wrote to Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava seeking an FIR against Nadda, Irani, BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh, and Patra, accusing them of circulating a "forged and fabricated" document from their verified Twitter handles and other social media platforms with the intent to "create communal disharmony and civil unrest in the country, among individuals, escalating violence, fuelling hate and spreading fake news." In the complaint, also addressed to the Station House Officer of Tughlak Road Police station, the Congress accused the BJP of "forging the letterhead of AICC Research Department". BJP functionaries have not only stooped to manufacturing fake documents to target the Congress but have also attempted to lower the image of India at various public platforms by falsely accusing patriotic citizens of deliberately tarnishing the image of India, the Congress said. Going hammer and tongs, the Congress in its application said, "The hidden agenda of this team of fraudsters was to divert the attention from Modi government's mammoth failure in providing necessary aid to people of India amidst the current pandemic." BJP IT Cell head Amit Malviya was dismissive of the Congress's FIR threat, saying the party will not be intimidated through such tactics. Earlier, Patra read out extensively from the purported document and alleged "no stone left unturned to scar the name of India with the help of foreign Journalists'', citing references from the document. "Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of “Friendly Journalists” & “Influencers” than a soulful endeavour. Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress: #CongressToolKitExposed," Patra tweeted. Patra's toolkit attack on Congress is the latest addition in the war of hashtags between the Congress and the BJP on the coronavirus issue. The popular Twitter handles of Congress are using hashtags such as #Jan Ki Baat, #Jan Loot Sarkar, #DeshKiBaat, #COVID19India, #VaccineShortage, #ArrestMeToo, while the BJP earlier carried on with the simpler ones "#IndiaFightsCorona, #SevaHiSangathan". Clearly, the BJP is now looking to add some more teeth to its campaign. The Congress has also lapped catchy one-liners such as "VISTA se Vinash Tak" and sentences like "It is not the enemy which is invisible but the BJP government in this hour of crisis" and "The Modi govt is administering a lethal dose of incompetence to India" to hammer the point that "This is a reflection of the chaos that follows when the central govt is plagued by policy-paralysis" as "In a democracy like ours, collective conscience works best, not one man's "genius"."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-lodges-police-complaint-against-top-bjp-leaders-over-toolkit-charge-987368.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||It’s 'Ram bharose' in small cities, villages of Uttar Pradesh: Allahabad HC on Covid-19 situation||The entire medical system in villages and small cities of Uttar Pradesh is at God's mercy ("Ram bharose"), the Allahabad High Court said on Monday while hearing a PIL over the coronavirus spread and the condition of quarantine centres in the state. A High Court Bench of Justices Siddharth Verma and Ajit Kumar made the observation while taking into account the death of Santosh Kumar (64), who was admitted to an isolation ward at a Meerut hospital. The doctors there failed to identify him and disposed of the body as unidentified, according to a probe report. Santosh had fainted at a hospital bathroom on April 22 and efforts were made to revive him but he died. The hospital staff could not identify the dead and failed to locate his file. Thus, it was taken as a case of an unidentified body. The body was packed in a bag and was disposed of, according to the probe report. Commenting on it, the High Court on Monday said if this is the state of affairs at a medical college in the city like Meerut, then the entire medical system of the state pertaining to smaller cities and villages can only be taken to be like a famous Hindi saying, ''Ram bharose". “If doctors and paramedical staff adopt such casual approach and show carelessness in the performance of their duty, then it is a case of serious misconduct because it is something like playing with lives of innocent people. The state needs to take stern action against those responsible,” the court observed. Upon perusal of the report submitted by district magistrates of five districts, the court said, “We have no hesitation in observing that health infrastructure is absolutely insufficient in city areas to meet the requirement of city population and in the rural areas the community health centres are virtually lacking in respect of life-saving gadgets.” The court directed the state government to provide sufficient health care infrastructure in compliance of its direction issued earlier. On the issue of coronavirus vaccination, the court suggested that big business houses who take benefits under taxation laws by donating to various religious organisations may be asked to divert their funds for vaccines. Every nursing home/ hospital, which has more than 20 beds, should have at least 40 per cent of their beds as intensive care units, the court said. Every nursing home and hospital, which has more than 30 beds, should compulsorily have an oxygen production plant, the court added. Every second and third tier town of Uttar Pradesh should be provided with at least 20 ambulances and every village should be provided with at least two ambulances having intensive care unit facilities, the court suggested while fixing May 22 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/it-s-ram-bharose-in-small-cities-villages-of-uttar-pradesh-allahabad-hc-on-covid-19-situation-987109.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||Live-in-relationships morally, socially unacceptable, says Punjab and Haryana HC||While dismissing a petition filed by a runaway couple seeking protection, the Punjab and Haryana High Court said that a live-in-relationship is morally and socially unacceptable Petitioners Gulza Kumari (19) and Gurwinder Singh (22) in the petition had stated that they were residing together and intended to get married shortly. They had apprehended danger to their lives from Kumari's parents. "As a matter of fact, the petitioners in the garb of filing the present petition are seeking seal of approval on their live-in-relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable and no protection order in the petition can be passed. The petition stands dismissed accordingly," Justice H S Madaan said in his May 11 order. According to petitioner's counsel J S Thakur, Singh and Kumari were living together in Tarn Taran district. He said Kumari's parents, who are in Ludhiana, did not approve of their relationship. The couple could not get married as Kumari's documents, which have details of her age, were in possession of her family, Thakur added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/live-in-relationships-morally-socially-unacceptable-says-punjab-and-haryana-hc-987150.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi's single-day Covid-19 cases dip to 4,482, positivity rate below 7%||Delhi's single-day coronavirus cases further dipped to 4,482 on Tuesday, the lowest in a month and a half, and the positivity rate further declined to 6.89 per cent from 8.42 per cent on Monday. In the last 24 hours, 265 persons died of Covid-19, the government data on Tuesday showed. The national capital conducted over 65,000 tests over the last 24-hour period, which is a substantial increase of more than 10,000 tests on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-single-day-covid-19-cases-dip-to-4482-positivity-rate-below-7-987185.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||5 police constables suspended after body recovered from Ganga cremated using tyre, petrol||Five police constables were suspended after a body recovered from the Ganga in Maldepur village was cremated in their presence using a tyre and petrol, officials said on Tuesday. A video of the incident was shared widely on social media on Monday. Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada on said, "Yesterday, a video went viral on social media in which policemen can be seen conducting the last rites of a person. The policemen displayed insensitivity during the last rites. Five police constables have been suspended and a probed has been ordered into the incident." He said that Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav will be probing the matter. Phephana police station SHO Sanjay Tripathi told PTI that the last rites of the body found floating on the Ganga river were conducted on May 15. He added that the person conducting the rituals placed a tyre on the body and poured petrol on it. The constables have been identified as Jai Singh, Umesh Prajapati, Virendra Yadav, Puneet Pal and Jai, all posted at Phephana police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-police-constables-suspended-after-body-recovered-from-ganga-cremated-using-tyre-petrol-987200.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 spreads at overcrowded jails in Jammu & Kashmir: 4,572 prisoners presently lodged well beyond overall capacity of 3,426||The overcrowded prisons in Jammu and Kashmir are turning into Covid-19 epicentres with 92 inmates testing positive in two prisons of the Union Territory (UT). J&K has 13 functional jails which include two central jails, nine district jails, one special jail and one sub-jail. As against the overall capacity of 3,426, they currently house 4,572 prisoners. In August 2019, when the Central government revoked the special status of J&K under Article 370, the number of inmates in the prison witnessed a sudden increase. Though a good number among them were released since last year, authorities have stepped up their operations and detained several militant sympathisers while several people have also been imprisoned for anti-India ‘dissent’ on social networking sites. The disclosure that J&K jails are overcrowded has come to fore at a time when the Supreme Court has directed the States/UTs to decongest prisons in the wake of a deadly second wave of Covid-19. In 2020, the Supreme Court had also passed similar directions after the outbreak of Covid-19. On the Court’s directions last year, the J&K government had constituted a high-powered committee to decide about the temporary release of convicts and under-trails to decongest jails. The panel headed by J&K High Court Judge Justice Rajesh Bindal had directed the authorities to consider release on several categories of convicts on special parole for eight weeks, extendable for another eight weeks if the lockdown by the government continues, subject to good conduct. It had also directed the authorities to consider release of all those who had been sentenced to imprisonment for three years with or without fine and the conviction had been upheld by the Appellate Court but revision against the judgment by Appellate Court is pending before the High Court. On the recommendations of the committee, a few hundred prisoners were released last year to decongest jails in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-spreads-at-overcrowded-jails-in-jammu-kashmir-4572-prisoners-presently-lodged-well-beyond-overall-capacity-of-3426-987209.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||'Oxygen on Wheels' dispatched to help affected Covid-19 patients in rural areas of Mathura||To contain the spread of Covid-19 cases in rural areas of Mathura, an 'Oxygen on Wheels' programme was flagged off in the district on Tuesday for prompt supply of the life-saving gas, a senior official said. The vehicles laden with oxygen cylinders were dispatched to the block headquarters on Monday evening to ensure oxygen supply for the needy from Tuesday morning. “It would not only reduce the surge of Covid-19 in rural areas of Mathura but mortality rate would also be reduced to an optimum minimum,” Mayur Maheshwari, a senior Uttar Pradesh government officer and nodal officer of Covid-19 for Mathura, said on Monday evening after flagging off the vehicles to 10 block headquarters of Mathura and two areas falling under the municipal corporation limits. He said the priority of the state government is on containing the surge of Covid-19 in rural areas. Maheshwari complemented the district administration for launching the novel programme as medical oxygen is an important component in controlling the second wave of Covid-19. Under the scheme implemented in association with philanthropic industrialists, the family members of the patients have to contact the Integrated Control and Command Centre in Mathura and the required oxygen cylinder would reach them within two hours, District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal said. The facility will be free of cost and initially available for four days on the recommendation of the area rapid response team through D-type cylinders. However, it may be extended for three more days based on the requirement, officials said. While in rural areas, the SDM of the area would act as the nodal officer for the scheme, an official from the Nagar Nigam (municipal corporation) will be the in-charge in urban areas, the DM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-on-wheels-dispatched-to-help-affected-covid-19-patients-in-rural-areas-of-mathura-987219.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||'Corona curfew' extended across Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh government has extended the 'corona curfew' in all 52 districts of the state for different durations, a senior official said on Tuesday. In the state capital Bhopal, the coronavirus-induced curfew has been extended till 6 am on May 24, while in the industrial hub of Indore, it will remain in force till May 29 night, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Dr Rajesh Rajora said in a release. After meetings of various district crisis management committees, it was decided to extend the corona curfew till 6 am on May 31 in 19 districts -- Ujjain, Gwalior, Shivpuri, Sagar, Morena, Neemuch, Shahdol, Umaria, Dewas, Agar-Malwa, Raisen, Bhind, Balaghat, Sheopur, Seoni, Sehore, Vidisha, Mandla and Damoh, he said. Besides, the curbs have been extended till 6 am on May 24 in 25 other districts -- Bhopal, Jabalpur, Rewa, Chhindwara, Hoshangabad, Singrauli, Satna, Sidhi, Ashoknagar, Dhar, Mandsaur, Rajgarh, Tikamgarh, Panna, Khargone, Guna, Barwani, Shajapur, Niwadi, Khandwa, Chhattarpur, Jhabua, Katni, Harda and Datia. In Alirajpur, Narsinghpur, Betul, Anuppur and Ratlam, the corona curfew will remain in force till 6 am on May 25, in Burhanpur till 6 am on May 20 and in Dindori till 7 am on May 27, the release said. On Monday, Madhya Pradesh reported 5,921 Covid-19 cases and 77 fatalities, taking the infection count to 7,37,306 and the death toll to 7,069, as per official data. The number of fresh coronavirus cases in the state fell below 6,000 on Monday for the first time after a gap of nearly five weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-curfew-extended-across-madhya-pradesh-987226.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announces Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to families of Covid-19 victims||The Delhi government will provide Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to each family that has lost a member to Covid-19, besides a monthly assistance of Rs 2,500 if the deceased was an earning member, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. He also said that the children who have lost both parents, or single parent, due to Covid-19 will also be provided a monthly assistance of Rs 2,500 up to the age of 25 years. Also, the government will take care of their education, he said. All these announcements will be implemented after they are approved by the Delhi Cabinet, he said. The chief minister also said that all 72 lakh ration cardholders in the city will be provided free 10 kg ration this month. The poor and needy even without ration cards will be provided free ration, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-announces-rs-50000-ex-gratia-to-families-of-covid-19-victims-987230.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||Black fungus injection: MP woman threatens to commit suicide||A video of a woman threatening to jump off the roof of a hospital in Indore in Madhya Pradesh if her husband suffering from Mucormycosis or black fungus infection does not get an injection required for its treatment went viral on Tuesday. A hospital official said the woman's 40-year-old husband had been administered Amphotericin-B injections but he would need more shots and this had left her disturbed. "I am speaking from Bombay Hospital. My husband is admitted in this hospital with black fungus infection and has pain in his eyes and jaws. The injection (Amphotericin-B) is not available in this hospital. Where should I take him in this condition," the woman said in the video. "If I don't get the injection today, then I will jump off the roof of the hospital and commit suicide. I have no other option left," she says further in the video message addressed to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state health minister Prabhu Ram Choudhary and Indore collector Manish Singh. Meanwhile, Bombay Hospital general manager Rahul Parasher said the woman was counselled but she is in a disturbed state of mind at present. "Her husband has been administered 59 Amphotericin-B injections but his requirement is more. These injections are not available in the hospital at present and patients are being treated for Mucormycosis with other anti-fungal drugs," Parasher explained. On Monday, a minister had said 122 patients were admitted in Indore with Mucormycosis. The shortage of Amphotericin-B injections is being highlighted by patients as well as political leaders over the past few days, including Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh who has written a letter on this issue to the CM. Mucormycosis, a rare and dangerous fungal infection, is being seen in some Covid-19 patients as well as those who have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/black-fungus-injection-mp-woman-threatens-to-commit-suicide-987238.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||'They did everything together': Meerut twins die of Covid-19, within hours of each other||The difference in the time of birth for Joefred and Ralphred Gregory, identical twins, was three minutes. The difference in their time of death was a few hours. Cause of death: Covid-19. The twins, residents of Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town, studied at the same school and later graduated in engineering from the same college in Coimbatore. They got infected with Covid-19 on April 24, a day after they celebrated their birthday. They battled the infection at a hospital in Meerut for several days, but their condition worsened and they died last week at an interval of a few hours. ''They did everything together... both graduated in computer engineering, had the same subject combination at the school... We had no idea that they would also leave the world together,'' said an inconsolable Gregory Raymond, their father. He said Joefred died on the night of May 13 at the hospital. ''We prayed after his death that, at least this time, Ralphred will not follow him, but a few hours later, he too left us,'' he said. ''We told him (Ralphred) that Joefred (who had died) was being shifted to Delhi, when he queried about his brother's health,'' said the distraught mother. ''You are lying mom, Ralph replied,'' she said. Gregory Raymond and his wife are teachers at a school in Meerut. The parents said the twins, who were employed in Hyderabad, were working from home due to the pandemic. They would always come home together to spend time with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/they-did-everything-together-meerut-twins-die-of-covid-19-within-hours-of-each-other-987279.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||Bengal post-poll violence: SC sends notice to state govt on plea for CBI probe into killing of BJP workers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the West Bengal government on a plea for a CBI probe into the killings of two BJP workers in post-poll violence, witnessed after the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) secured a third consecutive term. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai sought a response from the Mamata Banerjee government on a petition filed by Biswajit Sarkar, the brother of slain Bengal BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for the petitioner, contended that violence was unleashed at the behest of the state administration as not only was there total inaction, but the police also stood idly and people were left to die. The court, after briefly hearing the matter, sought a reply from the Bengal government and put it for consideration on Tuesday, May 25. The plea alleged "indiscriminate" killing of innocents across the state "in a coordinated manner" after the Assembly polls results. It sought a direction for an SIT probe as it was "impossible" to conduct a fair and impartial enquiry into murder of Avijit Sarkar, along with Bengal BJP booth worker, Haran Adhikari. The petitioners, who claimed to be eye-witnesses to the killing of Sarkar on May 2, alleged that the mob dragged him out of his house, tied the CCTV camera wire around his neck, smashed his head and brutally killed him in front of his mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bengal-post-poll-violence-sc-sends-notice-to-state-govt-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-killing-of-bjp-workers-987281.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||Congress versus Congress in Punjab||A six-year-old case of alleged desecration of Guru Grant Sahib has brought fissures in the Punjab Congress to the fore ahead of the Assembly elections next year. Rival camps led by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his key detractor Navjyot Singh Sidhu have engaged in a war of words over the ‘sacrilege’ case which could dent the party’s prospects next year. Recently, the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a Punjab government investigation into the 2015 incident when several pages of Guru Granth Sahib were found strewn in Bargari village, triggering protests across the state. Police opened fire on the protesters in Kotkapura village killing two, spelling trouble for the then Akali Dal government led by Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal. Trouble for Amarinder began after the High Court quashed the investigation by the SIT last month, prompting his detractors to accuse him of favouring the Badals of the Akali Dal. Sidhu fired the first salvo against Amarinder for agreeing to accept the High Court order and constitute a fresh SIT to probe the sacrilege case. “Consensus among MLAs, Badal Sarkar is ruling in lieu of Congress Govt ...Bureaucracy and Police act as per wishes of Badal Family, more often than listening to our MLAs and Party workers,” Sidhu had said. Reopening of vigilance cases against Sidhu and claims by Indian hockey captain-turned-Congress MLA Pargat Singh of threats from the chief minister’s adviser have thrown the Punjab Congress into turmoil. “This continuous attempt to browbeat Congress MLAs for raising their voice must stop,” former Punjab Congress chief Partap Singh Bajwa said, adding that he would have been pleased had the vigilance officers questioned Badals instead of Sidhu. AICC spokesperson Supriya Shrinate dismissed the unrest in the Punjab Congress as “diversity of opinion” and “minor bickering” and expressed the hope that the Chief Minister would handle the situation. “There is a chief minister there, he will take care,” Shrinate told reporters on Tuesday adding that the differences would have been an issue for the party had it affected the Covid-19 management efforts in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-versus-congress-in-punjab-987358.html
18-05-2021||North and Central||AAP, BJP spar over admission in Covid care centres in Delhi||The AAP and the BJP locked horns on Tuesday over the admission of patients in Covid-19 care centres in the national capital. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak accused the BJP-led civic body of wilful negligence in admitting patients in the 150-bed Covid Care Centre at Balak Ram Hospital, while BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor rejected the charge and called it an attempt to create confusion and tarnish the image of municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD). Addressing a press conference, Pathak alleged that the MCD allocated 300-400 beds for Covid-19 patients out of a total of 3,400 in its hospitals, and that many of them remained vacant. "AAP finds this a downright criminal act by BJP-led MCD and an extremely unfortunate decision. AAP demands that the BJP-led MCD must not decrease the number of allocated Covid beds. Being unable to increase the beds is fine, but the decrease is unacceptable,” he said. BJP spokesperson Kapoor said, "we have always maintained that Aam Aadmi Party spokespersons speak only to create confusion and Durgesh Pathak's statement on MCD hospital occupancy is one more attempt to create confusion and tarnish MCD's image." "Durgesh Pathak should know new patient inflow into hospitals of Covid-19 patients has rapidly gone down.... This is the reason why hospital beds are vacant both in MCD & Delhi Government hospitals,” he said. “It is shameful that Aam Aadmi Party wants to play politics even in this sensitive time,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-bjp-spar-over-admission-in-covid-care-centres-in-delhi-987369.html
18-05-2021||Oasis||That place between too much and too little||A Sanskrit verse loosely translated into English means - “Just by looking at good and virtuous people, all the sorrows will vanish - if we speak with them, all the joys and comforts will come to us. Brahma did so much good by creating such good and virtuous people.” When I was reading about this young physiotherapist, the sloka came to my mind who learned dance steps to treat a 95-year-old patient whose left hip was broken and needed to heal after a hip surgery. She was a dancer and to make her enjoy her physiotherapy, he learnt dance steps himself and made her do dance steps which helped her heal quickly. Her happy face proved that you cannot always have happiness; still, you can always give happiness. A happy person is not a person who is always in a good situation, but rather a person who always has a good attitude in every situation. Yes, god designed us not as mechanical robots but as interdependent, gentle and caring human beings, capable of generating happiness in hearts. “Happiness is a place between too much and too less,” says a Finnish proverb. We will all be happy if we find that place, but instead of that, we look at the other side of the grass and feel envious that it is green. We must learn the new insight and understanding that the grass will be green where ever we water it. We must learn to water it well. “The grand essentials to happiness in this life are something to do, something to love, something to hope for.“ In this adage, ‘something to do’ means not just for ourselves, but for others. ‘Something to love’ means not just for ourselves, but loving others too, so we get back the love. ‘Something to hope for’ is the message is that one can count one’s blessings and hope for better tomorrows. Life in its essence is simple and easy, but we human beings make it all complicated. We don’t stop at something we wanted but long for everything. We don’t distinguish between our needs and greeds. That is why it is said that the richest of the rich is the one who is not a prisoner to desire. Let us all try to find that place between too much and too little and be happy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/that-place-between-too-much-and-too-little-987057.html
18-05-2021||Panorama||Obituaries vs medical vacancies||India is a country of 1.3 billion. It has 43,486 private hospitals, 1.18 million beds, 59,264 ICUs, and 29,631 ventilators. On the other hand, there are 25,778 public hospitals, 713,986 beds, 35,700 ICUs, and 17,850 ventilators. Total private infrastructure accounts for nearly 62 per cent of all of India’s health infrastructure. India is considered among few countries for medical tourism where patients from abroad come to seek better and inexpensive treatment for their diseases in super-speciality hospitals. In 2018, there were over one million doctors registered with the Indian Medical Council across the country. The ratio is 1.34 doctor for 1,000 Indian citizens as of 2017. This means that India has already reached the WHO norm of 1:1,000 doctor population ratio even considering the most conservative estimates, including stringent attrition criteria. There are government organisations like National Medical Commission (NMC), National Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW), Medical Council of India (MCI), Indian Nursing Council (INC), and many more which serve the public. There are 7 AIIMS across the country, and 16 AIIMS have been sanctioned to be set up under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY). As of 21 May 2020, there are 542 medical colleges and 64 stand-alone PG institutes in India whose qualifications are recognised by the Medical Council of India. India has 1.7 nurses per 1,000 population, 43 per cent less than the World Health Organisation norm (3 per 1,000), while it is boasted that we supply nurses to the world, especially to the middle eastern countries. While this is the primary data reflecting the strength of the medical infrastructure in the country, we still see newspapers filled with a large number of obituaries like never before. These obituaries are not just of the elderly but also of young and middle-aged people. The leading dailies are not only filled with obituaries but also notify vacancies asking for MBBS doctors, nurses, interns, and other healthcare workers. It is a shame that we could not increase the number of seats in medical colleges since so many years of independence. Every year, parents of lakhs of students pay fees in coaching classes so that their child can get a seat in a government medical college. These students light night lamps to clear PMT and NEET but still cannot get a government seat because of a few marks. Since middle-class parents cannot afford to pay their life’s income by admitting their kids to private colleges, the ultimate dream of becoming a doctor is shattered. This also affects the much-needed supply of doctors. Today we do not have doctors in public health care centres of villages close to big cities like Noida. There is no check on the fees taken by private medical colleges as well. There exists a nexus of big honchos administering these private colleges. The pandemic has shown us our reality. While we were exporting oxygen, we realised we had none for our patients to breathe. We only have seventeen oxygen plants in the country. The Supreme Court had to intervene at the last moment because the executive failed in implementing its responsibilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/obituaries-vs-medical-vacancies-987056.html
18-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Little pleasures lost to Covid-19||Among other things, the pandemic has robbed us of some of the little pleasures that we took for granted. Think about it. Until this disaster overtook the world, we were able to break out of the confines of our homes as the whim took us and indulge in walks, without masks and without sanitisers. Many were the familiar faces we came across and we hastened our steps to greet our friends and hold hands with them. Social distancing did not stop us from doing this. We walked down shopping arcades at will, looking for and examining all kinds of wares, enticingly displayed every which way we turned. Whether we will ever regain this lost happiness is anybody’s guess. However, the good news is that even in these challenging times, there is something called relief, which can turn quickly into sheer delight. Let me explain this a little bit. When the CM announces that there will be no lockdown for now, one experiences a rejuvenating relief. News snippets such as these can set your pleasure pulse-pounding: ‘KSRTC honours women staffers’, ‘Splashes of yellow. Tabebuia Argentia in full bloom in Cubbon Park’, ‘Turahalli Forest spared for now as work begins in adjoining park.’ You may remark that such pieces of information are rare, but they give rise to a surge of hope and encouragement when they come. These are reading pleasures, but there is another kind of relief, one that metamorphoses into gladness and is common in everyday life. What a joy it is, for instance, when the test for Covid comes stamped with the label ‘negative.’ Never before was the word so full of positivity! We have a sigh of relief when labourers lay down their drilling tools and depart for lunch. To add a few more, the hiss of boiling milk was heard in good time so that it did not spill over and cause loss and time-consuming cleaning; the missing cheque was found; the transformer sparked out but did not damage the TV or the washing machine; the pet dog that went missing came back safe and sound; the children who returned late from school did not meet with an accident but were delayed because the bus broke down; the baby next-door stopped crying and went to sleep allowing you a good night’s rest.‘Sweet is pleasure after pain,’ wrote John Dryden. This was more than 300 years ago. Though relief cannot match the joy of celebrations untouched by pain, it acts as a lovely pick-me-up. The pandemic cannot stop anyone of us from revisiting relief and, what is more, the pleasure is entirely ours!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/little-pleasures-lost-to-covid-19-987055.html
18-05-2021||Second Edit||Coronavirus vaccination: Abdicating responsibility||The central government’s bungling on the vaccination policy has continued with its decision to shift the responsibility for procurement of vaccines to the states, which are not equipped for it. The government had first failed to size up the country’s needs and to place orders for vaccines from domestic and foreign manufacturers. When the matter has blown up into a crisis, it has left the states to fend for themselves. State governments now have to engage with vaccine producers outside the country for their import. Some of them, including Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, have opted for global tenders to procure vaccines. Punjab has decided to join the global Covax alliance to source them. At least nine states are separately trying to get the vaccines they need, competing with one another. Such a plan lacks sense and logic and makes the situation more difficult and complex.  State governments will be hard put to negotiate with international manufacturers on prices, quantities and delivery schedules. Competition among them to procure the vaccines on the best conditions will actually go against them because the manufacturers would know that they are all in dire need. A centralised procurement system would have best suited the situation. In fact, such procurements have always been done by the Centre. In the case of the Universal Immunisation Programme, it was the Centre that managed the procurement and dispersal of the vaccines. The vaccines will be most cost-effective only when there is centralised procurement. Some manufacturers are demanding immunity against liability in the use of the vaccines, and state governments may not be able to give such assurances to them. In no other country have regional governments been told to look for vaccines on their own. States should not be left at the mercy of international market forces on such an important matter.  It is argued that the Centre has only given the responsibility that the states have sought in the management of the pandemic. But the states’ complaints about centralisation were in a different context when the central government even decided when and how lockdowns were implemented. There is an acute shortage of vaccines in the country, and many states have closed vaccination centres and postponed vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group. There is popular demand for vaccination which is putting pressure on state governments. It will be difficult for the states to bargain for the vaccines, to decide on bids and to enter into agreements. One state has already said that it will not give vaccines to the “citizens’’ of other states. Such sentiments will get aggravated if states have to spend their own money to import the vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/coronavirus-vaccination-abdicating-responsibility-987048.html
18-05-2021||South||Kerala HC petitioned to shift venue of Pinarayi Vijayan govt's swearing-in ceremony||With only a day left for the swearing-in ceremony of the second Left government, a political outfit has petitioned the Kerala High Court seeking its intervention to shift the venue of the event to Raj Bhavan here, in view of unprecedented Covid-19 situation in the state. Democratic Party state president George Sebastian sent a letter to High Court Chief Justice seeking its direction to the authorities concerned to shift the venue from the central stadium here to Raj Bhavan, official residence of the Governor, and limit the number of participants to just 50. He requested the court to consider the letter, sent through the Registrar General, as a petition being taken up on its own. The letter was sent to the Chief Justice as it was unable to file new cases in the High Court due to some disputes regarding e-filing, Sebastian said here in a statement. He also said though he had sent a letter to the Governor, Chief Minister and Chief Secretary regarding this last week, there was no response, following which he had moved the court. According to Vijayan, the ceremony would be held by adhering to Covid-19 protocol. The function would be held in the presence of 500 invited guests at the stadium, which has the capacity to hold 50,000 people. Besides 140 newly elected MLAs, 29 members of Parliament of the state, representatives of the judiciary and the media would be invited for the function. A government order said entry would be limited only to people having Covid negative results obtained within 48 hours or on production of final certificate of the vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-petitioned-to-shift-venue-of-pinarayi-vijayan-govts-swearing-in-ceremony-987151.html
18-05-2021||South||K K Shailaja out of new Kerala cabinet, Pinarayi Vijayan's son-in-law among all-new faces||Kerala's popular health minister K K Shailaja has been denied a second term in Pinarayi Vijayan's new ministry in Kerala, while Vijayan's son-in-law and DYFI national president Mohammed Riyas, and CPI(M) acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan's wife R Bindu are among the all new CPI(M) faces in the cabinet to be sworn in on Thursday. Except for Vijayan, no other CPI(M) members in the outgoing cabinet were included in the new cabinet. Party leaders maintained that the party wanted to bring in new faces and youngsters to the forefront. But a section in the party was learnt to have strongly demanded a second term for Shailaja considering the international attention she grabbed with the fight against Covid-19 and nipah. Some pre-poll surveys even projected her as a potential Chief Minister candidate. But it was learnt that the party had to go by the suggestion of Vijayan to have all new faces. With the thumping victory and a historic second consecutive term, Vijayan had emerged as undisputed leader of CPI(M) and hence the voices of dissent may not hold much ground, sources close to the party leadership said. Shailaja, who has been made the party whip, reacted that she would be happy at any decision of the party and the fight against Covid and nipah were joint efforts only. Journalist-turned-politician and second time MLA Veena George would be also included in the cabinet. Former MP M B Rajesh would be the new Speaker. Vijayan's son-in-law Riyaz Mohammed is a first time legislator and there were concerns with in the party that his induction into the cabinet may trigger allegations of favouratism by Vijayan. R Bindu is also a first time legislator. V Sivankutty, who defeated BJP in its lone sitting seat in Kerala, Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, also got a berth in the cabinet. M V Govindan, K Radhakrishnan, K N Balagopal, P Rajeev, V N Vasavan, Saji Cheriyan and V Abdul Rahman are the other CPI(M) members to join the cabinet. The decisions were taken at CPI(M) state committee meeting. CPI, which is the second largest party in the Left Democratic Front, also decided to have all new faces in its cabinet seats, including a women. Chinju Rani is the woman to enter the cabinet from CPI, which is also a remarkable decision as it is for the first time after the split in the Community party in Kerala that a woman leader from CPI is being made minister. The women representation in the new cabinet would be four, while it was two in the outgoing cabinet. K Rajan, P Prasad and G R Anil are the other CPI members to join Pinarayi Vijayan's second cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-k-shailaja-out-of-new-kerala-cabinet-pinarayi-vijayans-son-in-law-among-all-new-faces-987166.html
18-05-2021||South||Renowned Tamil writer K Rajanarayanan dies at 98||Renowned Tamil writer, novelist and recipient of Sahitya Akademi award K Rajanarayan, popularly known as Ki Ra died in Puducherry, family sources said. He was 98 and is survived by two sons. Rajanarayanan was ailing from age related health conditions for sometime and breathed his last at the government quarters in Puducherry on Monday night. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday visited the writer's residence and paid her last respects to him. Later, she told reporters that a representation was made by Tamil writers that the house where Ki Ra lived be converted into a memorial library. "This request would be considered," she said. Rajanarayanan served as Professor of Folklore Department in Pondicherry University in 1980s. He was an eminent writer of short stories, novels, folklores and essays. He won the Sahitya Akademi award in 1991 for his novel Gopallapurathu Makkal. He was known for the depiction of the people and culture of Karisal bhoomi-- the hot and dry land of southern Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin condoled the veteran's death and said the final rites of Ki Ra, a native of the neighbouring state, will be held with state honours. The DMK leader paid rich tributes to the writer and said his demise has put a "full stop to Karisal literature." Ki Ra was born in Idaiseval village near Kovilpatti in Tamil Nadu's Tuticorin district in 1923. "We have lost the greatest story teller of Tamil... his fame will live in our hearts till the time of this land and the Karisal literature," Stalin said in a statement in Chennai. Rajanarayanan has not died but continues to live through his words, he said and expressed his sympathies with the family of the author and others. Stalin further said that the last rites of the writer will be held with state honours. AIADMK joint coordinator K Palaniswami, PMK founder Ramadoss and MDMK supremo and Rajya Sabha MP Vaiko also condoled Rajanarayanan's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/renowned-tamil-writer-k-rajanarayanan-dies-at-98-987194.html
18-05-2021||South||Renowned Tamil writer K Rajanarayanan passes away at 98||Renowned Tamil writer, novelist, and recipient of Sahitya Akademi award K Rajanarayanan, popularly known as Ki Ra, has died, family sources said. He was 98 and is survived by two sons. Rajanarayanan was ailing from age-related health conditions for some time and breathed his last at the government quarters here Monday night, the sources said. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday visited the writer's residence and paid her last respects. Later, she told reporters that a representation was made by Tamil writers that the house where Ki Ra lived be converted into a memorial library. "This request would be considered," she said. Puducherry Chief Minister N Rangasamy expressed grief over the demise. In his condolence message, the CM said in the death of Ki Ra the world of literature has lost an eminent thinker, writer and essayist. Rajanarayanan served as Professor of Folklore Department in Pondicherry University in the 1980s. He was an eminent writer of short stories, novels, folklores and essays. He won the Sahitya Akademi award in 1991 for his novel 'Gopallapurathu Makkal'. He was known for the depiction of the people and culture of 'Karisal bhoomi'-- the hot and dry land of southern Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin condoled the veteran's death and said the final rites of Ki Ra, a native of the neighbouring state, will be held with state honours. The DMK leader paid tributes to the writer and said his demise has put a "full stop to Karisal literature." Ki Ra was born in Idaiseval village near Kovilpatti in Tamil Nadu's Tuticorin district in 1923. "We have lost the greatest storyteller of Tamil... his fame will live in our hearts till the time of this land and the Karisal literature," Stalin said in a statement in Chennai. Rajanarayanan has not died but continues to live through his words, he said. Further, a memorial building for the author will be constructed in his native village while a statue of Rajanarayanan will be erected at Kovilpatti in his honour, Stalin added. AIADMK joint coordinator K Palaniswami, PMK founder Ramadoss, MDMK leader and Rajya Sabha MP Vaiko and many others also condoled Rajanarayanan's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/renowned-tamil-writer-k-rajanarayanan-passes-away-at-98-987303.html
18-05-2021||South||Kerala to get its first woman journalist-turned-politician as minister||For the first time in its history, a woman journalist-turned politician will become a minister in Kerala. CPI(M) member Veena George, who had excelled as a journalist and news anchor in various Malayalam news channels, has been selected by the party to be a minister in the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government. The chief minister and new ministers will take oath on Thursday. The ruling LDF had swept the April 6 polls, winning 99 of the 140 seats. Entering electoral politics with a victory from Aranmula assembly seat in the 2016 polls, she was re-elected from the same constituency in Pathanamthitta district with a margin of 19,003 votes five years later. In the 2016 polls, she had wrested the constituency from the Congress, defeating the nearest rival Sivadasan Nair by a margin of 7,646 votes. George, a mother of two, is a member of the CPI(M) Pathanamthitta area committee. A rank holder of MSc (Physics) and BEd, 45-year-old George began her political career as an activist of Students Federation of India (SFI), the student wing of the CPI(M). Her husband Dr George Joseph, a higher secondary school teacher, has served as secretary of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. A church official said Church head Baselios Marthoma Paulose II telephoned George to congratulate her on her achievement. Besides George, two other women will also become ministers in the new government. While CPI(M) has nominated Prof R Bindu, wife of CPI (M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan, CPI has selected its senior leader and Chadayamangalam MLA J Chinchu Rani to represent the party in the cabinet. This is for the first time, the CPI is nominating a woman as minister in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-get-its-first-woman-journalist-turned-politician-as-minister-987311.html
18-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to allow oxygen, vaccine production within state||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday said it will allow the production of oxygen, vaccine, and other drugs related to Covid-19 treatment within the state and has sought expression of interest from companies for the same. Chief Minister M K Stalin said the government has decided to allow the production of oxygen and vaccines in the state as demand for the same has increased. He said companies that are interested in investing more than Rs 50 crore can enter into a joint venture with TIDCO. The last date for applying for the same is May 31, Stalin said. The Chief Minister also said Rs 69 crore has been donated to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) in the past six days since May 12. While asking people to contribute generously to the fund, Stalin had on May 11 said the fund will be used to procure vaccines, drugs, and oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Of the Rs 69 crore collected in six days, Stalin said, Rs 25 crore has been released to buy Remdesivir and other drugs, while another Rs 25 crore has been allotted to buy tankers to carry oxygen from other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-allow-oxygen-vaccine-production-within-state-987315.html
18-05-2021||South||Opposition to keep off new Kerala government's swearing-in ceremony||Amidst widespread protest against the decision of the Left Democratic Front in Kerala to conduct the swearing-in ceremony of the new cabinet with the participation of around 500 persons, the Opposition UDF has decided to keep off from the ceremony. UDF convenor M M Hassan said that the Opposition members would view the swearing-in ceremony over television only. Meanwhile, a public interest petition was filed at the Kerala High Court seeking a directive to conduct the swearing-in ceremony at Raj Bhavan, the official residence of the Governor. The LDF had decided to conduct the swearing-in ceremony at Central stadium close to the government secretariat with the participation of 500, including the newly-elected MLAs, on Thursday. The move triggered protests from various quarters as triple-lockdown has been imposed in Thiruvananthapuram owing to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opposition-to-keep-off-new-kerala-governments-swearing-in-ceremony-987317.html
18-05-2021||South||Congress begins Kerala leadership revamp talks||Talks on leadership revamp in the Congress in Kerala have begun with parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday. According to sources, though a section of the party demanded that a new person should be made the leader of opposition instead of Ramesh Chennithala, another section backed him. There were reports that MLAs owing allegiance to veteran leader Oommen Chandy were also favouring Chennithala to continue as opposition leader. Instead, a demand for replacing Mullappally Ramachandran from Kerala PCC president post with a loyalist of Oommen Chandy may come up. But many young MLAs in the Congress were strongly resisting these moves, alleging groupism in the party. A strong demand for making Congress leader V D Satheesan the leader of opposition was also coming up. Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and V Vaithilingam, who were deputed by the high command, was learnt to have collected opinion of each elected member and a decision on the leader of opposition would be taken soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-begins-kerala-leadership-revamp-talks-987318.html
18-05-2021||South||Telangana extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 30||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown in the state till May 30. The state cabinet in its meeting on May 11 had reviewed the pandemic situation in the state and had decided to impose a 20-hour lockdown daily from May 12 till May 20. Shops were allowed to be open only for four hours between 6 am and 10 am. The cabinet was supposed to meet again on May 20 to review the situation. However, on Tuesday evening, CMO officials informed that Rao spoke with the ministers over the phone and elicited their opinion on extending the lockdown. “(Later,) the CM instructed Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to issue a 'go ahead' on the lockdown extension. As the ministers are busy monitoring the Covid-19 curtailment measures and medical services on the field, the CM has canceled the Thursday cabinet meet,” officials said. Meanwhile, Telangana health officials have claimed that the Covid-19 cases are on a declining trend in the state since the last two weeks. On Tuesday, the health department reported 3,982 new positive cases out of the 71,616 samples tested. Though officials are claiming that the Covid-19 positivity rate has dropped drastically, public health experts say that the low testing in the state remains a concern. Meanwhile, with Chief Minister Rao finally deciding to join the central government’s Ayushman Bharat scheme, Telangana medical and health department has signed a MoU with the National Health Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-30-987328.html
18-05-2021||State||Stigma, myths hamper Covid second wave fight in Ballari||As the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic grips rural Karnataka, Ballari appears to be the worst affected wih the highest positivity rate of 41.22% in the state. In parts of the undivided Ballari district, which has the third highest death toll after Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru, rumours and misconceptions are hindering efforts at containment. People fear that a patient hospitalised after testing positive will surely die, causing many to shun testing. Stigma attached to the disease is also playing a role. Residents around mines blame continued operations at factories for the surge in cases. Officials attribute the high positivity rate to the policy of testing only the symptomatic. PK Halli gram panchayat in Hosapete taluk comprises four villages around the mines, where nine people died in a week. Only four of them were confirmed Covid positive, while deaths of the remaining five were attributed to natural causes. According to Ramesh (name changed), an employee of PK Halli GP, youngest of the nine dead was a 12-year-old boy who had high fever for 3-4 days. “His parents ignored it thinking it was only fever and did not get him tested,” he said. Many are still not comfortable getting tested, said Manjunath, who conducts tests at Hosapete. Seven of a family tested positive at Shankar camp on Sunday. Their neighbours refused testing. “We have to seek police assistance,” he said. M Bhagyalakshmi of Sakhi Trust said misconceptions on hospitalisation were prevalent. Ballari deputy commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapathi told DH that the high positivity rate was because only symptomatic people were tested. “There is no refusal to test,” he said. Late detection was one of the reasons for deaths, as patients approached quacks who misdiagnose the ailment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/stigma-myths-hamper-covid-second-wave-fight-in-ballari-987036.html
18-05-2021||State||River sand mining not allowed during rainy season: Karnataka HC||The High Court has said that river sand mining is not allowed during the rainy season as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed this order on a petition challenging the order issued by the Deputy Director of Department of Mines and Geology in Chamarajanagar in June 2020. The order was granting a quarrying lease to the petitioner in respect of ordinary sand for a period of five years from August 10, 2017. The petitioner contended that the lease does not provide for prohibition on river bed sand mining activities during the monsoon. He also stated that there is no specific rule under the Karnataka Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1994 to restrict the sand mining during the monsoon. The government advocate submitted that as per Sustainable Sand Mining Management Guidelines, 2016 issued by the Government of India, sand quarrying for the period of five years will be inclusive of non-quarrying periods like rainy season, flood or any natural calamities. The bench said that clause 10 of the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forest specifically lays down that river sand mining should not be allowed in the rainy season. The 2016 guidelines also defined the rainy season and stated that the monsoon in the state of Karnataka is normally from June 5 to October 15. “The legislature was conscious of the fact that the period of actual quarrying operations could be affected due to rains or floods and therefore, it is provided in Sub-rule 21 of Rule 31-R of the said Rules of 1994 that the sand quarrying permissions shall be up to five years which period shall be inclusive of non-quarrying periods like rainy season, floods and natural calamities,” the bench said. The court rejected the petition while emphasising that the restriction on quarrying during the monsoon is with the intention of protecting the ecology and environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/river-sand-mining-not-allowed-during-rainy-season-karnataka-hc-987343.html
18-05-2021||State||At 58,395, Karnataka records highest daily Covid discharges||Karnataka discharged its highest number of Covid-19 patients - 58,395 - on Tuesday. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted that the number of discharges overshadowed the 30,309 cases which were reported in the state on Tuesday. The highest number of discharges were made in Bengaluru Urban where 31,795 people were declared recovered.” he discharges prompted a decline in the state’s active caseload, which currently stands at 5,75,028. However, experts expressed caution that large numbers of people were being discharged without properly ascertaining that they were free of the virus.   “There is no test or determination made about how many of these are technically Covid-free,” said one data analyst. Another source said that most Covid-19 patients in the second wave are being discharged within five to seven days to allow hospitals to accommodate new patients. “Some of these symptomatic patients still require oxygen support after discharge,” the source said. Covid-19 cases in the state have seen a definite decline since May 9. Out of Tuesday’s tally, a mere 8,676 cases were in Bengaluru Urban, constituting a rate of only 29% of the total tally. This is the city’s lowest percentage share of total cases since August 25, when the city had registered 2,294 cases out of 8,161 total cases reported that day - or a percentage share of 28.1%.  Other districts with high caseloads on Tuesday were 2,118 cases in Belagavi, 1,916 cases in Mysuru district, 1,799 cases in Ballari and 1,562 cases in Tumakuru. Meantime, testing numbers continued their downward spiral. On Tuesday, only 93,247 tests were done in the state, which is the lowest figure after March 28, when 87,197 tests were done.  However, the number of death disclosures have not come down. Some 525 new fatalities were disclosed on Tuesday, which is the highest such disclosure in 11 days. While a small fraction of the fatalities are backlog cases from April, most of the deaths had happened in May.   Already, the month is shaping up to have the highest number of Covid-19 fatalities recorded so far in the entirety of the pandemic so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/at-58395-karnataka-records-highest-daily-covid-discharges-987348.html
18-05-2021||State||HIMS lab tops govt facilities in state for conducting Covid tests||The Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) laboratory has been serving beyond its capacity in conducting RT-PCR tests during the Covid second wave. It is on top of the list of the government labs for conducting the maximum number of tests. As per the report on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal, the lab at HIMS has been working with a testing level of around 169%, compared to other 152 government laboratories in Karnataka. The Viral Research Diagnostics Laboraotry (VRDL) at HIMS, that was launched in 2016 with the support of the Union government is playing a major role in Covid management. When Covid-19 struck, there were only a few laboratories in the country that were able to conduct tests to detect Coronavirus. Out of 50 labs in the country which were able to conduct RT-PCR tests, three, including the HIMS lab, were in Karnataka. The lab tested samples not only from Hassan district, but lakhs of them from around eight districts, including Tumakuru, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada. The lab, which used to test 300 samples initially, upgraded itself and now tests more than 3,500 samples every day. According to officials, an average of 3,376 samples have been tested from May 8 to 14, that is 169%. A lab in Chikkamagaluru has conducted 132% tests to figure second in the list. Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences is in the third place, with 130% while Yadgir district hospital is in the fourth place, with 103%. A total of 48 people work at HIMS lab, including five doctors, three scientists, 12 laboratory experts, assistants and 'D' group employees, in three shifts. Sometimes, when there are more samples, they work for an extra shift. The lab, which is equipped with the latest equipment functions 24 hours a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hims-lab-tops-govt-facilities-in-state-for-conducting-covid-tests-987350.html
18-05-2021||State||Kalyana Karnataka catches symptomatic Covid-19 cases early so that it doesn't cost lives||The district administrations of Kalyana Karnataka region have started the process of shifting Covid patients and their primary contacts to Covid Care Centres (CCCs), despite resistance from the symptomatic patients and their family members. This follows a recent government order that symptomatic Covid patients should be shifted to the CCCs to break the chain of transmission. Raichur Deputy Commissioner R Venkatesh Kumar said 15 CCCs have been set up across the district and around 225 patients have been shifted there. “Despite stiff resistance from the patients and their family members in some villages, we are convincing them through the respective Gram Panchayat task force and are shifting them.” The government has allowed asymptomatic patients to remain in home isolation. The district administration has kept ready about 2,500 beds (500 each in each taluk) for Covid patients. A Covid patient at Jalahalli in Raichur district said, “I didn’t go to the CCC when the officials insisted on it as three of our family members tested positive for Covid”. “We isolated ourselves at our home thinking that there will not be much facilities at the CCC and took medicines on the advice of the local doctor. Our isolation period ends soon,” he said. Raichur district Nagarahal Gram Panchayat’s PDO Somanagouda said the positive patients are reluctant initially to shift to the CCCs, saying they lacked facilities. “But we are convincing them to be in CCCs in the interest of their family members,” he stated.  Yadgir district health and family welfare officer Dr Indumati Patil Kamashetty said the CCCs have been established in three locations of the district. Identifying and shifting symptomatic patients is on. “As per the government order, we can’t shift all patients who are under home isolation. Those patients who don’t have separate toilets and bathrooms at their home are being shifted to institutional quarantine centres, despite some resistance,” she said. Kalaburagi deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna said, “We have set up 13 CCCs across the district and about 100 patients have been housed there. We have taken steps to shift those who have completed seven days in home isolation after testing positive for the virus. Village task forces have been issued directions in this regard. Besides, we have made home isolation protocol more stringent,” she explained. Koppal DHO Dr Lingaraju said the district administration has decided to open two CCCs in each taluk and the process of shifting the patients is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalyana-karnataka-catches-symptomatic-covid-19-cases-early-so-that-it-doesnt-cost-lives-987351.html
18-05-2021||State||Karnataka issues guidelines for optimal use of Remdesivir in Covid-19 hospitals||Aimed at ensuring optimal use of Remdesivir, Karnataka government on Tuesday issued guidelines directing all healthcare facilities in the state to follow it in letter and spirit. It also calls for each healthcare facility to form a Remdesivir Audit Committee and submit a report on the use to the expert committees constituted. According to the circular issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Jawaid Akhtar, Remdesivir's Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) may be considered only in patients with moderate to severe disease (requiring supplemental oxygen), and has no renal or hepatic dysfunction. Also, to those who are within 10 days of onset of symptoms, it said, it is not to be used in patients who are not on oxygen support or in home settings. Injection Remdesivir shall be used in the wards of Designated Covid-19 Health Centre (DCHC) and Designated Covid-19 hospital, it added. Noting that the state is experiencing a second wave of Covid-19 and as there is a rapid surge of coronavirus positive cases, the circular said, the demand for Remdesivir has increased in both government and private healthcare institutions. The data on the consumption of Remdesivir by the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients has revealed that there is an indiscriminate use of Remdesivir in many hospitals, it said, adding its optimal use needs to be ensured both for better healthcare of the patient as well as the curtailment of wastage of the drug. The Clinical Expert Committee of Karnataka has laid down the guidelines for minimising wastage and rational use of Remdesivir in healthcare facilities. It is the responsibility of the health team to judiciously use the drug and the responsibility of the hospital administrators to monitor and audit its use, the circular said. Each facility shall also form a Remdesivir Audit Committee and submit a report on the use pre and post audit to the expert committees constituted, it added. Further, the expert committees shall review the action taken by the healthcare facilities in this regard, it said. All the healthcare facilities in Karnataka are hereby directed to follow the guidelines in letter and spirit and report compliance to the respective BBMP/District Level Expert Committees, it further said, adding the district authorities are instructed to monitor the implementation for better utilisation of Remdesivir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-issues-guidelines-for-optimal-use-of-remdesivir-in-covid-19-hospitals-987373.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Planning needs to start now for third Covid-19 wave, says expert, warns of child infections||As the pace of vaccinations slows down even as Covid-19 makes a resurgence, there is growing concern that a third wave of infections will hit India between October and December of this year. The eminent virologist, Dr V Ravi, said that there is strong evidence to suggest that the hardest hit will be children - which could result in egregious scenes unless the country and Karnataka can scale up its paediatric healthcare infrastructure.  Q. You have mentioned that children will bear the brunt of the third wave. But is there certainty that the third wave will materialise? Europe is undergoing its third wave of infections right now, while the United States is in its fourth wave. Japan, Singapore and a few other Asian countries are also experiencing their third waves. Waves are inevitable in an outbreak. Containment depends on how quickly you can vaccinate people. In a country of our size, only a fraction of adults have been vaccinated. As per calculations, the process of vaccination will take another three to six months to finish. By that stage, only about 50% of the population will have been vaccinated - None of them will be children because vaccines for them are not yet ready. Q. What can we expect to see in the next few months? The second wave will potentially become manageable only by the end of June. There will be a quiet period of two to three months. Then the third wave will begin. All adults who have not been immunised will be at risk, but children will comprise a significant chunk of infections.  Q. But we have seen child infections before. What could be the potential new scale of infection? We are talking about a high number of susceptible children. In the first wave, about 4% of infections were children. In the second wave, this share has increased to between 10 and 20%. In addition, according to the sero-survey results, about 25% of children in India have already been exposed to Covid-19 during the past 17 months. This leaves 60% of our children still susceptible to infection. In numerical terms, this is roughly 18 crore children in India. Let’s say 20% get infected in the third wave - that is 3.6 cr children. Most child cases will be mild but if we assume that even 1% of children develop serious complications from the disease, that is 3.6 lakh children who would need to be hospitalised. Q. Do we have adequate paediatric intensive care facilities to tackle these cases? No, we do not. This is why we must start our preparation right now. We should also start having conversations around the opening of schools. Whether schools should be reopened? whether remote learning should take greater precedence over regular schooling?. We also have to scale up our paediatric inpatient infrastructure. Q. How should the government view proposals to scale up health resources? What is the long-term picture it should be seeing? We have to start thinking about whatever has happened so far as being a war against an invisible enemy. We allocate nearly 40% of our GDP to the armed forces, but our allocation for healthcare is under 2%. Is it too much to ask for better healthcare services? Medical resources and the numbers of trained personnel have to be increased.This century has been dubbed as the “virus century.” In the last 20 years, we have had three viral outbreaks: MERS, Sars-CoV-1 and now Sars-CoV-2. Of course, Sars-CoV-2 has taken the cake and should prompt changes. To be frank, the medical infrastructure scaled up now will be useful in the future. We will continue to see new kinds of viral outbreaks. Q. There is disappointment that the vaccines have not been able to prevent infections. How would you address this? We all know people who have had various Covid-19 vaccines but have nevertheless become infected. But when it comes to all vaccines, the data is very clear: it reduces the mortality and severity of infection. People are expecting too much from the vaccines under the impression that it can stop infections. Even in the Polio vaccine, infections happen but the disease is prevented. The same is true for the measles vaccine as well.  Q. With the Sars-CoV-2 virus mutating as it is, would we require new vaccinations in the coming year to keep up protection? It is too early to dismiss those concerns. All of the vaccines approved for use so far are effective against the existing variants of the virus. But if a significant mutant arises in the future, we may have to take a booster shot. This is why genomic sequencing is so important - It will help us keep a track of mutants. Q. Will we see a potential new Variant of Concern (VOC) in the months to come? That is the million-dollar question. It is very difficult to determine when a potential new VOC will rear up. People have to understand that in one infected person alone, millions of viral particles are being born and only the fittest survive. These, in turn, spread and eventually lead to new mutants. Q. A case in point is the new variant B.1.617 which has rapidly taken over in Karnataka? Precisely. This variant has absolutely taken over from all other previous variants. One way of determining if a variant is genuinely more infectious, is to see under what conditions it spread and if it created a large number of infections through super-spreader events. From January to March, the dominant variant in Karnataka was B.1.36 which dominated all other variants. But it was not necessarily more infectious and was instead being transmitted through super-spreader events such as marriages, political gatherings, religious events and other public congregations. But from April onwards, after restrictions were brought in, B.1.617 has started to surge and has now taken over. This alone should tell us that it is more infectious than other variants. Q. But is it more virulent? What are its clinical manifestations? There is no data on clinical effects yet. There is no evidence to say that it is more virulent. Q. The issue of reinfections if often not considered. Won’t this increase the size of the susceptible population? In the first wave, the incidence of reinfection was about 1%. Now, it is between 5 to 10%. Reinfections are happening and my bet is that those who experienced reinfection came down with a mutant. If a new variant of concern develops in the new few months, we will see more infections in the third wave. Q. What is the limit of protection from natural antibodies for a person recently recovered from Covid-19? Initially, it was thought that a person had up to six months of protection, but based on what we are seeing now, it appears to be between three to six months. Six months is the optimal outer limit of natural antibodies. However, the amount of antigen we are pumping in through vaccines is much more than the natural infection and consequently it induces prolonged immunity in a person. Q. There has been frustration that India has not been able to scale up its genome sequencing? What are some of the challenges in genomic sequencing? Sequencing is a very laborious process that takes a minimum of 10 days to complete. It can also be expensive. In India, there are about 50 centres that have sequencing facilities but there is an acute shortage of trained personnel. In Karnataka, in consultations with the Health Minister, Dr K Sudhakar, it has been agreed to set up four new genomic centres in four corners of Karnataka. They will be set up in medical colleges, which already have a research infrastructure. Q. Why did the second wave blow up as it has? Why have there been so many deaths this time around? In the first wave, we stressed on lives over livelihoods. That came at the cost of livelihoods. In the second wave, we stressed the economy over lives. We need to balance both lives and livelihoods. But how are Kumbh Mela and elections responsible for economic revival? Someone should enlighten me. I feel very disturbed when I see the situation. We seem to be making the same mistakes that we made before. Q. Is the ongoing lockdown useful at all? The biggest impact of the lockdown which cannot be quantified is that it restricts movement and contact amongst people. In addition people become scared and they begin taking precautions. It is when there are no stringent restrictions that people go back to normal and their covid appropriate behaviors come down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/planning-needs-to-start-now-for-third-covid-19-wave-says-expert-warns-of-child-infections-987071.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gets 4th consignment of medical oxygen by train||An oxygen express train from Jamshedpur carrying 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) chugged into Bengaluru on Tuesday, Railway officials said. The state has so far received 480 tonnes of oxygen from Odisha and Jharkhand by rail, Chief Public Relation Officer of South Western Railway, Aneesh Hegde told PTI. According to Hegde, the fourth train had departed from Jamshedpur in the wee hours of Monday and reached Bengaluru this morning carrying LMO in six containers. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said the state-required about 1,200 tonnes of oxygen to meet the demand as the Covid cases surged. The Navy too has chipped in to supply LMO and medical supplies to the state, which are essential in treating coronavirus infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gets-4th-consignment-of-medical-oxygen-by-train-987177.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to take care of children orphaned due to Covid-19 second wave||The Karnataka government has decided to rehabilitate children up to the age of 18 years orphaned by the second Covid-19 wave and set up special paediatric Covid-19 care centres in 30 districts of the state. "The government is ready to rehabilitate children who were orphaned by the second wave of Covid-19. Children need not be afraid as we have decided to set up separate quarantine facilities as well as hostels for those up to 18 years," said Woman and Child Welfare Minister Shashikala Jolle at a press conference. Jolle said the government had set up a helpline '1098' and a senior IAS officer Mohan Raj has been appointed as nodal officer to ensure that such children are taken care of. According to her, the Woman and Child Welfare department has identified four circumstances where children are deprived of parental care and require the department's intervention. These are, if father and mother die of Covid-19, if both father and mother are hospitalised, if any one of them dies of Covid-19 or if one is dead and another lives in a different area. Jolle said many schemes have been introduced for children orphaned by Covid-19 such as special quarantine facilities for different age groups. The department has also come up with special scheme for the treatment of Covid-19-infected children. These are establishing separate paediatric Covid-19 care centres in 30 districts for the asymptomatic and special care for children with mild to moderate symptoms. She also said steps have been taken for the distribution of special nutritious food to households of Anganwadi beneficiaries and special care to Anganwadi children, pregnant and postnatal care of mothers. Regarding the department's preparations to deal with a possible third wave, she said, "After the experts warned that the third wave will affect young children, our department is already taking steps to mitigate the challenge." According to health department officials, this year over 15 children died due to Covid-19 in the second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-take-care-of-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-second-wave-987262.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid Care Centres to come up for children in Karnataka||Paediatric Covid Care Centres will be set up in each district as there are fears that children will be the worst-hit during the third wave of Covid-19, Karnataka Women & Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle said Tuesday. Jolle said that the facilities are proposed to be set up by the Directorate of Child Protection. The government will identify centres up for the 0-6 and 7-18 age group affected by Covid-19 in each of the districts. While asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic children will be treated at 'Fit Facilities' attached to Covid Care Centres, serious cases will be treated at Covid-19 hospitals. "Directions are issued to set up Peadiatric Covid wards at the district or taluk government hospitals," Jolle said. In case parents are negative and their child is positive, arrangements will be made for parents or extended family members to stay at the Fit Facility. The Department has also drawn up a rehabilitation plan for children whose parents are either hospitalised or deceased due to Covid, she said. The minister also warned citizens on social media messages about children being up for adoption. "Two children are orphaned due to the pandemic, one each in Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts," she said, noting that both were with their extended family members. "Most of the contact numbers mentioned in the viral messages are fake. Children can be adopted only after due process carried out through the Child Welfare Committee." If extended family members were willing to take care of the child, then adoption by relatives under Regulation 51 of Adoption Regulations, 2017, will be considered. If there are no extended family members or relatives are unwilling to adopt, such children will be considered for adoption under Central Adoption Resource Authority. Siblings will not be separated during the rehabilitation of the children, the minister said. The adoption of child or children will be under the regulations of Juvenile Justice Act and related rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-care-centres-to-come-up-for-children-in-karnataka-987276.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka No.1 state in establishing Health & Wellness Centres: Health dept||Karnataka has emerged as the best state and is ranked number one in establishing health and wellness centres (HWC) under the Ayushman Bharat Programme, to provide comprehensive primary healthcare in rural areas, the state's Health and Family welfare department said on Tuesday. The state leads in implementing the project for the year 2020-21, the department said in a statement. It said the union government had set a target of establishing 2,263 HWC sub-centres, and the state has upgraded 3,300 centres till March 31, which is 146 per cent more than the set target. The Centre had also given the target of upgrading 2,096 PHCs to HWCs, 2,168 have been upgraded so far which is 103 per cent more than the set target, it further said. Also against the target of upgrading 294 urban PHCs, the state has already upgraded 364 PHCs, which is is 124 per cent more than the set target, the department said. "A total of 4,653 HWCs have to be established in the state as given by the centre out of which 5,832 have been established which is 125 per cent more than the given target," it added. Noting that with an objective of providing quality healthcare for all under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka scheme, the department said, all PHCs are being upgraded under National Health Mission, and the state has a target of upgrading 11,595 centres as HWCs. Counselling sessions for adults, public yoga camps, providing temporary and permanent family planning methods to couples, ENT care, first aid during emergency and referring to tertiary hospitals are some of the services being offered in these centres, it said. Expressing satisfaction regarding this achievement, Health Minister K Sudhakar said that Karnataka has emerged the best state in implementing health and wellness centres. "It will enable the rural population to avail quality health care in their neighbourhood. HWCs are providing good service in this regard," he was quoted as saying in the release. Noting that the Health department is focused more on controlling Covid at this point of time, Sudhakar said, the government is also facing revenue crunch due to the economic slowdown caused by pandemic, however, this has not stopped our government from implementing developmental projects. "Even though our short to medium term goal is to tackle the pandemic, our long term goal and ultimate aim is to strengthen PHCs which are the building blocks of our public healthcare system," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-no1-state-in-establishing-health-wellness-centres-health-dept-987292.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Global tender for Covid-19 just an exercise to make money: D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday charged that the state government’s plan to float a global tender to procure Covid-19 vaccines was just a money-making exercise. “For this government, the coronavirus pandemic is a festival to make money,” Shivakumar told reporters. “This global tender is a way to make money through commissions and agents. Do they think we don't know?” Shivakumar said all the state’s Congress legislators and MPs had agreed to set aside Rs 100 crore collectively under their Local Area Development (LAD) funds. “We will also procure vaccines. We’ll show them how it’s done. Also, we will know how much other states end up paying for the doses,” he said. The B S Yediyurappa administration has decided to float a global tender to procure two crore vaccine doses. “Their own committee members do this business of global tenders. The poor CM doesn’t know,” Shivakumar said. “Last year, one minister announced that IT parks will be allowed to open at 50% capacity because 10% rent was fixed (as commission). But later, permission was rolled back,” he said, declining to reveal the minister’s name. Shivakumar also demanded that the government should announce a special economic package to help those whose livelihood was impacted due to the lockdown. “There is no other option, because it’s the government that has given this disease to people,” he said. In a separate news conference, Congress leaders Krishna Byre Gowda, Priyank Kharge and Rizwan Arshad slammed the Centre's "step-motherly" treatment of Karnataka despite citizens electing 25 BJP MPs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/global-tender-for-covid-19-just-an-exercise-to-make-money-d-k-shivakumar-987293.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports highest single-day Covid-19 recoveries at 58,395||Karnataka reported its highest ever single day recoveries with 58,395 discharges, outnumbering fresh Covid-19 cases which stood at 30,309, the Health department said on Tuesday. However, the state on the day recorded a spike in fatalities at 525, as the total number of infections stood at 22,72,374 and the death toll at 22,838. The number of new Covid related deaths on Monday was 476. Out of the 30,309 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 8,676 were from Bengaluru Urban alone, which is a decline of over 4,600 cases compared to Monday, when the city had reported 13,338 cases. "Karnataka reports the highest ever single day recovery with 58,395 recoveries on Tuesday. 30,309 cases were reported in the state today and recoveries have outnumbered the new cases. 8,676 new cases were reported in Bengaluru today while 31,795 people recovered," Health Minister K Sudhakar tweeted. As of May 18 evening, cumulatively 22,72,374 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 22,838 deaths and 16,74,487 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. Total number of active cases in the state stood at 5,75,028. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 32.50 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.73 per cent. Among 525 deaths reported on Tuesday, 298 are from Bengaluru Urban, Ballari (28), Uttara Kannada (22), Bengaluru Rural (19), Hassan (18), Shivamogga and Tumakuru (15), Mysuru (13), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 8,676, followed by Belagavi (2,118), Mysuru (1,916), Ballari (1,799), Tumakuru (1,562), Bengaluru Rural (1,339), Shivamogga (1,168) and Kolar (1,021). Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 10,73,072, followed by Mysuru 1,16,023 and Tumakuru 84,956. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 7,22,086, followed by Mysuru 1,00,645 and Tumakuru 57,684. A total of over 2,80,70,180 samples have been tested so far, out of which 93,247 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-highest-single-day-covid-19-recoveries-at-58395-987310.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tejasvi Surya says attack on him part of 'Congress toolkit'||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Tuesday claimed that it was the 'Congress toolkit' that was behind the alleged bed-blocking scam in Bengaluru. Surya was referring to a document allegedly drafted by the AICC Research Department on the Congress's strategy for the campaign on Covid-19 mismanagement, which the BJP released during the day. "The #CongressToolkitExposed clearly instructs cadre and ecosystem to block beds in hospitals to create artificial scarcity. No wonder entire ecosystem pounced on me with fake propaganda from the minute I exposed bed allocation irregularities in Bengaluru," Surya said in a tweet. No wonder entire ecosystem pounced on me with fake propaganda from the minute I exposed bed allocation irregularities in Bengaluru. Earlier this month, the Bangalore South MP 'exposed' a scam in the BBMP's bed allocation system for Covid-19 patients. The alleged Congress toolkit states that some beds must be kept reserved and released "only on our request". "The day after I exposed hospital bed allocation irregularities in Bengaluru, every Congress leader personally attacked me, supported by ecosystem media. More than 60k tweets spewing hatred were tweeted in 24 hrs. All of this was executed as per (Congress toolkit)," Surya, the BJP Yuva Morcha national president, said. They day after I exposed hospital bed allocation irregularities in Bengaluru, every Congress leader personally attacked me, supported by ecosystem media. More than 60k tweets spewing hatred were tweeted in 24 hrs. Complaint against Karnataka Youth Congress chief The Bengaluru Central unit of the BJP Yuva Morcha has filed a complaint against Karnataka Youth Congress president Raksha Ramaiah for distributing a Schedule H drug. Yuva Morcha general secretary Vijendra SM, in his complaint to the Drugs Controller, claimed that the dexamethasone tablets in the medicine kits distributed by Youth Congress "has to be sold only under the prescription of a registered medical practitioner." Noting that it was an offense under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, he urged authorities to take suitable action against the offenders. Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar defended Raksha. "He's an educated man whose family runs a medical college. Even I got steroids when I was positive for coronavirus. He has given the medicines with the prescription and advice of a doctor. There's nothing wrong. We're ready to reply to the complaint. If anything is wrong, we will rectify it. The MS Ramaiah family is one of Karnataka's reputed families when it comes to healthcare. The CM himself goes to MS Ramaiah hospital whenever something's wrong," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tejasvi-surya-says-attack-on-him-part-of-congress-toolkit-987324.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress ran propaganda against Covid-19 vaccine: H D Kumaraswamy ||Former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday blamed the Congress for dissuading citizens from taking Covid-19 vaccines when they were introduced. "The same Congress, which is today protesting against the government for not inoculating citizens, had asked people not to take the vaccines when they were introduced. They ran a misinformation campaign by calling it a drama, likening the vaccines to distilled water, and asked people not to take it," Kumaraswamy said. "As a result of the propaganda, there were no takers for the vaccines and manufacturers got the Centre's permission to supply them to foreign countries. That was the effect of the Congress's petty politics, which has led to this situation," the JD(S) leader said, adding that the Congress was equally responsible. Kumaraswamy's comments come at a time when PM Modi and the BJP are facing flak over shortage of vaccines. Mocking the Congress's move to set aside Rs 100 crore from the Local Area Development (LAD) funds to procure vaccines, Kumaraswamy said, "The Congress MLAs aren't bringing this money from their home. It's money they get from the government for LAD." Earlier in the day, Kumaraswamy also urged the state government to extend the lockdown. "The lockdown has to be extended by at least a month and the government has to announce a special package for the poor," he said. "If the lockdown is not extended, there will be bigger repercussions to face. Hence the government must extend the lockdown." The government simply conducting video meetings is not useful, Kumaraswamy said. "It is just a waste of time of officials who can use the same time to work at the ground level. All these meetings are distraction tactics," he charged, asking the state government not to "test people's patience". As for the marginal decrease in cases in some places, Kumaraswamy said the reduced number was the result of fewer tests being conducted. "The government is managing the number to save its face," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-ran-propaganda-against-covid-19-vaccine-h-d-kumaraswamy-987337.html
18-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Report flags working class crisis, urges govt not to look away||A survey has warned the government of dire consequences of the lockdown on the labour force, if measures are not taken to ensure their social and economic security. As per the periodic labour force survey 2017-18, Karnataka has 2.55 crore labourers of which informal workers constitute 86.9%. While the average annual wage of an industrial worker is 1.89 lakh, significant sections of workers survive on far lower wages. Volunteers of All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) surveyed 46 migrant workers and 73 non-migrant workers, including construction labourers, garment and domestic workers. They also spoke to voluntary organisations involved in helping Covid patients and analysed media reports and social media posts to prepare the report on the status of workers in the 2nd wave of Covid-19. Over 50% of all workers said that their wages have been reduced and 65% of them reported having debts. Among the local labourers, 73% were concerned about getting infected with Coronavirus at work, but only 53% said they knew about government helplines. About 24% of migrant workers said they couldn't eat three meals a day. Of the 60 respondents who answered questions on food security, 50% said they did not have food stock to last the lockdown, while nearly 30 persons said they had to borrow money. "Many reported having reduced food intake from three to two or one meal a day. Increased dependence on food grains from public distribution system was also reported as also the severe inadequacy of the quantum provided through the system," the report said. Ratna from the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha, who spoke during the release of the report, said women are facing unprecedented pressure as men in families don't have jobs. "Today is the 18th and we are still not paid. A pourakarmika in Ward 27 died weeks ago, but the BBMP has not given any compensation. The government should stop investing on Metro and road construction and utilise that money to help the poor," she said. Among the migrant workers, 94.44% reported that the present situation has affected their life badly. "One of the workers in the R3 unit of Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) said that a total of 42 workers have wages pending to a tune of Rs 9 lakh," the report said. Many reported non-receipt of wages despite working over time during the unlock period last year. None of those surveyed said they received advance wages to help them during the crisis. "There is an overall crisis in employment and livelihoods. Work is decreasing, wages are falling, employers are cutting down on the number of workers they employ resulting in extra burden for the workers who are retained," the report noted. AICCTU urged the government to provide ration kits, take protective measures to secure rights and welfare of workers, provide compensation, introduce employment guarantee scheme in urban areas, rent waivers, loan moratoriums and waivers. On the Covid front, the report suggested setting up dedicated testing camps and vaccination drives for the labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/report-flags-working-class-crisis-urges-govt-not-to-look-away-987380.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae : Winds, rain partially damage 190 structures in Pune||Gusty winds coupled with rains caused by very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae led to collpase of roofs of houses and uprooting of utility poles in Pune district of Maharashtra on Monday, officials said. Three people sustained minor injuries, they said. At least 190 instances of partial structural damage such as roof collapse, uprooting of poles etc have been reported in the district since Sunday. A total of 90 people from Bhor tehsil were shifted to safer places due to gusty winds, as per the district disaster management cell (DDMC). "In Shirur tehsil, two people sustained minor injuries after a house was damaged partially. Two goats and as many sheep died due to electrocution in Baramati tehsil," said an official from the DDMC. In Mulshi tehsil, around 75 instances of the partial structural damage were reported. The tin shed roof of a private school blew away due to the strong winds and the office of a gram panchayat also sustained damage. "Since Sunday, atotal of 190 instances of partial structural damage have been reported in Mulshi, Khed, Maval, and Bhor tehsils in the district. Around 90 people in Mulshi tehsil were shifted to safer places as a preventive measure," said the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-winds-rain-partially-damage-190-structures-in-pune-987060.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone impacts power supply to 23 lakh consumers in Maharashtra||Electric supply to over 23 lakh consumers in western Maharashtra was impacted because of the Tauktae cyclonic storm on Monday, the state discom said. Supply to over 56 per cent of the consumers in Palghar, Thane, Kolhapur, Pune, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and Raigad districts was restored by 2100 hrs, an official said. Nearly three-fourths of 184 hospitals that reported an impact on electric supply had their power restored by evening, as per the data. Eight of the ten oxygen plants which reported an impact were back to normal. Among the residential consumer connections, 23.79 lakh reported an impact and 13.24 lakh had their connections restored, the data said. The passage of the cyclone in the Arabian Sea had resulted in gusty winds along with rains in western Maharashtra, especially the coastal areas, which led to the snapping of cables, forcing shutting down of supply as a precaution. However, the data excludes large parts of the financial capital which is served by other power utilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-impacts-power-supply-to-23-lakh-consumers-in-maharashtra-987061.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Gujarat's coastal areas plunge into darkness||Towns and villages plunged into darkness due to power outages and several trees and electric poles were uprooted in areas near Gujarat's coast as cyclone 'Tauktae' began making a landfall on Monday night, bringing along with it very strong winds and heavy rainfall. Authorities snapped power supply in many areas of the worst affected coastal districts of Gir Somnath, Amreli, Junagadh, and Bhavnagar among others in advance as a precautionary measure, while in other areas, blackout was caused as soon as the cyclone started making a landfall. There were no immediate reports of casualties though the cyclone battered the coastal districts. The very severe cyclonic storm began making landfall on Gujarat's Saurashtra coast near Diu on Monday night. "The landfall process of extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae has started as forward sector of eye of the storm is entering the Saurashtra coast to the east of Diu," the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Several electricity poles fell due to the strong winds. In Talala in Gir Somnath district, a mobile tower crashed, officials said. A large number of trees were uprooted and they blocked several roads as the wind blowing at a very high speed battered the coastal areas, they said. In one incident, a large tree fell on a house in Una town of Gir Somnath district, causing minor damage to the structure, they said. A rescue team immediately reached the spot and chopped off the branches, the officials said. Army personnel rushed to clear roads that were blocked due to uprooted trees in Sasan Gir and Diu, among other places. The cyclone also caused damage to standing cropsin the affected areas, they said. Popular Kesar variety of mangoes suffered damage due to strong wind in Gir Somnath and Junagadh districts, where they are mainly grown, the officials said. All major highways leading up to Somnath and Diu were blocked by the authorities to prevent any major accident, which caused a long queue of heavy vehicles like trucks and tankers, they said. At several places, roofs of thatched houses were blown away by high-speed winds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-gujarats-coastal-areas-plunge-into-darkness-987073.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Navy rescues 177 from barge adrift near Mumbai, aerial search on||The Indian Navy has rescued 177 people on board a barge that went adrift in the Arabia Sea near Mumbai hours before Cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast, an official said on Tuesday. The Navy on Tuesday morning also deployed the P-8I long-range, multimission maritime patrol aircraft to join the search and rescue operations, the official said. "The Search and Rescue (SAR) operations continued throughout the night and a total of 146 persons from Barge P305 have been rescued till 6 am on Tuesday, 111 by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata, 17 by Offshore Support Vessel (OSV) Greatship Ahilya and 18 by OSV Ocean Energy whilst operating in extremely challenging sea conditions," the official said. The barge 'Gal Constructor' with 137 persons on board has run aground about 48 nautical miles north of Colaba Point. An Emergency Towing Vessel 'Water Lily', two support vessels and CGS Samrat are in the vicinity for rendering assistance and evacuation of crew, a Navy spokesperson said. "INS Talwar is proceeding to assist another oil rig Sagar Bhushan with 101 personnel on board and an accommodation barge SS-3 with 196 personnel on board, both of which are adrift and presently located about 50 NM South East of Pipavav Port," the spokesperson said in a statement. "These ongoing rescue efforts have been augmented today morning by an Indian Naval P8I surveillance aircraft. Navy helicopters will also be deployed for SAR based on weather conditions. The SAR efforts will continue through the day with more naval assets ready to augment the ongoing operations," he said. The Navy had on Monday deployed three frontline warships after receiving messages to rescue 410 people on board two barges off the Mumbai coast. The ships deployed to extend assistance to the two barges were INS Kolkata, INS Kochi and INS Talwar. "On receipt of a request for assistance for barge 'P305' adrift off Heera oil fields in Bombay high area with 273 personnel onboard, INS Kochi was swiftly sailed on Monday with a despatch for search and rescue assistance," the Navy officer said. The oil fields are around 70 km southwest of Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-navy-rescues-177-from-barge-adrift-near-mumbai-aerial-search-on-987088.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae sinks barge that had 273 on board, of which 177 saved so far||Battling extreme weather, the Indian Navy has so far rescued 177 people on board a barge that went adrift in the Arabian Sea near Mumbai hours before Cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast, an official said on Tuesday. Navy ships were deployed on Monday after receipt of a request for assistance for barge 'P305' adrift off Heera oil fields in Bombay high area with 273 personnel on board. The oil fields are around 70 km southwest of Mumbai. Sixty persons on board the barge were rescued till 11 pm and the remaining overnight, the official said, adding a Navy helicopter brought three rescuees to INS Shikra this morning. INS Shikra, formerly known as INS Kunjali, is a naval air station located at Colaba in south Mumbai. State-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) had on Monday said barge P305 with 261 personnel deployed for offshore drilling got de-anchored and began drifting because of the cyclonic storm Tauktae. P305 being an accommodation barge had no engine to power it, and it hit an oil rig in the vicinity and there was ingress of water, sources said. A barge is a long flat-bottomed boat either under its power or towed by another. An accommodation barge is of shallow draft (vessel whose keel is not far below the waterline) and is used to accommodate personnel on projects where shore accommodation is not available. Offshore accommodation barges are fully autonomous and used mainly in the oil and gas industries. The Navy on Tuesday morning also deployed the P-8I long-range, multimission maritime patrol aircraft to join the search and rescue operations, the official said. Another barge, the 'Gal Constructor' with 137 persons onboard has run aground about 48 nautical miles north of Colaba Point, he said. An Emergency Towing Vessel 'Water Lily', two support vessels and CGS Samrat are in the vicinity for rendering assistance and evacuation of crew, he added. "INS Talwar has proceeded to assist another oil rig Sagar Bhushan with 101 personnel on board and an accommodation barge SS-3 with 196 personnel on board, both of which are adrift and presently located about 50 NM South East of Pipavav Port," the spokesperson said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-sinks-barge-that-had-273-on-board-of-which-177-saved-so-far-987106.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae brings heavy rainfall to Palghar||Heavy rains and tidal waves continued to lash Maharashtra's Palghar district that touches the Gujarat border amid strong gale as Cyclone Tauktae approaches India's coastal areas. In the last 24 hours, the Palghar district received 298 mm rainfall, according to KS Hosalikar, Scientist, Climate Research & Services, Pune. The Vasai-Virar township in Palghar also witnessed heavy rainfall. Power and water supply has been badly affected in township, located nearly 60 kms off downtown Mumbai. Waterlogging too was experienced in several parts of the township. More than 50 trees have been uprooted in the Palghar district. The Palghar Collector's office and the Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation decided not to conduct Covid-19 vaccination programmes during the day. This is the first time the district has experiences such heavy rainfall in May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-brings-heavy-rainfall-to-palghar-987117.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae claims 13 lives in Gujarat, leaves behind trail of destruction||At least 13 persons were killed and many were reported to have been injured as Cyclone Tauktae rampaged through coastal towns in Gujarat, mostly Saurashtra region, dumping heavy rains, flooding and ravaging villages and cities.  The cyclone has left a trail of destruction across the region and has hit the farmers who were harvesting summer crops including horticulture crops such as the famous Kesar variety of mango.  Meanwhile, the state government also suspended the vaccination drive against Covid-19 for one another day in view of the cyclone. Officials said that vaccination will resume from May 20. Briefing reporters in Gandhinagar, chief minister Vijay Rupani said 13 persons were killed due to the cyclone in the state. He said that cyclone resulted in power failure in over 5,000 villages. Over 69,000 electricity poles were uprooted and a total of 674 roads were blocked due to the storm.  Most of the casualties reported due to electric wires falling on passersby and rooftop collapse. In Nadiad and Sanand four persons including mother and daughter died after an electric wire fell on them. Similarly in Bhavnagar, a father-daughter were killed after rooftop collapsed on them.     Rupani said that four types of damages were reported including summer crops like black gram, green gram, pearl millet, horticulture crops like mango, coconut, destruction of kuchcha houses and loss of domestic animals. He assured that a survey will be conducted and the affected will be compensated as per the government norms.    Cyclone Tauktae made landfall Monday night as extremely severe storm and weakened into a severe cyclonic storm by Tuesday noon. According to the weather forecast, it is likely to recurve north-northeastwards across the state and weaken gradually into a depression over Rajasthan.    The India Meteorological Department said in a Twitter update at around 8:22 pm that "Cyclonic Storm Tauktae over Gujarat region. It is about 120 km south-southeast of Deesa (Gujarat), and 35 km west of Ahmedabad and 80 km east-northeast of Surendranagar (Gujarat). It is likely to weaken into a deep depression within 03 hours."  Earlier in the day, Rupani said that the cyclone had damaged over 16,500 houses/huts, uprooted over 40,000 trees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-claims-13-lives-in-gujarat-leaves-behind-trail-of-destruction-987123.html
18-05-2021||West||Farmers' leader launches campaign to remove vaccine hesitancy among tribals||With vaccine hesitancy high in tribal areas, veteran farmers' leader Kishore Tiwari has launched a campaign to create awareness about the Covid-19 vaccine in rural areas. Yavatmal-based Tiwari, who is the founder of Vidarbha Jan Andolan Samiti, said that there are several misconceptions among the tribals about the vaccination programme and in many places, health workers have been chased out from tribal villages and hamlets. "What we need is awareness...so daily I am driving down to tribal areas and meeting people," said Tiwari, who is Chairman of Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavalamban Mission, a post that has the status of a Minister of State. "Tribals feel they work hard and they would not get the infection. Besides, there are superstition issues also. They are afraid of swallowing pills and getting jabbed," he said. "Vaccine is one of the best preventive mechanisms against Covid-19 infection....we are going there, talking to them, explaining them and making them agree for the inoculation," Tiwari told DH over the phone from Pandharkawada on Sunday evening. "You have to explain and convince them... Before I became a farmers' leader, I was an activist working in the tribal areas... they know me for over three decades so I can go there, talk to them, have lunch with them and spend my day with them... this is bringing a change," he said. Tiwari said he was also in touch with several NGOs and sending relief material to tribal villages. According to Tiwari, who is now also associated with Shiv Sena, several senior leaders cutting across party lines are helping him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-leader-launches-campaign-to-remove-vaccine-hesitancy-among-tribals-987135.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Mumbai records highest ever 24-hour rain in May||Mumbai received 230 mm rainfall due to the cyclonic storm Tauktae, with a weather expert claiming it to be the highest 24-hour downpour in May in the recorded history. According to the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Mumbai centre, the Santacruz observatory (representative of suburbs) recorded 230.3 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Tuesday. Besides, the Colaba observatory (representative of south Mumbai) recorded 207.6 mm rain during the same period. As per the IMD's calculations, rainfall above 204.5 mm is considered as extremely heavy, "Mumbai (Santacruz): 230 mm in last 24 hrs due to cyclone effect, this is the highest 24hrs rain in Mumbai in May in the recorded history. #CycloneTauktae," Vineet Kumar, a researcher on cyclones in the north Indian Ocean at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune, tweeted on Tuesday. The IMD's head SID, Climate Research & Services at Pune, K S Hosalikar retweeted Kumar's post. Gusty winds and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday when the very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passed close to the coast here while moving towards Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-mumbai-records-highest-ever-24-hour-rain-in-may-987148.html
18-05-2021||West||Petrol price crosses Rs 99 a litre in Mumbai after rates hiked again||Petrol price on Tuesday crossed Rs 99 a litre mark in Mumbai after oil companies raised petrol and diesel rates on surge in international oil prices. Petrol price was increased by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike - tenth this month - pushed petrol and diesel prices to an all-time high across the country. In Delhi, petrol rates climbed to Rs 92.85 a litre and diesel rose to Rs 83.51. Rates had already crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and with the latest increase, the price in Mumbai too was inching towards that level. A litre of petrol in Mumbai now comes for Rs 99.14 and diesel is priced at Rs 90.71 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The hike comes as Brent crude oil price rose above $70 per barrel for the first time since March 15. This is the tenth increase in prices since May 4, when the state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan had the costliest petrol and diesel in the country at Rs 103.80 per litre and Rs 96.30 a litre, respectively. In 10 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 2.46 per litre and diesel by Rs 2.78.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/petrol-price-crosses-rs-99-a-litre-in-mumbai-after-rates-hiked-again-987207.html
18-05-2021||West||Amitabh Bachchan-funded Covid facility in Mumbai starts operations||A Covid-19 care centre with 25 bed-capacity and oxygen availability, helped set up by megastar Amitabh Bachchan, began its operations here on Tuesday, filmmaker Anand Pandit said. According to Pandit, the Hindi cinema veteran provided the Juhu-based Ritambhara Vishva Vidyapeeth facility with necessary equipments and infrastructure. "After a trial run, the centre was up and running by 10 am on Tuesday, May 18. Mr Bachchan has donated the equipment and infrastructure for the facility and all necessary permissions have been granted by the BMC," Pandit, who has collaborated with Bachchan on the thriller Chehre, said in a statement. In his blog post, dated May 16, Bachchan had said the 25 bed centre should be up and running by Tuesday taking into account the aftereffects of the Cyclone Tauktae. Pandit, who has already helped set up a facility in Dadar along with superstar Ajay Devgn, is scouting locations to set up another facility in suburban Borivali. Bachchan has donated around Rs 15 crore in the country's fight against the coronavirus pandemic, which includes his contributions to Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Covid Care Centre at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib and a diagnostic centre at Bangla Sahib Gurudwara in Delhi. He has also made arrangement of oxygen concentrators from Poland, donated three detection machines to Mumbai's Nanavati Hospital, and is raising two children who have lost their parents to the virus at a Hyderabad-based orphanage. Meanwhile, in a blog post on Monday night, the screen icon informed that his office Janak in suburban Juhu was flooded after Cyclone Tauktae hit the city last night. "There is an eerie silence in the midst of the Cyclone... Flooding in the vulnerable Janak Office, impromptu plastic cover sheets still in prep for the heavy Monsoon rain, ripped apart .. sheds and shelters for some staff blown away," he wrote. Bachchan said he shared his wardrobe with the staff whose uniforms were drenched as they repaired the office after the incessant rains. "Staff simply amazing in such conditions .. their uniforms wet and dripping but they continue .. gave them dress changes urgently in this strife , from my own wardrobe and now they proudly move about as Chelsea and Jaipur Pink Panther supporters."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amitabh-bachchan-funded-covid-facility-in-mumbai-starts-operations-987215.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Power supply to be restored across Goa by May 19||The electricity supply in Goa snapped due to the cyclonic storm Tauktae will be restored by Wednesday, the state electricity department said on Tuesday. Most areas in Goa plunged into darkness on Sunday after high-speed winds coupled with rains uprooted transmission cables, poles and trees. "We have managed to restore 80 per cent of the snapped electricity supply in Goa. Rest 20 per cent supply would be restored by tomorrow (Wednesday) morning," a senior official said. He said the restoration work is going on in the state round-the-clock. "The damage caused by the cyclone is huge," the official said, adding more than 700-800 low tension poles lay broken while over 100 high tension 11 KV poles are damaged. Besides, more than 30 Distribution Transformer Centres (DTCs) have been destroyed while the other 200 DTCs are hit by a glitch. The department is trying to re-erect four to five 33 KV towers that fell due to high-speed winds, he added. "Several electric conductors have snapped while kilometres of electricity cable has been damaged," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-power-supply-to-be-restored-across-goa-by-may-19-987255.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: 16 people stranded on 2 vessels rescued by Coast Guard in Gujarat||The Indian Coast Guard on Tuesday rescued eight fishermen onboard a fishing boat which drifted into the sea off the coast of Veraval harbour in Gujarat due to cyclone Tauktae, officials said.   Besides, two Coast Guard Chetak helicopters, operating from the CG air base at the Union Territory of Daman, rescued eight crew members of stranded ship 'Gal Constructor' from the sea off the Satpati coast (in neighbouring Maharashtra) amidst very rough and inclement weather conditions, a release said. After getting information about the stranded fishermen, the Coast Guard divers rushed to the spot with their rescue boat and brought the fishermen back to the coast safely, said a release by a defence spokesperson for Gujarat. According to state government officials, three boats, which were tied at the Veraval harbour, drifted into the sea in the early hours of Tuesday when cyclone Tauktae made a landfall at Una taluka, which is close to Veraval in Gir- Somnath district. The three boats drifted into the sea after their ropes broke due to heavy wind. There were eight fishermen on one boat, while there was no one on the other two boats, Sub- Divisional Magistrate S N Jankat said. Due to the extensive damage, one boat even drowned in the sea on Tuesday morning, she said. "Upon learning about the stranded fishermen in the morning, we sought help from the Coast Guard, which then rescued the eight fishermen and brought them back to the coast," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-16-people-stranded-on-2-vessels-rescued-by-coast-guard-in-gujarat-987266.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae kills five in Thane and Palghar districts||Five persons were killed in Thane and Palghar districts in various incidents related to cyclonic storm Tauktae, officials said on Tuesday. While two persons were killed in Vasai taluka, three others died in Thane district, they said. The deceased included a 51-year-old auto-rickshaw driver who was killed after a tree fell on his vehicle in Valiv area of Palghar district on Monday, police said. Besides, a 40-year-old man died after being crushed by cement blocks that fell from the roof of a house due to high winds in Valiv area, they said. In Thane, a 75-year-old woman was killed after a tree collapsed on her house in Kashimira area due to heavy rains, police said. A highcompound wall of a housing complex collapsed in Lokpuram area of Thane in the wee hours of Tuesday, but there was no casualty, regional disaster management cell (RDMC) chief Santosh Kadam said. As many as 337 houses, the majority of them in Dahanu taluka, were partially damaged in Palghar district due to heavy rains caused by the cyclone, district collector Manik Gursal said. The buildings of two schools in Palghar and Wada were also damaged. Officials said 34 electricity poles, mostly in Talasari taluka, were damaged in the cyclone besides two boats. At least 200 people from 57 families from Vasai taluka were evacuated to safety on Monday, the Palghar collector said. MSEDCL superintending engineer Kiran Nagavkar said nine of the total 38 sub-stations in the Palghar district were affected due to the cyclone. He said the work to restore power slowed down as transmission cables got snapped after trees fell on them due to high-speed winds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-kills-five-in-thane-and-palghar-districts-987268.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae leaves 11 dead in Maharashtra||The Cyclone Tauktae-related deaths in Maharashtra climbed to the 11 even as one of  the worst-ever cyclones to hit India's west coast left a trail of destruction. In the last two days, 11 persons died in the coastal Konkan coast comprising the financial capital of Mumbai and neighbouring Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. Of these 11 deaths, three were reported from the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban. Crops have also suffered extensive damage. Several boats that dot the Konkan shores have been damaged as huge tidal waves and strong gale winds emanating form Arabian Sea lashed the coast. Electric poles were uprooted and cables snapped, severely affecting power and water supplies. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked panchanamas to be conducted immediately.  According to the state's Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar, the government is trying to extend relief as early as possible. According to reports reaching here, more than 46 lakh people have suffered power outages. As a result, water supply and internet connectivity was also affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-leaves-11-dead-in-maharashtra-987305.html
18-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Indian Navy continues SAR in Arabian Sea to look for over 90 people||Amid strong gale winds, extremely choppy sea state and near-zero visibility, the Navy continued its biggest-ever Search and Rescue (SAR) operation in the Arabian Sea along the west coast of India looking for 90-plus missing crew and oil industry workers. As Cyclone Tauktae moved form Goa to Gujarat, it badly hit the Mumbai High offshore development area,  off the Maharashtra coast. The operation that was launched post-noon on Monday continued into Tuesday. The Indian Navy is being assisted by units of the Indian Coast Guard and ONGC, the public sector oil exploration company. The worst hit was Barge Papaa-305, an accomodation barge anchored off the Heera oilfield, that sank on Monday night after unmooring. A total of 273 persons were on board the vessel, of which 180 persons have been rescued. The SAR for 90 possible survivors is still underway and will continue over Wednesday. "This is one of the most difficult operations that I had seen in my four decades of career...weather and sea does not spare anyone," said Vice Admiral MS Pawar, the Deputy Chief of Naval Staff. During the day, INS Beas and INS Betwa and INS Teg joined INS Kochi and Kolkata for undertaking SAR nearly 35 to 40 nautical miles from Mumbai. The SAR has also been augmented with P8I and naval helicopters Sea King, which continue to undertake aerial search in the area. In another operation, 137 persons on board Barge  GAL Constructor, which ran aground north of Mumbai, were rescued.  CGS Sangram remains in the vicinity of the vessel - and choppers of IN and ICG brought the stranded people to INS Shikra in Mumbai and CGAS Daman. Meanwhile, OSV’s Samudra Sevak and SV Cheel are connected to manoeuvre Sagar Bhushan, and the situation at present appears to be stable. SAR efforts are also in progress off the coast of Gujarat for three vessels namely Support Station 3, Great Ship Aditi and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which are 15-20 nautical miles south-east off Pipavav. INS Talwar has reached the vicinity and coordinating efforts. The Western Naval Command, in coordination with ONGC and Directorate General of Shipping, has diverted five tugs to render assistance.  Great Ship Aditi and Support Station 3 have been able to drop anchor. The sea continues to be extremely rough with sea state 4-5 and winds 25-30 knots (approx 35 - 55 kmph), posing a challenge to the ships and aircraft involved in SAR operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-indian-navy-continues-sar-in-arabian-sea-to-look-for-over-90-people-987323.html
18-05-2021||West||MMR stages remarkable recovery from Covid-19||The financial capital of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) staged a remarkable recovery with little over 2,500 Covid-19 cases being reported on Tuesday. While Mumbai reported 961 cases, the MMR reported 2,531 cases during the day - a figure that was reported early March this year, when the second wave was hitting Mumbai. During the day, Maharashtra reported 28,438 cases and 679 deaths. According to the Public Health Department, the total active cases in the state stand at 4,19,727. In the last 24 hours, 52,898 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 48,27,480 closer to the 50 lakh mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mmr-stages-remarkable-recovery-from-covid-19-987347.html
18-05-2021||West||Maharashtra, Gujarat CMs discuss impact of cyclone Tauktae||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani on Tuesday discussed the impact of cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall in the neighbouring state late in the night a day earlier. On its way to Gujarat, the cyclone brought heavy rains accompanied by gusty winds in Mumbai and other coastal districts of Maharashtra, resulting in the death of seven persons and damage to property. "This morning CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray spoke to Gujarat CM @vijayrupanibjp Ji. They discussed the impact of Cyclone Tauktae on Maharashtra and Gujarat," the CMO here tweeted. The landfall process of the eye of the cyclone, which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around midnight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-gujarat-cms-discuss-impact-of-cyclone-tauktae-987370.html
