19-05-2021||First Edit||When questions frighten government||Delhi Police acted true to its character and tradition by arresting 25 people who had allegedly pasted posters critical of the government, in particular Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on many walls in some parts of the city. It is also a sign of the government’s insensitivity and refusal, perhaps even nervousness, to accept any criticism of it from the people. The arrests were made in 13 police stations and FIRs were filed against many. A number of sections of the IPC have been invoked. The offences include disobedience of orders promulgated by a public servant and defacement of property. The police are also looking for the press where the posters were printed. Those who pasted the posters included auto drivers, daily wage earners and unemployed youth. Some of those arrested have been released on bail and others are being questioned about their motive and who asked them to put up the posters.  The posters read “Modiji, hamare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya? (Modiji, why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries?). This is not a question that should attract FIRs and arrests. The pretext for the police action was violation of lockdown rules and defacement of walls, but it is clear that the real concern was over the criticism of the government and defacement of the Prime Minister's reputation. Otherwise, the police in so many stations would not have launched a large and coordinated drive against those who stuck the posters. Delhi Police reports to the Union Home Ministry and so the direction must have come from the ministry itself. It is unlikely that the police would have on their own rounded up so many people on such silly charges when they have many other matters to attend to in these stressed times. Every citizen has the right to question the government’s decisions and actions. To round up people for such questioning is authoritarian and undemocratic. The police said that it wanted to find out who engaged the people to put up the posters. It does not matter who told them because everyone has the right to do so. There was no call to violence or instigation of any kind of strife in the posters. The people who thought the government acted wrongly to export vaccines have the right to say so. This is not the first time that the government has attempted to silence criticism and to punish critics and those who ask questions. It has used the police, and other agencies too, for that purpose. This is wrong and counterproductive. Much of its failure on the Covid management front can be traced to its refusal to listen to other views, suggestions and inputs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/when-questions-frighten-government-987428.html
19-05-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Dharwad loses 13 teachers to Covid-19||Thirteen primary and high school teachers of the Dharwad district lost their lives to Covid-19 since its onslaught. The teachers, who till recent were not considered as Covid warriors, were deputed to election duty, surveying, and other Covid work in the last one-and-half years. Apart from the 13 causalities, the district also reported 29 teachers who tested positive for the virus and thankfully recovered. However, associations working for the welfare of primary and high school teachers charged that none of the teachers have received compensation from the government as they were not considered Covid warriors. Speaking to DH, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Mohan Hanchate said in the last one-and-half years the district has lost 13 teachers, who were working in government and aided primary and high school. The department has submitted details to the government regarding the deaths and talks are on at the government level to provide compensation to these teachers who lost lives. The department does not have data related to teachers from unaided private schools. Sources said that the department has also informed the government to not depute teachers for Covid related work, as these teachers are not vaccinated and have high chances of contracting the disease. Mohan said nearly 75 teachers of the district have been deputed for Covid-19 works. While teachers in urban areas have deputed for tracing of Covid-19 positive patients, and their primary and secondary contacts. However, their counterparts in rural areas have a tougher task as they also manage Covid Care Centres. On average each teacher in urban areas contact five to six covid patients and collect details about their primary and secondary contacts. They later reach out to at least 20 primary and secondary contacts of each Covid-positive patient. The majority of the urban teachers deputed for Covid-19 duty are working from home, he said. Mohan said of the 75 teachers deputed for Covid work, only 50 have received at least one shot of the anti-Covid vaccine while the remaining 25 are yet to get the jab as they are below 45-years of age. Efforts are being made to vaccinate even them, he said. Demoralising information Senior officials denied providing the details of the total number of teachers who died of Covid in the Belagavi division, as they said it would demoralise the teachers. However, Karnataka State Primary School Teachers’ Association General Secretary Chandrashekar Nuggi said it was immoral of higher officials to hide such information from the public domain. “When the same senior officials visit government schools are terminate teachers for no or minor issue and get huge publicity, won’t that demoralise the teachers? Then how can hiding deaths demoralise us?” he questioned and added that officials are hiding the number to mask their incapabilities to provide compensation to the family members of deceased teachers. He, however, thanked the government for at least now considering teachers as frontline warriors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/dharwad-loses-13-teachers-to-covid-19-987713.html
19-05-2021||In Perspective||Shifting away from exam-based education||They say that there's nothing so bad that there's not some good in it. So very true! Even the ongoing pandemic of this magnitude has brought about a few permanent changes and a paradigm shift in some spheres. Mind you, all the changes are not for the worse, and though change is painful, yet it's needed. The most affected area is education and the online mode of imparting education has engendered many grassroots changes. For example, CBSE recently announced a new evaluation method for Class X that takes into account the students' performance throughout the year. The new evaluation system earmarks 10 marks for unit tests, 30 for half-yearly and 40 marks for pre-board exams. The remaining 20 marks are for internal assessment. Since most of the exams, at all levels, have become farcical due to online education, an alternative to the age-old examination system has become imperative. Taking into account the year-long performance of the students is far more realistic than their evaluation through a three-hour rigmarole called ‘exam’.   This pattern is sure to shift our obsessive attention away from exam-oriented education. What the cunning Thomas Babington Macaulay introduced in his condescending Minute on Education in 1835 has been followed long enough slavishly and without any significant change. Education must denote 'gradual qualitative ascension.' Where's the scope for that qualitative betterment in our education system, which puts a premium only on exams and marks? A student may be very good at studies, but he/she may not have done well in the exams due to a number of factors. Will that student have to live till the wrinkled eve of his/her life with the scar and trauma of not faring well in the exams on a particular day? Here comes the year-long assessment system that monitors a student's academic progress through the watchful process of steady evaluation. The problem with the existing exam-oriented education is that it doesn't take into consideration a student's Evolutionary Learning Progress (ELP). It goes into assessment, not evaluation. And the difference between 'evaluation' and 'assessment' is that while the former is holistic, the latter is aspectual or facet-based. Exams cannot evaluate students. They can assess their 'skills' in parroting and rote-learning. On the other hand, evaluation is concerned with the academic evolution of a student or a learner.  Now, at this moment, when online education seems to be the only viable alternative to conventional classroom education, exams are all the more farcical because students need to submit answers online, and who's helping them and how cannot be known. In such testing circumstances, and without proper invigilation, the only way true evaluation can be of a participant's (read student’s) active involvement in the learning process over a span of time. Agreed, exams are also required, but then they can serve as parallel, complementary processes, along with a student's overall performance over the months and years. This system is prevalent in most of the advanced countries. Quite a few European countries have completely dispensed with exams, and even those that still retain them have also resorted to some form of alternatives like year-long assessment and evaluation. Thanks to the pandemic and the absence of conventional classroom education, new methods of academic evaluation must be conceptualised and created. Quarterly grading system sans exams must be introduced in the Indian education system. Most of the countries are changing over to this following the pandemic, which has stalled and stymied education across the globe.  The assignment-based year-long performance of students is being accepted in India and the importance of exams is slowly waning. The atavistic fear of exams may be the undoing of many students because in the words of Charles Caleb Colton, “Examinations are formidable even to the best prepared, for the greatest fool may ask more than the wisest man can answer!”  We should hope that the year-long involvement and participation of young students will soon be the new academic norm in India rather than exams as litmus tests to assess their intelligence. The orthodoxy and ossification of education with an abnormal emphasis on marks must be stopped for the evolution of young minds. Nothing lasts forever. Eventually, Covid-19 will also fade away and things will slowly get back to pre-pandemic days. Even when education reverts to the classroom mode, all these positive changes, like sustained evaluation, assignment-orientation and classroom participation must be continued with no let-up. That'll create lively and ebullient students, not the academic zombies we get to see and mistake for brilliance and erudition. (The writer is a scholar of Sanskrit and Semitic languages, civilizations and literature.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/shifting-away-from-exam-based-education-987426.html
19-05-2021||In Perspective||Waivers and Covid-19 vaccines||Intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines and treatment are in the limelight. The international battle for a waiver of intellectual property (IP) rights protections under the multi-lateral treaty TRIPS has been hotly debated. India and South Africa, supported by other low and middle-income countries, made proposals for a temporary waiver of intellectual property rights to enhance Covid-19 vaccines and treatment access. The USA was strongly opposed to such a waiver. However, very recently, the USA made a U-turn and is now in favour of the waiver. The contours of this waiver, the types of IP that it will cover, its length and breadth, and its ultimate formalisation through text-based negotiations are still some time away.  As many have observed, a waiver on patents or a compulsory license of patents, while welcome, at this point, may not serve Indian needs. Early on in the pandemic, Moderna released a statement saying that it would not enforce its patent. However, no company has been able to reverse engineer this vaccine and benefit from the patent waiver. While this may be because of the new mRNA technology used by Moderna, reverse engineering any vaccine is not straightforward. But with time, diffusion of knowledge and operation of the IP waiver, things may be different and more manufacturers may enter the market. However, the immediate need is to ensure that vaccine technology that has been procured through voluntary licenses is translated into vaccines. The pandemic presents a very different market and a very different world. However, history on foreign technical collaborations and their essential ingredients act as a guiding light. According to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), an Indian company that has entered into an agreement with a foreign entity for technology transfers, know-how transfer, use of patents and brand names has entered into a ‘foreign technical collaboration.’ Historical data has been compiled by the RBI on foreign technical collaborations (FTC) across sectors. The manufacturing industry, including chemicals, pharmaceuticals and machinery, have a significant share of foreign technical collaborations. Data indicates that foreign technical collaborations do not often involve using or transferring patents or other intellectual property. Instead, know-how is the most popular type of technology that is transferred to India. For example, between 2016 to 2018, know-how accounted for 64% of the transferred assets compared to patents that were only 2.3%.  Historical FTC data also highlights that an overwhelming majority of such collaborations involved both technologies and a financial investment, i.e., both technical and financial collaboration. Pure technical collaborations appear to be rare – only 8 out of 334 companies surveyed, between 2016 to 2018, entered into pure technical collaborations. This data makes two things clear. First, foreign technical collaborations in India operate predominantly through know-how transfers. Second, such collaborations are a combination of both technical and financial collaborations.  Multiple Indian companies have reportedly signed licenses for various successful vaccine candidates, thereby entering into technical collaborations. While the terms of the licenses are not known, presumably all technology and know-how from the pharmaceutical aspect of the vaccine to accompanying technology and training material may be in the hands of Indian companies. However, pure technical collaborations may not bear fruit since the trend is that technical collaborations are generally accompanied by significant financial collaborations. This is because translating technology into material products requires a substantial financial commitment. The benefits of IP waivers will not be immediate and may even be too little too late. While future benefits of such waivers are welcome, at least for now, companies, the government and international organizations should urgently focus on transparent and efficient financial commitments and collaborations to ramp up production and supply. (The writer is a lawyer based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/waivers-and-covid-19-vaccines-987431.html
19-05-2021||Kalaburagi||With no jab on priority, Vet dept staff face Covid-19 risk||Veterinarians, inspectors and compounders are among those at high risk of contracting Covid as they have not been inoculated yet. They visit door-to-door in rural areas treating cattle. Only those who have crossed 45 years of age are receiving vaccination, standing in queue with the public.  Even though they were not considered frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19, veterinarians and inspectors have been treating cattle which are the lifeline of the rural people. Covid deaths Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences (AH&VS) department incharge director B N Shivaram said three veterinarians died of Covid and several department employees, including veterinary inspectors, were infected with the virus as they directly come in contact with rural people.  Kalaburagi AH&VS department deputy director V H Hanumanthappa said he had written to the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary department, requesting it to take up a Covid vaccine drive for employees at the district level on priority. As many as 18 veterinarians and inspectors and 60 group ‘D’ employees have contracted the virus. Of the group ‘D’ staffers, eight have lost their battle with Covid. “As we work at the ground level, we should also be considered frontline workers and be inoculated, irrespective of age,” Hanumanthappa said. B V Shivaprakash, research director of the Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, said veterinarians in cities like Bengaluru are more prone to Covid as they can’t refuse to treat pets and they don’t know the health status of people who bring the pets. Unwittingly, veterinarians catch the virus. Even during the Covid-induced lockdown last year and the second wave now, veterinarians are working in rural areas as farmers bring the cattle to the hospitals or the veterinarians’ homes. “The government should consider vaccinating all those working in the veterinary department,” Shivaprakash said. AH&VS department commissioner H Basavarajendra said a proposal had been submitted to the government, requesting to launch a special vaccine drive for veterinarians, inspectors and compounders. The department has requested the deputy commissioners to consider the vet staff for the inoculation drive, he said. “Some DCs have responded positively to our request. The government will soon take a call in this regard,” Basavarajendra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/with-no-jab-on-priority-vet-dept-staff-face-covid-19-risk-987767.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru City Corporation opens 10 Decentralised Triage Centres for Covid-19||Following the government’s direction, the Mangaluru City Corporation has declared 10 Urban Public Health Centres (UPHC) in its limits as Decentralised Triage Centres (DTC). The state government has issued directions to check the transmission of Covid-19 at the ward-level. Several patients who do not require hospitalisation are getting admitted to the hospital. As a result, those who are in need of hospitalisation find it difficult to get one. Accordingly, the government has directed ULBs to have DTCs. MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that the DTCs will monitor patients tested positive for Covid-19 and advise them suitably to be under home isolation or get themselves admitted to Covid Care Centres (CCC) or to hospitals depending on their condition. The DTCs will be managed by medical interns/ PG students from Fr Muller Medical College, Kanachur Medical College and Srinivas Medical College. They will be guided by the medical officer from the health department. Nodal officers appointed by the MCC will support the centres. As soon as the data of the positive patients are received at the district war room from the state war room, the process of tele-triaging will be carried out for all positive cases. Based on tele-triaging, and by knowing their health condition, the positive cases will be categorised into – hospitalisation, covid care centre, home isolation, already hospitalised or unresponsive. Those who have been  recommended for home isolation will be visited by health workers and Asha workers of the respective PHCs. They will be given medical kit containing zinc, vitamin and other tablets, he said. A tele triaging wing function from the district war room to know the needs of the patients. The UPHCs, declared as DTCs in Mangaluru city, are at Bejai, Bunder, Jeppu, Lady Hill/ Kasaba Bengre, Ekkur, Padil, Shaktinagar, Kulai, Kunjathbail and Surathkal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-city-corporation-opens-10-decentralised-triage-centres-for-covid-19-987525.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Private hospitals violating Covid norms, alleges Ramadass||MLA S A Ramadass, also advisor of District Covid-Task Force, alleged that private hospitals and step-down Covid Care Centres of not following standard operating procedure (SOP). Ramadass, along with Covid-19 bed management committee in-charge H V Rajeev, also Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman, inspected a few private hospitals to check management and bed allocation.      The team comprising Mysuru City Corporation Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraju, Dr Ahamed Siraj Mohammed and others, inspected hotels where private hospitals are treating patients and also the hospitals. The team members found violation of Covid norms and mismanagement. As per the norms, the private hospitals must reserve 50% of the total beds to treat Covid patients. But a private hospital, which has a capacity of 150 beds has not reserved beds as per the norms. The hospital had to reserve 23 oxygenated beds, 3 ICU beds with ventilator, 2 ICU beds without ventilator, 47 normal beds. But, the authorities had reserved only 10 oxygenated beds for 23. Ramadass directed the Health Department to take immediate action against the hospitals and also directed to form an Enforcement Team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-hospitals-violating-covid-norms-alleges-ramadass-987692.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC workers die of black fungus||Two employees of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) succumbed to black fungus and Covid infection in the city. Ravi (31) and Vinod (28) are the deceased. MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag confirmed that Ravi, a hearse driver, died of black fungus. Ravi tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered 15 days ago. He developed health issues two days back and was undergoing treatment for black fungus at a private hospital, where he died.   Vinod, also an employee with THE MCC, was working on fogging vehicle, died of Covid-19. However, it is suspected that he was also affected by black fungus. Following the deaths of the civic workers, the pourakarmikas have threatened of boycotting work if the authorities failed to provide required facilities. According to the workers, Vinod died as he did not get oxygen bed due to the negligence of Covid War Room. A worker said, “We tried to get bed for Vinod from the last three days, but, no beds were available and the authorities at war room did not respond to the request.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-workers-die-of-black-fungus-987693.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain lashes Mandya, uproots trees||Heavy rain lashed Mandya city and parts of the district on Wednesday afternoon, uprooting several trees and electricity poles. Rainwater entered into the houses in low-lying areas at Beedi Workers Colony, Halahalli and other places. The city, which remained overcast for the last two days, experienced heavy rains for more than an hour, accompanied by high intensity wind. Around 10 trees collapsed on 100-ft road, RP Road, Kalamandira, Gandhinagar and Subhashnagar. Electricity supply was also disrupted for a while. A car was damaged when the tree fell on it at Subhashnagar, autorickshaws and motorbikes were damaged on 100-ft road. Parts of Chamarajanagar district experienced moderate rains on Wednesday. Kempanapura Gram Panchayat limits in the taluk recorded 3 cm rain. Yalandur, Kollegal, Gundlupet taluks too experienced rains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-lashes-mandya-uproots-trees-987695.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Testing takes a hit as Covid kits exhaust in Srirangapatna||The RT-PCR tests had to be temporarily suspended at a testing centre in Srirangapatna, as the testing kits got exhausted on Tuesday. The government school near Shikshakara Bhavan had to suspend RT-PCR tests on Wednesday, as there were no testing kits. Only emergency cases were subject to Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). One of the affected complained that the centre ran out of RT-PCR kits on Tuesday afternoon. The people waiting for test were told to come on Wednesday. “We visited the centre on Wednesday, but the staff claimed that they have not received the kits and asked us to come on Thursday. We are suffering from severe body pain since the last three days. The doctors demand for RT-PCR report for treatment,” he complained. An employee at the centre claimed helplessness saying that they have suspended tests temporarily till the kits are supplied. Dr P Maruti, chief of the Town hospital said that the kits are not available. RAT tests are conducted on those with serious problem. The issue has been brought to the notice of the higher officials, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/testing-takes-a-hit-as-covid-kits-exhaust-in-srirangapatna-987697.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru adopts PPP model for ICU bed management||In yet another step to effectively manage the Covid crisis, Mysuru district administration has adopted a public-private partnership (PPP) model for intensive care unit (ICU) bed management. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, “There has been a persistent need to increase ICU beds, as the demand for the same has been increasing in Mysuru. As on Wednesday, there is a waiting list of 25 patients, in oxygen beds, to be shifted to ICU, although there is no shortage of oxygen beds.” “The challenges have been manpower -- specialists, doctors, nurses, group 'D' workers -- and equipment. We are trying this model in Mysuru from Thursday, wherein doctors from Gopala Gowda Shanthaveri Memorial Hospital have collaborated with Rajkumari Krishnajammanni Super Speciality Hospital to monitor the ICU care. This solves our manpower issue,” she said. Kalyani-Meritor Goup, with other partners and industries, has supplied the ICU beds, bipap machines and monitors. N Muthukumar, president and executive director, Meritor Heavy Vehicle Systems India, handed over the equipment, along with his associates. This solves our equipment issue,” the DC said. “We have been working on this for the past 15 days and from Thursday, there will be an additional 30 beds. Gradually, they will be increased up to 100 ICU beds,” she said. “Since people from the neighbouring districts and also, Bengaluru are coming to Mysuru, in search of ventilators, there is a constant struggle. We hope to overcome the problems shortly,” the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-adopts-ppp-model-for-icu-bed-management-987698.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Revanna moots one-month lockdown to combat Covid||MLA H D Revanna opined that there is a need for enforcing one-month lockdown in the state, to control the surging Covid cases. Addressing media persons here, on Wednesday, Revanna said, “Before enforcing the lockdown, the government should announce a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 for autorickshaw and cab drivers along with free ration to the poor. Let the government distribute 10% of the money that has been looted by its ministers since the last two years.” The state government has announced a financial package of Rs 1,250 crore succumbing to the pressure by the political parties and the people. The CM should have announced Rs 5,000 per month to the farmers and Rs 10,000 for the construction workers and roadside vendors, he opined. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had an interaction with the deputy commissioners of 17 districts in the state. But, they were not provided an opportunity to speak. How will he know about the Covid status in the districts. The DC’s should have been given an opportunity to speak, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/revanna-moots-one-month-lockdown-to-combat-covid-987699.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vishwanath accuses Vijayendra of ‘usurping power’||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath has been criticising his own party government since a long time. On Wednesday, he directly attacked BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra, also son of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, of ‘usurping power’. He described the district in-charge ministers and deputy commissioners as ‘toothless’. Addressing media persons here, Vishwanath said, “Neither the district in-charge minister, nor the DC, have the powers to spend money. All powers are vested with Vijayendra. Each bill has to be sent to Bengaluru, for the approval of Vijayendra.” “Covid infection is wildly spreading in the villages. The Covid situation in rural areas, is sensitive. Patients are not getting medicines. Concentration of all powers, with a person, is dangerous. This centralisation of powers seems to be for ‘commission’. Those at the helm of affairs in the government should not ‘make money on dead bodies’,” he said. “The ministers and DCs should be given a free hand, to manage the situation. Besides, senior IAS officials, like Principal Secretaries and Additional Chief Secretaries, with experience in administration and managing resources, should be deputed to the districts, as it is a medical emergency. Each district must be given Rs 100 crore for the purpose. The senior IAS officials should be empowered to spend the money. The DCs can function under their guidance,” Vishwanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vishwanath-accuses-vijayendra-of-usurping-power-987700.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 infected with aspergillosis fungus||Three Covid-19 patients are suspected to be infected with aspergillosis fungus. They are undergoing treatment at Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital in Mysuru city. However, the fungus is not as dangerous as Mucormycosis (black fungus), claim medical professionals. Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC RI) Dean and Director Dr C P Nanjaraj said that the samples have been sent to the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) for genome sequencing. ‘Aspergillosis’ is different from Mucormycosis ‘Black fungus’. However, aspergillosis is not dangerous as Mucormycosis, which has nearly death rate of 99%. Aspergillosis is treatable, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-infected-with-aspergillosis-fungus-987701.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan: 111 villages infected, 122 containment zones||The number of Covid positive cases during the second wave has increased in the villages, that has become a cause for concern for the Hassan district administration. A surge in Covid cases is reported in 111 villages and the district administration has decided to declare them as containment zones and take strict action. The number of containment zones in Arsikere taluk is 22, Arkalgud-18, Alur-3, Belur-23, Channarayapatna-41, Hassan-3 and Sakleshpur-12. The number of people, who have tested positive and are placed in home isolation is 11,621, according to the officials. The positivity rate, which was 10% during the second week of April, has crossed 40% now. The positivity rate is high in villages, compared to urban areas. According to the Health department, the positivity rate is 44.68% and the death rate is 1.22%. Most of the people, who were working in Bengaluru, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh have returned to their respective villages, as the second wave of Covid hit the country. As the quarantine system, that was adopted during the first wave was not followed, the people have become carriers and are spreading the infection to their family members and also others. Those under home quarantine have not taken it seriously, infecting their family members. With a four-day lockdown in place, it is alleged that gambling activities have increased in rural areas. The people gather on farms and fields for gambling, without wearing masks and neglect social distancing, allege Asha workers. District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah said that the officials have been directed to take all measures to prevent the spread of virus in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-111-villages-infected-122-containment-zones-987702.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Villagers fear outsiders as Covid cases rise in rural areas||The residents of villages in Mysuru are a worried lot as the cases of Covid-19 are increasing with each passing day. They blame the negligence of the people, who have returned to villages from cities. The villagers have requested the police to intensify patrol in rural areas to check violation of Covid norms. Thousands of people, who were residing in different cities, like Bengaluru and Mumbai, have returned to their native villages, following the outbreak of Covid second wave. Almost all villages have received people from different cities. But, a majority of them have not self-quarantined. They are moving around freely. With the negligence of the returnees, the villagers are under fear of the spread of the infection. A few persons are already infected. Asha workers and Anganwadi assistants are deputed to monitor isolation and to check symptomatic people. But, many persons are reluctant to share their details. They also abuse the workers. Thus, the villagers have urged the Police department and the district administration to tighten the lockdown norms. Chandru of Nagunahalli in Mysuru taluk, said that  hundreds of people have returned to the village, following the second wave. “A majority of them are not following the norms. It is a threat to the residents. The people are not bothered about the villagers’ safety. People can be seen roaming around without mask and gathering near tea stalls. Although the government has allowed opening of shops selling essential items, many tea and petty stalls are opened in the village till 10 am,” he alleged. Subbanna of Doddakoppalu in KR Nagar taluk said, “Even though the infection is spreading fast, the people are not serious. The police should intensify patrolling in villages to check unnecessary movement of the people. The people moving around must be punished rigorously.” According to the officials, quarantine is mandatory for infected persons and treatment will be given for 10 days at Covid Care Centres. “We have decided to take the support of the police, to shift them to the Covid Care Centre, if they oppose shifting,” said an officer. However, identifying the infected persons is a challenge for the Health department officials, as many are not disclosing the details. Accredited Social Health Assistants (ASHA) are deputed to conduct door to door survey. An ASHA worker said, “It is a challenging task to collect the details of the infected persons and the people who have returned to villages, recently. The people look at us like villain,” she said.    The cases in rural Mysuru is increasing from the last few days. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, “Mysuru taluk has a positivity rate of 90% and 85% in Nanjangud taluk. Overall positive rate in the district is 40%. Positivity rate is high in Mysuru and Nanjangud taluks.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/villagers-fear-outsiders-as-covid-cases-rise-in-rural-areas-987703.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Light music, humour destress Covid patients||In an effort to destress Covid positive patients, the taluk administration had organised a light music programme, at the BCM Hostel of Hosaholalu in KR Pet town, Mandya district, on Tuesday evening. Singer Ravi Shivakumar, along with the musicians of Ragaranjini troupe, presented melodious songs and had a humour interaction, bringing cheers among the patients. Sub-inspector Byatarayagowda of the town police station also rendered a few songs like ‘Olithu maadu manusha...’ and entertained the patients. For a while, the people forgot that they were Covid infected patients and enjoyed the moments, responding to the humour talk. Assistant Commissioner Shivanandamurthy said that by watching the people feeling happy, by listening to songs and humour, we feel that it was worth organising such a programme. The music event was organised as per the advise of District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda. This will help them to build self-confidence and recover soon, he said. The video of the programme is shared on the social media and has drawn appreciation from the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/light-music-humour-destress-covid-patients-987705.html
19-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru college fares well in independent survey||A Mysuru-based women’s college has been ranked 21st in the national list of private autonomous institutions, by Education World Magazine in its May 2021 edition. JSS College for Women (Autonomous), Saraswathipuram, is in the third place in Karnataka and 21st place in all India level, amongst private autonomous colleges as per the rankings awarded by the Education World Magazine, said K V Suresha, principal. He said, “The rankings are based on independent su moto survey, conducted by the magazine. The college is striving hard to achieve the vision ‘Empowering Women Through Academic Excellence’, with the blessings of pontiff Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami, guidance of officials of JSS Magavidyapereta and dedicated efforts of the staff members. The students, alumni, parents and other stakeholders are equally contributing to the progress of the college.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-college-fares-well-in-independent-survey-987706.html
19-05-2021||Main Article||India’s Chernobyl moment||In the late 1970s and early 1980s, many Soviet scientists had warned against establishing nuclear plants near populated areas, including in Chernobyl, a small town in present day Ukraine, where the Soviet Union had built a nuclear power plant. At that time, the Cold War was at raging and the old guard of the Soviet politburo, the top-most policymaking body, had different priorities. The scientists’ concerns were validated on April 26, 1986, when an uncontrolled nuclear chain reaction caused two explosions and led to one of the worst nuclear accidents in history. Thousands of people in Chernobyl, now in Ukraine, and outside, as far as western Europe, got exposed to the radioactive materials spewed from the reactor and carried afar by the wind and suffered long-term damage to their health. Some 1,800 documented cases of thyroid cancer among children were reported, in addition to other ailments such as respiratory illness, anaemia, auto-immune disorders and birth defects over several years. Globally, Chernobyl is now a de-facto metaphor that symobilises the multi-layered structural failure of the governing elite to protect its citizens. In an altogether different context, India is experiencing its Chernobyl moment as it faces one the worst public health crises post-Independence. Devoid of a free press and political dissent, the heavily centralised Soviet Union had created an environment where self-censorship was the norm. Though a democracy, it is an open secret that India’s current decision-making process at the federal level is heavily centralised. This has created several blind spots in policymaking. The results of some of the earlier decisions, such as demonetisation, reflect that. In an environment where power is concentrated, it is not surprising that within the government or outside, asking tough questions over policy decisions is not encouraged. Last year’s lockdown decision of the Modi government is an example of the haste with which decisions are taken without much internal discussion. Also, over-centralisation of decision-making processes has bred impediments. For instance, during the second wave of the pandemic, it required a tweet from a CEO of a private hospital to sensitise the central government to expeditiously order the revocation of ban on inter-state movement of medical oxygen-carrying trucks from Haryana to Delhi hospitals. Second, similar to Chernobyl, the priority of the central government seems to be misplaced at a crucial juncture. The nuclear accident at Chernobyl took place when the Cold War was at its peak. In the initial days, the impact of the leak was downplayed primarily due to the fear that it would hurt the reputation of the Soviet Union. In 2021, the priority of the Indian government has been to present India as one of the global leaders in public health, disregarding its own huge vaccine demands and vulnerabilities. Misplaced claims were made that India had successfully beaten Covid-19. In a context of vaccine nationalism that has swept the entire world, it defies logic as to why the Indian government should go beyond its stipulated contractual obligations with AstraZeneca to export vaccines. By April, India, one of the largest vaccine manufacturing hubs, had exported 66.3 million vaccine doses to 95 countries under three categories — grant, commercial and Covax. India is required, as per its contractual obligations, to contribute to Covax, which is the global pooled procurement mechanism to ensure fair and equitable access to vaccines for all 190 participating economies. Nearly 47 million vaccine doses were given outside the Covax category as grant and commercially made available to the rest of the world. This number was sufficient to vaccinate much of Delhi, which has experienced the worst during the second wave of Covid-19. India has led efforts at the multilateral level in demanding temporary relaxations on intellectual property, patents and other such provisions laid out under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, also known as the TRIPS Agreement of the WTO. As expected, there was initial opposition to the proposal from the European Union, the US, Japan and Canada on the grounds that innovation depends on respect for intellectual property rights. The US has now decided to drop its opposition, after a massive outcry both within and outside the US. However, within India, the importance of the issue was never stressed till the present crisis aggravated. A simple calculation of the current vaccine manufacturing capacity in India and vaccines required reveals a mismatch and there is no objective justification why more internal or even external orders for vaccines were not made, including from suppliers like Pfizer. Third, even within the domain of crisis management, there are parallels between the Soviet Union and the current reality of India’s public health crisis.  The Soviet Union initially downplayed the impact of the nuclear accident both in terms of immediate deaths and potential long-term harm to humans. In India’s case too, a disconnect exists between the official claims and the reality on the ground. Many parts of the country are experiencing shortage of ICU beds and other medical equipment for treatment of Covid-19. The number of cases requiring intensive care continues to grow fast but the supply of ICU beds has not grown in step.  The style of political leadership, be it a democracy or an authoritarian regime, can mobilise or wreck governance structures at a time of emergency. Chernobyl exposed the inefficiencies of their political leadership before the people of the Soviet Union. The present health crisis in India seems to be a manifestation of how the checks and balances along with the feedback mechanisms of a democracy have been pushed to the corner by an authoritarian style of political leadership. The bandwidth of the present political reality is too small to accommodate the complex challenges facing India. The ongoing public health crisis has only reinforced that reality. (The writer is a political analyst who has worked in the multilateral arena in various capacities for several years)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/india-s-chernobyl-moment-987425.html
19-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 19||India saw record 4,529 fatalities due to coronavirus in a single day pushing the Covid-19 death toll to 2,83,248, while 2,67,334 fresh infections were recorded taking the total tally of cases to 2,54,96,330, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. Rajasthan and Jammu Kashmir are new concerns in India's Covid-19 fight, even as the pandemic was driven by four southern states and Maharashtra. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,54,96,330 as of May 19, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,83,248  as of May 19, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged:  2,19,86,363 Total Vaccination:  18,58,09,302   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-19-987453.html
19-05-2021||National||Record 4,529 single-day Covid-19 deaths, daily infections below 3 lakh for third straight day||India on Wednesday reported a record 4,529 coronavirus deaths in a single day even as the number of new cases in its devastating new wave fell. The daily pandemic death toll has been rising in recent days as cases spread into rural districts with poor health facilities. With the latest deaths, India's official toll has now risen to 283,248 behind the United States on more than 600,000 deaths and Brazil with about 440,000. Experts say, however, that India's toll is much higher. More than 267,000 new cases were added, taking the number of known infections to 25.5 million, second only to the United States. At the current pace, India could overtake the United States in June. The latest wave has ravaged India for six weeks, feeding on shortages of hospital beds, oxygen and critical drugs. Since the start of April, the number of cases has doubled and more than 100,000 people have died. Authorities say that keeping new cases below 300,000 for a third straight day is a sign that the wave is easing. "The pandemic curve is stabilising," said V.K. Paul, head of the government's Covid-19 task force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-4529-single-day-covid-19-deaths-daily-infections-below-3-lakh-for-third-straight-day-987473.html
19-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis | Covaxin trials to begin shortly for children: Here's what we know so far||India's first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, will likely begin clinical trials in children within the next 10-12 days, Dr VK Paul, member (health) Niti Aayog, said on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the Centre and DCGI among others were sent a notice from the Delhi High Court on the trials. The court has not yet put an interim stay on trials, however. When will the trials for the vaccine start? Paul said Covaxin trials in children will begin in the next 10-12 days. As of now, the government is planning only to test Covaxin on children. On May 13, the vaccine — developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — received permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) to include people below 18 years old in Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials. The trials will be conducted with 525 participants in different parts of the country, and might take 3 to 4 months to complete. What are the guidelines for Covid-19 in children? The Covid-19 protocols for children are the same as adults. Children need to double mask, use soap to wash their hands or use sanitiser, and maintain social distancing when going out. Paul mentioned that the government has a standard operating procedure (SOPs) made for Covid-19 in children, which is available on the Union health ministry’s website. These scientifically-driven guidelines are meant to be followed while treating a Covid-19 positive child. “It is uncommon to have severe disease in children; but in case they get it, our guidelines mention how to deal with it,” Paul said. Why do we need to vaccinate children right now? According to experts, India needs to start vaccinating the population below 18 years old so that every age group is protected from the virus. As this disease is very easily transferable, the country can’t open up until the entire population is protected. After observing the elderly getting affected by the virus first, followed by the younger generation, experts in India believe if there’s a third wave, then children may be at risk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-covaxin-trials-to-begin-shortly-for-children-heres-what-we-know-so-far-987477.html
19-05-2021||National||Goa court to pronounce verdict in Tarun Tejpal case on May 19||A sessions court in Goa will pronounce the verdict in the Tarun Tejpal case on May 19. The former Tehelka editor-in-chief is accused of sexually assaulting a female colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013. The additional district court was to pronounce the verdict on April 27 but judge Kshama Joshi had adjourned the verdict to May 12. It was again adjourned was due to lack of staff because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Goa police registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013 following which he was arrested. He has been out on bail since May 2014. The Goa crime branch had filed a charge sheet against Tejpal. He faced trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by person in position of control). He had earlier moved the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay on the framing of charges against him, but his petition was dismissed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-court-to-pronounce-verdict-in-tarun-tejpal-case-on-may-19-985098.html
19-05-2021||National||Goa court to pronounce verdict in Tarun Tejpal case on May 21||A sessions court in Goa on Wednesday said it will pronounce the verdict in the Tarun Tejpal case on May 21. The former Tehelka editor-in-chief is accused of sexually assaulting a female colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013. The additional district court was to pronounce the verdict on April 27 but judge Kshama Joshi had adjourned the verdict to May 12. On May 12, it was further adjourned to May 19. The court had earlier said the adjournment was due to lack of staff due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Goa police registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013 following which he was arrested. Tejpal has been out on bail since May 2014. The Goa crime branch had filed a charge sheet against Tejpal. He faced trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by person in position of control). He had earlier moved the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay on the framing of charges against him, but his petition was dismissed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-court-to-pronounce-verdict-in-tarun-tejpal-case-on-may-21-987480.html
19-05-2021||National||Covaxin trial for children: Delhi High Court issues notice to Centre, DCGI||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Centre on a plea against the permission granted to Bharat Biotech for conducting the phase II/III clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccines on the age group of 2-18 years.  A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh refused to pass any interim stay on the permission granted by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on May 13.  Acting on a plea by advocate Sanjeev Kumar against the clinical trials, the court, however, issued notice to the DCGI, Ministry of women and child development and others. It posted the matter for consideration on July 15. On May 13, the DCGI gave permission to Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, to conduct Phase II/III trials on people below the age of 18.  The plea claimed that the children, who would part of the trials should not be termed as volunteer, as they cannot understand the nature of consequences for participating in the trial post their consent.  It maintained that enrolling healthy children for the trial would amount to homicide.   The petitioner raised apprehension that the children who would be part of the trial might suffer adverse health or mental effects due to the use of vaccine on them.  He sought criminal prosecution of the people involved in such trials in the event of death or "loss of peaceful and pleasant enjoyment of life" of any of the toddlers or minors. He also sought directions to the government authorities to furnish details of the 525 children who will be enrolled in the trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-trial-for-children-delhi-high-court-issues-notice-to-centre-dcgi-987484.html
19-05-2021||National||Kejriwal does not speak for India, has no competence on Covid-19 variant, Centre tells Singapore||Chief Minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal does not speak for India and he has no competence to pronounce on the variants of the SARS-Cov-2 virus or the civil aviation policy of the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government conveyed to Singapore on Wednesday. A tweet by Kejriwal warning against a new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus being spotted in Singapore triggered protest from the government of the South-East Asian nation. It was also dismissed as irresponsible by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar himself. The Modi Government, however, refrained from commenting on Singapore calling the B.1.617.2 variant of the virus as the one that was “first detected in India”. The Government had recently reacted to media reports on the World Health Organization (WHO) classifying the coronavirus variant B.1.617 first found in India as a “variant of global concern”. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued a press release in New Delhi on May 12, terming the media reports as unfounded and underlining that the WHO had never called the B.1.617 as an ‘Indian Variant’ of the SARS-CoV-2. New Delhi’s High Commissioner to Singapore P Kumaran was summoned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the city-state’s government on Wednesday. The Government of Singapore conveyed to him its "strong objection" to the tweet by the Delhi Chief Minister. “(The) High Commissioner (of India to Singapore) clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy,” tweeted Arindam Bagchi, Joint Secretary (External Publicity) and official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. “Singapore and India have been solid partners in the fight against (the) Covid-19. Appreciate Singapore's role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier. Their (Singapore’s) gesture of deploying military aircraft to help us speaks of our exceptional relationship,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter, tagging his counterpart in the South East Asian nation, Vivian Balakrishnan. The diplomat-turned-politician also stated that Delhi Chief Minister did not speak for India. “However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify – Delhi CM does not speak for India,” tweeted Jaishankar. However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify- Delhi CM does not speak for India. Kejriwal had on Tuesday tweeted that a new variant of the virus causing the Covid-19 had been spotted in Singapore and it had been found to be extremely dangerous for children and might come to India, where it could unleash the third wave of the pandemic. He urged the Union Government to cancel all flights between Singapore and India with immediate effect and to make arrangements for vaccinating the children. सिंगापुर में आया कोरोना का नया रूप बच्चों के लिए बेहद ख़तरनाक बताया जा रहा है, भारत में ये तीसरी लहर के रूप में आ सकता है। केंद्र सरकार से मेरी अपील:1. सिंगापुर के साथ हवाई सेवाएं तत्काल प्रभाव से रद्द हों2. बच्चों के लिए भी वैक्सीन के विकल्पों पर प्राथमिकता के आधार पर काम हो Countering the attack on Kejriwal, Manish Sisodia, Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi, however, accused the BJP government in the Centre of exporting the vaccines that could have been administered to children in India. Had the Ministry of External Affairs taken initiatives to import vaccines from foreign nations as swiftly as it reacted to the statement by the Chief Minister of Delhi, it could have made doses available not only for adults, but also for children in India, tweeted Sisodia. After the disastrous second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic started wreaking havoc across India, the Modi Government over the past weeks brought in 8,264 oxygen concentrators, 51,000 oximeters, 63 BiPAP and ventilators, six dialysis machines, 64 cryogenic tanks, 8,994 medical oxygen cylinders of 40 litre capacity and 1,862 cylinders with 10 litre capacity from Singapore.   The Ministry of Health of the Singapore Government was quick to react to the tweet by Delhi Chief Minister on Tuesday. It stressed in a press release that no Covid-19 virus variant was known as “Singapore Variant”. “The strain that is prevalent in many of the Covid-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India. Phylogenetic testing has shown this B.1.617.2 variant to be associated with several clusters in Singapore,” it stated in the press release tweeted by the High Commission of Singapore in New Delhi. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Singapore Government issued a separate press release on Wednesday, expressing disappointment as it noted that even a prominent political figure (Delhi Chief Minister) had failed to ascertain the facts before making such claims. Balakrishnan later thanked Jaishankar for his tweet calling Kejriwal’s statement "irresponsible". "Thanks @DrSJaishankar let’s focus on resolving the situation in our respective countries and helping one another. Nobody is safe until everyone is safe," tweeted the Foreign Minister of Singapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-does-not-speak-for-india-has-no-competence-on-covid-19-variant-centre-tells-singapore-987486.html
19-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae weakens, to bring rain in many states: IMD||Cyclone Tauktae weakened into a "depression" and lay centred over south Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat region on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department said. After causing widespread rain in Gujarat, the cyclone is expected to bring showers in many other states also, including Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, due to its interaction with the western disturbance, the IMD said. The cyclonic "depression" was located around 60 km west-southwest of Udaipur in Rajasthan, and 110 km of Deesa in Gujarat, the IMD said in its morning bulletin. "The remnant of the system is very likely to move further northeastwards across Rajasthan to west Uttar Pradesh during the next two days," it said.  The depression will bring light to moderate rainfall at most places in east Rajasthan, with very heavy rainfall at isolated places on Wednesday, the IMD said. Due to its interaction with the western disturbance, it is also very likely to cause rainfall in Uttarakhand, with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and west Rajasthan during the next 24 hours, it said. Squally winds with speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph are likely to prevail over east Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat region during the next 12 hours, it further said. The landfall process of the 'eye' of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, which hit the Gujarat coast in the Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around 1.30 am on Tuesday. As the cyclone passed through Gujarat, it left behind a trail of destruction with at least 13 people losing their lives, thousands of trees uprooted, houses destroyed, and electric poles massively damaged. The cyclone also caused rainfall in more than 200 talukas of Gujarat. Various areas in the districts of Kheda, Anand in central Gujarat, Surat, Navsari in south Gujarat, and Gir Somnath, Bhavnagar and Sabarkantha received over 100 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 6 am on Wednesday, the State Emergency Operation Centre said. Nadiad in Kheda received the highest 226 mm rainfall during the period, followed by Gir Gadhada and Una in Gir Somnath district, which received 185 mm and 177 mm downpour, respectively, it said.  As a precautionary measure, the state government had shifted over two lakh people to safety. In his media interaction on Tuesday evening, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said the next few days will be dedicated to restoring the damages caused by the cyclone. Amreli, Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Porbandar, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Botad in the Saurashtra region remained among the worst affected districts due to the cyclone. As per the data provided by the CM on Tuesday evening, 5,951 villages suffered a power blackout. Around 70,000 electric poles fell and four 220-KV sub-stations were yet to restart out of five that suffered damage due to the cyclonic storm. Rupani said 68 out of 165 66-KV sub-stations were also damaged and later made functional. Out of 425 Covid-19 hospitals located in the affected areas, 122 faced power outage. The electricity supply was restored in 83 of them, while 39 others were working on backup arrangements, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-weakens-to-bring-rain-in-many-states-imd-987487.html
19-05-2021||National||Centre to make 5.86 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses available to states till June 15||The Centre on Wednesday said it would provide 5.86 crore doses of vaccines to states till June 15 and asked them to prepare district-wise plans to administer the jabs. The decision to inform states in advance about vaccine supplies is based on the feedback received by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his phone calls with chief ministers. “According to the advance visibility provided by Government of India to States/UTs, a total of 5,86,29,000 doses will be provided free of cost by Government of India to States from 1st May 2021 to 15th June 2021,” a Health Ministry statement said. In addition, as per information received from vaccine manufacturers, a total of 4,87,55,000 doses will also be available till the end of June 2021 for direct procurement by States/UTs, the statement said. “This advance visibility will enable better and more effective planning by the States,” the Health Ministry said. It also asked the states to prepare a district-wise, Covid-19 Vaccination Centre-wise plan for the administration of vaccines and publicise the same to increase awareness among the masses. The ministry also asked both the state governments and private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) to publish their vaccination calendars on Co-WIN digital platform in advance and desist from publishing single-day vaccination calendars. It also asked state governments to ensure that there was no overcrowding at the CVCs and that the process of booking appointments on Co-WIN was hassle-free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-make-586-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-to-states-till-june-15-987498.html
19-05-2021||National||PM Modi reaches Gujarat to review situation after cyclone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reached Bhavnagar in Gujarat to review the situation in the state in the aftermath of cyclone Tauktae. Modi landed at Bhavnagar from Delhi and proceeded for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, an official said. After the survey, the PM is scheduled to hold a review meeting at Ahmedabad. Thirteen people were killed in Gujarat as cyclone Tauktae pummelled parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles, trees and damaging thousands of houses and roads. In what was one of the worst cyclones faced by the state, Tauktae triggered heavy rains in many parts along its way from the Saurashtra coast to North Gujarat with 46 talukas receiving over 100 mm of downpour, while 12 of them recorded 150 mm to 175 mm of rains. Tauktae, characterised as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday, has now weakened into a depression and lay centred over south Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat region on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department said. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, more than 40,000 trees and over 70,000 electric poles uprooted, while 5,951 villages faced total power blackout due to the cyclonic storm in Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reaches-gujarat-to-review-situation-after-cyclone-987507.html
19-05-2021||National||After plasma therapy, Remdesivir may soon be dropped from Covid-19 treatment protocol||The use of Remdesivir for treatment of Covid-19 patients in India may be stopped due to lack of evidence regarding its effectiveness, said Dr DS Rana, chairperson, Ganga Ram hospital. "All the experimental medicines, be it plasma therapy (which is now discontinued) or Remdesivir, all of them may be dropped soon as there is no such evidence of its functioning. Right now, only three medicines are working", he added. Dr Rana further said the medicines that don’t show any result in treating Covid-19 will have to be discontinued. Dr Rana told ANI that they have observed in the last year that giving plasma does not make the condition of the patient any better and it is not easily available. “Plasma therapy was started on a scientific basis and has been discontinued on the basis of evidence," he said. The use of convalescent plasma therapy was dropped from Covid-19 treatment protocol on Monday on the basis of latest guidelines released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "Right now, we all are examining and monitoring. The medical fraternity is trying to gather more information, by the time you gain full knowledge about this pandemic, I think it will be over," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-plasma-therapy-remdesivir-may-soon-be-dropped-from-covid-19-treatment-protocol-987509.html
19-05-2021||National||Mamata named in CBI petition to transfer Narada scam case out of WB||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Law Minister Moloy Ghatak have been made parties in a petition by the CBI before the Calcutta High Court seeking transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the state. The bench will also hear petitions by ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee for recall of its order staying the bail granted by a CBI court in connection with their arrest in the case, on Monday. Besides Banerjee and Ghatak, the probe agency has also made Trinamool Congress MP and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee a party in its petition before the high court. Representing the CBI, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta had on Monday evening told the division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee that an extraordinary situation had evolved, with the chief minister of the state sitting on a dharna outside the office of the investigating agency here. The CBI also claimed that the law minister of West Bengal was present in court, where the accused were to be presented, along with a mob. The probe agency said that a number of followers of the arrested political leaders gheraoed the CBI office in Nizam Palace area, and did not allow its officers to move out to enable them to produce the accused in court. They were produced before the special CBI court through the virtual mode on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-named-in-cbi-petition-to-transfer-narada-scam-case-out-of-wb-987511.html
19-05-2021||National||Indian Navy scours the sea for dozens missing after Cyclone Tauktae||Navy helicopters scoured the sea Thursday for 89 people missing after a major cyclone slammed India, adding to the country's woes as it suffered a record number of Covid-19 deaths. Pummeling the western coast late Tuesday, Cyclone Tauktae was the latest in what experts say is a growing number of ever-bigger storms in the Arabian Sea because of climate change warming its waters. The defence ministry said Wednesday that Navy ships had rescued more than 600 people after waves up to eight metres (26 feet) high hammered offshore oil installations. But planes and helicopters were still searching for 89 workers missing from one of several support vessels that slipped its moorings in the storm and sank. M.K. Jha, head of the Naval Western Command, said that the sea was so rough that they could not board life rafts. Those rescued have "hope in their eyes but certainly they are distressed... they have been battered by the sea conditions for multiple hours," Jha told the NDTV news channel. Even before the cyclone made landfall in Gujarat state with gusts up to 185 kilometres (115 miles) per hour, associated heavy rains and strong winds killed around 20 people in western and southern India. Once the storm hit, the death toll rose to at least 33 including a child crushed by a collapsing wall, an 80-year-old woman killed by a falling pole and a teenage girl by a crumbling roof. "I have never experienced such intensity in my life," said a hotel owner in the town of Bhavnagar where the winds smashed windows on the seafront and sent trees and power lines toppling. More than 16,500 houses were damaged, 40,000 trees were uprooted and engineers were working to restore power to hundreds of thousands of people on Wednesday. There were also fears that at least 18 lions were missing in Gujarat, home to India's only surviving Asiatic lions, as well thousands of other animals and birds, reports said. Although the cyclone was one of the fiercest in decades, better forecasting than in previous disasters meant that 2,00,000 people in danger zones -- including hundreds of Covid-19 patients -- were moved to safety.  The deadly weather system hit as India's healthcare system struggled with a coronavirus surge that in the past 24 hours killed a record 4,529 people. "This is one of the most powerful cyclones we've faced in India for decades, and after weeks of chaos and devastating loss of life caused by Covid-19, it could not have come at a worse time," said Santanu Chakraborty of the charity Save the Children. "Thousands of children and their families have lost their homes and their livelihoods, and the damage caused to roads and infrastructure will put even more pressure on local administrations already struggling to cope with the fallout from the pandemic." The Arabian Sea previously experienced fewer severe cyclones than the Bay of Bengal but rising water temperatures because of global warming was changing that, Roxy Mathew Koll from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-scours-the-sea-for-dozens-missing-after-cyclone-tauktae-987514.html
19-05-2021||National||Covid-19 pandemic triggering orphan crisis in India||Three days after their father died of coronavirus, six-year-old twins Tripti and Pari were found sleeping next to their mother, unaware that she had also become a victim. Thousands of children have lost one or both parents in the new pandemic wave ravaging India, where there were already millions of orphans. The prospect of a surge of abandoned minors worries many. Tripti and Pari, whose names have been changed, are now being cared for by their mother's uncle, Ramesh Singh. "I keep telling the girls their parents will come home soon," said Singh, whose name has also been changed to protect the children's identities. "I don't want to tell them the truth now... they're too young." Their heartbroken mother refused to eat properly after her husband's death, which complicated her recovery from coronavirus, Singh said. When repeated knocks on the door went unanswered, relatives threw water on the girls from a window to make them open up. They were taken away as doctors arrived to declare their mother dead. While the twins are being looked after, the pandemic -- which is claiming thousands of lives a day -- is leaving others without a caregiver. Such children "are not only living an emotional tragedy, they are at high risk of neglect, abuse and exploitation", said UNICEF India's chief Yasmin Haque. In another case, media reported last month on a baby found next to its mother who had been dead for 48 hours and whose neighbours feared contracting the virus. The official pandemic toll is more than 2,70,000 in India, though the real number is widely believed to be far higher with many people dying outside of the overwhelmed medical system. "We don't know how many people are dying, let alone how many children are orphaned," said Akancha Srivastava, a cybersecurity expert who has launched a coronavirus helpline for children. However online evidence points to a devastating scale. Social media appeals are being made for breast milk and food for infants who have lost their mothers. Some coronavirus orphans are also being put up for illegal adoption on social media. Srivastava said her helpline received at least 300 calls and messages in a day. "Our authorities are overburdened, people are hassled. It's extremely easy in these circumstances to misassign a child to some trafficking racket or an adoption racket," she said. Under Indian law, an orphaned child must be seen by a government official and is put in an institution if there are no relatives to look after them. Smriti Irani, India's minister for women and child development, this month warned that unofficial approaches to adopting Covid-19 orphans are a "trap" and "illegal". AFP received one message on WhatsApp offering a two-year-old girl and a two-month-old boy for adoption. "Brahmin children," the message said, suggesting the children were upper-caste Hindus. The contact number has since been switched off and has been investigated by authorities. Children whose parents have died or are sick have been reduced to selling vegetables on the streets, according to the Protsahan India Foundation, a child rights NGO. "We're looking at a generation of children in extreme distress and facing severe trauma who will grow up to be broken adults," said Sonal Kapoor from the foundation. She said children were bearing a far greater brunt in the latest pandemic wave, including cases of incest and sex trafficking. Dhananjay Tingal from Bachpan Bachao Andolan told AFP that the child welfare organisation received about 50 calls a day, a big increase from last year. "This is not the first time that children are being orphaned. But this time, the child has to face it alone ... there are inhibitions in even hugging a child in pain," he said. Some civic society groups have urged parents to prepare a backup plan in case they fall sick. For Tripti and Pari, at least, their mother's uncle is seeking to formally adopt them. "They had wonderful parents. I hope I'm able to help the girls fulfil their dreams," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-triggering-orphan-crisis-in-india-987527.html
19-05-2021||National||India logs 13 per cent fall in new Covid-19 cases in week; still highest globally, says WHO||India registered a 13 per cent decrease in new Covid-19 cases in the past week but the number of fresh infections was still the highest around the world, the WHO has said. The number of new cases and deaths continued to decrease with just over 4.8 million new cases and just under 86,000 new deaths reported globally in the past week, a 12 per cent and 5 per cent decrease respectively compared to the previous week, according to the Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update Data received by the World Health Organization from national authorities as of May 16. It said that the highest number of new cases were reported from India (2,387,663 new cases), a 13 per cent decrease over the previous week. This was followed by Brazil (437,076 new cases; 3 per cent increase), the United States of America (235,638 new cases; 21 per cent decrease), Argentina (151,332 new cases; 8 per cent increase) and Colombia (115,834 new cases; 6 per cent increase). The highest numbers of new deaths were reported from India (27,922 new deaths; 2.0 new deaths per 100 000; a 4 per cent increase), Nepal (1,224 new deaths; 4.2 new deaths per 100 000; a 266 per cent increase) and Indonesia (1,125 new deaths; 0.4 new deaths per 100,000; a 5 per cent decrease).  According to data received by the WHO from national authorities as of May 9, India had recorded the highest numbers of new cases at 2,738,957, a 5 per cent increase over the previous week. As per the WHO estimates, cumulative cases in India currently stand at about 24.68 million and total deaths are at about 270,284. The data added that the South-East Asia Region reported over 2.5 million new cases and over 30,000 new deaths, a 12 per cent decrease and a 7 per cent increase respectively compared to the previous week. Case incidence decreased after nine consecutive weeks of increases, although the absolute number remains at its highest level since the beginning of the pandemic, it said, adding that death incidence continued to increase for a ninth consecutive week. Globally, despite a declining trend over the past three weeks, the incidence of cases remains at some of the highest levels since the start of the pandemic. All regions reported a decline in new cases this week apart from the Western Pacific Region, where the incidence of new cases was similar to the previous week. The European Region reported the largest decline in new cases this week, followed by the Eastern Mediterranean. These regions also reported the largest decline in new deaths over the past week. South-East Asia and Western Pacific regions reported a similar number of new deaths as the previous week, it added. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7th, 30 lakh on August 23rd, 40 lakh on September 5th and 50 lakh on September 16th. It went past 60 lakh on September 28th, 70 lakh on October 11th, crossed 80 lakh on October 29th, 90 lakh on November 20th and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19th. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday, India saw a record 4,529 fatalities due to coronavirus in a single day, pushing the Covid-19 death toll to 2,83,248, while 2,67,334 fresh infections were recorded, taking the total tally of cases to 2,54,96,330. The active cases have further reduced to 32,26,719 comprising 12.66 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 86.23 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-13-per-cent-fall-in-new-covid-19-cases-in-week-still-highest-globally-says-who-987529.html
19-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae: Southern districts in Rajasthan receive heavy rains||Cyclone Tauktae has triggered heavy rains in southern districts of Rajasthan in the last 24 hours while it is expected to weaken in the next 12 hours, Met officials said on Wednesday. The cyclonic storm entered southern Rajasthan late on Tuesday night causing heavy rains in the region and it was centred 60 km southwest of Udaipur on Wednesday morning, a spokesman of the regional Meteorological Department said. In the next 12 hours, the cyclone is expected to weaken and turn into a low pressure area and move to northeast Rajasthan, he said.  The cyclone caused 'heavy' to 'very heavy' rainfall at some places in the southern districts of the state in the last 24 hours, as per the Met department. Veja of Dungarpur recorded 232 mm of rainfall, Kanwa received 144 mm rainfall, Deval 142 mm, Dungarpur tehsil 139 mm and 133 mm rainfall was recorded in Dhambola, it added. Light rain accompanied by gusty winds was recorded in Jaipur on Tuesday night as well as on Wednesday morning. The state capital recorded more than 38.5 mm rainfall during this period which led to a significant drop in the maximum temperature, the spokesman said. According to the Met department, light to moderate intermittent rains are expected in Ajmer, Jaipur and some districts of Bharatpur division in the next 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-southern-districts-in-rajasthan-receive-heavy-rains-987531.html
19-05-2021||National||Cyclone Tauktae: Bodies of 22 personnel on board barge P305 recovered||At least 22 persons on board Barge Papaa-305 have died and their bodies have been brought to Mumbai. The Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command confirmed 22 deaths even as efforts are underway to trace the 50-odd missing survivors. INS Kochi brought the bodies to the Mumbai harbour. The barge in the offshore development area of Mumbai High sunk on Monday night. A total of 261 persons were on board Pappa-305, an accommodation barge. The Navy has so far rescued 188 persons. The operations are continuing in the Arabian Sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-tauktae-bodies-of-22-personnel-on-board-barge-p305-recovered-987534.html
19-05-2021||National||Telangana floats global tender for 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines||Telangana has invited global tenders for procuring one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines from manufacturers or their agents in the case of imported jabs. The goods to be supplied must be as per the guidelines issued by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation said in the tender document issued on Tuesday. "TSMSIDC requires at least 15 lakh to 20 Lakh doses of the vaccine to be supplied every month. The supplies have to be initiated within seven days of release of purchase order & completed within 30 days," the document said. Bidders can quote their offers to supply the vaccine in part also, provided monthly supply shall not be less than 15 lakh and the total supply of one crore doses shall be completed within six months from the issuance of Letter of Intent (LoI), it further said. Those bidders offering items requiring special cold storage condition should either have their own cold chain transporting system or proper contract with an agent having facilities to transport drugs under cold chain norms from the manufacturing unit to respective warehouse of the corporation as mentioned in purchase order. The bidders can download the tender document from May 21 and the last date to submit the quotation is June 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-floats-global-tender-for-1-crore-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-987535.html
19-05-2021||National||Rajasthan declares Black Fungus an epidemic||Mucormycosis (black fungus), which is primarily affecting people recovering from Covid, has been declared an epidemic in Rajasthan, officials said on Wednesday. Currently, the state has around 100 black fungus patients and a separate ward has been made at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital in Jaipur for their treatment. Mucormycosis has been notified as an epidemic and a notifiable disease in the state under the Rajasthan Epidemic Act 2020, according to a notification issued by state's Principal Health Secretary Akhil Arora. He said the step was taken to ensure integrated and coordinated treatment of black fungus and the coronavirus. According to experts, people with diabetes are more prone to getting the black fungus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-declares-black-fungus-an-epidemic-987539.html
19-05-2021||National||PIL filed in Supreme Court for probe into BJP's 'toolkit' allegation against Congress||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction for probe into the BJP's allegation of a 'toolkit' and suspension of registration of Congress Party, if charges against it for indulging in anti-national acts and playing with lives of people were found as true. Advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha, who filed the plea, also sought a direction to the Union government to prepare guidelines against hoardings of essential items during the Covid-19 pandemic. It contended the toolkit matter should be probed to ascertain whether it disclosed any offence under section 120-B (Criminal Conspiracy) and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 13 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The petition named the Indian National Congress, the Union government and the Election Commission as respondents. It also said necessary direction should be issued to the Union government against the usage of photos of funerals, dead bodies, naming of mutants after India and the Prime Minister, and calling out a single religion as responsible for spread of Covid-19. BJP on Tuesday alleged a toolkit has been prepared by the Congress to tarnish image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over handling of Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress party, on the contrary, accused BJP leaders of releasing a forged and fabricated letter, in an attempt to divert attention of the people from failure of the government. The plea also asked the court to direct the Centre to issue necessary guidelines to each and every political party, group, and individual to stop all kinds of hoardings, and portraying anti-national stance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-for-probe-into-bjps-toolkit-allegation-against-congress-987544.html
19-05-2021||National||E-way bill integrated with FASTag, RFID; GST officers to get real-time data of commercial vehicles||GST officers have been armed with real-time data of commercial vehicle movement on highways with the integration of the e-way bill (EWB) system with FASTag and RFID, a move which will help in live vigilance of such vehicles and check GST evasion. Additional features have been added to the e-way bill mobile application of tax officers, which will provide them real-time tracking details of e-way bill and vehicle to help them nab tax evaders who are misusing the e-way bill system. Under the goods and services tax (GST) regime, e-way bills have been made mandatory for inter-state transportation of goods valued over Rs 50,000 from April 2018. However, gold is exempted. In the electronic way (e-way) bill system, businesses and transporters have to produce before a GST inspector the e-way bill, if asked. On average 25 lakh goods vehicle movements from more than 800 tolls are reported on a daily basis to the e-way bill system. The integration of e-way bill, RFID and FASTag will enable tax officers to undertake live vigilance in respect of e-way bill compliances by businesses and will aid in preventing revenue leakage by real-time identification of cases of recycling of EWBs, non-generation of EWBs. Taxmen can now access reports on vehicles that have passed the selected tolls without e-way bills in the past few minutes. Also, the vehicles carrying critical commodities specific to the state and have passed the selected toll can be viewed. Any suspicious vehicles and vehicles of EWBs generated by suspicious taxpayer GSTINs , that have passed the selected toll on a near real time basis, can also be viewed in this report. The officers can use of these reports while conducting vigilance and make the vigilance activity more effective. Also, the officers of audit and enforcement wing can use these reports to identify the fraudulent transactions like bill trading, recycling of EWBs. AMRG Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said "online real-time tracking of vehicles and goods would go a long way in tightening the lid on tax evaders. This mobile application for tax officers would empower them to catch hold of all the stakeholders involved in clandestine removal of goods." EY India Tax Patner Abhishek Jain said CBIC had earlier conveyed its intention to further digitise the process of enforcement of e-way bill provisions under the GST law, and in line with this idea, the e-way bill system has now been integrated with the FASTag and RFID system, and MIS (Management Information Systems) reports from the same will made available on officer's mobile app. "This is a commendable move on the part of government and points towards the development in the field of technology and how the government is pro-active in using the same to ensure tax compliance and track fraudulent activities," Jain added. Last month, in a report titled 'E-way Bill - A journey of three years', the government had said 180 crore e-way bills have been generated in three years till March 2021. Of this, only 7 crore bills were verified by tax officers. In the 2020-21 fiscal, ended March 2021, 61.68 crore e-way bills were generated, of which 2.27 crore were picked up for verification. In 2019-20 fiscal, ended March 2020, 62.88 crore e-way bills were generated, of which 3.01 crore were picked up for verification by tax officers. The top five states in which generated maximum number of e-way bill for inter-state movement of goods were generated are Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The top five sectors where maximum e-way bills were generated in the past three years are textiles, electrical machinery, machinery and mechanical appliances, iron and steel, and automobiles. With effect from January 1, 2021, the government has integrated RFID/FASTag with the e-way bill system and a transporter is required to have a RFID tag in his vehicle and details of the e-way bill generated for goods being carried by the vehicle is uploaded into the RFID. When the vehicle passes the RFID Tag reader on the highway, the details fed into the device gets uploaded on the government portal. The information is later used by the revenue officials to validate the supplies made by a GST registered person. To improve tax compliance, the government has also started blocking of EWB bill generation if a GST registered taxpayer has not filed GSTR- 3B return for the last two successive months. Also, the government has blocked the generation of multiple EWBs on one invoice. If the EWB is once generated using an invoice number or document number, then none of the other parties can generate another EWB using the same invoice number. Besides, the e-way bills system has enabled auto calculation of distance based on PIN codes. The system will auto calculate the distance between the source and destination, based on PIN codes||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/e-way-bill-integrated-with-fastag-rfid-gst-officers-to-get-real-time-data-of-commercial-vehicles-987547.html
19-05-2021||National||Uttarakhand Congress puts up banners asking PM Modi about vaccine shortage||The Congress has put up big banners outside its state office here asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi why he had exported anti-coronavirus vaccines meant for the children of the country to other nations. The black banners with the question addressed to the prime minister in bold, white letters hang on the boundary wall of the Congress office here in the heart of the city, drawing the attention of every passerby. "Modi ji, Hamare bacchon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya? (Modi ji, why did you send the vaccine meant for our children to foreign countries?)” read the banners which carry the names of Pradesh Congress president Pritam Singh and the party's city unit president Lal Chand Sharma. Similar banners came up recently in Delhi prompting authorities to arrest those responsible for putting them up. The Delhi Police has registered 25 FIRs and arrested as many people under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and other relevant sections for allegedly pasting the posters in several parts of the city amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The Aam Aadmi Party had owned up to putting up posters in many parts of Delhi criticising the prime minister for the shortage of vaccines. Congress leaders led by Rahul Gandhi had also slammed the police action and dared the government to arrest them for raising questions on the export of vaccines. They had changed their profile pictures on Twitter with the poster asking why Covid vaccines were sent abroad. When asked what if similar action was initiated against them, Congress leaders here said they were not afraid of anything. "Putting those hanging the banners behind bars will not suppress the questions being asked by everyone," Mahanagar Congress president Lal Chand Sharma said. "The Modi government owes an explanation to the whole country. It will have to answer why it sent six crore anti Covid vaccines abroad when they were not enough for our own requirements," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-congress-puts-up-banners-asking-pm-modi-about-vaccine-shortage-987550.html
19-05-2021||National||PM Modi takes stock of rescue operations for ONGC barge personnel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke to senior officials as he took stock of operations being undertaken to rescue personnel on an ONGC barge, government sources said. At least 22 personnel on board the accommodation barge P305 that went adrift in Cyclone Tauktae fury before sinking in the Arabia Sea off Mumbai coast are dead and 65 are still missing, Navy officials had said earlier. The Navy said its personnel, battling extreme weather, have so far rescued 186 of the 273 people who were on board the barge and also two from tugboat Varaprada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-takes-stock-of-rescue-operations-for-ongc-barge-personnel-987561.html
19-05-2021||National||Infected with Covid-19? You can take vaccine three months after recovery||Those infected with Covid-19 can take vaccine three months after recovery, the health ministry said in fresh vaccination guidelines issued on Wednesday. Also, those who have been infected after the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine will be eligible for the second dose three months after clinical recovery from the illness, the ministry said. The changes to the vaccination guidelines were recommended by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and were accepted by the Health Ministry. The NEGVAC recommended vaccination for all lactating women, but held back its views on pregnant women getting the jab saying the matter is still under discussion at the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to the state governments and union territory administrations about the changes and asked them to implement the same. “These recommendations have been based on the evolving situation of the Covid-19 pandemic and emerging global scientific evidence and experience,” the ministry said. The new guidelines also state that vaccination be deferred by three months from the date of discharge from hospital for Covid-19 patients who were given convalescent plasma therapy or monoclonal antibodies. “Persons with any other serious general illness requiring hospitalisation or ICU care should also wait for 4-8 weeks before getting the Covid-19 vaccine,” the health ministry said. It also said that an individual can donate blood after 14 days of receiving Covid-19 vaccine or testing RT-PCR negative on recovery from the infectious disease. Earlier, a person could donate blood 28 days after getting a Covid-19 vaccine. The ministry also said individuals would not be required to undergo a Rapid Antigen Test before Covid-19 vaccination. Earlier, a Covid-19 person had to wait for four weeks after recovery to be eligible for vaccination. Vaccines were not recommended for pregnant and lactating women as they were not part of the clinical trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infected-with-covid-19-you-can-take-vaccine-three-months-after-recovery-987564.html
19-05-2021||National||Record 20 lakh Covid tests done in India in one day||More than 20 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted across the country in a span of 24 hours, which is a global record and the highest ever done in a single day in India, while the daily positivity rate has declined to 13.31 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. India's Covid-19 daily recoveries exceeded the number of daily new cases for the sixth consecutive day. Cumulative recoveries have surged to 2,19,86,363 with 3,89,851 patients recuperating in a day. The national recovery rate has grown further to touch 86.23 per cent. "More than 20 lakh tests were conducted in the last 24 hours (the highest ever conducted in a single day in India), while the daily positivity rate has declined to 13.31 per cent," the ministry said.  "A total 20.08 lakh tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours (May 18) in the country which is also a global record," the ministry added. Over 32 crore tests have been conducted so far across the country. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 7.96 per cent, the ministry stated. Continuing the stabilising trend, India has recorded less than 3 lakh new cases for three consecutive days, the ministry said. Ten states comprising Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana reported 74.46 per cent of the 2,67,334 new infections registered in the span of 24 hours. Tamil Nadu has reported the highest daily new cases at 33,059, followed by Kerala with 31,337 new cases. On the other hand, India's total Covid-19 active cases has decreased to 32,26,719 with a decline of 1,27,046 being recorded in the active case count in a day. It now comprises 12.66 per cent of the country's total cases. Eight states -- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- cumulatively account for 69.02 per cent of India's total active cases. On the vaccination front, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 18.58 crore. A total of 18,58,09,302 vaccine doses have been administered through 27,10,934 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 96,73,684 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,59,125 HCWs who have taken the second dose; 1,45,69,669 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 82,36,515 FLWs who have taken the second dose and 64,77,443 beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group who have received the first dose. Besides, 5,80,46,339 and 93,51,036 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have been administered the first and second dose, respectively, while 5,48,16,767 and 1,79,78,724 beneficiaries above 60 years old have taken the first and second dose, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-20-lakh-covid-tests-done-in-india-in-one-day-987565.html
19-05-2021||National||MHA extends deadline for NGOs to open account in SBI Delhi to June 30||Amid demands from the NGOs, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has extended the deadline for such organisations seeking foreign funds to open an account with the State Bank of India's Main Branch in Delhi till June 30 citing "exigencies" arising out of Covid-19 and to ensure smooth transition to the new regime under amended law. The new order also warned the NGOs that they would not be able to collect foreign donations from July 1 if they do not complete the formalities by then. The move came amid NGOs complaining that the new amendments to the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) passed last year are creating trouble for them in its functioning and it has been acting as an impediment in collecting foreign funds to fight Covid-19. Last September, Parliament had passed amendments to the FCRA, which stipulated NGOs to open a link account in SBI branch in Delhi, prohibit any NGO to transfer foreign funds to any other person and provide Aadhaar numbers of its Trustees and office bearers. Due to the pandemic, many of the NGOs are unable to complete the formalities and are not able to get foreign funds that could be used for Covid-19 related work and they have been asking the government to keep the amendments in abeyance for some time. "Keeping in view the exigencies arising out of Covid-19 situation and to ensure smooth transition to the amended FCRA regime, the Central Government...the existing FCRA account holders have now to open the FCRA account in the New Delhi Main Branch....up to 30 June 2021," it said. "After that date they shall not be eligible to receive foreign contribution in any account other than the FCRA Account opened in the New Delhi Main Branch (of the SBI)," the order said. After a section of NGOs approached it, the Delhi High Court had recently asked the MHA whether it could extend the deadline, which was earlier set at March 31. The MHA also extended the validity of the licence given to NGOs and other organisations to collect foreign funds that have expired since September last year to 30 September this year. This was to expire on May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-extends-deadline-for-ngos-to-open-account-in-sbi-delhi-to-june-30-987569.html
19-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India records highest single-day toll of 4,529 deaths ||All 86 of the Railways' Covid-19 hospitals would soon have oxygen plants of their own, the national transporter said.  The use of Remdesivir for treatment of Covid-19 patients in India may be stopped due to a lack of evidence regarding its effectiveness, said Dr DS Rana, chairperson, Ganga Ram Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-records-highest-single-day-toll-of-4529-deaths-987571.html
19-05-2021||National||P C Chacko appointed Kerala NCP President||P C Chacko, who joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) after quitting the Congress, has been appointed as the president of the NCP's Kerala unit, party leaders said here on Wednesday. Talking to PTI, Chacko said he was appointed as the party's State president by NCP chief Sharad Pawar. A communication in this regard has been received from the party, he said. Chacko replaced senior party leader T P Peethambaran Master who had been holding post temporarily since the death of NCP State president Thomas Chandy in December 2019. Chacko had resigned from the Congress on March 10, alleging group interest in deciding party candidates for the Kerala Assembly elections held on April 6. He was a former working committee member of the Congress. After quitting the Congress, he joined the NCP, which is a partner in the CPI(M)-led LDF in Kerala. He campaigned for the LDF candidates in the Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/p-c-chacko-appointed-kerala-ncp-president-987572.html
19-05-2021||National||'The show must go on', says Dr KK Aggarwal in last video||In the past few months, Dr Aggarwal was actively putting out videos on social media regarding Covid-19. He was making an effort to educate people about Covid care even when he was suffering from the disease. When he was in hospital, his account was handled by HCFI & Medtalks with a note which said,” Dr KK is recovering from COVID-19, meanwhile this account is being managed by HCFI & Medtalks”. Social media is flooded with tweets and comments thanking and appreciating Dr Aggarwal for his selfless efforts. One of the users thanked him for giving free Covid awareness sessions to the public on social media. Another user tweeted, “This kind of doctors are the reason we started calling them god”. This kind of doctors are the reason we started calling them god..RIP keep on spreading light where ever you are🙏💐||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-show-must-go-on-says-dr-kk-aggarwal-in-last-video-987573.html
19-05-2021||National||Plea filed in SC for disclosing details on PM Cares Fund||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking details about the current status of the PM Cares Fund, allocation made through it for Covid-19 relief and other projects and its links with the Union Government An activist, Saket Gokhale filed an intervention application before court in connection with the Suo Motu case on essential supplies to Covid-19. He contended that the PM Cares Fund is a non-governmental stakeholder, which was closely involved in decisions and projects related to the distribution and supplies of essentials in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. "The only information available in the public domain about allocations from PM Cares Fund comes from statements and press releases issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). It is unclear whether, in addition to the allocations declared publicly, there have been other allocations made towards other Covid-19 related expenditure," Gokhale said.  He said the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM Cares Fund) should be made a respondent in the present case, and should be asked to disclose details about the current status. The plea contended the Centre earlier claimed it had spend no money towards Covid-19 vaccine development. However, PM Cares Fund has declared an allocation of around Rs 100 crores towards vaccine development and it is unclear whether any additional funds were allocated for the purpose. Similarly, on April 25, the PM Cares Fund announced that it was allocating funds for the setting up of additional 551 dedicated Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Medical Oxygen Generation Plants inside public health facilities in the country.  However, an RTI filed by the applicant with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on June 5, 2020 disclosed that PM Cares Fund is not a public authority, amenable to revealing details under the transparency law, the plea pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-disclosing-details-on-pm-cares-fund-987577.html
19-05-2021||National||The Lead: What is Mucormycosis?||In today's episode, Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti explains to us what Mucormycosis is.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio. In the past weeks, we have seen a spate of cases of Mucormycosis. Now, what exactly is this? To tell us more about this today we are joined by Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, president of the International Society for Human and Animal Mycology. He is the professor and In-Charge Center of Advanced Research in Medical Mycology, WHO Collaborating Center for Reference & Research on Fungi of Medical Importance National Culture Collection of Pathogenic Fungi. Hi Dr and welcome to DH Radio. Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti: Hi, thank you. Ahmed: Dr, What exactly is this Mucormycosis and why is it affecting those afflicted with Covid-19, what is the relationship? Dr Chakrabarti: First, I am happy that you have called it Mucormycosis because throughout the media and everywhere it is mentioned as Black Fungi. It is not at all Black Fungi, the reason is that there is a separate group of black fungi. I don't know where this term has been coined, this is a misnomer. To know more, listen to the full conversation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-what-is-mucormycosis-987578.html
19-05-2021||National||TMC leaders mentioned Narada scam in their affidavits to EC. But did Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy?||Narada scam has rocked the political arena of West Bengal once again. The arrest of top Trinamool Congress leaders Madan Mitra, Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and former BJP leader Sovan Chatterjee by the CBI has brought the 2016 controversy back into the light. That it is happening after TMC won the state Assembly elections by a thumping majority, while BJP failed to cross the 100-seat mark adds more significance to the events unfolding. And now, even the affidavits filed by the accused candidates to Election Commission are under the scanner. It is common knowledge that a candidate who wishes to contest in an election has to mention the pending case against him or her in the nomination form if there is any. The TMC leaders mentioned the IPC sections they were booked under apart from giving the case numbers. But Suvendu, who won against Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, neither mentioned the sections nor gave a brief account of his offence. And Roy, national vice-president of the saffron party, did not mention it at all.   What is the Narada scam or Narada sting operation? Subrata Mukherjee, Sovan Chatterjee, Madan Mitra, Firhad Hakim, Saugata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Prasun Banerjee were the leaders who were allegedly caught on camera. TMC turncoats and currently-BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari were also accused in the case. MH Ahmed Mirza, a senior police officer, was the first accused in the case to be arrested in 2019. Why Roy and Adhikari have not been arrested?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-leaders-mentioned-narada-scam-in-their-affidavits-to-ec-but-did-suvendu-adhikari-and-mukul-roy-987579.html
19-05-2021||National||Remdesivir case accused names driver of MP minister Tulsiram Silawat's wife||A man accused in a case of alleged black-marketing of Remdesivir in Madhya Pradesh has claimed he received vials of the key anti-viral drug from the driver of minister Tulsiram Silawat's wife. After a video in which the accused purportedly made the claim went viral on social media, the minister on Wednesday denied any involvement of his family in the matter, while the opposition Congress sought his immediate removal from the state cabinet. The accused, Punit Agrawal (27), driver of a vehicle hired from a private travel agency by the health department for Indore district health officer Purnima Gadaria, was arrested on Monday night on charges of black-marketing Remdesivir. In the video, Agrawal was seen with handcuffs in a police car after his arrest with two vials of Remdesivir. Responding to questions from reporters, Agrawal was heard alleging that, "I had taken two vials of Remdesivir for Rs 14,000 each from fellow driver Govind Rajput of the travel agency. He drives the car of minister Tulsiram Silawat's wife." Agrawal also claimed he was going to give both the vials at the cost of Rs 14,000 each to a policeman named Lalit Sharma, who has asked him for the injections. He further claimed that Rajput had provided Remdesivir injections to many other people. When asked about the claim, Silawat said Agarwal's statement should be examined impartially. "My wife's car is driven by different drivers of this private travel agency. Our family has got nothing to do with their illegal activities," he asserted. However, local Congress MLA Sanjay Shukla said he had alleged that Silawat's family was selling Remdesivir injections and Agarwal's statement has now proved it. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan should immediately remove Silawat from his cabinet, he said. Meanwhile, Vijay Nagar police station in-charge Tehzeeb Qazi claimed Agrawal was deliberately mentioning big names to mislead people and save himself from legal tangles. "However, we are conducting a detailed probe into his statements," the official said. The official also said they had caught Agarwal after laying a trap and the policeman (Lalit Sharma) whose name he mentioned in the video was involved in the operation. He also said Govind Rajput was not yet detained for questioning. Health officer Gadaria, whose vehicle Agrawal used to drive before his arrest, has already said that she has got nothing to do with the case of black-marketing of Remdesivir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remdesivir-case-accused-names-driver-of-mp-minister-tulsiram-silawats-wife-987587.html
19-05-2021||National||Govt directs WhatsApp to withdraw new privacy policy||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has sent a fresh notice to WhatsApp asking the messaging platform to withdraw its updated privacy policy. Saying that the Facebook-owned company's new privacy policy will undermine the sacrosanct values of informational privacy and data security, and harm the rights and interests of Indian citizens, the Ministry has asked WhatsApp to reply to its notice by May 25. In the notice sent on Tuesday, the Ministry also warned that if the company failed to respond to the notice, the government will take “all necessary steps in consonance with the law” against the platform. This is the second notice sent by the government to WhatsApp to withdraw its controversial privacy policy. Earlier this year January, the IT Ministry had sent its first notice. The Ministry, in its latest communication, has drawn attention of WhatsApp as to how its new privacy policy is in violation of several provisions of existing Indian laws and rules. "In fulfilment of its sovereign responsibility to protect the rights and interests of Indian citizens, the government will consider various options available to it under laws in India," a senior official in the Ministry said. Though WhatsApp earlier said it has officially deferred its new privacy policy beyond May 15, 2021, the government in its notice said that deferral of the privacy policy does not absolve WhatsApp from respecting the values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users. The Ministry has also strongly taken up the issue of WhatsApp's "discriminatory treatment" towards Indian users vis-a-vis users in Europe. "As you are doubtlessly aware, many Indian citizens depend on WhatsApp to communicate in everyday life. It is not just problematic, but also irresponsible, for WhatsApp to leverage this position to impose unfair terms and conditions on Indian users, particularly those that discriminate against Indian users vis-a-vis users in Europe," the government said. Earlier, when WhatsApp announced its new privacy policy, it faced severe criticism from users who expressed concered about messaging platform's plan to share its data with its parent company, Facebook.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-directs-whatsapp-to-withdraw-new-privacy-policy-987591.html
19-05-2021||National||Deaths due to Covid increasing, vaccines reducing, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday accused the Centre of diverting attention and said while deaths due to Covid-19 are increasing the vaccines are reducing. He also shared graphs showing a decline in Covid-19 vaccinations and the rise in number of daily deaths due to coronavirus. "Vaccines are decreasing and Covid deaths are increasing. The Central government policy - Divert attention, spread untruth, make noise by hiding facts," he charged in a tweet in Hindi. वैक्सीन कम होती जा रही हैं और कोविड मृत्यु बढ़ती जा रही हैं। केंद्र सरकार की नीति- India saw a record 4,529 fatalities due to coronavirus in a single day pushing the Covid-19 death toll to 2,83,248, while 2.67 lakh fresh cases were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With a total of 2,67,334 fresh infections, India's total tally of cases climbed to 2,54,96,330.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deaths-due-to-covid-increasing-vaccines-reducing-says-rahul-gandhi-987592.html
19-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Politicians find it difficult to accept failure, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it is very difficult for politicians and bureaucrats to accept their failure as it is not in their veins. The court made strong observations while expressing concerns over the condition of judicial officers who are at risk of contracting Covid-19 owing to the nature of duties. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said three judicial officers have already died in the national capital and the court was of the prima facie view that they should be treated akin to frontline workers like armed forces and police forces personnel. The bench was not convinced with the Delhi Government's contention that the high court had earlier passed an order by which the Delhi district judges were to coordinate with district magistrates to address the medical concerns of judicial officers and their families during the pandemic and nodal officers were appointed in each district. “Let us not get into this. That has not delivered. They are here because it didn’t bring about any satisfactory results. It is very difficult for bureaucracy and political leaders to accept their failure or inability. They will never accept their failure. This is not in their veins," the bench said. It said the system has to be put in place now and be prepared for the worst as nobody knows how the situation would be in future. “You don’t expect a judge to discharge his duty when his son, daughter, wife or any other family member is seriously ill. Take steps on your own, you don’t need to wait for orders on this,” the court told senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi government. The counsel said that Delhi Judicial Services Association, which has filed an application raising certain issues including that facilities on the ground are eyewash, may submit the representation to the Delhi Chief Secretary who shall consider it and also convene a virtual meeting with the members of the association. The court asked the Delhi government to address the issues and put the matter for consideration on May 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-politicians-find-it-difficult-to-accept-failure-says-hc-987598.html
19-05-2021||National||IMD issues orange alert for Delhi; 'very heavy' rain likely in some parts||The India Meteorological Department on Wednesday issued an orange alert for Delhi, predicting "heavy" to "very heavy" rainfall in parts of the capital with winds gusting up to 60 kilometers per hour. In an impact-based advisory, it predicted waterlogging in low-lying areas, traffic disruption and uprooting of small plants. "Possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places" as a result of interaction between the remnant of cyclonic storm Tauktae and a Western Disturbance, the IMD said. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate, between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is heavy and between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm is very heavy. Anything above 204.4 mm is considered extremely heavy rainfall.  Rainfall activity is very likely to decrease on Thursday. Scattered to fairly widespread rain is predicted in the capital, it said. In the past 24 hours ending at 8:30 am, the city registered 1.8 mm rainfall, the weather department said. The rainfall and gusty winds on Wednesday brought the maximum temperature down to 30.8 degrees Celsius, which is the lowest in the month of May in four years, according to IMD data. Delhi's air quality had improved to the 'satisfactory' category on Tuesday, the first time since September last year, due to rainfall and strong winds, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. The city had recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 93 on Tuesday. An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe, while an AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-delhi-very-heavy-rain-likely-in-some-parts-987603.html
19-05-2021||National||Bail denied to man held for black marketing oxygen concentrators||A Delhi court has refused to grant bail to a man arrested for allegedly hoarding and black­ marketing huge quantities of life-saving oxygen concentrators, saying that such acts are affecting the public at large during the Covid-19 pandemic. Additional Sessions Judge Jagdish Kumar rejected the bail plea of Anil Jain from whom the Delhi Police seized 500 oxygen cylinders concentrators. The judge noted that “the allegations against the accused are serious in nature. A huge quantity of oxygen concentrators were recovered and as per allegations and investigation, the same were sold on the exorbitant prices.” Further, the court said the illegal hoarding and black ­marketing of life saving drugs and medical equipment are affecting the public at large. “Keeping in view of the totality of the facts and circumstances and seriousness and gravity of offences, no ground for­ regular bail to the accused is made out, at this stage,” the court said in its May 17 order.  During the course of proceedings, Additional Public Prosecutor VK Negi sought dismissal of bail on the ground that 500 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Jain's possession and allegations against the accused were serious in nature.  According to the prosecution, Jain used various WhatsApp groups and voice messages for purchase of life saving medical equipment and sold them through two to three middlemen.  However, the counsel for the accused told the court that his client has been falsely implicated in the case and was merely making Rs 3,000 profit on the equipment.  The Police had filed an FIR against Jain under sections 420 (cheating), 188 (Disobedience to order by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and various sections under Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.  Meanwhile, another district court granted bail to a man arrested for possessing two vials of Tocilizumab injection and trying to sell them beyond the market retail price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bail-denied-to-man-held-for-black-marketing-oxygen-concentrators-987604.html
19-05-2021||National||Congress should have aligned with TMC in WB elections, says Veerappa Moily||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Wednesday said his party should have struck an alliance with Mamata Banerjee's TMC in the recent West Bengal elections, even as he expressed anguish over "ad-hocism" in the grand old outfit. The former Union Minister also sought action against West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee President Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury for the poll debacle in the state, describing him as a "weak leader with no grass-root touch". In an interview with PTI, Moily cited wrong selection of alliance for the "wipe-out" of the party in the state, where it had aligned with the Left and the Indian Secular Front. Referring to Banerjee as "our lady" — she was with the Congress before floating TMC, he said his party could have had "better liaison" with her despite the fact that "she may have taken our MLAs (earlier)". "When she is fighting against the BJP, our right partner would have been Mamata", Moily, a former Karnataka Chief Minister, said. Attacking Choudhury, Moily said he has no "grass-root touch" and is "credited as a leader only for using abusive words against Mamata Banerjee. "That was not appreciated by people and our cadre. Even our own voters shifted away to Mamata in our strongholds where traditionally Congress used to get elected", he said. "And the man (Choudhury) is not punished. He continues to be PCC president, and leader of Congress in Lok Sabha. Who will care for the party if you don't take action and make them accountable?", Moily asked. He was also unsparing in criticism of his party over election strategy, made a strong pitch for developing regional leadership and indicated that failure to project Chief Ministerial candidates in Assembly elections in Assam and Kerala cost the Congress dearly. Making no secret of his displeasure, Moily said the Congress tends to make the same mistakes in selection of candidates in elections. "We select our leaders in various states depending on their ability to raising cash (resources) and capable of mobilising their respective caste. I don't think the Congress can win elections like this," he said. Moily was of the view that people no longer vote for a party looking at its central leadership; they want to know their Chief Ministerial candidate. In Kerala elections, for example, the Congress was confused about the selection of Chief Ministerial face and people backed Pinarayi Vijayan again, according to him. Also in Assam, the Congress did not project any Chief Ministerial face. In Tamil Nadu, the Congress jumps for one alliance to another (with DMK) but makes no effort to strengthen the party organisation after elections, he said. The Congress "threw away" too many seats to its alliance partner DMK in Puducherry, where that party had "not much presence". On Assembly election setbacks in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, Moily said somebody should be made accountable at the AICC and State levels. "Election management machinery.. right from AICC to both level... is not done in Congress. Everything is done with ad-hocism", he lamented. On lessons that the Congress should learn from the poll debacles, Moily said the party has to be revamped from the booth to top level. "Ad-hocism will not take you anywhere.. facing a strong ruling party like the BJP. And we have to strengthen regional leadership," he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-should-have-aligned-with-tmc-in-wb-elections-says-veerappa-moily-987611.html
19-05-2021||National||Facebook rolls out Covid-19 announcement tool in India||Social media giant Facebook on Wednesday said it is expanding its 'Covid-19 Announcement' in India that will help health departments of states and union territories share essential Covid-19 related updates with their communities. India is the second country after the US to launch this feature. Facebook said it has partnered with 33 states and union territories to roll out this tool in their respective jurisdictions. "The Covid-19 Announcement feature will give health departments the ability to push out timely, credible Covid-19 and vaccine information to people in their local communities/ state jurisdictions. States will be able to issue these alerts statewide or to specific cities within their state," it added. The roll out of the Covid-19 Announcement tool in India is part of the company's ongoing efforts to support the public health authorities' work to keep people safe and informed during the coronavirus public health crisis, it said. "When posts by state health department pages on Facebook are marked as Covid-19 Announcements, we amplify their reach so that people located in the community are more likely to see them. We will send notifications to people located in the affected area, and will also show that information on the Covid-19 Information Center," Facebook said. This will help distribute important and urgent updates related to Covid-19 or Covid-19 vaccination efforts to people in the community, it added. Facebook said Covid-19 Announcements can be used to communicate information on existing Covid-19 resources such as helplines; updates on hospital bed availability in districts such as Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and oxygen supported beds; and changes to existing Covid-19 rules and regulation that can impact communities and day-to-day actions like lockdowns, night curfews and changes to treatment protocols. The tool can also be used to share information about vaccine eligibility and registration, and the logistics of acquiring a vaccine; providing accurate information on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour; and suggesting preventive behavioural health measures to stop the spread of Covid-19, it added. Previously, the social media giant had said it would roll out a vaccine finder tool on its mobile app in India to help people identify places nearby to get inoculated. The company had also announced a $10 million grant for emergency response efforts for Covid-19 situation in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-rolls-out-covid-19-announcement-tool-in-india-987627.html
19-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka govt announces Rs 1,250 crore Covid-19 relief package||In your evening news brief, Karnataka govt announces financial assistance worth Rs 1,250 crore for those affected by the Covid-19 lockdown; Karnataka sets goal to vaccinate all those eligible in the state by November end and plea filed in the Supreme Court seeking details about the current status of the PM Cares Fund.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 19, 2021: Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced Wednesday financial assistance worth Rs 1,250 crore for those affected by the Covid-19 lockdown.  Under the package, floriculturists, fruits and vegetable growers who suffered losses will receive a compensation of Rs 10,000, amounting to a total of Rs 82.73 crore. This will cover around 95,000 farmers. Auto, taxi and maxicab drivers will receive a one-time compensation of Rs 3,000 amounting to around Rs 63-65 crore. Construction workers registered under Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board will also receive the same amount, and cost Rs 494 crore to the state exchequer.  Employees in the unorganised sector such as barbers, tailors, mechanics, cobblers, rag pickers and others will receive Rs 2,000 each. As many as 3.05 lakh beneficiaries will receive Rs 61 crore, Yediyurappa said.     The Karnataka government has set a goal to vaccinate all those eligible in the state by November end, against coronavirus. “Our major objective is to vaccinate all by October end or November end. All our efforts are in the direction of vaccinating every citizen by the end of the year," Health Minister K Sudhakar said.     A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking details about the current status of the PM Cares Fund, allocation made through it for Covid-19 relief and other projects and its links with the Union Government An activist, Saket Gokhale filed an intervention application before court in connection with the Suo Motu case on essential supplies to Covid-19. He contended that the PM Cares Fund is a non-governmental stakeholder, which was closely involved in decisions and projects related to the distribution and supplies of essentials in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-govt-announces-rs-1250-crore-covid-19-relief-package-987629.html
19-05-2021||National||Impressed with Bihar's HIT Covid App, PM seeks details for countrywide use||An innovative Home Isolation Tracking (HIT) App developed by the Bihar government to keep an eye on the condition of Covid patients recuperating at their residence has drawn special praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi came to know about the HIT App while talking to Patna district magistrate Chandrasekhar Singh during an interaction with officials of several districts of nine states on Tuesday. Impressed with the concept, the prime minister ordered to send its details to the union health ministry for its utilisation across the country, Singh said. "The health department has sent one-page detail of the HIT Covid App to the union health ministry," Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Pratyaya Amrit told PTI on Wednesday. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had launched the "HIT Covid App" on Monday to reach out to coronavirus patients undergoing treatment for the deadly disease in home isolation. As part of the project, health workers at the grassroot level visit patients in home isolation to record their temperature and oxygen level on a daily basis and the data is fed to the App. Based on the information, necessary action is taken by the health department for the ailing persons. The HIT App has been developed by the Bihar State Electronics Development Corporation (BELTRON) under the guidance of the health department. Amrit said the App was initially launched in five districts on a trial basis and seeing its success, it has been expanded across the state. A nodal officer has been appointed in every district, where a special team has been constituted for better upkeep of home quarantined sufferers. As part of the exercise, 80,000 ASHA or Auxiliary Nurse Midwife workers and 15,000 rural health workers trained by the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) have been engaged for a door-to-door survey of Covid patients in home isolation, the additional chief secretary added. NIOS is an autonomous body which functions under the guidance of the union ministry of education. It provides a number of vocational, life enrichment and community oriented courses besides general and academic courses at secondary and senior secondary level. Amrit said the scheme helped in identifying two critically ill Covid patients in Supaul district, who were provided timely medicare against the virus. "The App is a big help in fighting the Covid spread in rural areas of Bihar for more effective day-to-day monitoring of Covid patients," Amrit said. About the rural health workers roped in as foot soldiers in the fight against the pandemic, NIOS Director Sanjay Kumar Sinha told PTI over phone from Delhi that they have been given a crash course for one year by MBBS doctors. Those enrolled in the one-year course were imparted classes in the treatment of basic health problems in Primary Health Centres, he said. Sinha said the project was launched in Bihar in 2015 when he was posted as Regional Director of NIOS at Patna. Over 15,000 in Bihar have cleared the examination conducted by the NIOS and they have been given a certificate of community health worker, he said. Sinha, however, said that these community health workers are strictly directed to provide basic medical assistance to the needy only and help them reach a hospital if the problem is serious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/impressed-with-bihars-hit-covid-app-pm-seeks-details-for-countrywide-use-987642.html
19-05-2021||National||How celebrities, politicians are getting Covid-19 drugs? Bombay HC to Maharashtra govt & Centre||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government and the Centre to file affidavits explaining how celebrities and politicians were procuring anti-Covid-19 drugs, medical oxygen and other relief materials for coronavirus patients. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni had asked for such details last week as well from the the Maharashtra government and the Centre, who faced flak during hearing for non-compliance of previous orders. However, on Wednesday the state government submitted a report merely saying it had served show cause notices (on procuring Covid-19 relief materials) to Mumbai Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique and the Sood Charity Foundation (an NGO of actor Sonu Sood), but was yet to receive their replies. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the HC the Union government had not filed any report since procurement and distribution of Remdesivir (a key Covid-19 drug) and medical oxygen, among other items, were the prerogative of a state and the Centre merely allocated such resources to states based on the latter's demands. The bench took an exception to the responses of the state government and the Centre (represented by Singh). The HC said it had expected better replies and compliance of its previous orders from both the respondents. "These persons (celebrities) have no licence (to procure Covid-19 drugs, medical oxygen), who will take the guarantee? There should have been a report." "You (the state government)) have only issued show cause notices, we said place a report on this. We are not happy with this," the HC said. The bench said its primary concern was that the needy must not miss out on getting relief since all were not in a position to make appeals on social media. "Who will guarantee that drugs being given by these personalities are of proper quality?" the HC said. "The allocation is by UOI (Union of India), collection is by State, then where is the window for collection or procurement by these personalities? That is our anxiety," the bench observed. The HC directed the state and the Centre to file their detailed reply affidavits by next week. It also directed the Maharashtra government to submit details on the requirements for medical oxygen (needed to treat serious Covid-19 patients) and Remdesivir, among other items, across the state, the supplies it was receiving from the Centre and other entities. The HC was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on the management of issues connected to the Covid-19 pandemic.   It also praised the model devised by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to tackle the infection spread, procure, produce and store oxygen, and anti-Covid-19 drugs. Senior Counsel Anil Sakhare, who appeared for the BMC, told the bench that the civic body was making arrangements for vaccinating citizens and improving paediatrics health infrastructure in Mumbai (in view of a possible third Covid-19 wave). He said the BMC had invited a global expression of interest for procuring 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines. "Bombay (Mumbai) corporation has had unique vision since ages," the HC said. The court will continue hearing the PILs on May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-celebrities-politicians-are-getting-covid-19-drugs-bombay-hc-to-maharashtra-govt-centre-987648.html
19-05-2021||National||648 calls of help from pregnant women to NCW in last 20 days||From urgent requirement for a ventilator bed to need for plasma, about 648 calls of help were received by the NCW for pregnant women in the last 20 days. On April 29, the National Commission for Women (NCW) started a helpline for exclusively assisting pregnant women during emergencies under #HappyToHelp campaign. Ever since its launch, a group of 40 people are working together to manage different requests received on the helpline, including arranging oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma, and delivering medicines to the patients. "Till today, the helpline has saved 648 such pregnant women and their babies," NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said. Sharma said as the Covid-19 pandemic intensified, so increased the need for plasma. "In its initial days, the helpline received several requests for plasma after which we called for people who have recovered from Covid to come forward and donate plasma," she said. "People responded very positively to the NCW's call to save two lives by donating plasma for pregnant women and currently the helpline has plasma donors from across the country who have readily agreed to help," Sharma said. In one case, a 29-year-old pregnant woman from Bengaluru urgently needed a ventilator bed as the hospital did not have an ICU or a ventilator facility. The request was sent to the NCW's helpline for expecting mothers at midnight by a volunteer group.  "Every authority from the district health officer to the police commissioner was contacted for arranging the ventilator. Even the highest of our officials were involved. The team also contacted the health minister's office for help. Finally, after a night-long battle, a ventilator was arranged for the patient and she was shifted to an ICU," Sharma said. In another case, a 30-year-old pregnant woman from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh was urgently looking for an ICU for herself.  "After the request was sent to the helpline, our team coordinated with the authorities and she was shifted to a ventilator. The family had later informed that she gave birth to a baby girl," she added. The NCW has also roped in doctors for providing tele-consultation. "The NCW called for doctors to come forward and volunteer for the cause and at present there are over 20 doctors who provide tele-consultation services to women free-of-cost. These doctors hail from different parts of the country so that patients can clarify their queries in their own language," she said. Sharma said the helpline was started just with NCW team members but now several others, including social workers, doctors, influencers, celebrities, have joined in to amplify the helpline's reach.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/648-calls-of-help-from-pregnant-women-to-ncw-in-last-20-days-987651.html
19-05-2021||National||Shatrughna Singh takes charge as principal advisor to Uttarakhand CM||A day after resigning as Uttarakhand Chief Information Commissioner, former IAS officer Shatrughna Singh on Wednesday took charge as the principal advisor to Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, official sources said. Soon after assuming office, Singh made a courtesy call to the Chief Minister, they said. He resigned as state Chief Information Commissioner on Tuesday giving rise to speculation about being given an important responsibility in the Chief Minister's Office. A retired IAS officer of the 1983 batch, Singh has also served as Uttarakhand's Chief Secretary in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shatrughna-singh-takes-charge-as-principal-advisor-to-uttarakhand-cm-987662.html
19-05-2021||National||Is it necessary to mask up at home?||Of late, there has been an increased discussion on SARS-CoV-2 being ‘airborne’ and whether it is necessary to wear a mask even at home. This discussion was triggered by an article in the journal The Lancet which strongly advocated that Covid-19 is primarily transmitted through airborne route, and suggested wearing a mask indoors. This was followed by an explicit statement by Dr V K Paul, head of India’s Covid-19 task force, that it was time people start wearing masks inside their homes as well. This left people with many doubts and questions regarding wearing a mask at home and implications of airborne transmission. To make an informed decision on such issues, it is first important to understand the general scientific principles underlying the transmission of a virus like SARS-CoV-2 through air. Droplet transmission The primary source of Covid-19 spread (or any other respiratory disease) is the virus-laden droplets expelled from the nose/mouth of an infected person. This droplet transmission happens when a susceptible person comes in contact with infected droplets. Droplet transmission can take place either through direct droplet or airborne routes. Whenever an infected person coughs or sneezes, a wide range of muco-salivary droplets are generated with diameters ranging between a few micrometres (microns) and about a millimetre (1,000 microns). Furthermore, such events generate a ‘jet’ of air as would be generated by blowing air through the mouth. The droplets greater than 100 microns (of the size of an average thickness of a human hair) are heavy and are not affected much by this jet flow or the background air circulation. Such droplets settle down under the action of gravity but travel a distance of one to two metres away from the source before reaching the floor (or other surface) causing direct droplet transmission. This is the rationale behind the recommended physical distancing of one to two metres. However, the droplets which are lesser than 100 microns in size get ‘trapped’ in the jet flow and travel longer than one to two metres if the cough/sneeze event is intense. Among these droplets, those that are typically lesser than five microns in size are termed as aerosols and are the main agents of airborne transmission. Due to their tiny size, aerosols remain suspended in the air and can respond easily to any ambient air movement in a confined environment (AC or a fan in a room). They can thus be carried away from an infected person over much longer distances (up to 8-10 metres which is the size of a large room) and stay afloat for much longer times. The respiratory droplets also evaporate as they travel in air which reduces their size, provided the ambient air is not too humid.  Speech droplets Aerosols are released not only during events such as coughing/ sneezing but also while speaking, singing or even breathing. Speaking is an integral part of our lives and speech droplets (0.5-10 microns) or aerosols are therefore believed to be a primary source of virus transmission by asymptomatic carriers of SARS-CoV-2. These droplets evaporate completely within a few seconds but the solid substances dissolved in them can continue to harbour the virus. Research has shown that SARS-CoV-2 can remain active in aerosols from tens of minutes to a few hours, thereby making speech aerosols and those generated by other respiratory events highly likely carriers of infection. Wearing mask at home The droplet and airborne modes of infection can be prevented by wearing a good-quality mask which not only traps the droplets/aerosols but at the same time diminishes the jet flow generated by a respiratory event. This explains the need to wear a mask to reduce the risk of infection. However, there is no one-size-fits-all type of answer for whether masks have to be worn at home and it entirely depends upon the situation. When someone in your family has tested positive for Covid-19 or when an outsider visits your home, it is better to wear a mask as the aerosol transmission from such people is likely to infect the indoor air. If a person in a household goes out (especially, vulnerable places) for work regularly, it may be desirable for the household members to wear masks at home. If all the family members are largely confined within the household, it may not be necessary to wear a mask at home. Open windows Another frequently asked question by people is whether it is safe to keep windows of the house open as the virus transmits through air. From the mechanism of airborne transmission discussed above, it is clear that the virus needs a carrier in the form of aerosols/droplets to get transmitted through air. Therefore, for any virus to enter house through a window, some source of aerosols needs to be present outside the window, such as a person talking or a group of people conversing. In the absence of any such source in the vicinity of the window, the probability of a virus entering thehouse is minimal. New variants Another doubt puzzling people is whether the new variants of SARS-CoV-2 are more prone to be airborne than the earlier ones? The degree to which a virus is airborne depends upon the transport of aerosols on which it resides which means that the new and old variants of the virus should undergo a similar airborne transmission. However, it is possible that the concentration of virions expelled from the mouth, their sustenance time on aerosol particles and their infectivity are higher for the new variants of SARS-CoV-2. But these questions come under the purview of virology and not much related to the complexity of virus transmission. As a general rule, therefore, it is safer to follow the recommendations of avoiding people gathering, wearing a mask, maintaining six feet distance and ensuring good cross-ventilation (along with proper hand hygiene) to minimise the risk of airborne transmission of Covid-19 in a household setting. (The author is Assistant Professor at the Department of Aerospace Engineering, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-it-necessary-to-mask-up-at-home-987672.html
19-05-2021||National||PM Modi announces Rs 1,000 crore aid for cyclone-hit Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved assistance Rs 1,000 crore for "immediate relief activities" in Gujarat after conducting an aerial survey of areas hit by cyclone Tauktae in the state, an official release said. He also announced ex-gratia compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the kin of those killed due to cyclone in all affected states. Immediate financial assistance for the other affected states would be given after the respective state governments share assessment of the damage with the Centre, the Press Information Bureau (PIB) release added. The announcement was made after Modi held a review meeting here with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and top officials to assess the damage caused by the cyclone. Gujarat will get additional assistance after an inter-ministerial team which will visit soon submits its assessment, the release said. The prime minister announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the seriously injured in the cyclone across Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and the Union Territory of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, it said. After arrival from Delhi at Bhavnagar airport, Modi, accompanied by Rupani, boarded a helicopter and conducted an aerial survey of affected areas in Gujarat and adjoining Union Territory of Diu to assess the damage. The survey covered the Una taluka of Gir-Somnath district, Mahuva taluka of Bhavnagar and Jafrabad taluka of Amreli district besides Diu, the PIB release said. Later, he chaired a meeting at the Ahmedabad Airport "to review the relief and rehabilitation measures being undertaken in Gujarat and Diu", said the release. Chief Minister Rupani and state Chief Secretary Anil Mukim were also present at the meeting. The cyclone, which made landfall between Diu and Una town of Gir-Somnath district on Monday night after barrelling along India's west coast, left a trail of devastation. Modi assured the people of Gujarat that the Centre would closely work with the state government and extend all possible assistance for restoration and rebuilding of infrastructure in the affected areas, the release said. He also took stock of the coronavirus pandemic situation in the state and stressed the need to ensure that preventive measures are also taken, the release said. The PM expressed complete solidarity with all those who suffered due to the cyclone in different parts of the country and expressed deep sorrow to the families who have lost their kin during the calamity, it added. The Centre is working closely with the affected state governments in the wake of the situation post the cyclone, the PM said. We have to continue to focus on more scientific studies relating to disaster management, he said, and called for stress on enhancing intra-state coordination as well as using modern communication techniques to ensure quicker evacuation from affected areas. Immediate attention should be given to repairing damaged houses and properties, the release quoted the PM as saying. According to the Gujarat government, 45 persons lost their lives in cyclone-related incidents in the state. Tauktae triggered heavy rains from Saurashtra coast to North Gujarat. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, more than 40,000 trees and over 70,000 electric poles uprooted, while 5,951 villages faced total power blackout, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-announces-rs-1000-crore-aid-for-cyclone-hit-gujarat-987675.html
19-05-2021||National||Centre hikes fertiliser subsidy by 140% amid criticism from Opposition||To give relief to farmers from rising fertiliser prices, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday decided to increase the subsidy for Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP).  The PM, who chaired a meeting with the Ministry of Agriculture and Fertilizers officials, decided that farmers will get a bag of DAP for Rs 1,200 instead of Rs 2,400. This means farmers will get fertiliser at the old rate despite a hike in international prices for raw materials. The government will absorb the hike and will spend additional Rs 14,775 crore towards this subsidy during the coming Kharif season.  "A historic decision was taken to increase the subsidy for DAP fertiliser from Rs 500 per bag to Rs 1,200 per bag, which is an increase of 140 per cent. Thus, despite the rise in international market prices of DAP, it has been decided to continue selling it at the older price of Rs 1,200 and the central government has decided to bear all the burden of price hike. The amount of subsidy per bag has never been increased so much at once," said a statement from the Fertilizer Ministry. Unlike urea, P&K fertilisers are decontrolled products. The prices are fixed by the manufacturers and the government gives them fixed subsidies each year. For the current fiscal year, subsidies for P&K fertilisers have been kept unchanged. However, for the last few months, the international prices of raw materials of DAP and other P&K fertilisers have increased sharply. Prices of finished DAP in the international market have also risen proportionately. Opposition parties have been attacking over the rise in fertiliser prices and demanded to increase the subsidy amount immediately. Last year, the actual price of DAP was Rs 1,700 per bag. In which the Central Government was giving a subsidy of Rs 500 per bag. So the companies were selling fertiliser to farmers for Rs 1,200 per bag. Recently, the international prices of phosphoric acid, ammonia, etc. used in DAP have gone up by 60 per cent to 70 per cent. So the actual price of a DAP bag is now Rs 2,400, which could be sold by fertiliser companies at Rs 1,900 after considering a subsidy of Rs 500. With today's decision, farmers will continue to get a DAP bag for Rs 1200, said the statement. "The PM remarked that his Government is committed to the welfare of farmers and will take all efforts to ensure that farmers do not have to face the brunt of price-rise," the statement said. The Central Government spends about Rs 80,000 crore on subsidies for chemical fertilisers every year. With the increase in subsidy in DAP, the Government of India will spend an additional Rs 14,775 crore as subsidy in Kharif season, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-hikes-fertiliser-subsidy-by-140-amid-criticism-from-opposition-987679.html
19-05-2021||National||Jammu and Kashmir to have 5-bedded Covid-19 centers in every panchayat||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (LG) Manoj Sinha on Wednesday directed Deputy Commissioners and the Health Department to keep five-bedded Covid care centres available in every panchayat. “Directed DCs & Health Department to ensure 5-bedded Covid Care Centre in every Panchayat of J&K as many households may not have the option for isolation of Covid positive patients in their own residence. Each Centre to have One Oxygen-Supported Bed for immediate patient care," Office of LG, tweeted. In another tweet, he said that Rs 1 lakh has been approved from the capex budget for the creation of facilities in schools, community halls or panchayat ghars in consultation with the nearest Health Centre and Panchayat representatives. “These Centres shall be equipped with necessary medical kit and linked to nearest health centres. This will strengthen health infrastructure in rural areas,” it said. “The persons needing isolation shall be identified by the panchayats/concerned medical staff /ASHA workers. Mobile testing vans to be utilised to cover villages for testing with the help of PRIs and volunteers.” In another tweet, he said, “Medical officers to establish referral linkage with dedicated Covid Health Centres and dedicated Covid Hospitals. Ambulance services in rural areas to have oxygen support for safely transporting the patients to Covid-dedicated hospitals.” Though daily cases of Covid-19 in J&K continue to fall after hitting a peak earlier this month, deaths continue to rise with over 70 fatalities recorded in the last two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-to-have-5-bedded-covid-19-centers-in-every-panchayat-987684.html
19-05-2021||National||HC asks Centre, Delhi govt on availability of medicine for Black Fungus ||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought to know from the Centre and the Delhi government on availability of medicine required in the treatment of Black Fungus, affecting people recovering Covid-19.   A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh told the government counsel, “Tomorrow you tell us about your stock, your supply and how you are distributing it and what is the rationale behind it.”  Advocate Rakesh Malhotra raised the issue of the shortage of medicine Amphotericin B, for treating mucormycosis (Black Fungus). He cited recent order passed by the Delhi government concerning requisitioning of the drug for the ailment. According to the government mucormycosis or Black Fungus is a complication caused by a fungal infection.    The High Court asked the government to bring on record issues associated with the supply of medicine, especially when they are manufactured locally.  The court added the virus has raised its “ugly head” once again and the health crisis is unprecedented.     Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, cited the shortage of the medicine and added that it is worse than issues associated with the availability of Remdesivir. He said that the state government has requisitioned the drug from the Centre.  Malhotra submitted there is no stock and other states are facing a shortage of medicine. He said the Centre supplies this medicine to the states by rationing them.  The court asked both the Centre and Delhi government to take instructions on the issue and inform it on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-centre-delhi-govt-on-availability-of-medicine-for-black-fungus-987686.html
19-05-2021||National||Dushyant Chautala hits out at farmer leaders, says their intent is to serve own interest||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said the intent of the 40 farmer leaders -- spearheading the stir against Centre's three new farm laws -- is not to resolve the issue, but to serve their own interests. Chautala was reacting to the recent statement by senior BJP leader and former Union minister Birender Singh that there should be no further delay in finding a solution to the farmers' issue. He said these leaders have convinced several farmers to protest at various border points, but refrained from coming forward for talks for nearly four months. “I had earlier also requested the prime minister in writing that a team should be constituted. Centre has also sent messages on many occasions to the 40 (farmer) leaders that they should come forward for talks on the issue,” Chautala said. “…It has been nearly four months since January 26 (farmers' tractor rally) and those 40 leaders have put thousands (of people) at various borders but are not coming forward for talks. This shows their intent is not to save farming, but to serve their own interests,” he added. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of various farmers’ unions, is spearheading the stir against the Centre's new farm laws. The protesting farmers, who have been camping at various border points of the national capital including Singhu and Tikri, are demanding a rollback of the farm laws. Hitting out at the Congress, Chautala said they and “other small parties in the state are grinding their political axe through this (farmers') agitation”. Congress has in the past accused Chautala, whose party Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) is a coalition partner of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Haryana, of clinging to power and not openly standing with the farmers. The JJP leader also accused the farmer leaders of spreading falsehoods that mandis will shut down and farmers will be destroyed while he shared the details of the recent crop procurement and said the process was concluded smoothly. He said an amount of nearly Rs 16,000 crore had been directly credited into farmers' accounts, something on which questions were earlier raised. “When we took this decision to credit the amount directly into farmers' accounts (Direct Benefit Transfer) for their procured crops, Centre appreciated us in writing and said the Haryana model should be replicated,” he said. He said those who were opposing direct payment being made to farmers should also take into account that even the Congress government in Punjab has procured 136 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat and the entire payment has been made directly into the accounts of farmers. “Are these things not an answer to those who used to say mandis will shut down and opposed direct payment into farmers' accounts,” he said. Giving details of procurement in Haryana, he said of the 85.30 LMT of wheat arrival, 82.10 LMT has been put in warehouses and as committed, 9 per cent interest was given to farmers for delayed payment. Thus, an additional Rs 77 lakh has been paid to farmers due to delayed payment which took place because of technical glitches or other reasons, he said. He said sunflower crop procurement will start from June 1 in seven designated mandis. Meanwhile, with Haryana under lockdown since May 3 to curb the surge in Covid cases, Chautala said the sale of diesel and petrol has reduced by 27 and 30 per cent respectively due to the restrictions. Replying to another question, he said the excise financial year was to conclude on May 19 but has been extended till the time the state continues to be under lockdown. With liquor vends closed in the state during the lockdown period, he said proper monitoring of distilleries is being done and their entire record is being maintained. However, he said as vends are open in neighbouring Punjab and Rajasthan, “we have asked our police to step up strictness on inter-state borders” to ensure there is no smuggling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dushyant-chautala-hits-out-at-farmer-leaders-says-their-intent-is-to-serve-own-interest-987688.html
19-05-2021||National||Tauktae heading towards Haryana, cautions Dushyant Chautala||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday alerted the people of his state regarding the storm "Tauktae", saying it is headed towards the state.  He urged the people to stay vigilant during the next 48 hours and not step out of their homes for their safety, an official statement said here. According to the Meteorological Department, the flow of the storm is moving towards Haryana through Gujarat, Rajasthan and its speed can move up to 50 kilometres per hour in most districts of the state from Wednesday to Thursday evening. All Deputy Commissioners have been instructed to conduct regular monitoring, Chautala said. Instructions have been given to make arrangements in order to ensure that there is no loss of life and property in any district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tauktae-heading-towards-haryana-cautions-dushyant-chautala-987690.html
19-05-2021||National||High-level panel to enquire into ONGC barges stranding in Arabian Sea||Rattled by a large number of deaths, the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has set up a high-level committee to enquire into the sequence of events leading to the stranding of ONGC vessels as cyclone Tauktae wreaked havoc in the Arabian Sea. Three barges of Afcons, a contractor working on ONGC fields off the west coast with more than 600 people on board, were stranded in offshore areas during the severe cyclone. The committee, comprising Amitabh Kumar, Director General of Shipping; SCL Das, Director General of Hydrocarbons, and Nazli Jafri Shayin, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Defence has been constituted to enquire into the incidents. "The Committee may co-opt any other member, and take assistance of any person it deems necessary. The Committee shall submit its report within one month," an official press statement issued here said. The Terms of Reference of the Committee include inquiry into the sequence of events leading to the stranding and drifting of these vessels and subsequent events. It would look at whether the warnings issued by IMD and other statutory authorities were adequately considered and acted upon and whether the SOPs for securing the vessels and dealing with disaster management were adequately followed. The panel would also inquire into the lapses and gaps in the systems leading to the stranding and drifting of the vessels and make recommendations to prevent the recurrence of such incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-level-panel-to-enquire-into-ongc-barges-stranding-in-arabian-sea-987704.html
19-05-2021||National||Prasar Bharati planning DD International to project India on global stage||With the Narendra Modi government facing criticism in the international media over its Covid-19 handling, the state-owned Doordarshan is now planning to roll out 'DD-International' to "project India’s point of view globally on contemporary issues". Prasar Bharati has now issued a draft Expression of Interest (EOI) towards consultancy service for providing Detailed Project Report for setting up the new channel with a "strategic objective to build a global presence for Doordarshan and to establish an international voice for India". While the Modi government has been battered by international press on Covid-19 handling, it has sought comments from private players on the draft. "Hence, this EOI is being issued for a Detailed Project Report (DPR) from reputed global consultants with experience in advising international broadcasters/media houses on projects of this nature," the document states.  Doordarshan operates India’s largest network of 91 public TV channels and is streamed across the globe in several modes. The Prasar Bharati set tasks for the consultancy to provide inputs on setting up bureaux across the globe and 24x7 world service streams. The DD International aims to be the "authoritative global media source on India through credible, exhaustive and accurate global news service" and "tell the India story to a global audience". The chosen consultant will also have to "create a mindshare for India’s strategic interventions within key stakeholders across the globe from a geopolitics and global economy standpoint". For this, the consultant will have to provide a marketing and branding strategy and road map. The overall human resources strategy and roadmap should include engaging media professionals from across the globe and international reporters on time-sharing/freelancing basis, global talent on rolls as anchors and reporters among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prasar-bharati-planning-dd-international-to-project-india-on-global-stage-987707.html
19-05-2021||National||DoT warns telcos may misuse fixed broadband licence fee exemption; Trai starts review||Telecom regulator Trai on Wednesday started consultation to re-examine its suggestion to exempt fixed broadband service from licence fee to proliferate digital connectivity across the country. The move follows concerns raised by the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) on March 12 around likelihood of misuse of the exemption by telecom service providers. "DoT has raised certain new issues like exemption of the licence fee on the revenues earned from fixed-line broadband keeping in view the current factual matrix and relevant issues, likelihood of misuse by the licensees through misappropriation of revenues due to the proposed exemption," Trai said in a statement. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) issued a supplementary consultation paper on roadmap to promote broadband connectivity and enhanced broadband. The regulator said the concerns raised by DoT were neither explicitly consulted with the stakeholders in the consultation paper on 'Delivering broadband quickly: What do we need to do?' floated in April 2015. It was consulted in the paper on 'roadmap to promote broadband connectivity and enhanced broadband speed' in August 2020 and therefore, it has started the supplementary consultation. Trai in 2015 had recommended that the licence fee on the revenues earned on fixed-line broadband should be exempted for at least five years. Besides misuse of exemption, DoT has asked Trai to give a reference on whether the proliferation of fixed-line broadband services can be better promoted by providing direct benefit to consumers for usage of fixed-line broadband services. The regulator had also given recommendation on roll-out of 5G services. However, in the supplementary paper, it has invited views on the use of street furniture for the roll-out of 5G networks. Trai fixed June 3 as the last date for public comments on the consultation paper and June 10 for counter comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dot-warns-telcos-may-misuse-fixed-broadband-licence-fee-exemption-trai-starts-review-987719.html
19-05-2021||National||ED files money laundering case against Kalra, others||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering case against businessman Navneet Kalra and his associates in a recent case of alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators which were being anxiously scoured by those gasping for air due to Covid-19 infection, officials said on Wednesday. The central probe agency took cognisance of a Delhi Police FIR that was filed on May 5 after policemen raided some restaurants and premises owned and linked to Kalra and recovered more than 500 of these life-saving machines from there. Official sources said a criminal case under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been filed against Kalra and his associates and the ED will probe the money trail in the matter. The agency, they said, will probe if the oxygen concentrators were illegally hoarded and offered to the family members or caregivers of coronavirus-infected patients at exorbitant prices, thereby leading to generation of "proceeds of crime" as defined under the PMLA. The ED is empowered to question and record the statements of the accused and it can even attach their properties during the course of investigation, following which it files a charge sheet before a special PMLA court seeking their prosecution under the anti-money laundering law. Sources said exchange of basic documents and information sharing between the two agencies-- ED and Delhi Police crime branch-- has been done. Kalra was nabbed by Delhi Police crime branch sleuths from Gurgaon on Sunday night and was formally arrested the next day. He was later sent to three days police custody by a local court. Kalra was on the run for over a week since the seizure of more than 500 oxygen concentrators from his restaurants like Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nega & Ju. Police have said the concentrators seized from Kalra's restaurants were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs 50,000-Rs 70,000 a piece as against a cost of Rs 16,000-Rs 22,000 per piece. An oxygen concentrator is a piece of vital medical equipment used to provide oxygen to Covid-19 patients and they are in high demand amid the second wave of the pandemic being witnessed by the country at present. The police have pressed charges under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act against Kalra and others. Four employees of Matrix Cellular company, including its CEO and vice president, were also arrested in this case by the police. They were, however, granted bail by the court. Kalra is alleged to have purchased the concentrators from Matrix Cellular which had imported them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-files-money-laundering-case-against-kalra-others-987724.html
19-05-2021||National||Congress to remember Rajiv Gandhi through service to Covid-19 affected people||Congress will observe the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on Friday by helping the people deal with the pandemic and creating awareness about ways to avoid getting infected by Covid-19. AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal has asked state units of the Congress to distribute food packets to patients’ relatives at hospitals, ambulance drivers, people at funeral sites to mark the 30th death anniversary of the former prime minister. In a statement, he asked state Congress units to create mask awareness, distribute medicine kits, and help people register for vaccination to mark the solemn occasion. Beside, each MLC, MLA has been asked to provide at least two ambulances in their respective or neighbouring districts for Covid patients out of their local area development fund. At the same time, Venugopal asked party workers to avoid mass gatherings that violate Covid-19 protocol and continue activities to the “farthest extent possible” even after May 21, the death anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-remember-rajiv-gandhi-through-service-to-covid-19-affected-people-987726.html
19-05-2021||National||Jammu and Kashmir records 62 Covid-19 deaths, 3,969 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday reported 62 new Covid-19 deaths, taking the total tally to 3,355 while 3,969 fresh cases were also recorded in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 2,55,888. J&K, which has been engulfed in the second wave of Covid-19, has reported 1,072 deaths since May 1. On Monday, the union territory (UT) reported the highest death toll of 73, while 71 fatalities were reported on Tuesday. As per a daily media bulletin of the 62 fresh fatalities, 39 were reported in the Jammu division, while 23 from Kashmir. Similarly, 2,594 of the fresh cases were reported from the Kashmir division and 1,375 in Jammu in the last 24 hours. There are a total of 50,494 active cases in J&K, 29,522 in Kashmir, and 20,972 in Jammu. A total of 4,338 Covid-19 positive patients recovered from the deadly virus today taking the total recoveries to 2,02,039. As per the official figures, the administration has increased the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients to 5,476 of which 3,382 patients are admitted, 2,875 on oxygen support, and 118 on ventilator support. Meanwhile, normal life continued to remain affected across J&K in view of Corona Curfew that entered into the 21st straight day on Wednesday even as many people were booked for violating the lockdown. The restrictions on the public movement and assembly continued on Wednesday. The people mostly stayed indoors. It may be recalled that on April 29, the J&K administration imposed curfew in 11 districts to curtail the spread of Covid-19, which was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-records-62-covid-19-deaths-3969-new-cases-987727.html
19-05-2021||National||Fact-check | 'Covid-19 toolkit' attributed to Congress created on forged letterhead||An alleged document prepared by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) to “corner the Modi government and various BJP governments in the country” through social media and on-ground strategies was extensively shared by top BJP leaders on May 18. The hashtag #CongressToolKitExposed soon began trending. The document has been shared in two parts – four pages of a Covid-19 'toolkit' and four pages of research on the issues with the Central Vista project. The alleged toolkit urges Congress workers, volunteers and supporters to use the term ‘super spreader Kumbh’, ‘not comment on Eid gatherings’, respond to Covid-19 SOS messages ‘only if a person tags the IYC handle’, ‘use dramatic pictures of funerals and dead bodies which is already being done by foreign media’, etc. It also advises social media volunteers to use the term ‘Modi strain’ for the new variant of Covid-19 originating in India, etc. BIG EXPOSE: CONGRESS TOOLKIT Part II of the document analyses PM Modi’s dream project of redeveloping Central Vista. This section lays down the opportunity cost of the project, including Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen cylinders and monetary relief to victims. The document also lists the project’s adverse impact on the environment and architecture. BIG EXPOSE: CONGRESS TOOLKIT “It’s deplorable on their part to attempt to spread misinformation during this global catastrophe,” wrote health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.   LIE, DECEIVE & DIVIDE !  Nearly every media outlet reported on the alleged ‘toolkit’ created by Congress. AICC Research Department chairman Rajeev Gowda told Alt News that the part of the document recommending social media and on-ground strategies (titled ‘Cornering Narendra Modi and BJP on Covid-19 mismanagement’) has not been prepared by his party. The section addressing the issues with the Central Vista project (titled ‘Central Vista Redevelopment: Vanity Project Amidst the Pandemic’) was made by the AICC’s Research Department, he informed. “This (pages of the Central Vista document viral on social media) is part of a larger 6-page document which is a background note on policy and issues facing the nation. They seem to have obtained it illegally, and used it as a model to create a fake document, with forged letterhead,” Gowda furthered. “The Research Department’s mandate is threefold – one, to support Congress MPs in their parliamentary work; two, to expose the failures of non-Congress governments; and three is to ideate about the future,” he said adding that what should or should not be said on social media is not the mandate for the AICC Research Department. “We tend to focus on factual/ fact-checked information that is the basis for arguments, speeches.” Gowda had also tweeted that the document on “Covid-19 mismanagement” is fake. (Note: This article refers to the four pages of the Covid-19 mismanagement document as Covid-19 toolkit or toolkit, whereas the document on Central Vista has been referred to as the name suggests.) The letterhead on the Central Vista document does not match the one on the Covid-19 toolkit. The Central Vista document was first made on Microsoft Word and a PDF version was internally circulated, as per Gowda. While there can be differences in style and format on the body of a document, depending on the author, the header and footer on Word remain intact. As clearly evident, a leaner font has been used on the Covid-19 toolkit. The page numbering doesn’t match either. The number ‘one’ has been written as ‘I’ on the Central Vista document while the other document reads ‘1’.  Gowda also shared an older document with Alt News, prepared by the AICC Research Department. The fonts and style match the legitimate (Central Vista) research but are distinct from the toolkit document. This further indicates that the toolkit is morphed. “I challenge them to produce the original document, and we will get it investigated forensically to expose their lies,” said Gowda. The difference in the font used can also be spotted on the header. The top left corner of all pages say ‘May 2021’ but the ‘M’ in both documents are noticeably different.  The alignment on the footer is also distorted on the Covid-19 toolkit while letterhead, links and margins are perfectly aligned on the genuine document.  This prompted Gowda to post another tweet clarifying that AICC indeed prepared a document on Central Vista but the Covid-19 toolkit was “forged and made by the BJP”. He further said that Sambit Patra is showing the metadata/ author of the real document and attributing it to the fake.  What is a toolkit? It’s a document that lays down strategies for future course of action – what needs to be done and how. The Covid-19 toolkit defines what should be the messaging on social media and the actions that need to be taken on-ground. However, most of the directions of the toolkit refer to events that have already taken place. A document meant for suggesting courses of action for May 2021 and beyond, has several events which have already occurred in the month of April. “International media coverage by foreign correspondents in India can be tailored to exclusively focus on Modi and his mismanagement,” says the document prepared in May, whereas international media has been critical of the Modi government since April. The toolkit also instructs the repeated use of certain words and phrases to create a narrative on social media. To gauge its authenticity, Alt News checked if Congress members and volunteers were using these phrases in an organised manner or whether multiple individuals were using the terminologies. We found this wasn’t the case, and most of the limited usage was by people not associated with Congress. Rajeev Gowda informed us that the Central Vista research was circulated internally on May 7. The Covid-19 toolkit also says ‘May 2021’ on the top left corner of each page. But in the almost three weeks of this month, none of the ‘strategies’ have been applied. BJP members widely shared a tweet by London-based author Sonia Faleiro to support their claim. However, neither has Faleiro used the word ‘strain’ (her tweet says ‘variant’) nor is she associated with Congress. The ‘toolkit’ then advises the use of specific adjectives for senior BJP leaders. For instance, ‘missing’ Amit Shah, ‘quarantined’ Jaishankar, ‘sidelined’ Rajnath Singh, ‘insensitive’ Nirmala Sitharaman.   There are many such examples, including Srinivas’s response to BJP MP Hans Raj Hans who had used the hashtags #SOS and #SOSDelhi.  Srinivas had also tweeted photos of oxygen cylinders supplied to a person after anchor Rubika Liyaquat’s tweet. She had also not tagged IYC. Rajeev Gowda and Congress social media department chairman Rohan Gupta have filed a complaint with the Delhi police commissioner against BJP leaders JP Nadda, Sambit Patra, Smriti Irani, BL Santhosh, among others for “forging the letterhead of AICC Research Department and thereafter printing false and fabricated content on the same”.  An analysis by Alt News has revealed that the AICC Research Department letterhead has been tampered with in the toolkit document, raising questions about its authenticity. An examination of the content of the document, meant to strategise a future course of action, reveals that it refers to events that have already taken place in the past. The BJP till now has only shared screenshots of the alleged toolkit and has failed to produce the original – either the PDF version or the Microsoft Word version. Without the original document, the BJP’s claims come across as inauthentic, especially because the 'toolkit' is made on a poor copy of the original letterhead used by the AICC’s research wing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-covid-19-toolkit-attributed-to-congress-created-on-forged-letterhead-987732.html
19-05-2021||National||2 farmers die near Singhu border, 1 found Covid positive||Two farmers from Punjab, who were part of the group protesting against the new farm laws, passed away with one of them found Covid positive, officials said on Wednesday. The two farmers – Balbir Singh (50) and Mahender Singh (70) – residents of Patiala and Ludhiana respectively – died on Tuesday. They were part of the group protesting near the Singhu Border. Sonipat's Chief Medical Officer Jaswant Singh Punia said Balbir had been suffering from fever for a couple of days. He was declared brought dead at a government hospital and a test revealed that he had Covid, said Punia. Rai Station House Officer (SHO) Bijender Singh, however, said they were yet to receive the report from the health officials. Mahender's body was sent for post-mortem and the exact cause of his death was yet to be ascertained, said Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting at various border points near Delhi, including Singhu and Tikri, for the past six months demanding rollback of the Centre's new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-farmers-die-near-singhu-border-1-found-covid-positive-987737.html
19-05-2021||National||Toolkit row: NSUI files FIR against BJP leaders Raman Singh, Sambit Patra||The National Students' Union of India (NSUI), the Congress party's students wing, on Wednesday lodged an FIR against former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh and BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra in the toolkit row for allegedly "forging" the letterhead of the AICC Research Department and printing "false and fabricated" content. The BJP had hit out at the Congress on Tuesday over an alleged toolkit of the Opposition party, saying that it wanted to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by calling the new strain of Covid-19 the "India strain" or the "Modi strain". The Congress responded and accused the BJP of propagating a "fake toolkit" to defame it. The case for "spreading fake news" and "promoting enmity between classes" was filed at the Civil Lines Police Station on the complaint of Akash Sharma, state chief of the NSUI. Sharma alleged that BJP leaders had circulated fabricated content using a fake letterhead. The purpose of spreading this fake content was to divert the attention from the Modi Government's mammoth failure to help people during the Covid-19 pandemic, alleged Sharma. The case was registered under IPC sections 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505(1)(b) (circulating rumour or report with intent to cause fear or alarm). The opposition BJP in the state said the Congress's attempt to save face by registering an FIR would not work. Senior BJP MLA Brijmohan Agrawal said the Congress had allegedly created a toolkit to defame the prime minister and the country. When it was exposed, it was trying to save face by lodging FIRs, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-row-nsui-files-fir-against-bjp-leaders-raman-singh-sambit-patra-987746.html
19-05-2021||National||DH Deciphers | What's the brouhaha over the Narada sting operation case?||The Narada sting operation case has once again ruffled the political feathers in West Bengal, this time just weeks after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) trounced the BJP in a bitterly fought assembly election. On May 17, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested three TMC legislators and a former leader of the party. The TMC has cried political vendetta over the arrests whereas the BJP says the CBI is just doing its job. The case may have triggered a political row but it has more to do with probity in public life and government corruption. Let's dig deeper:  What is the Narada case?  The sting operation was conducted by senior journalist Mathew Samuel and published on the news website 'Narada' in 2016, just ahead of the assembly election in West Bengal. The tapes purportedly show 12 TMC leaders, including ministers, MPs and MLAs, accepting bribes from Samuel who posed as the representative of a fictitious company.  The TMC leaders allegedly caught on camera were Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra, Sovan Chatterjee, Saugata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Prasun Banerjee, Iqbal Ahmed, Aparupa Poddar and Sultan Ahmed (he died in 2017), Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari. S M H Meerza, then a superintendent of police, was also named.  What happened next?  The TMC questioned the authenticity of the footage but the Central Forensic Science Laboratory certified it as authentic.  On March 17, 2017, the Calcutta High Court ordered the CBI to probe the case and, if necessary, lodge an FIR against those involved. On April 17 that year, the CBI lodged an FIR against all the 12 TMC leaders and subsequently summoned them for questioning. After several twists and turns over the past five years, the CBI has now arrested four of them. The agency hasn't (so far) arrested Suvendu Adhikari or Mukul Roy (both of whom are in the BJP).   What does the TMC say?  From the very first day, the TMC has been calling the sting operation a "conspiracy". And it has pointed out how Adhikari and Roy, both BJP MLAs now, have been spared by the CBI.  West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, nominated by the BJP-ruled Centre, announced granting the prosecution sanction against Hakim and Mukherjee on May 9, a day before they were to take oath as ministers in the new state cabinet.  What's the CBI's argument?  The central agency denies having spared the BJP leaders. It says it has sought the Lok Sabha speaker's sanction to prosecute not just Adhikari and Roy but also MPs Saugata Roy, Dastidar, Banerjee and Poddar.  What's the present status?  In a dramatic turn of events on May 17, CBI officials, accompanied by a large number of central forces, picked up Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee from their homes and brought them to the CBI office at Nizam Palace in Kolkata where they arrested them later. While a CBI court granted all of them bail in the evening, the CBI moved the Calcutta High Court and succeeded in staying the bail hours later. The CBI has asked for transferring the case to another state and implicating Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Law Minister Malay Ghatak. The case will be heard again on May 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-whats-the-brouhaha-over-the-narada-sting-operation-case-987759.html
19-05-2021||National||TV actor Munmun Dutta booked for communal remark||Police have registered a case against television actor Munmun Dutta in Indore for allegedly using an objectionable word against a Scheduled Caste community, an official said on Wednesday. A video of Dutta using a particular word against the community had gone viral on social media recently, he said. Based on a complaint lodged by Akhil Bharatiya Balai Mahasangh president Manoj Parmar, an FIR was registered against Dutta under relevant sections of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the official said. In his complaint, Parmar said that the use of a "racist" word by Dutta in her video has hurt the sentiments of the Scheduled Caste community, especially the Valmiki community. However, Dutta, who plays the role of Babita in Tarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, has already apologised for her controversial remarks even before the case was filed. The actress had released her apology on May 10 on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tv-actor-munmun-dutta-booked-for-communal-remark-987761.html
19-05-2021||National||ICMR approves Covid-19 home testing but advises against indiscriminate use of kits||The ICMR Wednesday advised against indiscriminate Covid-19 home testing using Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs), saying it should be used only on symptomatic individuals and on the immediate contacts of laboratory-confirmed positive cases. All individuals who test positive through the RAT kit may be considered as true positives and no repeat testing is required, the Indian Council of Medical Research said in an advisory. "Home testing by RAT is advised only in symptomatic individuals and immediate contacts of laboratory-confirmed positive cases. Indiscriminate testing is not advised," the county's apex health research body said. "All symptomatic individuals who test negative by RAT should get themselves immediately tested by RT-PCR. This is especially important as the RATs are likely to miss few positive cases presenting with a low viral load. "All RAT negative symptomatic individuals may be treated as suspect Covid-19 cases and are advised to follow the ICMR/Ministry of Health home isolation protocol while awaiting the RT-PCR test result," the advisory stated. Home testing should be conducted as per the procedure described by the manufacturer in the user manual. The ICMR said the home testing mobile app is available in Google play store and Apple store and must be downloaded by all users. The mobile app is a comprehensive guide of the testing procedure and will provide a positive or negative test result to the patient. All users are advised to click a picture of the test strip after completing the test procedure with the same mobile phone which has been used for downloading the mobile app and user registration. "Data in the app of your mobile phone will be centrally captured in a secure server which is connected with the ICMR Covid-19 testing portal, where all data will be eventually stored. Patient confidentiality will be fully maintained," the advisory underlined. Presently, CoviSelfTM(PathoCatch) Covid-19 OTC Antigen LF device manufactured by Mylab Discovery Solutions Ltd., Pune (Maharashtra), India has been validated and approved, the apex health research body said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-approves-covid-19-home-testing-but-advises-against-indiscriminate-use-of-kits-987762.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||Former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and his wife Mira test positive for Covid-19||Former West Bengal Chief Minister and CPI(M) leader Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and his wife Mira Bhattacharjee tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.  While his wife has been admitted to a private hospital, the 77-year-old veteran leader is being treated at home as of now. The CPI(M) leadership wants him to get admitted to a hospital as well. But Bhattacharjee, a long-time patient of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), insists on staying at home. Bhattacharjee is suffering from poor health for quite some time, which forced him to retire from active politics. He was absent from CPI(M)'s campaigns during the 2021 West Bengal Assembly elections and did not even go to vote because of the ongoing pandemic. On December 9 last year, Bhattacharjee was admitted to the hospital in south Kolkata as his breathing problems aggravated and had to be put on ventilation. His oxygen saturation had deteriorated to 70 per cent, though he was Covid-negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-west-bengal-chief-minister-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-and-his-wife-mira-test-positive-for-covid-19-987461.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||PM broadcasts interaction, Sisodia questions 'protocol'||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday questioned the live transmission of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's interaction with district magistrates and officials on Covid-19 and wondered about the protocol of such telecast. Referring to the criticism of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal after his comment during a meeting with the prime minister was broadcast last month, Sisodia asked how to determine which meetings could be telecast live. No reaction to Sisodia's remark was immediately available from the ruling BJP at the Centre. Interacting with district magistrates at a meeting on Tuesday, Modi said they were free to innovate to suit their local requirements and asked them to share their feedback about any change in policy without any inhibition. "The statement of the Prime Minister in the meeting today was telecast live. In a previous meeting, there was objection against CM Arvind Kejriwal's live telecast that protocol was breached. Whether live telecast was allowed in the protocol today. How would it be known which meeting is to be live telecast and which not," Sisodia tweeted in Hindi.   Kejriwal's had shared live his comments during the interaction with Modi over Covid-19 on April 23. Modi had chided Kejriwal for "breaking protocol", and later central government officials accused the AAP chief of "playing politics". The Delhi government had responded to the sharp reaction, claiming Kejriwal's address was shared live because there had never been any written or verbal instruction that it was not allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-broadcasts-interaction-sisodia-questions-protocol-987464.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||Teachers' deaths: Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt, says it is taking away honour after death||Slamming the Uttar Pradesh government over the deaths of teachers and workers who were on duty during the panchayat polls, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday alleged that it did not provide them proper treatment and was also taking away their honour after death. Her attack came a day after a teachers' body said over 1,600 teachers and workers of the Basic Education Department had died of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh since the first week of April and claimed 90 per cent of them were on panchayat poll duty. Taking objection to the state government refuting the report, the Congress leader said, “Denying the list of 1,621 teachers, who died while doing duty during the panchayat elections, issued by the Uttar Pradesh Shikshak Sangh, an insensitive UP government is saying the number of teachers who died was only three." The teachers did not get proper safety equipment and treatment while they were alive and now the government is also taking away their honour after death, the Congress general secretary alleged in a tweet in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi had earlier too lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government for conducting panchayat elections amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, saying that what is happening in the state is nothing less than a "crime against humanity" and the State Election Commission (SEC) is "playing along". According to a statement by Dr Dinesh Chandra Sharma, president of the Uttar Pradesh Praathmik Shikshak Sangh, 1,621 teachers and workers of the Basic Education Department have died from the first week of April to May 16 following the outbreak of the second Covid-19 wave. “Of these 1,621 deaths, more than 90 per cent of the teachers were on panchayat election duty," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/teachers-deaths-priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-govt-says-it-is-taking-away-honour-after-death-987537.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||UP govt lying about number of teachers who died during poll duty: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of lying about the number of teachers who lost their lives during the recent panchayat poll duty to avoid giving them compensation. "To avoid giving compensation, the ruthless BJP government in Uttar Pradesh is now lying that only three teachers have died during election duty while the figures given by the teachers' body is more than 1,000," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. "The BJP government is creating a 'world record of big lies'. How would the heartless BJP members realise the grief of these families?'' he further said, and attached a newspaper report. Earlier, president of the Uttar Pradesh Praathmik Shikshak Sangh, Dinesh Chandra Sharma, had said that 1,621 teachers and workers of the Basic Education Department have died since the first week of April following the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19. Of these 1,621 deaths, more than 90 per cent of the teachers were on panchayat election duty, he had said, while also demanding Rs 1 crore to be paid to the kin of deceased teachers and workers as financial assistance. However, Satish Chandra Dwivedi, the UP minister of state (independent charge) for basic education, had said that all these deaths cannot be attributed to elections and according to government data, only three teachers died due to Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-govt-lying-about-number-of-teachers-who-died-during-poll-duty-akhilesh-yadav-987574.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||Recall West Bengal Governor, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday demanded that West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar be immediately recalled, claiming that attempts were being made to create political instability in the state. The conduct of the West Bengal governor is "against the Constitution", an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' alleged in the wake of the ongoing political tussle between the TMC-led state government and the opposition BJP. "Attempts are being made to create instability and unrest in West Bengal...the governor should be immediately recalled," said the Sena, which extended support to Trinamool Congress (TMC) head and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee ahead of the state polls held recently. The arrest of four TMC leaders by the CBI in connection with the Narada sting tape case smacks of "political vendetta", the Marathi daily further charged. "They were caught on camera taking bribes in the the 2014 Narada string operation. But why no action against the other two accused - Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari - who are now with the BJP? Have they become clean since they are now in the BJP and fought elections against (TMC head) Mamata Banerjee?" it asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/recall-west-bengal-governor-says-shiv-sena-987594.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||Congress targets PM Modi on fertiliser price hike||The Congress on Wednesday targeted the Modi government over increase in fertiliser prices and termed it as yet another attack on farmers after the “so called” agriculture reforms in the form of three farm laws. “What did the Modi government increase? GST, petrol, diesel and fertiliser prices, income of Modi’s friends and injustice to farmers in pandemic times. And what was lowered – farm subsidy, farmers’ income and dignity of the central government,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said. The opposition party mounted a fresh attack on the Modi government, accusing it of planning to “destroy farming and hand over the sector to corporate friends.” “The Modi government, which is anti-farmer, has now increased prices of DAP and other fertilisers that will put an additional burden of Rs 20,000 crore on farmers across the country,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters. “We demand that the government immediately roll back the hike in prices of fertilisers,” he said. He claimed that the Modi government is working towards making farming difficult and unremunerative, and force farmers to surrender their land to industrialists. Surjewala said the price of a 50-kg pack of DAP fertiliser has been raised from Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,900, and claimed that such a hike has never happened in over 70 years. Surjewala also claimed that the government has also imposed GST on farm equipment and other inputs used in the agriculture sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-targets-pm-modi-on-fertiliser-price-hike-987606.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||Spreading confusion & anarchy is part of Kejriwal's 'toolkit', says BJP over his Singapore Covid-19 variant remark||The BJP on Wednesday hit out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over his remarks about "new form of coronavirus in Singapore" that have sparked a controversy, alleging that it is part of his "toolkit to spread confusion and anarchy". BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia charged Kejriwal with seeking political mileage at the cost of India's image with his "irresponsible" tweet and said the Delhi chief minister keeps making "hue and cry" over one issue or another so that nobody questions him on his "all-round failure" in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic in the city. The BJP also accused the AAP chief of "serious violation" of constitutional propriety by speaking on matters of foreign affairs and alleged that Kejriwal's "irresponsible" statements are not only jeopardising the lives of Indian citizens but also friendly relations with countries that are coming forward to help our nation. "Kejriwal has presented his toolkit of spreading confusion and anarchy and seems to be competing with the Congress in propagating lies and destabilising the country," he alleged. In a tweet, Kejriwal had said on Tuesday, "A new form of coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. "My appeal to the Central government: 1. Cancel all air services with Singapore with immediate effect 2. Work on vaccine alternatives for children on a priority basis." After Singapore had objected to Kejriwal's tweet, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had ticked him off saying the Delhi chief minister does not speak for India. "The Delhi government believes in making so much hue and cry as to ensure that nobody questions it on its all-round failure in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic in the city," Bhatia said. The BJP spokesperson alleged the AAP government believes in the PPP model of "publicity, cheap politics and panic". Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia defended Kejriwal's comments and accused the BJP and its government of doing "cheap politics" over the issue. The statements and reactions of the BJP and Centre show that they are "concerned" about their "image" in Singapore and not about the children in India, Sisodia charged at a press conference. Bhatia said it is clear that it is Kejriwal who is doing "cheap politics" as he did not even try to verify before posting his controversial tweet. In its statement, the Singapore foreign ministry said there is no "Singapore variant" and that the strain prevalent in many of the Covid-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant. Following Singapore foreign ministry's reaction regretting the "unfounded assertions" by Kejriwal, Jaishankar said, "... irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify- Delhi CM does not speak for India." MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Indian High Commissioner conveyed to the Singapore government that the Delhi chief minister had no competence to comment on Covid variants. Attacking Kejriwal, the BJP spokesperson said, "Meddling in foreign policy matters which is as per the Constitution of India is not a state subject amounts to serious violation of constitutional propriety." He cited reports to highlight Singapore's support to India during the recent oxygen crisis and said Kejriwal's comments are dangerous and can't be overlooked. "Don't weaken India. In the process you will be weakened too," he said. After Kejriwal's tweet, Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri had reminded him that all international flights have been stopped since March 2020 and there isn't even an air bubble arrangement with Singapore. Only a few flights are being operated between the two countries under Vande Bharat Mission to bring stranded Indians back, he added. "We are still keeping an eye on the situation. All precautions are being taken," Puri had noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/spreading-confusion-anarchy-is-part-of-kejriwals-toolkit-says-bjp-over-his-singapore-covid-19-variant-remark-987616.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||Prove Pragya Thakur's 'gaumutra' claim: Congress MLA to Harsh Vardhan||A Congress MLA on Wednesday appealed to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and the National Health Mission to scientifically prove Bhopal BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur's claim about the 'gaumutra' (cow urine) protection against coronavirus. In his letter to Harsh Vardhan, senior Congress leader PC Sharma said, "Pragya Singh Thakur is a senior BJP leader and MP from Bhopal. She stated that gaumutra cures the infection of lungs and the Covid-19. Her words must be credible". On Sunday, Thakur told a function that the cow urine extract offers protection against lung infections and coronavirus. "Now the pandemic is spread in villages. It is apprehended that statements of Thakur will leave the villagers who have faith in 'Gau Mata' (the cow) confused and they will start tasking this medication (cow urine) ignoring the well- established treatment of allopathy", said Sharma, who represents the Bhopal South-West Assembly constituency. The MLA said he wrote to Harsh Vardhan and the National Health Mission commissioner, MP, to "remove this confusion and scientifically certify the 'gaumutra' claim made by Thakur". Thakur had said 'gaumutra ark' (cow urine extract) of a desi cow can keep people away from lung infections. "I am in a lot of trouble (health issues) but take the 'gaumutra ark' every day. After this, I am not supposed to take any other medicine for coronavirus. I am not affected by coronavirus infection. I believe God will keep me protected as I am using this medicine (gaumutra ark)," the Bhopal MP had said. Various statements of Thakur, an accused in the 2008 Malegaon bomb blast case, had sparked controversies in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prove-pragya-thakurs-gaumutra-claim-congress-mla-to-harsh-vardhan-987666.html
19-05-2021||National Politics||BJP claims it found author of Congress 'toolkit'; Opposition accuses govt of 'cynical politics'||Controversy over the alleged Congress "toolkit" to defame Modi deepened on Wednesday with BJP claiming to have identified its author and shared tweets of those supposedly close to Rahul Gandhi having "tacitly accepted" it. AICC research department Chairman Rajeev Gowda, who had on Tuesday lodged a police complaint against BJP chief J P Nadda and other senior leaders of the ruling party, trashing the alleged "toolkit" as a "forgery", went hammer and tongs saying "the BJP ecosystem indulges in the worst form of cynical politics.' 'Its dirty tricks dept extracted a colleague’s name from our genuine Central Vista document & attributed it to its FAKE ‘toolkit’. She deactivated her SM accounts after online harassment. Shame! Take me on, not my team!," Gowda said hours after the BJP repeatedly raised questions.   BJP ecosystem indulges in the worst form of cynical politics. Its dirty tricks dept extracted a colleague’s name from our genuine Central Vista document & attributed it to its FAKE ‘toolkit’ She deactivated her SM accounts after online harassment Shame! Take me on, not my team! "Let’s be clear. We made a research note on Central Vista for the party. It's genuine & fact-based. I tweeted yesterday that “Covid-19 toolkit" is FORGED & is a MADE in BJP product. Patra is showing metadata/author of a real document & attributing it to a FAKE one," he said. Patra earlier said that the alleged 'toolkit' was designed by Congress and authored by Saumya Varma, who, he said, works at the office of Congress MP MV Rajeev Gowda. "Friends yesterday Congress wanted to know who’s the Author of the toolkit. Pls check the properties of the Paper. Author: Saumya Varma Who’s Saumya Varma ...The evidence speaks for itself: Will Sonia Gandhi & Rahul Gandhi reply?," he tweeted along with photos of Saumya with Rahul Gandhi and other Congress leaders.   BJP IT Cell head Amit Malviya tweeted, "In another tell all development, Saumya Varma, whose name figured as the author of the Congress toolkit has deleted her Twitter and LinkedIn accounts. It is getting murkier as Congress rushes to erase digital footprint of their anti-India activities." He said that Gowda, head of Congress’ research wing, must explain who Saumya Varma is and her role in drafting the toolkit. "Congress denies the toolkit to be theirs. They disowned digital footprint of Saumya Varma, whose name figured as author of the toolkit but Sanjukta Basu, part of Rahul Gandhi’s SM team, openly admits that the toolkit is theirs and hails the initiative!," Malviya said tweeting a photo of Sanjukta with Rahul Gandhi in which she says "it is the birthright of a political party to run campaigns to ruin the image of the opponent. Modi is crying because Team Congress is finally doing a good job..."   National Coordinator of Congress social media Hasiba Amin, however, slammed the attempt to drag in Saumya. The "toolkit" controversy was triggered on Tuesday as BJP's Sambit Patra mounted a massive attack on Congress accusing it of having made a detailed plan to tarnish the image of Modi by using the pandemic and roping in foreign media. Putting out screen shots of the purported document, which he called "Congress toolkit",  Patra cited how Congress workers were instructed to call the mutant strain as Modi strain and how Congress allegedly asked the workers to call the Kumbh Mela as the "Super Spreader Kumbh''.  As scores of BJP leaders attacked the Congress over the issue, Congress lodged a police complaint, accusing the BJP of propagating a "fake" document and "shamelessly concocting forgeries."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-claims-it-found-author-of-congress-toolkit-opposition-accuses-govt-of-cynical-politics-987687.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Singapore rejects Kejriwal's tweet on 'very dangerous' Covid-19 strain in the country||Singapore on Tuesday dismissed media reports quoting Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal that a “very dangerous" strain of the coronavirus was prevalent in the city state, saying there is “no truth whatsoever” in such assertions. Taking to Twitter, Kejriwal said the new strain of coronavirus could invade India in the form of a third wave. "The new form of coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Cancel all air services with Singapore with immediate effect 2. Work on vaccine alternatives for children on a priority basis," the Delhi chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi on Tuesday. सिंगापुर में आया कोरोना का नया रूप बच्चों के लिए बेहद ख़तरनाक बताया जा रहा है, भारत में ये तीसरी लहर के रूप में आ सकता है। केंद्र सरकार से मेरी अपील:1. सिंगापुर के साथ हवाई सेवाएं तत्काल प्रभाव से रद्द हों2. बच्चों के लिए भी वैक्सीन के विकल्पों पर प्राथमिकता के आधार पर काम हो Responding to Kejriwal’s tweet, Singapore’s health ministry said: “There is no truth whatsoever in the assertions found within the reports”. “There is no Singapore variant. The strain that is prevalent in many of the Covid-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India. Phylogenetic testing has shown this B.1.617.2 variant to be associated with several clusters in Singapore,” it said in a statement. Responding to the chief minister's appeal, India's Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said only a few flights are being operated between the two countries under the government's Vande Bharat Mission to bring stranded Indians back, and added that "all precautions are being taken". While there is no known Singapore strain of the coronavirus or any known to have originated in the city-state, Kejriwal appeared to be referring to a media report on Monday. The report had mentioned the threat posed to Singapore's children by the variant first detected in India. Reacting to the media report, Dr V K Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, told a briefing on Tuesday, "We are examining it". Aviation Minister Puri replied to the Delhi CM's tweet, saying, "Kejriwal ji, all international flights have been stopped since March 2020. We have no air bubble with Singapore either." Only a few flights are being operated between the two countries under Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indians stuck there, he added. "We are still keeping an eye on the situation. All precautions are being taken," Puri noted. Earlier this month, the chief minister had said Delhi should prepare for the third wave of Covid-19. The national capital on Tuesday reported 4,482 Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day rise since April 5, and 265 fatalities, while the positivity rate dipped to 6.89 per cent. Delhi had reported 4,524 cases and 340 fatalities on Monday, while the positivity rate was 8.42 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/singapore-rejects-kejriwals-tweet-on-very-dangerous-covid-19-strain-in-the-country-987410.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Will carry out random audit to check fleecing of Covid patients: Anil Vij||Taking cognisance of complaints that some private hospitals are fleecing Covid patients, Health Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said a random audit will be conducted and if found overcharging, strict action will be taken against them. His response came when asked that Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is a BJP MLA from Panchkula, on Tuesday said he had received many complaints in this regard. Gupta wrote a letter to the chief minister and the health minister, recommending that all such hospital bills in the state should be audited. Gupta has also sought the cancellation of licences of hospitals found fleecing patients. He cited instances where private hospitals are charging exorbitant sums of money from those patients who are government employees, covered under various insurance schemes as well as those who don't fall in these two categories. The speaker had told reporters that he had formed a district-level committee after receiving complaints in this regard. In the case of one private hospital in Panchkula, Gupta said a Covid patient was handed out a “provisional bill” of Rs 7.59 lakh and the committee had found that surgical items and medicines were charged more than three times. “I also paid a visit to the hospital and when the matter was enquired by the committee, the hospital issued a revised bill of Rs 2.90 lakh to the patient. They had no answer when asked to explain how there could be so huge difference between a provisional and a final bill,” said Gupta. Gupta also said it was found in some cases that the patients with insurance cover or those from the government sector, whose bills are reimbursed by the government, are given “inflated” bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-carry-out-random-audit-to-check-fleecing-of-covid-patients-anil-vij-987435.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan Congress MLA Hemaram Chaudhary submits resignation||Rajasthan Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary, one of the 19 legislators who rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year, tendered his resignation from the state Assembly on Tuesday. The reason behind his resignation could not be immediately known. However, the opposition BJP alleged that the MLA resigned as he was sidelined in the party. The Congress, on the other had said, it was their internal matter and they will resolve it soon. "Choudhary has resigned as a member of the Legislative Assembly. The resignation letter has been sent to the Assembly speaker," the MLA’s office said on Tuesday. An Assembly spokesperson said the resignation sent through an e-mail was received by the Assembly secretariat, on which action as per rules will be taken. The Barmer’s Gudhamalani MLA had cornered his own government in Assembly during the budget session in March this year, accusing it of discriminating against his constituency on the issue of development. State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra said Choudhary is a senior and respectable leader of his party and he has spoken to Choudhary. “This is a family matter and will be resolved soon,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, BJP leaders claimed that the MLA’s resignation has exposed the feud in the ruling party. “It is a rare case where an MLA has resigned as issues and problems of people of his constituency were not being addressed. I have seen him in the House for a long time and whenever he speaks in the House, he speaks from his heart,” said Gulab Chand Kataria, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly. Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore said the MLA's resignation showed that there is no internal democracy in the Congress. “A senior leader was ignored to an extent that he had to resign,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-congress-mla-hemaram-chaudhary-submits-resignation-987481.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||With five deaths, Ladakh reports highest single-day spike in fatalities due to Covid-19 this year||With the death of five people, Ladakh has reported the highest single-day spike in fatalities due to Covid-19 this year, raising the toll to 170, officials said on Wednesday. They said the total number of coronavirus cases has gone up to 16,784, with 202 fresh infections being reported in the union territory. They said Ladakh has reported the death of five patients -- four in Leh and one in Kargil. This is the highest single-day spike in deaths in union territory this year. Three coronavirus patients each died on May 5 and May 14. The total number of deaths in the union territory has reached 170 -- 123 in Leh and 47 in Kargil, they said. The total number of active cases in the union territory has reached 1,583 -- 1,300 in Leh district and 283 in Kargil district, the officials said. Of the total 16,784 Covid-19 cases in Ladakh, 13,810 are from Leh and 2,974 from Kargil, they said. The officials said a total of 156 patients, 137 in Leh and 19 in Kargil, were discharged after successful treatment, taking the number of recoveries to 15,031, which accounted for over 90 per cent of the total cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-five-deaths-ladakh-reports-highest-single-day-spike-in-fatalities-due-to-covid-19-this-year-987489.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh cabinet condoles demise of Revenue Minister Vijay Kashyap||The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet on Wednesday condoled the death of Minister of State for Revenue and Flood Control Vijay Kashyap. The Cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath passed a resolution condoling the death of Kashyap, a government spokesman said. The 56-year-old Kashyap succumbed to Covid-19 at a Gurgaon hospital on Tuesday night. He was an MLA from Muzaffarnagar's Charthawal Assembly seat. The Cabinet prayed for peace for the departed soul and extended condolence to the bereaved family, the spokesman said. Kashyap is the third UP minister to succumb to the virus.  Last year, Uttar Pradesh ministers Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan had died after contracting the virus||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cabinet-condoles-demise-of-revenue-minister-vijay-kashyap-987500.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 volunteers in Gorakhpur emerge as saviours||During the tough times when Gorakhpur witnessed deaths and sufferings due to Covid-19, a group of 15 young volunteers calling themselves 'Team Madad' have emerged as saviours, helping people with food, medicines and counselling. From providing information about vacant ICU beds and ventilators to delivering medicines and arranging transportation, the team which comprises students, professionals, social activists and journalists, has come to the rescue of the needy. One of the members, Satya Charan Rai, told PTI that the volunteers came in contact on social media during the first wave of coronavirus and formed a team. "We started holding online meetings and decided to feed migrant labourers. Each one of us started distributing food with the help of local volunteers in their respective areas," he said. Team "Madad", which means "help", has seven women members and it has also been actively working towards arranging plasma and providing counselling. "We also contacted public representatives to strengthen our drive and circulated our phone numbers on social media after which we started getting calls round the clock," Rai said. “During the second wave of the pandemic, especially last month, many people were not getting medicines so we started contacting wholesalers and helped in delivering and providing information about the availability of medicines," he said. The team collected data on vacant beds with the help of patients as the hospitals did not cooperate, he said, adding that a list of Covid-19 hospitals was also circulated on social media. Rai further said that a WhatsApp group including the team members and administrative officials was formed which was very helpful in extending help to the needy. Talking about the support they received from officials, he mentioned that Sadar tehsildar went out of the way to help patients. On the team's efforts in rural areas, he said, "The condition is now getting better in Gorakhpur and there is no crisis of oxygen and beds but there is a surge in Covid-19 cases in rural areas which is a real challenge as the healthcare system is not strong there." "We are also focusing on rural areas now. We are giving online counselling to people and trying to fill them up with positive energy," he stressed. Recognising the help extended to him by Team Madad, Shamshad Ansari, resident of Bishnupura village, said, "My 35-year-old wife Nafeesa Khatoon is suffering from chronic kidney disease and during the first week of May she tested Covid-19 positive. When we failed to get an ICU bed, we contacted Team Madad and they not only informed us about a vacant ICU bed but also helped me in getting medicines." "My wife is now out of danger and I am very thankful to Team Madad as they not only helped me but gave me counselling during these stressful days," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-volunteers-in-gorakhpur-emerge-as-saviours-987503.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Case filed against 'miscreants' after video shows cows inside J-K hospital||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban district have registered a case against “miscreants” after an inquiry revealed that the cows inside a hospital were deliberately huddled inside to malign the image of the administration, officials said on Wednesday. A 20-second video purportedly of Out Patient Department of district hospital Ramban was circulated on the social media on May 16, showing cattle inside the building. Deputy Commissioner, Ramban Mussarat Islam immediately ordered an inquiry by the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) who, in his report on Tuesday, revealed that the video has been surreptitiously shot. As per the report, the cows were deliberately huddled inside the OPD after breaking the lock of the gate as it was a Sunday to malign the image of the hospital administration. “The video has been stage-managed by taking advantage of the open main gate in view of the ongoing construction work with the sole objective to mislead the general public and falsely showcase a Covid Care Centre where the entry is totally restricted and manned by a police component round-the-clock,” the CMO said in his report. Taking note of the inquiry report, the officials said a complaint has been lodged with Ramban police station so that the miscreants who shot the video are booked under the relevant provisions of the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-filed-against-miscreants-after-video-shows-cows-inside-j-k-hospital-987512.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Issue not Singapore but children: Manish Sisodia slams BJP after controversy over 'new' Covid strain||Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday defended Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's comments about a "new" Covid-19 strain in Singapore that is "very dangerous" for children and accused the BJP and its government of doing "cheap politics" over the issue. The statements and reactions of the BJP and Centre show that they are "concerned" about their "image" in Singapore and not about the children in India, Sisodia charged in a press conference. "Kejriwal talked of Singapore strain and the children. The issue is not Singapore but children," he said. Sisodia was referring to Kejriwal's tweet on Tuesday demanding that the Centre cancel all air services with Singapore, saying a Covid strain there was "very dangerous" for children. The deputy chief minister further alleged that the Centre had failed to act when scientists and doctors alerted about the "London strain" of Covid-19 which has now led to large number of deaths in India. Singapore registered a strong protest against Kejriwal's comments and Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said that the Delhi chief minister did not speak for India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/issue-not-singapore-but-children-manish-sisodia-slams-bjp-after-controversy-over-new-covid-strain-987530.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 3,846 new Covid-19 cases, 235 deaths||The national capital reported 3,846 new Covid-19 cases, its lowest daily spike since April 5, and 235 deaths on Wednesday, as the city's positivity rate dipped to 5.78 per cent, according to the latest health bulletin. While the number of fresh infections is low, it came from a relatively smaller number of tests -- 66,573 -- conducted on Tuesday. This is the third day on the trot that the number of new cases has remained below 5,000. The Covid-19 situation has been improving in Delhi with the number of cases and the positivity rate going down steadily in the past few days. Medical experts have held the lockdown as the main factor behind the dip amid the second wave of the pandemic. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the situation in Delhi was improving at an appreciable rate, but "our target should be to bring down the positivity rate to two per cent". At 5.78 per cent, the positivity rate is at its lowest since April 6, when it stood at 4.9 per cent. The number of new infections is also the lowest since April 5, when 3,548 people were diagnosed with the disease, according to the data issued by the city government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-3846-new-covid-19-cases-235-deaths-987536.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Are Covid deaths being underreported in Madhya Pradesh? BJP govt under fire over 'mismanagement'||After desperately battling an acute shortage of oxygen, medicines and beds in hospitals till the first week of this month that resulted in hundreds of avoidable deaths of Covid-19 patients across the state, the Madhya Pradesh government is optimistically looking forward to easing some of the lockdown restrictions. The caseload that had peaked to over 13,000 in April has gradually come down to around 5,000 daily and the positivity rate has also plummeted from the peak of 28 per cent to around 7 per cent as the second wave of the pandemic is showing signs of having reached a peak. However, this optimism could be dangerously deceptive, given that testing for the Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh is among the lowest in all states and deaths are widely believed to be massively underreported. The rapid spread of the virus in villages, which account for 70 per cent of the state’s population, also remains a huge concern because health infrastructure in even big cities is overwhelmed, let alone the rural areas. The state government has ramped up testing for a population of over 8 crore to 70,000 a day from 30,000 in March this year. However, the tests are mostly confined to towns and the rural areas are being neglected due to a lack of testing facility, both in terms of manpower and kits. In vaccination too, Madhya Pradesh fares no better. Having inoculated around 92 lakh persons including all three categories (plus 60, plus 45 and plus 18), only about 23 per cent of them have got both the jabs. Questions have been raised over the state government’s inept handling of the pandemic, as the official figure of death toll till May 18 stood at 7,139 but several news reports indicated a much higher toll. Hindi daily 'Dainik Bhaskar' reported that 26,000 deaths were reported in the last 61 days in Madhya Pradesh, arguing that the real figure for the entire state could be much higher.  There is a wave of widespread anger among the people against Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s "mismanagement" of the crisis, particularly after the second wave devastated Madhya Pradesh. The anger reflected in the Damoh Assembly seat where the Congress trounced the ruling party by over 17,000 votes in the BJP’s strong bastion in the April 17 by-election. After the by-poll jolt, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has accelerated efforts to improve health infrastructure. Oxygen supply and availability of necessary drugs such as Remedesivir have improved, treatments in private hospitals have been made free and free ration to the poor has been announced. Chouhan has been assuring people in his messages daily broadcast that no efforts will be spared to ensure treatment and vaccination for all. The Congress, however, is urging the chief minister to do more. PCC president Kamal Nath says the government bungled the pandemic from the very beginning. "Not once did the chief minister deemed it fit to consult the opposition in his government’s drive to battle the pandemic," he rues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/are-covid-deaths-being-underreported-in-madhya-pradesh-bjp-govt-under-fire-over-mismanagement-987545.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh to conduct nasal endoscopy of Covid-19 patients in view of mucormycosis cases||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to launch the "nasal endoscopy" campaign in view of the rise in the cases of mucormycosis or black fungus in Covid-19 patients, state Medical Education Minister Vishvas Kailash Sarang said on Wednesday. This campaign is aimed at the early detection and treatment of mucormycosis, a rare but dangerous fungal infection. "Given the rise in the cases of mucormycosis in Covid-19 patients, we have decided to launch the nasal endoscopy campaign for the early detection and treatment of the disease at the primary level only," a public relations department official said quoting Sarang. He said the government will conduct the nasal endoscopy of Covid-19 patients as well as those Covid-19 survivors who are admitted in the district hospitals and the government medical colleges in the last two months for free. Nasal endoscopy is a procedure to look at the nasal and sinus passages using an endoscope. The stock of necessary equipment for conducting nasal endoscopy will be increased in the medical colleges, the official said. He said the Society of Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) specialists has also given its consent to conduct nasal endoscopy for free for the recovered patients for 15 days. A coordinator will be appointed by the ENT society to conduct nasal endoscopies in all the cities in Madhya Pradesh. "The case study of black fungus will also be done during this process to know whether the infection is prevalent in urban or rural areas," he said. Instructions were also issued to the medical colleges to conduct nasal endoscopy of the willing patients and also set up separate operation theatres for Covid-19 and non-Covid 19 patients in their institutions, he said. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed to set up a dedicated task force comprising the health minister, medical education minister, ENT experts, and additional chief secretaries/principal secretaries of the departments concerned for making arrangements for the treatment of black fungus. The Chief Minister also directed the task force to start functioning immediately, the officialadded. According to doctors, Mucormycosis is mostly found among Covid-19 patients who have diabetes. Its symptoms include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-to-conduct-nasal-endoscopy-of-covid-19-patients-in-view-of-mucormycosis-cases-987554.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||As daily Covid cases decline, vacant beds count increase at hospitals in Delhi||Amid a steady fall in daily cases of Covid-19 in the national capital, the number of vacant beds has again started to go up at hospitals, offering some relief to coronavirus patients and their families. According to Delhi corona app, till about 11 am on Wednesday, 13,791 beds were available, out of the total 27,726 beds across the facilities, government or private-run. About a few weeks ago, in the middle of the worst phase of the second wave of the pandemic, there was a massive shortage of beds with oxygen supply, and ICU beds and ICU beds with ventilators, with cases spiralling up to as high as over 28,000 on April 20, with a huge number of fatalities recorded every day. On Wednesday, as per the corona app, 11,429 beds with oxygen supply were vacant and 1,246 ICU beds were available till about 11 am for Covid patients. At the Delhi government-run hospitals, the tally of vacant ICU beds were -- GTB Hospital (411 beds out of 900), LNJP Hospital (266 out of 750), Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (133 out of 325), among other facilities. At Centre-run facilities, ths figures for vacant ICU beds were -- Safdarjung Hospital (10 out of 80) and AIIMS (6 out of 72), as per the app. Covid beds with oxygen support were also available at many facilities across the city -- LNJP hospital (1,198 beds out of 1,750), GTB Hospital (758 out of 1,250), Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid hospital run by DRDO (269 out of 500), Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (283 out of 475), as per the app. The Covid-19 situation has improved in the last few days, with daily cases on the decline, however, fatalities are still being recorded in large numbers, and doctors say the severity of cases is still the same as it was a few weeks ago. Delhi has been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at hospitals, adding to the woes. The wave which began late March, spiralled up with over 28,000 cases being recorded on April 20.  The national capital had reported a record 448 Covid-19 deaths in a day and 18,043 cases on May 3. Medical experts say that while lockdown majorly has brought down the count of daily cases, the severity of cases is still the same, so "we should not lower our guards". On Sunday, 6,456 cases and 262 deaths were reported, while the tally was 6,430 with 337 deaths on Saturday, and 4,524 cases and 340 deaths on Monday. On Tuesday, the cases further dipped to 4,482, while the positivity rate slipped to 6.89 per cent, according to official data. On April 14, Covid-19 ICU beds with ventilators had become fully occupied at majority of 94 hospitals with such facilities, as per official data shared on an official app on that day. According to the Delhi corona app till about 2 pm on April 14, at 75 of the 110 hospitals, Covid-19 beds without ventilators were being fully used by patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-daily-covid-cases-decline-vacant-beds-count-increase-at-hospitals-in-delhi-987566.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Court defers order on framing of charges in Sunanda Pushkar death case||A Delhi court on Wednesday adjourned for a month the order on framing of charges against Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death in a luxury hotel here. Special Judge Geetanjli Goel deferred the pronouncement of order in view of the coronavirus pandemic for June 16. The court had on April 12 reserved the order after hearing arguments from the counsel appearing for Delhi Police as well as Tharoor. During the arguments, while police had sought framing of various charges, including 306 (abetment of suicide), Senior Advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, told the court that the investigation conducted by the SIT completely exonerated the politician of all the charges levelled against him. Pahwa sought Tharoor's discharge in the case, saying there was no evidence against him to prove the offence punishable under either section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) or 306 (abetment of suicide) of IPC. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel, as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Tharoor was charged under sections 498A and 306 of the Indian Penal Code by Delhi police, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-defers-order-on-framing-of-charges-in-sunanda-pushkar-death-case-987575.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Was unaware: Nitin Gadkari clarifies suggestion to ramp up Covid-19 vaccine production||A day after BJP and Congress got into a big brawl over "toolkit" to allegedly dent PM's image, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday received left handed praise from Congress for his remarks that more domestic companies should get licenses to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines. As Opposition leaders began hailing the "only minister" in Modi government for having raised the issue, Gadkari went in for damage control saying that he is glad to learn that the government is taking all efforts to ramp up production of vaccines and that he was "unware" of it earlier. The remarks may give more ammunition to the Opposition as questions could be raised on the involvement of the Cabinet in the decision-making process when a senior minister like Gadkari was not aware of the efforts of the government to ramp up vaccine production. Gadkari, who is considered a blue-eyed boy of RSS and a minister with a fiercely independent voice in Modi cabinet, has repeatedly distanced himself from projections of the possibility of his larger role in the government affairs but Opposition parties have often tried to protect him as an alternative voice to Modi in the BJP and the government. In a series of tweets, Gadkari said, "Yesterday while participating at the conference organised by Swadeshi Jagaran Manch, I had made a suggestion to ramp up vaccine production. I was unaware that before my speech, Minister for Chemical & Fertilizers Mansukh L Mandaviya had explained the government's efforts to ramp up vaccine production. After the conference, he also informed me that, GoI is already facilitating vaccine manufacturing by 12 different plants/companies and rapid ramp up of production is expected in near future as a result of these efforts." Gadkari said he was "unaware" that his (Mandaviya) ministry had started these efforts before he (Gadkari) had given a suggestion yesterday.   "I am glad and congratulate him and his team for this timely intervention in the right direction. I feel it is important to put this on record," Gadkari said. By then, leaders from the Opposition had latched on to the Union Minister's Tuesday comments that if the demand for the vaccine is more than supply then it creates a problem and so, instead of one company, 10 more companies be given the license to manufacture the vaccine. Tagging a video file of Gadkari's Tuesday remarks, former Union Minister and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Twitter said, "But is his Boss listening? This is what Dr. Manmohan Singh had suggested on April 18th." Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergil tweeted, "Mr Gadkari says to solve vaccine demand supply issue, more manufacturing licenses should be given. Problem is-Nation is demanding vaccines,BJP is supplying fake tool kits. Good to know at least 1 BJP Minister is waking up to reality- How many more have to die to wake up the “System”?" A Twitter trend #GadkariForPM also started running in no time. A day before Gadkari's Tuesday remarks on vaccines, RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagaran Manch had started a digital campaign asking people to build pressure on the government to involve more companies in vaccine making. SJM had asked the government to grant compulsory licence to more pharmaceutical companies for the production of Covid-19 vaccines and medicines, saying that the sovereign right to manufacture vaccine being given to big companies is the reason for vaccine scarcity. The pitch for allowing more companies into vaccine-making tallied with what Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had demanded in his letter to Modi recently, saying the Centre should share the vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other capable pharmaceutical companies to scale up production in the country.  On April 18, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had also pitched for the same in his letter to Modi. Singh, had in his letter then said that it is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law, so that a number of companies are able to produce the vaccines under a licence. He had also recalled that this had happened earlier in the case of medicines to deal with the HIV/AIDS disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/was-unaware-nitin-gadkari-clarifies-suggestion-to-ramp-up-covid-19-vaccine-production-987580.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||100-year old mosque razed in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki||A mosque, which was stated to be one hundred years old, was razed by the local administration in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district, about 40 kilometres from here. While the officials claimed that the mosque, which was situated inside the 'tehsil' premises in Ram Sanehi Ghat area in the district, was 'illegal', the Sunni Central Waqf Board said that there was no 'dispute' over the mosque and that it would move the court against the demolition. The officials said that the mosque, which encroached on the government land, was demolished on the orders of a sub-divisional magistrate's (SDM) court in Ram Sanehi Ghat. They said that a notice was served on the people, who had been residing there, asking them to produce document in support of their claim but they fled after serving of the notice. District magistrate Adarsh Singh defended the demolition and said that the administration took possession of the complex on March 18 after the residents failed to appear before the SDM court. According to the Board, the mosque was razed in the dead of night on Monday and the debris was removed immediately in the presence of a large posse of security personnel. "The demolition is illegal....we will approach the Allahabad high court against it and seek restoration of the mosque and punishment to the guilty officials," a Board member here said on Wednesday. Tension prevailed the area and security personnel in strength had been deployed there as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/100-year-old-mosque-razed-in-uttar-pradeshs-barabanki-987596.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi government to form task force to protect children from third wave of Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government will form a special task force comprising paediatricians and senior IAS officers to protect children from the third wave of Covid-19. A committee of officials will also be formed to overlook the availability of medicines, oxygen and beds in the national capital, a statement issued by the Delhi government said. Kejriwal convened a meeting with officials to review the current Covid-19 situation in Delhi and deliberate on the measures to be taken to prevent the third wave of the pandemic, it added. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19, and Health Minister Satyendar Jain were present at the meeting. "If the third wave of the coronavirus emerges, we have to be prepared in advance to fight it. Took some important decisions today at a meeting with officials -- to create a special task force to protect children from the third wave, adequate beds, oxygen and a better management of essential medicines," Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. He said the number of beds in the city hospitals will be increased on priority, along with an enhanced oxygen allocation, according to the statement. The chief minister directed the officials to work in advance to ensure a sufficient number of oxygen tankers and proper functioning of oxygen plants for an optimum supply of the life-saving gas to hospitals. The third wave may require Delhi to be prepared with 40,000 oxygenated beds and the city government is making preparations to install 10,000 ICU beds, the statement said. The management of medicines was also discussed at the meeting. "Increased number of Covid beds also require an increased amount of oxygen allocation to hospitals. We need to keep enough oxygen tankers at hand so that we do not fall short of supply. We also need to ensure optimum oxygen storage and proper functioning of oxygen plants," Kejriwal told the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-to-form-task-force-to-protect-children-from-third-wave-of-covid-19-987612.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Plea moved in Supreme Court for imposing President's Rule in West Bengal||An advocate has approached the Supreme Court for directions to the Union government to impose President's Rule in West Bengal, accusing the Mamata Banerjee government of "massacre" of 16 BJP workers in post-poll violence. In his plea, advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay pleaded for setting up a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe killings of BJP supporters after May 2. Relying upon news reports, he claimed, "Perpetrators of the crime of massacre of 16 BJP workers and supporters are none other than the goons of TMC and such killings have taken place at the instance and behest people in power, including Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee." The plea contended that there was abdication of responsibility by the Mamata Banerjee government in protecting the lives, liberties and properties of the people of the state and, more particularly, those who voted for the rival party in the Assembly election. "The growing tendency by certain political parties to impose party dictatorship and suppress the people of rival political parties after coming to power needs to be nipped in the bud at the earliest to save the country from becoming Taliban," the plea claimed. The petitioner asked the court to direct the Governor to submit a report to the court regarding the law and order situation in West Bengal and to "hold and declare that there is no rule of law in the State and there is complete failure of constitutional machinery".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-moved-in-supreme-court-for-imposing-presidents-rule-in-west-bengal-987623.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 infection spreads to one-third of UP villages  ||About one-third of villages in Uttar Pradesh are in the grip of Covid-19, a survey conducted by the state government has revealed. According to the officials here, the survey, conducted in little more than 79,000 thousand of the total 97,000 revenue villages in the state, found that the infection had spread to 28,742 villages. "We found Covid-infected people in about 32 per cent villages...68 per cent villages are still free from infection," said a senior state health official here on Wednesday. He said that the Rapid Response Teams were trying to identify the people, who were infected and conducting antigen tests. "The infected people are given medical kits and are quarantined at isolation centres... those, who need medical attention, are admitted to the hospitals," the official added. "We are constantly monitoring the situation in the rural areas...the district officials have been asked to take necessary steps to check the spread of the virus," he said. Sources said that the state government had ordered a survey in the rural areas after media reports claimed deaths of a large number of people in the villages across the state with Covid-like symptoms. The opposition leaders have alleged that the UP government has been trying to hide the number of deaths due to Covid 19. Sharp discrepancies were found in the death figures released officially and those cremated or buried. There were also allegations that the people in the villages were not being tested or provided medical care after being infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-infection-spreads-to-one-third-of-up-villages-987624.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government lacks sensitivity, only interested in publicity, says Samajwadi Party leader||Leader of Opposition in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary on Wednesday accused the Yogi Adityanath government of paying more attention to publicity rather than working on tackling the pandemic situation in the state. The state is passing through one of its most difficult times, Chaudhary, who is a senior Samajwadi Party leader, said while alleging that the state government lacked a sense of responsibility and sensitivity. Referring to the Allahabad High Court's recent adverse comments on the medical infrastructure in the state, he said they were necessary to make this government understand the reality.  “Even in these trying times, Yogiji and his team are dedicating most of their time in deciding headlines in newspapers and its publicity. Uttar Pradesh at this point is passing through one of the most difficult times but instead of dealing with it, they are busy in a drama with Bihar over bodies found floating in rivers,” he said addressing party workers at the district headquarters here. Charging that the Yogi Adityanath government neither wants to do anything itself nor does it like seeing anyone else working to help people, Chaudhary said this was the reason behind the hardships being faced by all in the state. The SP leader said things have come to such a pass that not only Opposition parties but also BJP legislators and ministers have now started talking about the prevailing "mismanagement".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-lacks-sensitivity-only-interested-in-publicity-says-samajwadi-party-leader-987628.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Mobile phones of arrested Navneet Kalra seized, sent for forensic exam||The Delhi Police's crime branch has seized two mobile phones from businessman Navneet Kalra, who was arrested for alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators, sources said on Wednesday. Kalra was nabbed from Gurgaon on Sunday night and was formally arrested on Monday. He was on the run for over a week since the seizure of more than 500 oxygen concentrators from Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nega & Ju restaurants owned by him. "The crime branch team probing the case has seized two cell phones from Kalra which have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for further examination," the sources said. As part of the investigation, the crime branch took Kalra to three restaurants in Delhi in connection with the case on Tuesday, police said. An officer said Kalra was taken to Khan Chacha, Townhall, and Nege Ju restaurants from where the concentrators were recovered. He was also taken for the mandatory medical examination, the police said. The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declined to direct an expeditious decision on a bail plea filed by Kalra, a day after a city court remanded him to three days' police custody. The police have said that the concentrators seized from Kalra's restaurants were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs 50,000 to 70,000 a piece as against its cost of Rs 16,000 to Rs 22,000. Oxygen concentrators are crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 patients and are on high demand amid the second wave of the pandemic. On May 5, a case was registered against Kalra under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-phones-of-arrested-navneet-kalra-seized-sent-for-forensic-exam-987657.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||BJP Barabanki MP accuses Sunni Waqf Board of land-grabbing, backs mosque demolition||BJP's Barabanki MP Upendra Rawat wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday, supporting the demolition of a mosque in the district and accusing the Sunni Waqf Board of grabbing government land. The Waqf Board has grabbed government land in the name of mosques and got them registered illegally, Rawat said, demanding a probe in the matter. The Barabanki administration had on Monday night pulled down the mosque at the Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil, saying the construction was illegal and demolished on court orders. "I request the chief minister to probe the illegal grabbing of land by the Sunni Waqf Board in the name of mosques in districts and take strict action against those found guilty," Rawat wrote. Speaking to PTI, the MP referred to the Sunni Waqf Board's stand that the mosque was 100 years old and asked why it was registered in 2018 if it was that old. Waqf Board chairman Zufur Farooqui, meanwhile, said the board was ready for any probe in this matter. Asked about the Ram Sanehi Ghat mosque, he said it was registered in 1968 as a religious place. The All-India Muslim Law Board (AIMPLB) and the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board on Tuesday demanded a judicial probe into the demolition. "The century-old Garib Nawaz mosque in Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil was demolished by the administration without any legal justification on Monday night in the presence of police," AIMPLB working general secretary Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rehmani said in a statement. Barabanki District Magistrate (DM) Adarsh Singh, however, said the structure was illegal, and the tehsil administration got its possession on March 18. He said the the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court had disposed of a petition filed in this connection on April 2, which proved that the construction was illegal. The DM said a case was then filed in the court of the sub-divisional magistrate of Ram Sanehi Ghat, and its orders were complied with on May 17. Farooqui said the Waqf Board will soon file a court case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-barabanki-mp-accuses-sunni-waqf-board-of-land-grabbing-backs-mosque-demolition-987678.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Exploring possibility if Sputnik V vaccine can be manufactured in Haryana plant: Dushyant Chautala||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Wednesday he has spoken to Dr Reddy's Laboratories to explore the possibility if Sputnik V vaccine for Covid-19 can be manufactured in any of the plants in Haryana. Dr Reddy's Laboratories is in a pact with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to sell 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. "I spoke to the Managing Director of Dr Reddy's Laboratories to explore if Sputnik vaccine manufacturing can be given to any plant in Haryana," Chautala said during a news conference here. He said Union minister Nitin Gadkari has suggested that more pharma companies should be allowed to make Covid-19 vaccine in the country during the pandemic to scale up production.       Haryana will also explore if there can be tie-ups with companies like Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India, which are manufacturing vaccines in India, to scale up production, he said.  Dr Reddy's, which had received over two lakh vaccines from RDIF, recently soft-launched Sputnik V and tied up with Apollo Hospitals for piloting the vaccine. In August 2020, Russia became the world's first country to register a coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V. Subsequently, in September, Dr Reddy's and RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V, which is developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V. Chautala's response came during a question asked on the Covid-19 vaccination drive going on in the state. He said the state government was stepping up anti-Covid vaccination drive in both urban and rural areas. Besides, Haryana was floating global tenders for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines, he said. "Our endeavour is to procure as many vaccines from those companies which the Centre and ICMR has permitted," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/exploring-possibility-if-sputnik-v-vaccine-can-be-manufactured-in-haryana-plant-dushyant-chautala-987694.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccination drive resumes in Kashmir albeit at slow pace||Officials said the drive resumed after J&K received a fresh consignment of Covishield vaccine on Tuesday. According to a daily media bulletin, 556 persons above the age of 45 received vaccines today which included 252 in the Srinagar district. However, in four out of 10 districts of the Valley, not a single person could be vaccinated due to the non-availability of the doses. A Health Department official said that in a day or two the vaccination drive will resume all over Kashmir as they are expecting more doses to arrive. The vaccination process had come to a halt in the majority of Kashmir districts in the past ten days evoking criticism by the citizens. In Jammu region, 7,611 persons aged over 45 years were vaccinated on Wednesday. Overall 28,47,780 persons, including 15,10,860 in Jammu and 13,36,920 in Kashmir have been vaccinated so far. Earlier, vaccine hesitancy in Kashmir had slowed down the vaccination process. During the past month, however, people have been going to vaccination centres in large numbers, but the shortage of vaccines has marred the drive. J&K needs vaccine doses for 61 lakh people in the 18-45 age group and despite claims by the administration, most of the people in this group remain un-vaccinated so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccination-drive-resumes-in-kashmir-albeit-at-slow-pace-987709.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||'Entire rural population of Punjab will undergo rapid test for Covid-19'||The entire rural population of Punjab will undergo Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) as Covid-19 positivity rate in the state's villages is rising at an alarming rate, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Wednesday. The drive will be conducted under 'Mission Fateh 2' as part of efforts to break the chain of transmission of the coronavirus, according to an official statement. Under 'Mission Fateh 2', additional deputy commissioners have been nominated as nodal officers of their respective districts to conduct RAT on the rural population, it said. 'Mission Fateh' symbolises the resolve of the people of Punjab to halt the spread of the coronavirus. Its first leg was launched by the state government in June last year, the statement added. Sidhu said community health officers (CHOs) have been directed to ensure monitoring of all patients in home-isolation. 'Corona Fateh Kits', containing medicines and other supplements to deal with Covid-19, will be provided to every patient for speedy recovery by the health department, he said. An active surveillance survey will be done in every village to detect influenza-like illnesses or severe respiratory infections by accredited social health activists (ASHA), the minister said. Data of symptomatic patients will be shared with CHOs and senior medical officers, he added. Sidhu further said deputy commissioners would constitute three-member committees at block levels which would depute teams for sampling at the village level. The minister said ASHA workers will go door to door in every village to check for symptoms of Covid-19 such as fever, cough and shortness of breath. The total number of villages in Punjab is 12,729.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/entire-rural-population-of-punjab-will-undergo-rapid-test-for-covid-19-987756.html
19-05-2021||North and Central||Tejashwi Yadav converts official bungalow into Covid care centre, seeks help from Bihar government||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday declared that he has set up a Covid care centre at his official bungalow and urged the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar to provide assistance for upgrade of the facilities available there. Yadav, leader of the opposition in the state assembly, shared the letter addressed to health minister Mangal Pandey on his twitter handle and said he has also sent a copy of the same to the Chief Minister. In the letter, Yadav, a former Deputy CM himself, said he has got the bungalow situated at 1, Polo Road equipped with "basic facilities" like beds, oxygen cylinders, standard medicines and food for patients to be admitted there and their attendants. "I would request the government that additions be made to the amenities in consultation with medical experts", said the 32-year-old who has emerged as the de facto leader of the party founded and headed by his father Lalu Prasad. In the letter, Yadav lavished praise on his party legislators and office bearers for "reaching out with help to the needy" during the pandemic and added that he expected the government to "act without political prejudice and keep me informed about the steps it was taking" to make the Covid care centre at the bungalow fully functional. Notably, the bungalow at 1, Polo Road was allotted to Yadav two years ago when he was compelled to vacate his Desh Ratna Marg house, situated adjacent to the chief minister's official residence, after his plea against the government order to the effect was turned down by the court of law. Yadav had been occupying 5, Desh Ratna Marg since 2015 when he became the Deputy CM, a post he was stripped of two years later following Nitish Kumars abrupt return to the NDA. The young RJD leader, who seemingly took affront at the whole episode, refrained from occupying 1, Polo Road, and preferred to stay with his mother Rabri Devi at her 10, Circular Road. Yadav was berated by BJP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi, who had served as the Deputy CM for most part of Nitish Kumars first decade and a half in power. In a couple of tweets, Modi, a bte noire of Lalu Prasad, sought to know why several houses allegedly owned by members of the RJD supremos family have not been placed in the service of Covid patients. Taking a jibe at medical degrees held by two of Yadavs seven sisters, Modi also asked why were not they coming forward to offer their service in during the ongoing crisis. Interestingly, 1, Polo Road was occupied by Modi while he was the Deputy CM and he continued to function from there even during the period the BJP was out of power in the state. He was allotted 5, Desh Ratna Marg bungalow after it was vacated by Yadav and the wily BJP leader famously took a team of journalists on a tour of the bungalow to underscore his allegation that Yadavs petulance in letting go of the government building stemmed from his splurge on getting it furnished according to his own taste. Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, heading Hindustani Awam Morcha, a ruling NDA constituent in the state, also took a swipe at Tejashwi Yadav for converting his official bungalow into Covid ward. "Shunning politics, you should arrange for doctors there. In case you fail to find medicos, ask your PMCH topper family members to run the facility," he said wryly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tejashwi-yadav-converts-official-bungalow-into-covid-care-centre-seeks-help-from-bihar-government-987772.html
19-05-2021||Oasis||A woman of substance||A woman of substance is not a mere cliché. The term is used to describe those women who cross every barrier along their way to make life meaningful for themselves and others. My good friend Rev. Sr. Jessie Jerome was a shining example of such a woman of substance. Her sudden demise on May 9th has saddened many in Bangalore and beyond. People knew her as a religious nun, a headmistress, a teacher, a friend, a counsellor, a social worker and more. Sr. Jessie belonged to the congregation of the Sisters of St. Joseph of Tarbes that runs the famed St. Francis Xavier Girls’ High School in Cleveland Town. Much of the 77 years of her life sparkled with enduring activities and selfless service to society. As a teacher and headmistress, she was a mother figure to several children teaching and mentoring them to a virtuous life. As an educated woman, she had counselled and assisted many women burdened with the hardships of life. As an industrious woman, she became part of the Prison Ministry. She brightened up the lives of many living in the harsh conditions of our prisons through her excellent counsel. As a religious nun, she took time to pray and pass on the spiritual insights she gained to others in her daily dealings. As a friend, she sought every occasion to put a smile on those she interacted with by her cheery deposition and joyful words of assurance. As a responsible citizen, she stood and fought for social issues such as justice to the oppressed at any given opportunity. As a noble human being, she walked the path of integrity and truth, illuminating our dark world with her bright values. In the WhatsApp group formed soon after her passing, all of her contacts remembered her gratefully and paid their respectful homage to her. Perhaps god’s providence to end her fruitful life on Mother’s Day was no coincidence. It turned out to be symbolic of the fact that she had been a mother figure to the many she had reached out to in love and service. She will forever be remembered for leaving behind a blueprint for all posterity on how to be a woman of substance through her well-lived life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-woman-of-substance-987432.html
19-05-2021||Opinion||For Trump, Hamas and Netanyahu, it is always January 6||By Thomas L Friedman There are many ways to understand what is happening today between Hamas and Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu of Israel, but I prefer to think about it like this: They are each having their own Jan. 6 moment. Just as a mob was unleashed by President Donald Trump to ransack our Capitol on Jan. 6 in a last-ditch effort to overturn the election results and prevent a healing unifier from becoming president, so Bibi and Hamas each exploited or nurtured their own mobs to prevent an unprecedented national unity government from emerging in Israel — a Cabinet that for the first time would have included Israeli Jews and Israeli Arab Muslims together. Like Trump, both Bibi and Hamas have kept power by inspiring and riding waves of hostility to “the other.” They turn to this tactic anytime they are in political trouble. Indeed, they each have been the other’s most valuable partner in that tactic ever since Netanyahu was first elected prime minister in 1996 — on the back of a wave of Hamas suicide bombings. No, Hamas and Bibi don’t talk. They don’t need to. They each understand what the other needs to stay in power and consciously or unconsciously behave in ways to ensure that they deliver it. The latest rerun of their long-running nasty show is happening now because both were staring at an amazing breakthrough shaping up between Israeli Jews and Israel Arab Muslims — and, like the pro-Trump mob on Jan. 6, they wanted to destroy the possibility of political change before it could destroy them politically. To understand why I am so convinced of this, I need to take you back about 10 days to the column I was writing before this blowup happened. It began with me reminding readers that I watch trends in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict very closely, because I believe their struggle often foreshadows wider trends in Western politics — not unlike what off-Broadway is to Broadway. A lot of stuff — airline hijacking, suicide bombing, building a wall, lone-wolf terrorism — gets perfected there first and then comes to Broadway. What I was about to write just 10 days ago was: “Hey, folks! Look what’s opening off-Broadway! Maybe it will come to America!” And this is what was opening: In the wake of Israel’s fourth election, and Netanyahu’s failure to form a government, a national unity coalition was taking shape in Israel — under the leadership of the secular-centrist Yair Lapid and the religious-rightist Naftali Bennett. They were on the verge of forging a Cabinet that would include both Israeli Jews and, for the first time ever, an Israeli Arab Islamist party. Here is the headline in Israel’s Haaretz newspaper online from last Sunday, May 9, just before the latest Hamas-Israel conflict erupted in full: “Israel Coalition Talks: Bennett’s Party Expects to Form Gov’t ‘This Week,’ After Meeting With Islamist Leader.” The story went on to say that, “Bennett met with United Arab List Chairman Mansour Abbas Sunday, leading members of his party to believe that a government may be formed ‘this week,’ ending Israel’s political deadlock after four elections in under two years.” The United Arab List, also known as Raam, headed by Mansour Abbas is an Israeli Arab “Islamic movement” party that comes from the same broad realm of political Islam that Hamas does, except that it is nonviolent; recognizes Israel; and is focused on getting Israeli Arabs — particularly Muslim Bedouins — more resources, more police and more jobs for their towns and neighbourhoods in Israel, just the way ultra-Orthodox Jewish Israeli parties do. Abbas had broken away from the coalition of Israeli Arab parties — the Joint List, which is more focused on Palestinian nationalism — and won four seats on his own to push his agenda. And since neither Netanyahu’s coalition nor the opposition coalition that was emerging, led by Lapid and Bennett, had enough votes to form a government, Abbas’ four seats made him the kingmaker of Israeli politics. Netanyahu tried to court him at first, but a small openly racist, anti-Arab faction in Bibi’s coalition (Bibi’s Proud Boys) refused to sit in a Cabinet with Israeli Arabs. That is what gave this emerging opposition national unity coalition an opportunity to put together a broad government that for the first time ever would have included right-wing pro-settler Zionist parties, left-wing secular progressive parties and a pro-Islamist Israeli Arab party — and possibly, eventually, even secular Arab parties. It would have broken the mould of Israeli politics forever. And that is why the local Jan. 6-style opponents — in Israel and Hamas — were determined to blow it up. Otherwise, it might lead to more progress and integration between Jews and Arabs, and attempts to address unemployment and humiliation, especially among Israeli Arab youth, and not to aggravate them. Governing matters. And who leads a government matters — especially in relations between Israeli Jews and Arabs. Think about this: During the pandemic, in March 2020, Haaretz reported that it was Israeli Arab medical workers who were essential for enabling Israel’s Jewish citizens to survive the coronavirus. “According to official figures … 17% of Israel’s physicians, 24% of its nurses and 47% of its pharmacists are Arabs,” it noted. So, the next time someone tells you that Israel is a purely racist, anti-Arab country, think about those numbers. But the next time someone tells you that Israel is a paradise for its Arab citizens and that they should have nothing to complain about, think about this quote from that Haaretz story. It’s from Dr. Suad Haj Yihye Yassin, who had returned from a long shift saving Israeli Arabs and Jews from Covid-19 at her Tel Aviv hospital and had just heard Netanyahu rule out forming a government that included Israeli Arabs. “When I come home from the emergency room, after I’ve given my all to treat everyone,” she said, “and hear the prime minister say that we have to form a national unity government to deal with the crisis — but without the Arabs, as if we are second-rate citizens — it hurts. Why is it OK for us to be on the front lines in the hospitals dealing with corona, but not legitimate for us to be in the government?” That is why it was so important to have a true national unity coalition governing Israel, ending Netanyahu’s 12-year reign as prime minister and fundamentally challenging Hamas’ narrative that the only hope for Israeli Arabs is the destruction of the Jewish state. And that is why the column I was working on last Monday was planning to say, “Hey, folks! Look what is playing off-Broadway! Maybe that can come to Broadway!” I was going to tie it together with Liz Cheney’s courageous stand against Donald Trump’s big lie and wonder aloud if a breakaway faction of Republicans might one day work with the centre-left Biden to actually heal post-pandemic America and help pass the legislation we need to thrive in the 21st century. But then, around 10 a.m., one of my editors called to ask me what I thought about the fighting that had just erupted inside Israel between Israelis and Palestinians and between Hamas and Israel — and shouldn’t I think about writing an emergency column on that? I realized that it was impossible to ignore. But in that column last Monday I warned that Netanyahu — who is desperate to stay in power and avoid possibly going to prison if he is convicted in his current corruption trial — was not above “inflaming the situation so much that his right-wing rivals have to abandon trying to topple him and declare instead that this is no time for a change in leadership.” And within 48 hours of fighting that is exactly what happened. Bibi frightened Bennett away from forming a coalition with an Israeli Arab party, not to mention centrist and progressive Israelis, and Mansour Abbas was put in an impossible situation by Hamas by looking like he was collaborating with Israeli Jews who were hammering Palestinians from Jerusalem to Gaza. So the alternative coalition talks completely fell apart. Once again, the past buried the future. Will it always be thus? Too soon to say. Because each also miscalculated the costs of their actions to some degree. Netanyahu’s far-right followers, and the police, went way too far in antagonizing and cracking down on Palestinians in Jerusalem right at one of the most sensitive moments — Muslim holy days at the end of Ramadan and after the Palestinian Authority decided to postpone elections. The rage of the Jerusalem Palestinians added fuel not only to violence in that city, but also kindled the strife between Israeli Arabs and Israeli Jews across Israeli towns — which is really, really dangerous for Israel’s stability. Meanwhile, Yahya Sinwar, the Hamas leader, seems to have gotten totally intoxicated with the idea that by lobbing Hamas rockets into Jerusalem, in the midst of Jewish-Arab clashes there, he could in one move take over the whole Palestinian cause — sidelining the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank and Jordan and all the Arab states. Big mistake. Attacking Jerusalem with rockets crossed a huge Israeli red line and prompted the Israeli Army to deal a serious blow to Hamas’ tunnel grids all over Gaza and to its munitions factories, and generally amplify the misery of life there under Hamas. In doing so, the Israeli Army was also sending a message to Hezbollah in Lebanon: Do not think you can out-crazy us. Pay attention: we will not be deterred by global public opinion in Gaza or Lebanon if you threaten us with missiles. I wish that I could say that any of this will produce a profound rethinking by Bibi or Hamas, but I doubt it. For the last 12 years Bibi has had one mission — to keep Hamas and the Palestinian Authority weak and divided so that he could come to the US Congress every year and say, “Oh, gosh, I’d love to make peace, but we have no partner on the other side. The Palestinians are weak and divided.” And for 12 years Hamas has had one mission: to keep Netanyahu in power so Hamas and its backers in Iran could tell their naïve supporters in Europe, on liberal college campuses, in the media and in the Democratic Party that the problem is not Hamas — an Islamo-fascist organization without a shred of democratic fiber that is dedicated to destroying the Jewish state and imposing a Tehran-like Islamic regime in Palestine — but rather that terrible pro-settler Netanyahu government in Israel. Bibi and Hamas: They need each other. They understand each other. Rinse and repeat. Rinse and repeat. Rinse and repeat. For a brief shining moment it looked as though a different Israeli coalition might be coming together to break that cycle. It certainly would not have made peace overnight, but it might at least have begun a different dialogue — a real dialogue, among all sides. Instead, we got a Jan. 6 moment — one that, for now, has succeeded in stopping the chance of political transformation. My only hope is that this failure of the emerging coalition for national unity off-Broadway is not a harbinger of what is coming to Broadway: “Donald Trump — The Sequel.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/for-trump-hamas-and-netanyahu-it-is-always-january-6-987457.html
19-05-2021||Opinion||BJP seems down in Uttar Pradesh, but can SP defeat it?||The rising tide of anger against the Yogi Adityanath government over its mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic in Uttar Pradesh has begun to unnerve workers and leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Assembly polls in the state, slated eight months from now, no longer seem a cakewalk. The shift in public mood, evident in the results of the recently-held panchayat elections, has lifted the spirits in the ranks of the BJP’s principal rival in UP, the Samajwadi Party (SP). It has taken to proclaim its slogan, ‘Akhilesh dobara’ (Akhilesh Yadav once again), with gusto. Suddenly, the situation in UP is somewhat reminiscent of the electoral crests and troughs of two decades back. Echoes from the past A big reason Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led BJP couldn’t return to power at the Centre in 2004 was because of its losses in UP, primarily at the hands of the SP. The BJP won a measly 10 of UP’s 80 Lok Sabha seats in 2004 against the SP’s 35. This helped Congress pip the BJP by a mere eight seats to emerge as the single-largest party in the Lok Sabha. The ground had started slipping under the BJP’s feet in UP two years before that. In the Assembly polls in 2002, SP’s Mulayam Singh Yadav gnawed at BJP’s Hindu consolidation by stitching a patchwork of backward and extremely backward castes. The BJP not only lost power but was reduced to number three in the UP Assembly. The BJP’s tally, in double digits in the 403-member Assembly, was then its worst after the post-Ram Janmabhoomi movement phase in 1990-91. The BJP seats dipped further in the subsequent 2007 and 2012 Assembly polls. Like father, like son? With Mayawati-led BSP showing a terminal decline, does Akhilesh Yadav possess the perspicacity to defeat the BJP’s triumvirate of Narendra Modi-Amit Shah-Yogi Adityanath just as his father defeated Vajpayee-LK Advani-Rajnath Singh’s two decades back? The SP is unlikely to have at its command resources the BJP can commandeer. But other circumstances are suitable. A generational shift has taken place in ally Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) with the passing away of Ajit Singh. In SP, an unwell Mulayam Singh Yadav no longer interferes in day-to-day decisions. Akhilesh and uncle Shivpal Yadav are said to have mended relations. The RLD, under Jayant Chaudhary, is on the path to regaining the political clout it had lost in western UP after the communal riots in Muzaffarnagar in 2013. The riots laid asunder the electoral unity of Jats and Muslims that Chaudhary Charan Singh, Jayant’s grandfather, had built in the 1960s and 70s. The anti-farm laws protests have helped heal wounds between Jats and Muslims. The RLD has claimed that candidates it supported in the panchayat polls performed better than the BJP-backed ones in Mathura. Panchayat elections were not held on election symbols, but the SP has claimed that of the 3,500 district panchayat seats which went to the polls, it supported 1,500 candidates, of which 800 won. The SP defeated the BJP in its strongholds of Varanasi, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur and Lucknow. In the last couple of years, Akhilesh has downplayed his party’s caste identity. He has, instead, showcased his tenure as UP’s chief minister (2012-17) as one of ‘vikas’, or development. He has also learnt lessons from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Trinamool Congress (TMC). In Delhi, the AAP chanted ‘Jai Bajrang Bali’ to neutralize BJP’s aggressive ‘Jai Sri Ram’, and Mamata Banerjee in Bengal recited the chandi path. In April, Akhilesh tested positive for coronavirus after a dip in the Ganga during the Kumbh festival. Recently, he tweeted his wishes on the Parashuram Jayanti. He has also reached out to sections of Dalits. On April 14, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar, he launched his party’s ‘Ambedkar vahini’, or Ambedkar brigade. BJP's predicament For the BJP, a loss in UP in 2022 would weaken its strength in the Rajya Sabha, force it to settle for a compromise candidate in the next year’s presidential election and boost the morale of the opposition in the run-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP’s famous 2017 victory, where the party and its allies won 325 seats, had come on the back of rollout of social welfare schemes, like the Ujjwala, which provided free cooking gas cylinders to the poor and stoking patriotic fervour over the Uri surgical strikes. The question that confronts the BJP is whether it can do something in the next 220 days — the model code of conduct should kick in by the first week of January — to assuage the anger in the state not least helped by news and visuals of desperate people depositing their dead in the rivers, or burying them in the riverbanks. For the SP, the task is equally uphill. Its best vote share in UP was 29 per cent in 2012 when it won 224 seats. This dropped to 21.17 per cent in 2017. Can the SP increase its vote share to at least 35 to 37 per cent to defeat the BJP in 2022? Not that it has not been done before. In 2017, the BJP increased its vote share by 25 per cent to 39.7 per cent to sweep the polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-seems-down-in-uttar-pradesh-but-can-sp-defeat-it-987483.html
19-05-2021||Opinion||The issue is not Shailaja but representation of all social sections||The 2006 Assembly election in Kerala was historical of sorts for the Communist Party of India (Marxist). For the first time, the CPM, which flaunts its organisational structure based on the Leninist principle of democratic centralism, was forced to change its decision of not fielding VS Achuthanandan, a founding member of the party, as a candidate in the polls. The decision against ‘VS’ evoked a sharp response from party cadres and well-wishers, forcing the party to reverse the decision. The indomitable Achuthanandan went on to become the chief minister of Kerala against the wishes of his rival, the man who is now in command of the party and government, Pinarayi Vijayan. The hue and cry on excluding K K Shailaja from the council of ministers is reminiscent of the ‘VS’ episode of 2006. Unlike in 2006, critics this time have taken to social media rather than the streets to vent their anger against dropping the hugely popular health minister. Sidelining Shailaja, according to these critics, lays bare the inherent patriarchy within the CPI(M). Dropping Shailaja from the new cabinet is the latest of several surprises from the CPI(M) after the election process started. Many well-wishers of the Left had raised eyebrows when they did not find some of the prominent ministers in the list of party’s candidates for the Assembly polls. The party denied tickets to all who had contested two consecutive elections. With the two-term criteria strictly applied, the party dropped experienced central committee members and ministers in the outgoing cabinet, including Thomas Isaac, EP Jayarajan, and popular minister G Sudhakaran. Coming as did at a time when the Left was battling to defend its only remaining fortress in the country, some thought this adherence to principles smacked of dogmatism of another kind. But the party leadership did not heed the seemingly pragmatic advice given by its well-wishers. As the results showed later, the experiment of fielding new faces caught the imagination of the general public and a Left government was voted again with an increased margin. Except for the Captain, as Vijayan is called by his fans nowadays, all the members of the CPM and CPI in the cabinet are new faces. There were reports that an exception could be made for Shailaja, a reward for what her admirers believe was her “stupendous performance” in the outgoing cabinet. But communist parties always have a different rule book to follow, where it is the collective will that prevails and individuals are merely persons employed to execute party policies. Those who demand a second term for Shailaja in the Vijayan cabinet base their argument on two counts. First, the Left Front government got a second term because of the exemplary work carried out by Shailaja. Second, excluding Shailaja speaks volumes about patriarchy within the CPIM. Let us take a closer look at these arguments. Those who argue for Shailaja point to her leading from the front in crisis after crisis to have gripped Kerala. Be it Nipah or Covid, Shailaja's humane approach instilled confidence in the people. There is no denying that Shailaja's affable approach and her efficient leadership helped Kerala, but it would be an exaggeration to say that Kerala managed the Covid crisis only because of her leadership. Kerala indeed controlled the virus spread effectively during the initial period. But the situation deteriorated subsequently. With wide coverage in the international press, Kerala was prematurely celebrating victory over coronavirus. Kerala still has one of the highest test positivity rates and daily cases in the country. Kerala is still fighting corona along with the rest of the country. What helped Kerala during the lockdown periods was a host of welfare measures undertaken by the state government. Unlike the Narendra Modi dispensation at the Centre, the Left government in Kerala ensured that not a single person starved in the state during the lockdown period. The administration also provided succour to people struggling to cope up with the crisis. So, more than any individual effort, it was the welfare politics pursued by the Left government that enabled them to rewrite history by coming back to power for the first time in Kerala's recent history. Like all other major political parties, patriarchy is ingrained in the structure of the communist parties too. This is reflected in the scarce representation that women have in the party structure. This stems from the Marxist approach of giving predominance to class while analysing society. Mechanical adherence to class politics makes them assume that class could assimilate all other identities, be it caste or gender. Having said that, attributing patriarchy as the reason for the non-inclusion of Shailaja in the cabinet is stretching the argument. Women representation is a much more serious issue than the inclusion of a particular individual in the cabinet. In the newly elected Kerala assembly, women representation is just 11 out of the total 140 MLAs. Remember Kerala has more women than men. Those reducing the issue to the treatment meted out to Shailaja are missing the woods for the trees. They are either ignorant or are not worried about the under-representation of backwards and Dalits in the cabinet. There is only one Scheduled Caste (SC) member in the cabinet and none from the Scheduled Tribe (ST). Of the 12-members of the CPM in the cabinet, five are from the Nair community. Three out of four from CPI are also from the same community. While the forward communities are over-represented, the Dalits and OBCs, other than Ezhavas, are not adequately represented. In a caste-ridden society, representation of different social sections in the higher echelons of power holds the key in the fight for social justice. Caste, as BR Ambedkar said, is an enclosed class. But apart from its occasional rhetoric on caste, the mainstream Left in India never cared to address the issue seriously. How the depressed classes are under-represented in the new cabinet is another testimony to this. But there is not much discussion among the general public on this shows that our social justice rant is in fact hyperbole. There is no denying that Kerala CPM is preparing for a generational change. The experience of their Bengal comrades must have pushed them to do this. For the communists, at least in theory, the parliamentary route is not the only form of action. When the CPM’s organisational conferences for electing new committees begin later this year, let us hope that leaders like Shailaja, who have good experience in parliamentary politics, are given new organisational responsibilities. An all-new cabinet is a correct step. That the party did not consider the issue of representation seriously would have a debilitating effect in its forward march.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-issue-is-not-shailaja-but-representation-of-all-social-sections-987582.html
19-05-2021||Panorama||Global farm incomes crisis calls for rethinking our economic ideas||In an address to the US Congress recently, US President Joe Biden stated: “Trickle-down economics has never worked. And it’s time to grow the economy from the bottom and the middle out.” This is the first time any US President has acknowledged the failure of a dominant economic paradigm that is behind much of the socio-economic crisis the world is faced with.   Trickle-down is an outdated economic concept. So much so that it should have been erased from the economic thought process by now. And yet, it continues to be part of the economic curriculum and, whether we like it or not, helps formulate global economic policies, thereby exacerbating inequality, and continuing to keep the world in the grip of poverty and hunger.   Whether Biden’s acknowledgement will bring about a change in the way the World Bank/IMF as well as the credit rating agencies have been promoting policies that hinge on the failed trickle-down theory, only time will tell. But let us hope that economic institutes, including business and management schools, initiate a debate on how to shift to more realistic policies that “grow the economy from the bottom and middle out” as Biden envisions. Similarly, there are several other economic concepts and hypotheses that should have been discarded by now. After all, economics is a progressive science and it should move with changing times, improving on ideas with new learning. Holding on to outdated ideas and teaching young students the same outgrown concepts lead to building up a generation of economists whose economic orientation leaves much to be desired.  This becomes more relevant in the context of the ongoing debate on the three central farm laws. The predominant economic thinking that free markets lead to better price discovery for farmers, given the supply-demand equilibrium, has failed to translate into higher incomes for small farmers across the globe. To be told that less the population in farming, the higher will be the farm incomes; and bigger the land holdings, the higher will be the bargaining power thereby enhancing farm incomes -- that too is failed thinking. While economists refuse to acknowledge that these hypotheses are outdated and need to be discarded, the same is being reiterated as the possible way to double farm incomes in India. Given that roughly 50% of the workforce is engaged in agriculture, directly or indirectly, in India, it is amusing to read a report that says policymakers believe that increasing the rate of farm migration from the existing 1.81% to 2.4% per year in India will automatically lead to higher farm incomes. If this was indeed true, I wonder why the same economic thought has failed to hold true for farmers in the developed countries.   In the United States, the farming population has come down to 1.5% of the total population, and the average farm size has increased to over 440 acres. Still, farm incomes are on a steep decline. This defies the economic theories that we were made to believe. Just to give you an idea, the wheat price farmers get today in the US is much less than what they were getting 150 years back at the time of the American Civil War. More recently, while the median farm income has remained negative for some years, farmers have been saddled with a bankruptcy of $425 billion in July 2020. Is it accidental then that the rate of suicides in rural America is 45% higher than that in the urban centres? Nor should agricultural subsidies make up as much as 40% of farm incomes in the US if free markets were so good for farmers. In neighbouring Canada, where the farming population has shrunk to about 1.7%, and the farm size has grown enormously, farmers are indebted to the tune of $102 billion. Clearly, the popular economic understanding that farm incomes go up when the population in farming drops and as the farm size grows, has not worked here either. This is not only true for North America it is true in Europe, too. In Sweden, since 1990, the number of farms has declined by 30%. While the farm size increased, the number of farmers has come down to less than 2% of the population. Despite the dominant economic thinking envisaging higher farm incomes when the proportion of farm population drops, farm incomes have slumped here, too. According to the 2018 Common Agriculture Policy (CAP) Strategic Plan of the European Commission, 54% of the average farm income in Sweden is made up by subsidy support. With a direct income support, which is double than what an average European Union farmer receives, Swedish farmers are able to supplement farm incomes, reaching some level of parity. The same holds true for France, Germany, Denmark, Belgium, Ireland, Spain and UK, to name a few of the EU’s major agricultural players. Europe provides a farm subsidy support of $100 billion, and yet farm protests against falling incomes are only increasing.  That free markets have failed to prop up farm incomes in the rich developed countries clearly shows that something is fundamentally wrong in our economic thinking and approach. We can argue about the virtues of markets till the cows come home, but the fact remains that market principles we learnt in our economic courses have failed to translate into higher farm incomes, the only visible beneficiary being the agribusiness companies. How will the same market principles work for small farmers in India, constituting 86% of the farming population?  This calls for economic rethinking. To make farming a viable proposition perhaps US President Joe Biden needs to include farm income parity or guaranteed farm incomes as the guiding principle for boosting the economy “from the bottom and middle out.” (The writer is an agricultural economist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/global-farm-incomes-crisis-calls-for-rethinking-our-economic-ideas-987423.html
19-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Covid antakshari||In the pre-Covid era, whenever we went on an excursion, as soon as the bus started to move, the university students began antakshari, as if they had no recourse to any other form of higher entertainment. A bespectacled classmate among them would plead, “why antakshari right away? Can’t we wait till we finish our lunch or reach a water-hole?” The over-enthusiastic self-styled leader would overrule the objection of the serious type and start making groups. In every group, some individuals knew more songs than others. They are the ones who emerged victorious at the end, conquering their rivals, thanks to their phenomenal memory, which stores for them ’a million melodies’ to recall at will from different time zones, including both male and female singers. But given the dismal, difficult and exhaustive mood of the present, my friends, Vasanth Kumar Thimakapur and his namesake and prolific singer, Vasanth Kumar H L, decided to overcome nostalgia and play a different game away from antakshari. I sensed that they seemed to be bent on catching up with the current vocabulary. So, I set the ball rolling with my first phrase, ‘Covid appropriate behaviour.’ Thimakapur was quick to respond, ‘standard operative procedure.’ Singer Vasanth didn’t bat his eyelid to supply his share, ‘personal protective equipment.’ The subsequent rounds rolled on like a well-oiled machine since the three of us are more or less up to date with current affairs. One of us said, ’50 persons for marriage,’ the next one said, ’20 people for funeral.’ Rejuvenating his Keats - ‘heard melodies are sweet,’ Thimakapur quipped, ‘herd immunity.’ Providing a perfect rhyme, singer Vasanth contributed, ‘community immunity.’ I remembered ‘vaccine hesitancy,’ the reply was ‘vaccine diplomacy.’ Now it was the turn of my two friends to indulge in a bit of jugalbandi. Was it Thimakapur who said ‘do gaz ki doori’? His rival uttered, ‘davayi bhi, kadayi bhi.’ Enjoying the ping-pong exchange of Covid phrases, I took the role of a referee, unobtrusively leaving them in the ring. They resumed: ‘oxygen audit,’ ‘fire audit,’ ‘Covid suraksha,’ ‘Covid protocol,’ ‘night curfew,’ ‘containment zone,’ ‘teeka utsav’ and ‘transmission trajectory.’ They would have gone on and on, but I decided to ring the closing bell as their repertoire seemed to be inexhaustible. “Gentlemen, thank you for participating in this enlivening game. Once the Coronavirus subsides, we will meet to socialise and update our vocabulary in the post-pandemic world. This lingo will stay with us. It has already become a part of our life. Let’s have lemon water now and disperse.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/covid-antakshari-987429.html
19-05-2021||Second Edit||India can play a useful role||The government has done well to call for an “immediate de-escalation” of the hostilities between Israel and Palestine. Violence has surged over the past week, with Israel stepping up artillery fire and aerial strikes on Gaza and Hamas launching rocket attacks into Israel. Casualties are mounting by the day and the number of civilian fatalities is alarming. Speaking at the first public UNSC meeting to be held since the situation began deteriorating a week ago, India’s Permanent Representative at the United Nations, T S Tirumurti, called on both sides “to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that exacerbate tensions, and refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status-quo, including in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhood.” On the face of it, India seems to have taken an even-handed position on the escalating crisis, especially since it has called on “both sides” to back down from taking actions that would escalate tensions. However, a closer reading of the text of its statement reveals that New Delhi has gone soft on Israel’s actions. While the statement explicitly condemns the “indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza”, it does not similarly censure Israel for its aerial strikes. Rather, it justifies the Israeli violence by describing them as “retaliatory strikes.” The firing of rockets and aerial strikes by Hamas and Israel must not be viewed in isolation. It should be understood in the context of the larger violence that Israeli forces have been perpetrating on Palestinians during the Ramzan month, whether at the Haram al Sharif/Temple Mount complex or through the threatened eviction of Palestinians from the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood. New Delhi has sought to balance off its softening on Israel by reiterating “strong support” to the “just Palestinian cause” and its “unwavering” commitment to the two-state solution, while not making clear its view of the borders of the two states envisaged. The escalating crisis in West Asia has prompted many in India, especially several BJP parliamentarians, to express solidarity with Israel. Of course, it is their Islamophobia that drives their perception and position, rather than any in-depth understanding of the conflict. The government needs to shut down these irresponsible voices as they will not enable India to play a useful role in global affairs. As a member of the UNSC, albeit a non-permanent one, India has a vital role to play. Rather than justify the violence of either side, it must nudge the two sides towards halting the violence. It should press for an immediate ceasefire and work with other powers to jumpstart the comatose dialogue process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-can-play-a-useful-role-987427.html
19-05-2021||South||DH Toon | Amid Covid-19 Kerala govt to hold swearing-in ceremony for over 500||Even as the coronavirus ravages the country, the Kerala government, otherwise known and lauded for its strategic methods to curb the virus, will hold a swearing-in ceremony that will be attended by over 500 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dh-toon-amid-covid-19-kerala-govt-to-hold-swearing-in-ceremony-for-over-500-987433.html
19-05-2021||South||Dropping Shailaja from Kerala cabinet a 'political and organisational' decision: CPI(M)||Amidst the heightened social media campaign to induct K K Shailaja into the new cabinet, the CPI(M) on Wednesday said the dropping of the popular health minister was a "political and organisational" decision of the party and there would not be any relook into it. CPI(M) state acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the leadership had already explained the decision taken by the party in this regard. Asked about the trending campaigns on the social media platforms to bring back 'Shailaja Teacher', as she is fondly being called, Vijayaraghavan said it did not came to his notice. As far as the Communist party is concerned, politics and organisation were equally important and the present decision was in accordance with it, he said. "The party has to take into account its political and organisational interests. As a ruling party, it has to give due consideration to protect the interest of the state also. So, the party arrives at such decisions after serious contemplation," he told reporters here. As far as the CPI(M) is considered, it has the responsibility to guide the new government in a better way, the Left leader said adding that the exemplary performance of the new government is its top priority. Pinarayi Vijayan was on Tuesday elected its Parliamentary Party Leader for a second term as Chief Minister but the omission of Shailaja from the new cabinet has sparked a debate. Hailed as "rockstar health minister" by the global media for her able leadership, effective crisis management and mature intervention in arresting the first wave of Covid-19 in the state, Shailaja's non-inclusion raised many eyebrows cutting across party lines. Meanwhile, the social media platforms are still abuzz with comments and campaigns to call back the health minister, who was regarded as the face of the state's fight against Covid-19. People including politicians, writers and celebrities have expressed shock and despair on the Left government's decision to deny her a cabinet berth. Many netizens are using hashtags such as #bringourteacherback ,#BringBackShailajaTeacher to question the Left party's decision and request it to bring her back to new ministry. "Sorry to see @shailajateacher leave the Kerala cabinet. Aside from her reputed competence & efficiency, I always found her helpful, responsive & accessible as Health Minister, esp during the #Covid crisis. She will be missed," Congress leader and former union minister Shashi Tharoor tweeted. Eminent writer and Left sympathiser N S Madhavan opined that the dropping of Shailaja would create huge perception problems nationally and internationally. "Dropping @shailajateacher would create huge perceptional problems nationally and internationally, and common people, as well as, health staff are already feeling orphaned. Sincerely wish there will be a rethink on the issue -still there is time," he said in a tweet. Award winning actor Parvathy Thiruvoth described Shailaja as one of the most able leaders of the present time. "@CMOKerala, We deserve better than this! #bringourteacherback One of the most able leaders of our times! A rarity, really! @shailajateacher led the state through the most difficult of medical emergencies," Parvathy tweeted. Actors Rima Kallingal, Rajisha Vijayan, actor-director Geethu Mohandas, filmmaker Anjali Menon were among those who led social media campaigns in support of the popular woman minister. However, Shailaja, said she was not disappointed at being denied berth in the new cabinet. Though critics and media alleged that Shailaja was sidelined, CPI(M) took the position that all ministers except the CM should be fresh faces in the new cabinet. Soon after the historic poll victory, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had made it clear that there would be new faces in his second cabinet but he did not drop any hint that all existing ministers including Shailaja would be excluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dropping-shailaja-from-kerala-cabinet-a-political-and-organisational-decision-cpim-987518.html
19-05-2021||South||Beedi worker, who donated life savings to aid Covid-19 efforts, invited to Kerala govt's swearing-in ceremony||Among the 500 VIPs invited to the swearing-in ceremony of the Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala is a beedi worker. The event is slated to be held in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Janardhanan told reporters that he never expected such a moment in life. A government official handed over the official invitation to him the other day. But due to the Covid-19 situation, he may keep off of traveling up to Thiruvananthapuram to attend the event. The 63-year-old has been into beedi-making right from his youth and he worked with Kerala Dinesh Beedi, a popular workers' cooperative based in Kannur. He had said he was moved by the assurance of Pinarayi Vijayan that the state government would provide Covid vaccines free of cost to all. Hence, the CPM supporter decided to donate his entire savings to the CM Relief Fund. While his wife died earlier, his two children supported his gesture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/beedi-worker-who-donated-life-savings-to-aid-covid-19-efforts-invited-to-kerala-govts-swearing-in-ceremony-987519.html
19-05-2021||South||Info on Tamil Nadu temple property, administration to go online for public viewing||Amid a campaign to free temples from government control, the new Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) dispensation in Tamil Nadu has decided to go transparent on assets held by temples under its control by uploading all relevant documents and records online. The decision to upload details of temple lands, buildings, and other records was taken at a meeting chaired by Minister for Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) P K Sekar Babu in Chennai on Tuesday. This was the first meeting Babu held with his department officials after taking over as minister on May 7. An official explained to DH that the process of digitising the land records and other documents related to temples that come under the department has been on for the past few years based on directions from the High Court and on orders from officials who were in-charge earlier. “In the next few months, all documents and records relating to temples will be online. The basic motive is to be transparent and to ensure no further tampering of the documents occur. Once we scan the original documents and publish them online, the scope of tampering them further is very minimal. If there is even some tampering, it can be easily found,” the official said. The meeting decided that details of land and buildings owned by temples under the department and their records should be uploaded on the HR & CE website for public viewing. During the meeting, the minister also said documents relating to movable and immovable properties owned by temples in the state should also be uploaded on the website. The official added that work of compiling land records by verifying field measurement books and other documents are on. “This is not new. But we are making sure that the process began a few years ago and reached a logical conclusion. Through this, we are making it easy for devotees to know details about any temple,” he said. A government release said the minister instructed encroachments on temple land should be removed completely, while efforts should be taken to collect “fair rent” from those who occupy premises owned by temples. “Measures to increase the revenue of temples should also be taken,” the minister told the review meeting. As many as 44,121 temples in Tamil Nadu come under the HR & CE department which manages and controls them. The decision to be transparent on temple properties, revenue, and documents comes at a time a campaign is underway in Tamil Nadu to free temples from the government. The campaign run by Coimbatore-based spiritual guru Jaggi Vasudev has received support from BJP and a few right-wing political outfits. DMK, while it was in Opposition and now as ruling party, has been opposed to the campaign, saying the temples cannot be handed over to “devotees.” The slew of decisions by the new DMK government also comes close on the heels of Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan launching a tirade on Vasudev, calling him a “publicity hound” and dismissing the campaign. After his comments created a controversy, Thiagarajan issued a statement saying he will make no comments on the issue until any new information or further developments come to light. “The evidence in my possession (some public & some not) which I will share with all relevant authorities (as just a dutiful citizen), convinces me beyond all probable doubt that Jaggi Vasudev has repeatedly, consistently, and continuously violated multiple laws and statutes,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/info-on-tamil-nadu-temple-property-administration-to-go-online-for-public-viewing-987583.html
19-05-2021||South||Victim of male-dominated politics? Kerala minister K K Shailaja being equated to K R Gouri Amma||Denial of a second term to Kerala's popular Health Minister K K Shailaja has once again triggered allegations of male dominance in politics. Shailaja is being widely equated to K R Gouri Amma, who was once allegedly denied the post of chief minister by the party leadership. Despite widespread criticism on social media platforms for excluding Shailaja from the new Pinarayi Vijayan cabinet, party leaders maintained that no changes would be made. Party state secretary in-charge A Vijayaraghavan said the party did not come across any 'social media campaign'. In the 1987 Kerala Assembly election campaign, a popular slogan of the CPM (in Malayalam) was, 'Keram tingum Kerala naadu K R Gouri bharicheedum', translating to "K R Gouri will rule the land of coconut trees". Gouri Amma, one of the founder leaders of the Communist movement in Kerala, was then projected as chief ministerial candidate. Exactly a week after her death came the surprising move of denying a Cabinet berth to Shailaja in Vijayan's second term. This is despite the fact that she won the polls with a record majority. Hence, the gender bias in politics has once again become a hot topic in Kerala. Veteran journalist and political commentator B R P Bhaskar said there were many reasons to feel that Shailaja was facing the same fate as Gouri. It seems the CPM did not want to have another Gouri in the making. Otherwise, it was only logical to retain her in the new cabinet, he said. Meanwhile, the decision of the LDF to induct 17 new and comparatively young faces to the 21-member new Cabinet has been generally welcomed. Many Youth Congress leaders are also seeing it as a positive move. However, concerns are being raised whether the lack of experienced persons in the Cabinet may have adverse impacts on governance. "Preferably, a cabinet should be a mix of experienced leaders as well as newcomers," said Bhaskar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/victim-of-male-dominated-politics-kerala-minister-k-k-shailaja-being-equated-to-k-r-gouri-amma-987614.html
19-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin launches direct sale of Remdesivir to private hospitals||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin launched the direct sale of anti-viral Remdesivir to private hospitals on Wednesday and 960 vials of the medicine was given to representatives of 25 health facilities. As many as 343 hospitals have registered themselves in the state portal, tnmsc.tn.gov.in, days after the government said information on Covid-19 patients on oxygen support, who require Remdesivir, should be uploaded for supply of the drug, an official release said. Hospitals that have provided information on patients who need the medicine were 151 and Remdesivir was being allotted to such facilities. On May 16, the government had said Remdesivir would be made available directly to private hospitals to avoid overcrowding in places designated for its prescription-based sale by state authorities to the kin of coronavirus patients. The state-run Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation supplies the drug to government hospials. Stalin launched the direct sale of the drug to hospitals at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium sale centre and in the first phase, 960 vials of Remdesivir have been given to 25 hospitals. The drug would be provided to hospitals located in several regions of Tamil Nadu through the sale depots in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchirappalli and Tirunelveli, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-launches-direct-sale-of-remdesivir-to-private-hospitals-987619.html
19-05-2021||South||Multiple new coronavirus strains spotted in Kerala: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that new strains of the coronavirus were spotted in the state, three of which were spreading rapidly. Vijayan said that around six or seven new strains were spotted in the state. Since three of those were found to be spreading rapidly, the people need to be more cautious, he said. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 test positivity rate in Kerala remained at 23.31 per cent on Wednesday, which was almost the same as that of Tuesday. The Chief Minister said that there was considerable decline in the TPR of the four districts, where a triple lockdown was in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/multiple-new-coronavirus-strains-spotted-in-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-987656.html
19-05-2021||South||Kerala CM  Pinarayi Vijayan justifies decision to exclude Shailaja from new Cabinet||While journalist-turned-politician Veena George is likely to be the new health minister in the second LDF government in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified the decision to deny a second term to K K Shailaja stating that it was the party's collective decision to have all-new faces in the cabinet. Vijayan also added that it was party's decision to retain him as the Chief Minister and not a decision taken by him alone, as was being widely alleged. While Vijayan maintained that he could disclose the portfolios of new ministers only after submitting the list to the Governor, it was reliably learnt that the CPM decided to give the health portfolio to Veena George, while Vijayan's son-in-law and DYFI national president Mohamed Riyas, who is a first time MLA, may get key portfolios of tourism and public works. The 21-member LDF ministry will swear in on Thursday marking history of a front coming to power for a second consecutive term in Kerala after around four decades. 44-year-old Veena, who is the youngest in the new cabinet, is a second time legislator from Aranmula in Pathanamthitta district. She holds a post-graduation degree in physics and had worked in Malayalam news channels for over 15 years before entering mainstream politics in 2016. She won with a clear majority of over 19,000 votes this time, while it was only around 7,600 in 2016. With Kerala still under the grip of Covid-19, a hot seat is awaiting the new health minister. Vijayan said that the fight against Covid-19 is a collective one and the new government would be able to take it forward effectively. "The criticism against excluding Shailaja is being considered as a recognition of good governance. Giving exemption to one minister may lead to giving exemption to many," he said. While Vijayan would probably retain the home portfolio, the CPM also decided to retain other key portfolios. Former Rajya Sabha MPs K N Balagopal and P Rajeeve could get the finance and industries portfolio respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-justifies-decision-to-exclude-shailaja-from-new-cabinet-987661.html
19-05-2021||South||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao visits Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad, interacts with Covid-19 patients||Days after recovering from Covid-19, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday visited the state-run Gandhi Hospital, the nodal centre for Covid-19 treatment in the state. Officials said that the inspection was to examine the medical care facilities and also to instill confidence among the patients undergoing treatment at the general hospital in Hyderabad. After testing positive on April 19, Rao underwent various tests at a corporate hospital in the city and recovered after availing treatment and rest at his Erravelli farm-house. For about an hour in the afternoon, the CM went around the ICU, Emergency, OutPatient and general wards of the hospital where the Covid-19 patients are treated; interacting with them and inquiring about the care received. The health portfolio now lies with Rao, who had earlier this month dropped Eatala Rajender from his cabinet following land grabbing charges on the minister. “The CM offered them words of solace and courage. He also inquired about the quality of food supplied to them. The CM quickly responded to some of the problems raised by the patients and gave instructions to the medical officers there,” a CMO official informed. The CM examined the oxygen plant set up at the hospital recently to supply 2,000 litres of oxygen per minute. The CM also interacted with senior and junior doctors, nurses and other staff. He gave assurance that the government would solve the problems faced by the young doctors while seeking their support in the turbulent times. Meanwhile, the daily addition of new positive cases has remained just below the 4,000 mark since Sunday, which the health officials are claiming is an indicator of the declining second wave intensity in the state. While the number of samples tested in the past few days hovered between 44,000 to 72,000, the active cases, as per the official records, are only 48,110 as of Tuesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao-visits-gandhi-hospital-in-hyderabad-interacts-with-covid-19-patients-987680.html
19-05-2021||South||Stalin to review Covid-19 situation in 5 high-prevalence districts||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin will review the Covid-19 situation in five high-prevalent districts like Coimbatore, and Madurai, on Thursday and Friday, in his first visit outside the state capital after assuming office on May 7. Stalin will visit Salem, Tiruppur, and Coimbatore in the western region on Thursday, while he will be in Madurai, and Tiruchirapalli on Friday. He will meet district officials, and doctors in all the districts and review the situation. All five districts have reported a high number of Covid-19 cases. At the end of his two-day visit, Stalin is likely to address a press conference in Tiruchirapalli on Friday. Stalin's predecessor Edappadi K Palaniswami had also visited districts to review the Covid-19 situation. Ahead of the visit, Stalin released a statement telling his cadre that he is embarking on an official visit and asked them not to crowd the meeting venues to try and meet him. He also asked his party men not to install hoarding or make arrangements to welcome him on the way to meeting venues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-5-high-prevalence-districts-987681.html
19-05-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh Budget Session on May 20, Governor to address House virtually||The Budget session of the Andhra Pradesh Legislature will be held here on Thursday with the customary address of the Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan who will address it virtually for the second consecutive year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per established practice, the two Houses of the Legislature do not transact any business after the customary address by the Governor to the joint sitting and completing the formalities in a day will be breaking last year's record wherein the Budget session was held only for two days on June 16 and 17. "This session will be a new record," a senior Legislative official noted. On March 28, the government promulgated an Ordinance for a Vote-on-Account budget for the first three months of the 2021-22 financial year. Apart from the budget, the government also has to replace certain other Ordinances promulgated in the last six months. The Ordinances include one for the establishment of the AP Medical Education and Research Corporation, AP Survey and Boundaries (Amendment), Municipal Laws (Amendment) and Municipal Laws (Second Amendment). There will be no opposition party in the Assembly as the Telugu Desam decided to boycott the session, protesting the "undemocratic rule" of the YSR Congress. The TDP had stalled the adoption of the crucial Appropriation (Budget) Bill in the Legislative Council last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-budget-session-on-may-20-governor-to-address-house-virtually-987683.html
19-05-2021||South||Rajiv Gandhi case convict Perarivalan granted 30-day parole||Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday granted 30-day parole to A G Perarivalan, one of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, on medical grounds. Perarivalan, who is lodged at the Central prison in Puzhal outside Chennai, will be granted parole for a month on a request made by his mother Arputhammal, a government statement quoted Chief Minister M K Stalin as saying. The life convict, whose release along with six others was recommended by the Tamil Nadu cabinet in 2018, is unwell and doctors have advised him to be careful about his health. The announcement comes days after Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) MP D Ravikumar wrote to Stalin asking him to direct officials to release Perarivalan, one of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, on parole for 90 days. Ravikumar, Lok Sabha MP from Villupuram, cited an order by the Supreme Court dated May 7, 2021 saying those inmates who were granted parole, “pursuant to our earlier orders”, should be again granted parole of 90 days in order to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic. Perarivalan is among the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case whose release was recommended by the Tamil Nadu government. However, Governor Banwarilal Purohit has shifted the responsibility of deciding on the issue to the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajiv-gandhi-case-convict-perarivalan-granted-30-day-parole-987710.html
19-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM asks industrialists to use CSR funds to augment oxygen supply||Listing the measures taken by his government to increase oxygen availability for Covid-19 patients in the state, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday appealed to industrialists to focus on procuring oxygen concentrators, generators, and cryogenic tankers through their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. At a meeting attended by leading industrialists of the state, Stalin took pains to explain the steps being taken by his administration to ensure smooth functioning of factories even during the state-wide lockdown that has been imposed to contain further spread of Covid-19. Contending that the state's oxygen allotment from the Centre has been increased to 519 MT a day, Stalin also announced that the government has taken several steps to produce oxygen within the state to meet the growing need, as the state continues to add at least 30,000 fresh Covid-19 infections a day. “The government has granted permission to produce 15 MT oxygen through three oxygen centres, while 7,500 oxygen concentrators are being received through various industry sources. SIPCOT has so far transported 500 cylinders from Singapore by air, and another 1,650 cylinders are being brought via ship from Singapore,” Stalin told the industrialists. Besides the 519 MT, the state government has been trying to produce oxygen in the state by reopening old factories or launching new centres with the help of large corporates. At the meeting, the Chief Minister also said, an additional 500 cylinders are being arranged for the state through the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), and electronics major Samsung. 13 mini oxygen centres are being set up with help from industries in the state, while importance is being given to mini oxygen generation centres being set up by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and Defence, Research, and Development Organisation (DRDO). “I appeal to the corporates to focus on one sector to help the government's efforts. You can help us in (providing) oxygen concentrators, oxygen generators, oxygen flow meters, oxygen cylinders, and cryogenic tanks through your CSR initiatives,” Stalin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-asks-industrialists-to-use-csr-funds-to-augment-oxygen-supply-987725.html
19-05-2021||South||No HC bar on Kerala swearing in ceremony||The Kerala High Court has directed the state government to consider minimising the participation at the swearing-in ceremony of the new government on Thursday. The court directive came on petitions seeking a ban on the physical swearing-in ceremony owing to the Covid pandemic situation. The court declined to impose any ban on the ceremony. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan flayed the decision of opposition UDF to keep off from the swearing-in ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-hc-bar-on-kerala-swearing-in-ceremony-987728.html
19-05-2021||South||YSRC rebel MP arrest case: Andhra Pradesh HC initiates contempt proceedings against CID officials||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday initiated contempt proceedings against the Crime Investigation Department officials, including its Additional Director General P V Sunil Kumar, in the YSR Congress MP K Raghu Ramakrishna Raju's arrest case. The High Court also came down on Additional Advocate General P Sudhakar Reddy over his remarks and asked why would the court have any special interest in a case. "The courts will react when there is violation of human rights," the High Court told the Additional AG. The court gave four weeks to the CID Additional DG and also the Station House Officer of CID Police Station, Mangalagiri, against whom the contempt proceedings were initiated, to file their reply. The special bench, comprising justices C Praveen Kumar and K Lalitha, heard a petition filed by Raju and questioned the CID why it did not comply with the High Court or the designated CID court's orders and take the MP to a private hospital for medical examination. The court came down on the CID and the government for lodging the rebel MP in the Guntur district jail in violation of the orders. "When we directed that the medical examination report (by a board constituted by the HC) be submitted by 12 noon (on May 16), why was it not done till 6 pm," the Bench asked. The Additional Advocate General replied that the court's order, on shifting the MP to a private hospital for medical examination, was received only at 11 pm on May 16. "Even then why did you not act? Why did you lodge him in the jail," the Bench questioned. Taking it as contempt of the court, the bench issued notices to the CID ADG and SHO. Raju, the Lok Sabha member from Narsapuram, was arrested on May 14 on various charges, including sedition. On the orders of the Supreme Court, he is now undergoing medical examination in the Army Hospital at Secunderabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrc-rebel-mp-arrest-case-andhra-pradesh-hc-initiates-contempt-proceedings-against-cid-officials-987755.html
19-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka announces Rs 1,250 crore Covid-19 relief package||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced Wednesday financial assistance worth Rs 1,250 crore for those affected by the Covid-19 lockdown.  Under the package, floriculturists, fruits and vegetable growers who suffered losses will receive a compensation of Rs 10,000, amounting to a total of Rs 82.73 crore. This will cover around 95,000 farmers. Auto, taxi and maxicab drivers will receive a one-time compensation of Rs 3,000 amounting to around Rs 63-65 crore. Construction workers registered under Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board will also receive the same amount, and cost Rs 494 crore to the state exchequer.  Employees in the unorganised sector such as barbers, tailors, mechanics, cobblers, rag pickers and others will receive Rs 2,000 each. As many as 3.05 lakh beneficiaries will receive Rs 61 crore, Yediyurappa said. Similarly, 2.21 lakh street vendors will receive Rs 2,000 each, while artists and art troupes will receive Rs 3,000. Compensation to street vendors and artists will cost Rs 45 crore and Rs 4.85 crore, respectively. The government will also bear the three months of interest amount of small and medium cooperative bank loans availed by farmers. The loan repayment date is also extended from May 1 to July 31, Yediyurappa said. Each of the gram panchayats in the state will be provided Rs 50,000 each under State Disaster Response Fund for measures to curb the pandemic as the wave intensified in rural areas. Yediyurappa was under pressure to announce some relief to those who were affected by the lockdown, with the Congress demanding a package of Rs 10,000 to every household affected by the lockdown.  “We’ve announced this despite the financial difficulty and it's our way of telling people that we’re with them during this crisis,” Yediyurappa said.  Last year, Yediyurappa announced a package worth nearly Rs 2,000 crore. Its implementation has since come under criticism because many beneficiaries did not receive the aid. Acknowledging this, Yediyurappa said he had instructed officials to make sure the new package would reach all beneficiaries.  He said that as many as 2.6 lakh patients were provided free treatment for Covid-19 patients at a cost of Rs 956 crore.  On whether the government would extend the lockdown, Yediyurappa said that the government would take a call on the evening of May 23. The current lockdown ends May 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-announces-rs-1250-crore-covid-19-relief-package-987496.html
19-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Eligible population in Karnataka to be vaccinated against Covid-19 by 2021 end, says Health Minister||The Karnataka government has set a goal to vaccinate all those eligible in the state by November end, against coronavirus. "Our major objective is to vaccinate all by October end or November end. All our efforts are in the direction of vaccinating every citizen by the end of the year," Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Wednesday. He was speaking to reporters to announce the receipt of two lakh doses of Covishield from the Pune based Serum Institute of India. Sudhakar said the accomplishment of vaccination drive by the year end will include first and second doses to all. Besides, the emphasis is on Covaxin produced by Bharat Biotech, which is setting up its manufacturing unit in Malur in Kolar which will have a manufacturing capacity of four to five crore vaccines by August end. He also said the Sputnik vaccine production may take place in Karnataka. "The production of two vaccines in the state has instilled hope in us of achieving the goal of vaccinating all before any other state in the country." On the order for Covishield doses, Sudhakar said, "We have placed an order for two crore Covishield vaccines to the Pune based Serum Institute of India. Today, we have received two lakh doses." According to Sudhakar, the doses will be administered to those who are above 45 years and are due for second dose. T he minister said the state has received 1.11 crore doses from the central government. The state has received 10.94 lakh doses as part of direct procurement from manufacturers comprising 9,50,000 Covishield and 1,44,000 Covaxin. "In all, we have got 1,22,20,510 vaccines which is combination of both Covishield and Covaxin. We have vaccinated 1,13,61,234 people so far in the state," the minister noted. To a question, he said 58,395 people recovered in the state on Tuesday, which is an encouraging trend. "So far, 16.74 lakh people have recovered. That's why we should not focus only on the number of infections and fatalities, which creates panic among people," Sudhakar said. He attributed the rising number of recovered patients and decreasing infections to lockdown-like restrictions and the Covid appropriate behaviour of people. The health minister said the next target of the state government is to reduce the fatalities by timely detection of infections and right treatment. Regarding the black fungus disease, the minister said the Centre has given 1,050 vials of Amphotericin B, and more vials would come next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/eligible-population-in-karnataka-to-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19-by-2021-end-says-health-minister-987505.html
19-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka inviting another wave of Covid by reducing testing, warns expert||Karnataka may be inviting another wave of Covid-19 in the state by reducing the number of tests from 1.9 lakh daily a month ago to over 93,000 now, warned a member of the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The state had conducted 97,236 tests on Monday out of which 38,603 people were found to be positive whereas on Tuesday 93,247 tests were done and 30,309 people tested positive. This was in sharp contrast to 1.72 lakh tests on April 28 and 1.9 lakh on April 24. Batting for extensive Covid-19 tests, Dr Giridhara R Babu, a TAC member and Professor of Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, said those who have not been tested yet could be spreading the infections further. "In a way we are inviting third wave because people are spreading the infection and that will continue to fast transmit and then it will result in more people getting infected and we cannot solve this problem. The only solution right now is to test extensively," Babu told PTI. To a question whether reducing tests was a cost-cutting measure of the government, Babu said lives lost cannot be compared to the test kit price. "How do you cut cost? I am told that there is Rs 30 per kit, which is least in terms of price now. When the test kits are so economical why they (government) have not scaled up buying? This is the best time buy the kits," the epidemiologist said. He expressed concern over the reduction in the number tests in Bengaluru from six lakh a week to two lakh a week now. "This is not a nice thing. It doesn't help, according to me. Every test denied is a denied opportunity for entire life of a person, especially for the vulnerable. If the government doesn't test, vulnerable may not test positive. Therefore they may not get treatment and that person may lose his life," Babu said. Babu and another TAC member Dr C N Manjunath, who is the director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said a door-to-door survey and extensive use of Rapid Antigen Tests could offer a solution in early detection of infections. "Now the Rapid Antigen Tests have also been pushed into the testing protocols. Because, when the testing rate is very high, Rapid Antigen Tests are very handy, which can test in three to five minutes", Dr Manjunath said. The suggestions of door-to-door survey came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the district collectors and deputy commissioners of the districts with high prevalence of Covid to go for aggressive testing. Karnataka on Tuesday reported its highest ever single day recovery with 58,395 discharges, outnumbering fresh cases which is at 30,309. However, the state recorded a spike in fatalities at 525, as the total number of infections stood at 22,72,374 and the toll at 22,838. The number of new Covid-related deaths on Monday was 476. Out of the 30,309 fresh cases registered on Tuesday, 8,676 were from Bengaluru Urban alone, which is a decline of over 4,600 cases compared to Monday, when the city had reported 13,338 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-inviting-another-wave-of-covid-by-reducing-testing-warns-expert-987626.html
19-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's global Covid-19 vaccine tender yet to be finalised: K Sudhakar||Karnataka’s global tender to procure two crore vaccine doses has been floated, but bids are yet to be finalised as companies have yet to respond, Health Minister K Sudhakar said Wednesday. Last week, the B S Yediyurappa administration finalised its plan to float a global tender to procure vaccines amid a shortage of doses. "The tender has been invited, but it hasn't been finalised. We will let you know based on who will participate in the tender process," Sudhakar said, adding that no cut-off date had been set by the government. "The vaccines are being procured by the government using state funds. We will get the vaccines from manufacturers in the international market willing to supply them," he said. The global tender did not require permission from the Centre, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said. "The Centre has not objected to the move," he said. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the Centre had asked states to procure vaccines for those below 45 years of age. "The Centre has clarified that it will supply vaccines to persons aged above 45 years. For the rest of the population, the Centre has asked states to procure vaccines. Based on that we are procuring. Let's not create confusion," Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-global-covid-19-vaccine-tender-yet-to-be-finalised-k-sudhakar-987655.html
19-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa's lockdown package useless, unscientific, says Opposition||The Opposition Congress and JD(S) slammed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Rs 1,250-crore Covid-19 package on Wednesday. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah termed it “useless and unscientific” and even questioned the actual quantum of the aid that Yediyurappa has announced. “The CM has said it is Rs 1,250 crore. But, statistics released by the government show Rs 1,111.82 crore. Of this, Rs 494 crore for construction workers will be given to them from the welfare cess. It’s their own money so it can’t be considered as a relief. Then, there’s Rs 134.38 crore worth of loans whose repayment has been deferred by three months, which has been shown as a relief. What remains is Rs 483.44 crore,” Siddaramaiah explained.  Siddaramaiah had earlier demanded Rs 10,000 for every working-class family and 10 kg rice for every BPL household.  Both Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar recalled that last year’s package did not reach all beneficiaries. “Last year’s package was a failure. How many flower growers got Rs 25,000 per hectare? This has been lowered to Rs 10,000 this time. Last year, they announced aid for 7.5 lakh drivers of whom only one lakh were covered,” Shivakumar said, adding that the package was just “namesake”.  ‘Package after JD(S) demanded one’ Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said the government announced the relief package after the JD(S) urged for it.  “However, the package is not commensurate with the state’s 6.5 crore population. A much smaller state like Kerala announced a package of Rs 20,000 crore,” he said. “When Yediyurappa snatched power from me, he had stated that Karnataka's economy was stable. In two years, how did we wind up in such a poor financial condition? When the government can spend thousands of crores on political corporations and boards, can't it give money for people's welfare?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-lockdown-package-useless-unscientific-says-opposition-987674.html
19-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CEA tells Karnataka CM Yediyurappa to focus on districts that haven't seen Covid-19 spike yet||Karnataka must begin focusing on districts where there hasn't been much of a spike in Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic, Chief Economic Advisor Krishnamurthy Subramanian told Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday. Subramanian interacted with Yediyurappa through a virtual meeting on Wednesday evening, discussing the IIT-SUTRA model which analyses the growth trajectory of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. According to sources in the Chief Minister's Office, Subramanian suggested that the Karnataka government immediately focus on districts where there hasn't been a spike in cases till now. He asked the government to start building infrastructure in urban centres of districts across the state, as these would primarily serve the rural areas. Considering the imminent third wave of the pandemic in the country, Subramanian is said to have asked the government to ensure that all the infrastructure built for mitigation of the second wave is not dismantled, as it will have to be used for the next wave, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cea-tells-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-to-focus-on-districts-that-havent-seen-covid-19-spike-yet-987696.html
19-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre has given nod to allow use of oxygen produced in state: Karnataka Minister||Karnataka Medium and Large Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Wednesday said the Centre has given its consent in principle to allow the use of oxygen produced in the state and an official order was awaited. "We had a several rounds of meeting with Union Ministers Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi and D V Sadananda Gowda besides several missives to them. These talks and correspondences have yielded results.They have in principle agreed to allow the state to use oxygen produced in Karnataka," Shettar told reporters. Shettar said the Centre had been very cooperative in supplying oxygen to the state by ferrying it to the state from various parts of the country by railways and Navy. According to him, the Centre has been requested to provide 60,000 oxygen concentrators to the state. He added that the state government has already floated tenders for purchase of 3,000 concentrators. The central government has given 800 concentrators. The demand for oxygen has gone up following surge in Covid cases. The state on Wednesday reported 34,281 fresh infections and 468 deaths whereas there are 5,58,890 active cases. The state has demanded 1,200 tonnes of oxygen from the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-has-given-nod-to-allow-use-of-oxygen-produced-in-state-karnataka-minister-987760.html
19-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Search and rescue ops continue for 75 missing from sunken barge||Indian Navy choppers hovered over the offshore development area and warships battled choppy waters in the Arabian Sea as search and rescue operations continued for over 75 persons who were on board a barage that sunk because of Cyclone Tauktae. Latest reports from the Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command said 261 persons were on board Barge Papaa-305, of which 184 had been saved. A massive search and rescue operation is underway to trace the remaining 77 persons. The rescued crew are being brought to the Mumbai harbour by INS Kolkata and INS Kochi. Over the last couple of days, the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard have rescued over 600 persons who were stranded. All 137 on board Barge GAL Constructor had been rescued by choppers and dropped at INS Shikra in Mumbai and CGAS Daman. All 196 people on board Support Station-3  and 101 on board drill ship Sagar Bhushan are also safe and accounted for, and are being brought to the shores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-search-and-rescue-ops-continue-for-75-missing-from-sunken-barge-987494.html
19-05-2021||West||Why is PM Modi not surveying cyclone-hit areas in Maharashtra? asks MVA govt||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi carried out an aerial survey of Tauktae cyclone-affected areas of Gujarat and announced an aid of Rs 1,000 crore, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation in Maharashtra seems to be unhappy. The coastal Konkan districts of Maharashtra were badly affected as the cyclone moved from Goa towards Gujarat leaving a trail of destruction. In the last few days, 18 persons have died because of the cyclone while several hundred hectares of farmland have been damaged. “Is this not a clear cut discrimination?” as Maharashtra’s Minority Affairs Minister and NCP's national spokesperson Nawab Malik. Prime Minister Modi reached Bhavnagar in Gujarat on Wednesday to review the situation in the state in the aftermath of the cyclone and proceeded for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, an official said.  "Today PM Modi ji is taking an ariel survey of #CycloneTauktae affected areas of Daman, Diu and Gujarat. Why not the same of the areas affected in #Maharashtra? Is this not clear cut discrimination?" Malik asked in a Twitter post. Talking to reporters, Sanjay Raut said there was no need for criticism that the Prime Minister is touring only Gujarat when the cyclone has caused damages elsewhere too. “The cyclone has caused havoc in Maharashtra, Goa as well. The Prime Minister is aware that Maharashtra is led by a strong and able leader like Uddhav Thackeray who is capable of handling all kinds of problems,” said Raut. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-is-pm-modi-not-surveying-cyclone-hit-areas-in-maharashtra-asks-mva-govt-987516.html
19-05-2021||West||Fight against Covid-19 gets shot in the arm as Katkaris supply giloy worth Rs 1.57 crore||A group of a few dedicated boys spearheaded by an able leader, with enabling support from government organizations, has done wonders in the Thane district of Maharashtra. The grassroots tribal organization, Adivasi Ekatmik Sakajik Sanstha, to which the boys belong has been able to secure orders worth Rs. 1.57 crore for the medicinal plant giloy.  The orders include those from corporate bigwigs like Dabur, Baidyanath and Himalaya, among others. Based in Shahapur in Thane, this organization of youth has been striving to solve problems of the tribal community in the area.  Giloy, for which they have received the big orders, is known as Guduchi in Ayurveda, and is used in medicines used to treat fevers such as viral fever and malaria as well as diabetes. It is used in extract form, powder form or cream. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the demand for giloy has increased.  The boys’ journey started when Sunil Pawar, a 27-year-old youth from the Katkari community, along with his team of 10 -12 friends, started helping out the Katkari tribals at revenue offices in his native place.  Katkari is one of the 75 Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups, as per the classification by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. Sunil has since proved to be a champion entrepreneur. He now receives giloy from as many as 1,800 people.  The support received from TRIFED, under the Union Ministry of Tribal Affairs, has been instrumental in enabling him to scale up his venture. Under assistance from TRIFED, Rs. 5 lakh was given to each of the six Van Dhan Kendras in the region.  Moreover, when Sunil needed working capital to execute orders from big companies, TRIFED chipped in with additional support of Rs. 25 lakh. “We have six Kendras in Shahpur. Processing is going on in full swing in all of them. It is going on with perfect rhythm with all the team working in perfect sync. It is very heartening to see 1,800 tribal people earning their livelihood, that too during the lockdown. We have orders worth almost Rs. 1.5 crore and there will be even bigger order from Dabur.” Pawar was beaming with pride.  “Companies need raw material. And since they buy in bulk, companies get a lower price from us than from elsewhere. However, we have also started making powder of it and selling it at a higher price of 500 rupees a kilo. 10 times the cost of its raw form.” Sunil said.  While collecting giloy from the forest, Sunil and his team are also careful about sustaining the forests for the future as well. They have 5,000 saplings of giloy ready for plantation.  They plan to plant 2 lakh of them in the coming days. Shabari Adivasi Vitta Mahamandal under the Government of Maharashtra is another organization that has been working for tribal welfare.  “Soon, we will create a cluster of five Van Dhan Kendras with a federation to meet the rising demand. 40 more Kendras have been approved already. When they become operational, they will provide employment to 12,000 Katkaris (each Van Dhan Kendra supports 300 people)," says its Managing Director Nitin Patil. Pradhan Mantri Van Dhan Yojana provides working capital for these SHGs. So they don’t have to sell their produce in distress, moreover, they can immediately pay tribals for the produce they have picked up, this greatly helps tribals in having a steady income, informs Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fight-against-covid-19-gets-shot-in-the-arm-as-katkaris-supply-giloy-worth-rs-157-crore-987526.html
19-05-2021||West||How Mumbai’s city officials made it more Covid-ready than Delhi||By Dhwani Pandya and P R Sanjai, At midnight on April 17, as a deadly new wave of the coronavirus overwhelmed India, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal learned that six hospitals in his city would run out of oxygen within hours -- putting the lives of 168 patients at risk. Amid the ensuing scramble, the patients were rushed to the temporary hospitals Chahal’s team had set up during the city’s first wave in 2020. He hadn’t dismantled the facilities even when cases dipped. Unlike most Indian hospitals that relied on cylinders, they had been equipped with pipes that supplied oxygen directly to patients’ beds. All 168 survived. That night -- which Chahal describes as the scariest he’s ever had -- offers a look at tactics India’s financial capital used to quell its outbreak faster, and with fewer casualties, than other parts of the country. Mumbai has reported 2,784 deaths since the second wave began on March 1, around a fourth of the 10,595 in capital New Delhi. Even India’s Supreme Court has suggested that aspects of Mumbai’s model could be adopted in other parts of the nation like New Delhi. By contrast, the record number of daily deaths India continues to report, along with the collapse of the health system in parts of the country, have highlighted broad shortfalls in governance and public planning nationally. The country reported an unprecedented 4,529 deaths on Wednesday. Chahal attributes the city’s successes partly to a decentralised system his team set up during the first wave, which included neighborhood war rooms to manage cases by locality. He’s also made vast changes to the way the city sourced and used its medical oxygen, creating emergency stocks and tracking systems for tankers. So, even as families around India desperately pleaded for supplies on social media, Mumbai’s patients reported fewer problems. With a population of 16 million spread across glistening skyscrapers, apartment complexes and sprawling slums, Mumbai is the world’s second-most densely packed city, according to data from the United Nations. About 32,000 people are crammed in per square kilometre. That makes lessons from India’s financial capital particularly valuable as fears grow about outbreaks in other crowded places from Bangkok to Kathmandu. “I knew it was a long drawn war; and I knew only systems can win the wars -- individuals can’t,” Chahal said in an interview via Zoom. “Devising systems and making them run on auto pilot is key to the Mumbai model.” As of May 11, Mumbai had almost half the number of active virus cases as capital New Delhi. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain and Principal Secretary of Health Ashish Chandra Verma didn’t reply to calls seeking comment. Still, the risks to Mumbai are far from over. The city has recorded 6,88,696 cases since the pandemic began, adding 1,544 on May 16. Chahal is preparing for a third wave by setting up jumbo pediatric hospitals because public health experts have warned his team that more children might be infected in the next surge. Managing the trajectory of the virus in Mumbai is crucial given the potential human toll of a runaway epidemic. And as India’s financial capital, the city is also central to the nation’s already battered economy. Mumbai houses the nation’s main stock exchange. It’s where large multinationals like Unilever Plc and global financial giants from Citigroup Inc. to KKR & Co. have their Indian headquarters. It’s home to the nation’s central bank and India’s mammoth film industry -- Bollywood. Indian financial assets have decoupled from the national Covid situation. The rupee is up 1.5%, turning into Asia’s best-performing currency this month amid hopes of faster inoculations in coming months. The benchmark stock index has also climbed about 3% in May. Chahal, 55, says he built up administrative skills growing up in a military family: His father was an officer in the Indian army. Over the past decades, he’s held a string of bureaucratic positions, including working on a proposal to remodel Dharavi and helming an overhaul of Maharashtra state’s irrigation systems. He had to hit the ground running last May, when Maharashtra’s Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked him to head the municipal corporation at the height of Mumbai’s first wave. Bodies were piling up in mortuaries and the city’s densest slum, Dharavi, was battling a fast growing coronavirus crisis. Lessons from last year taught him the importance of a local approach and getting patients quickly isolated, a model he calls “Chase the Virus.” His team went door to door in Dharavi looking for people with symptoms and eventually isolating 150,000 people from the slum, a move that stopped the chain of infection. At the time, Chahal also abolished the central hub handling the city’s crisis and created local war rooms in each of the 24 administrative divisions -- wards or neighborhoods -- of the city. That localised approach helped as affluent neighborhoods were worse hit during the second wave. The local war rooms got test reports and reduced the spread the of infection by pointing patients to the nearest available hospital beds. The city administration negotiated with private hospitals to allocate beds for Covid patients at government decided rates. “We set up an excellent public private partnership between hospitals which is still today not visible in rest of the country,” Chahal said. When oxygen was running out during the second wave, Chahal started to source oxygen from nearby states. Mumbai’s civic authorities also banned hospitals from adding beds beyond their oxygen storage capacity, dodging the shortages that rocked other cities. Vaccinations “Wiser after our experience of last year, when the second wave hit with its dangerous mutations, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation quickly scaled up its infrastructure including beds, equipments and doctors,” said Dr. Hetal Marfatia, professor and head of the ear, nose and throat department at Mumbai’s KEM Hospital. This time round most hospital beds had readily available oxygen lines, she said. At times, Chahal said he’s had to simply find innovative ways to use limited resources. When ambulances were in short supply, he called the city’s election commission and converted the 800 cars they sent over into ambulances by putting up partitions between the driver and passenger. Still, Mumbai has been the epicentre of the virus twice, and local doctors warn of the continued risks. Chahal’s team has also drawn criticism for what some have described as a chaotic approach to vaccinations. “Though our cases graph has come down now, I would say this is not the end,” said Dr. Vikas Oswal, a pulmonologist practicing in clinics in Dharavi and other parts of Mumbai. “We are expecting a rise in cases within two weeks now, as vaccination centers are over flooded. They are not being managed properly.” Chahal acknowledges some of the risks, saying he’s preparing more jumbo hospitals with 6,500 added beds, and he’s attempting to directly import vaccines from international companies. Mumbai has received three bids to import Russia’s Sputnik vaccines, he told Bloomberg TV in an interview Wednesday, adding that the city will reduce its positivity rate to 2% by the end of May. More than 20% of India’s tests are yielding positive results, far higher than the less-than-5% the World Health Organization considers as an indicator that the epidemic is under control. “More we vaccinate, the greater are chances that we reduce the threat of the next wave,” Chahal said. --With assistance from Bibhudatta Pradhan, Rishaad Salamat, Haslinda Amin and Kartik Goyal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-mumbai-s-city-officials-made-it-more-covid-ready-than-delhi-987538.html
19-05-2021||West||I had not thought I would survive: Rescued workmen of P305 barge recall horror in sea amid cyclone Tauktae||Battling tidal waves as high as 10 metres and strong winds while trying to stay afloat in the cyclone-hit rough Arabian Sea for almost 12 hours, workmen rescued from a sinking barge near here narrated their horrifying experience in their quest for survival. Some of them said they had almost lost the hope of making it alive back home. The warship INS Kochi arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday with 125 workmen rescued from barge P305, an accommodation barge that sank amid the cyclone Tauktae fury. Of the 273 people on the ill-fated barge, 184 have been rescued so far by the Indian Navy. "It was a horrific situation on the barge. I had not thought I would survive. But, I swam in the waters for seven to eight hours with the determination to stay alive and was rescued by the Navy," workman Manoj Gite told reporters here. Gite (19), a resident of Kolhapur, said as the barge started sinking, all workmen got worried and he along with others wore a life jacket and jumped into the waters. The workman, who had joined as a helper on the barge only last month, said he lost all his documents and mobile phone in the cyclonic storm. Asked if he would return to the rig again, Gite said he is not keen to go back and is contented to be alive after the nightmarish experience. Another workman, who was injured in the incident, thanked the Indian Navy for saving his life. "It is because of the Navy that we all are alive and safe today, otherwise we don't what would have happened to us," the workman said while fighting back his tears. One of the officials on the barge had claimed the cyclone was "not huge", another workman said. "The official is now missing. We tried to search for him, but in vain," he said. Another rescued workman said as their barge started sinking, he jumped into the waters in the middle of the night and tried to stay afloat. "I swam for about 12 hours before the Navy team rescued me," he said. Another personnel, who works as a fitter at the rig, said the sea waves were higher than the height of the barge and there were high-speed winds blowing around. "Before the Navy ship arrived, we were not sure what was going to happen. As we saw the naval ship coming towards us for rescue, our confidence went up. I was sure they will save me, hence I jumped into the waters and started swimming," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-had-not-thought-i-would-survive-rescued-workmen-of-p305-barge-recall-horror-in-sea-amid-cyclone-tauktae-987555.html
19-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae survivors recount tale of horror at sea||When Papaa 305 turned topsy-turvy as the Tauktae cyclone passed by the ONGC’s Mumbai High oilfield, many of them on board the accommodation barge thought it was all over. The rescue was nothing less than a movie sequence. The barge sank on Monday night and many of the members with life jackets had to jump into the choppy Arabian Sea. P-305 had 261 persons on board when it sent out a distress call after experiencing water ingress and flooding. The vessel was well-equipped with safety apparatus including life jackets and life rafts for all persons on board. "It was a horrific situation on the barge….I swam in the waters for seven to eight hours with the determination to stay alive and was ultimately rescued by the Navy," said workman Manoj Gite, who hails from Kolhapur. "It is because of the Navy that we all are alive and safe today, otherwise, we don't know what would have happened to us," another worker said, thanking the Indian Navy for the rescue mission. After the barge sank into the darkness of of the sea, everyone was scattered as huge waves threw them in different directions. “It was really difficult for us…we don’t know how we survived,” another survivor said recalling the dangerous situation for the oil industry workers. It was an emotional moment for them as they touched the land after disembarking from INS Kochi that brought them to the Mumbai harbour. Afcons together with its consortium partner Halani-Tes-Nauvata, has been working with ONGC for the revamp of its unmanned offshore platforms in the Arabian Sea. The chartered barge along with its marine crew was owned and operated by M/s Durmast Enterprises Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-survivors-recount-tale-of-horror-at-sea-987601.html
19-05-2021||West||Pune lad clicks 'clearest' Moon with 50,000 pictures||A 16-year-old amateur astronomer and astro-photographer from Pune, Prathamesh Jaju, has clicked one of the best images of the Moon. The image of Moon clicked by Prathamesh has gone viral on social media platforms. Prathamesh captured the image on May 3, starting 0100 to 0500 hrs and spent close to 40 hours processing the image. “The reason behind 50,000 pictures was to get the clearest picture of the Moon. I stitched them together and sharpened the image to see crisp details of the Moon,” he said.   Prathamesh is a student of Vidya Bhavan High School in Pune and was to appear in the Class X exam — which has been cancelled and all students are promoted to Class XI because of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. He is associated with Jyotirvidya Parisanstha, — known as JVP to people of Pune — which is the oldest association of amateur astronomers in India. In his Instagram post, in which he uploaded the photo, Prathamesh said: “Last Quarter Mineral Moon… This image is an HDR Composite of two different images made to give it a 3 dimensional effect. This is my most detailed and clearest shot of the third quarter Mineral Moon. I captured around 50,000+ images over 186 GigaBytes of data which almost killed my laptop with the processing.”   He captured around 38 panels at 1500 and 3000mm focal length with a 1.2 megapixel. In the Facebook post, he said he had used Celestron 5 Cassegrain OTA with EQ3-2 GO-TO Mount, ZWO ASI120MCS, GSO 2X BARLOW to click the images in which one can clearly see the lunar surface and craters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-lad-clicks-clearest-moon-with-50000-pictures-987620.html
19-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Death toll climbs to 46 in Gujarat, 18 injured||The cyclone Tauktae claimed as many as 46 lives across a dozen affected districts and left 18 injured with Amreli district, where the cyclone made landfall reporting the highest (15) number of casualties. Most of the fatal incidents were reported due to wall collapse, house collapse, electrocution, and roof collapse. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi undertook an aerial survey of the worst affected districts including Gir-Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar, and union territory Diu. He later announced Rs 1,000 crore assistance to Gujarat for relief work and also extended ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the next kin of those who were killed and Rs 50,000 to seriously injured in the cyclone. The ex-gratia has also been extended to states such as Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Rajasthan.   On Wednesday evening, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani announced Rs 4 lakh compensation to the family of the deceased and Rs 1 lakh to those seriously injured. In all, the government's release stated, the families of the deceased will receive Rs 6 lakh as compensation. "Our preliminary report has found that 46 people lost their lives and 18 were injured till Wednesday evening in 12 districts," said a class-II officer with Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority, which is compiling the data, requesting not to be quoted. The state government has officially not announced the death toll yet, while the chief minister on Tuesday evening had said that 13 persons lost their lives in cyclone-related incidents. When contacted, additional chief secretary, revenue and home, Pankaj Kumar refused to share figure of the total casualties and said to contact the disaster control room. Out of 12 districts, Amreli is the worst affected with 15 deaths due to the cyclone that crossed the Saurashtra coast on Monday night as an extremely severe cyclonic storm and completed its landfall on Tuesday. The path the cyclone followed - Gir-Somnath to Bhavnagar in Saurashtra - has left massive destruction to properties and standing summer crops including horticulture as well as livestock. The cyclone with high-velocity winds has flattened mango crops, banana and coconut plantations. It damaged over 16,500 houses, 70,000 electric poles, and over 40,000 trees. Officials said that eight people each were killed in Gir-Somnath and Bhavnagar districts, while five were killed in the Ahmedabad district. Deaths were also reported in Rajkot, Anand, Vadodara, Surat, Valsad, Navsari, and Panchmahal districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-death-toll-climbs-to-46-in-gujarat-18-injured-987621.html
19-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae wreaks havoc on crops in Gujarat; mango, banana plantations worst hit||Cyclone Tauktae, which claimed the lives of 45 persons in Gujarat, has also caused a huge damage to standing summer crops, with the Kesar variety of mango that is mainly grown in the coastal districts of Gir Somnath and Junagadh, bearing its brunt along with the coconut and banana plantations in parts of the state, farmers said. Coconut plantations in Junagadh, Gir Somnath, parts of Amreli and Bhavnagar, and banana plantations in Bharuch, Tapi, Vadodara, Anand and parts of Kheda, among other districts, were badly hit, in addition to other standing summer crops, they said. Hundreds of mango trees were uprooted in plantations across Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Valsad districts, with nearly all the mangoes falling to the ground from the trees in the cyclone that made a landfall Monday night, the growers said. Kirit Patel, who owns 75 acres of mango farm at Talala in Gir Somnath district, said that mango plantations in Junagadh and Gir Somnath districts, known for Kesar mangoes that are supplied across the country and also exported in large quantities, have suffered a massive damage due to the cyclone. "Nearly 40 per cent of Kesar mango trees have been uprooted, which is a huge damage, as a tree takes nearly 15 years for crop. Almost all the mangoes on the trees fell to the ground, and these unripe mangoes are of not much use to the growers," Patel, who is also the Talala APMC chairman and a BJP leader, said. A mango grower from Visavadar in Junagadh district, also known for Kesar variety said, "There is not a single mango left on the trees. Many trees have been uprooted. We hope the government will provide us with some assistance." Valsad district, where both Kesar and Alphonso varieties of mangoes are grown, also suffered a massive damage, the growers said. The situation of banana plantations has been no different. Gusty winds destroyed the entire plantations of this fruit. "There were 14,000 banana plants, out of which 9,000 were completely uprooted and destroyed," said one grower at Upleta in Rajkot district. Another farmer said there were 21,000 plants, out of which 10,000 were flattened due to the cyclone, which he said, came at a time when the crops were almost ready. He said last year also they had suffered losses due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Sagar Rabari, a farmer leader and president of Gujarat Khedut Samaj, said, "The state did not witness such a cyclone in a long time, which caused a massive damage to the horticulture as well as summer crops." All the crops that were damaged were almost ripe and ready to be stored at home or hit the markets, he said. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had on Tuesday assured farmers that the government will undertake an immediate survey of the damages caused by the cyclone to the summer crops and mango, coconut and banana plantations, and assistance will be provided accordingly.  Summer crops, such as bajra, moong, urad, summer groundnuts, sesamum, as well as vegetables and guar gum are mainly grown in Saurashtra and north Gujarat regions of the state, while north Gujarat districts grow bajra and groundnut. Paddy and bajra are also grown in large quantities in central Gujarat districts, which also grow mung. In Saurashtra, bajra, moong, groundnut, and sesamum are grown in large quantities during summer. Vegetables are grown across all the regions of Gujarat during this season. The cyclone made landfall between Diu and Una town of Gir Somnath district in Gujarat on Monday night. As many as 45 persons lost their lives in cyclone-related incidents in the state as it left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles, trees and damaging thousands of houses and roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-wreaks-havoc-on-crops-in-gujarat-mango-banana-plantations-worst-hit-987664.html
19-05-2021||West||26 people aboard barge Papaa-305 killed in Cyclone Tauktae, 49 still missing||Twenty-six persons on board accommodation barge Papaa-305 have died even as the Indian Navy's search warships sailed in the choppy Arabian Sea and reconnaissance aircraft carried out runs and helicopters hovered over the Mumbai High region in the Arabian Sea to look for 49 oil workers reported missing. The remaining four bodies will be brought on Thursday. The Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command (WNC) continued with its massive Search and Rescue (SAR) mission along India’s western seaboard days after the devastating cyclone Tauktae hit the coastal areas. The cyclone, which is being described as one of the worst to hit the West coast, passed over the ONGC’s Mumbai High offshore development areas on Monday as it moved along Maharashtra towards Gujarat. Four vessels deployed by India’s public-sector oil exploration company were affected by the cyclone – barge Pappa-305 near Heera oilfield, barge GAL Constructor, vessel Support Station 3 and drillship Sagar Bhushan. A total of 261 persons were on board Pappa-305, according to officials of Indian Navy, ONGC and Afcons. Of these, the Navy has rescued 186 so far. “A total of 188 survivors including 186 of Papaa 305 and two ex tug Varaprada rescued and 26 Brave Nature’s Victims recovered so far,” an Indian Navy spokesperson said, adding that SAR operations continue in the Arabian Sea. The 188 survivors were brought to the Mumbai harbour in INS Kochi on Wednesday morning. Three warships INS Kolkata, INS Betwa and INS Beas continue to be in the vicinity of Mumbai High to look for survivors. Meanwhile, a P-8I is a long-range, multimission maritime patrol aircraft carried out reconnaissance missions over the designated area even as ALH, SeaKing and Chetak helicopters carried out search operations.  In the last three days, more than 600 crew and oil workers have been rescued by Indian Navy, assisted by Indian Coast Guard and ONGC platforms. All the 137 on board barge GAL Constructor have been rescued and dropped in INS Shikra, the Naval helibase at Colaba in Mumbai and ICG air station in Daman. Besides, all the 196 on board Support Station 3 and 101 in Sagar Bhushan are safe and accounted for.  “Both have been secured. Those on board are being brought to the shores,” officials said. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Oil and Natural Gas has ordered a high-level probe into the entire incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/26-people-aboard-barge-papaa-305-killed-in-cyclone-tauktae-49-still-missing-987676.html
19-05-2021||West||Leopard cub united with mother in Maharashtra village||In a heart-warming rescue operation, Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department reunited a 25-day-old leopard cub with its mother. The cub was found stranded in a sugarcane field in Vadgaon Anand village, located in the Junnar division of Pune district. Last week, farmers in Vadgaon Anand village, located in Junnar division of Pune district, were out harvesting their sugarcane crops, when they heard mewling sounds coming from the field. On taking a closer look, they were stunned to find a baby leopard in their midst. Local communities residing in Junnar district have been trained in preliminary rescue protocols as human-leopard interaction is very high in this area. Taking quick action, the farmers immediately alerted members of the rescue team, trained by the MFD and Wildlife SOS. Soon after, two rescue units from Wildlife SOS and MFD rushed to the location with the necessary equipment and medical kits to examine the cub. The on-site examination of leopard cubs is conducted to ascertain their age and whether or not they are wounded or suffering from any infection or showing signs of dehydration. The cub was identified as a female, estimated to be about 25-day-old. On being deemed healthy and fit for release by Wildlife SOS, wildlife veterinary officer, Dr.Nikhil Bangar, the cub was placed in a safe-box so she could be reunited with her mother. Dr. Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “We installed camera traps to document the happy reunion. The mother leopard slowly approached the field around, after being drawn out by her cub’s distinct scent and vocalisation. She was quick to tip the safe-box over and she carefully picked up the cub so they could relocate to a safer location. Kartick Satyanarayan, Co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “ Leopard cubs stay with their mothers until they are two years old, learning the necessary skills of survival all the while exploring their natural habitat and honing their senses. For this young cub, the separation from its mother could have easily meant death or a life in captivity. To avoid situations like that, we undertake every effort to make such rescue and reunion operations possible as a successful reunion also means lesser instances of human-leopard conflict!" Yogesh Ghodake, Range Forest Officer, Otur, said, “Such incidents are quite common for villagers residing near the scrub forests of Maharashtra, which is the natural habitat of a large population of leopards.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leopard-cub-united-with-mother-in-maharashtra-village-987738.html
