20-05-2021||Comment||The pandemic and the rural doctor||When I retired from my surgical career a few years ago, I set up a clinic in a rural town in Kodagu district. The clinic is small and sparsely equipped. The medicines used are few and inexpensive. I make up for this thrift with advice: about the food we eat, our environment, inactivity, genetic disorders and stress being the key factors that cause disease. I explain how they can be prevented. Patients listen politely, or with dismay, or amusement. Some follow my counsel. The pandemic happened at a time when I was truly enjoying my job as a general practitioner, seeing a marvellous variety of cases, and therefore having to update my knowledge. When Covid struck, the Indian economy was still suffering from the effects of demonetisation; and Kodagu had not recovered from the floods of 2018 and 2019, with crops damaged, houses wrecked, and tourism – one of the pillars of Kodagu economy – yet to recover. When the sudden lockdown came in March 2020, we had one positive case in the district. The average citizen buckled under the resulting mayhem. The lifting of the lockdown, with frenetic attempts to return to work and an influx of people from bordering districts and states, led to a surge in Covid infections which reached 6,000 within a few months. The district hospital in Madikeri admitted proven cases and managed them efficiently. But having a single centre for the entire region was inadequate. The distance from my clinic to Madikeri is 70 km. I spoke to the district health officer (DHO) at the beginning of the lockdown to find out if he had any advice. In view of my age, he advised me to shut my clinic, stay safe and send all suspected cases to Madikeri. Of the three doctors working in town, one tested Covid positive and stayed off for two months. I shut the clinic, opened the clinic, shut it again and finally decided to stay open. I lost about two months thus but continued to see patients at home. The gentle warning from the DHO aside, no one interfered with my work; nor did I get any guidelines. A large number of doctors in rural India have had to rely on their own resources to handle the pandemic. Our efforts are an essential part of the rural struggle to cope with a ‘never before' medical crisis that has claimed the lives of nearly three lakh Indians to date. I read about Covid, listened to experts online and spoke to medical colleagues. Epidemiologists warned that for each clinically confirmed case, there would be several more cases, untested and many of them asymptomatic. I tried to work within the confines of this crucial detail and did some clinical detective work. It was confusing and frustrating. The best help at that time came from a friend in Pune (non-medical, from the armed forces) who sent me useful medical information and a supply of the medicines; he also alerted me daily about new developments that I might miss. The other source of help was my brother (also from the armed forces). He provided me with a stack of N95 masks, medicines and gloves. The role of these two army guys was far, more important and genuine than the showy praise from the Armed Forces with helicopters showering flowers over hospitals, and serenading medical staff with music, thus expending Rs 68 crore. The banging of thalis and lighting lamps to ring in good health was just as empty a gesture. Early treatment with home quarantine is ideal for a majority of patients. I used Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as a preventive and therapeutic medicine in the early months of the pandemic and then switched to Ivermectin, which has proved its worth if started early. Independent medical teams around the world have used these drugs and made their data widely available. Towards the end of last year, the ICMR endorsed these drugs but did not follow up on their use. Doctors around India have been using these drugs with success and safety.   The Covid pandemic exposed clearly the errors made by our government, the most fundamental being to rely entirely on one set of advisers and then rushing into an ill-timed lockdown. The plight of migrant workers who bore the triple blow of hunger, joblessness and Covid is unforgettable. Those in power underplayed the ill-effects of their goof-ups; they concealed hard truths under a blitzkrieg of self-congratulatory exaggerations of India’s success in defeating the virus. That a second Covid surge was likely in April-May in India was foretold as early as January by experts in India and abroad. The government chose to be arrogant and ignorant; and we, the people, stupidly followed -- travelling, attending parties and weddings, forgetting to wear masks: The reprisal was swift. In Kodagu, the cases have risen sharply. I shut my clinic yet again and now see patients at home, on the porch. My job is to clinically detect cases early, because if treatment is started by the 2nd or 3rd day of the onset of symptoms, the chances of quick and safe recovery are high. We are learning every day. The disease has two phases. The first stage is when the virus multiplies in the body and it lasts for six to seven days. This is when simple treatment is most effective. The second stage is one of high inflammation said to be caused by a hypersensitivity reaction to the virus and it can be dangerous if not quickly detected and treated. Blood tests to detect inflammation are essential in those who have a persistent fever after five days of treatment, severe lung signs, extreme fatigue or low oxygen levels. They need steroids, a blood thinner and an antihistamine. A few will require oxygen and fewer will have to be admitted for critical care and more advanced drugs. Much of what I learnt is based on small and large studies by various doctors. Around the world, there are several doctors and doctor groups well worth learning from. More than a month after the onset of the second wave in India, we are in ‘crisis’ mode. Rural India is facing devastation. It is never too late to rearrange our cache of knowledge and wisdom, to learn, and to share our learning. An effective network of healthcare providers in each area, treatment protocols, availability of drugs and the quick establishment of oxygen beds will do wonders. And when the pandemic is no longer a threat, we must prepare to face the economic and the nutritional debacle that will follow. (The writer is a surgeon and novelist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-pandemic-and-the-rural-doctor-987825.html
20-05-2021||First Edit||Partisan politics via handmaiden agencies||The issues raised by the CBI’s action against two Trinamool Congress (TMC) ministers and other leaders in West Bengal are not new. They were arrested on charges of corruption exposed by a sting operation before the 2016 assembly election in the state. On the basis of the records of the sting operation, called the Narada tapes, the Calcutta High Court had ordered an investigation in 2017. But political corruption usually does not get acted upon, few cases are investigated and fewer of them lead to a conviction. They are usually used for blackmail or harassment by governments with the help of investigating agencies. This is what has happened with the tapes in West Bengal too, with the CBI suddenly getting active against TMC politicians after the BJP lost to Mamata Banerjee’s party in the assembly election. The view that the central government has vindictively unleashed the investigating agency against TMC leaders is not far-fetched in the present circumstances. The CBI, too, did not follow proper procedure for the arrests.  The arrests may be defended on the ground that there are visual images of bribe-taking, and corruption should not go unpunished. While this is true, it is equally true that the CBI has been selective in its investigation and action. Two former leaders of the TMC, who are now with the BJP, also faced the same charges in the same case. One of them is the Accused No 1. But the CBI has not acted against them because they are with the BJP. The agency has always been a “caged parrot’’ working at the behest of the central government and the ruling party. But its partisanship has now become most brazen and unapologetic. Other offices and agencies of the Centre have also become much more blatantly partisan. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s actions and statements before and after the elections are proof of this.  Every time the government acts wrongly and with partisanship through its agencies, it pushes the system further into disrepute and dysfunction and into a state of lawlessness. It also degrades the system by inviting unconventional or lawless responses to it, like the dharna by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at the CBI office or the protests by mobs in front of it. Such chains of actions and reactions will turn the country into a banana republic where there is no rule of law and respect for laws. When the government acts wrongly and illegally and the victims of wrong actions feel that they cannot survive without taking the law into their hands or violating it, the system is bound to unravel. The persistent actions against opposition leaders and their associates and governments of opposition parties vitiate politics and endanger federalism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/partisan-politics-via-handmaiden-agencies-987824.html
20-05-2021||In Perspective||Coastal violations invite greater disasters||A deep depression over Lakshadweep islands on May 14 turned into Cyclone ‘Tauktae’, ravaging the coastal areas of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra on its way to finally making landfall in Diu and Gujarat on May 17/18, packing ferocious winds, pounding rains and severe destruction of buildings, roads, electric poles and trees along the way. Some 30 people have perished in the three day-long fury. The cyclone has also sunk an oil-industry barge leaving 273 personnel adrift off Heera Oil Fields in Bombay High. Despite a 24-hour-long rescue operation, 91 people are still missing. The more rapid warming of the Arabian Sea as compared to the Bay of Bengal results in more frequent and destructive cyclones on India’s west coast. In February 1991, the central government declared coastal stretches of seas and waterbodies influenced by tidal action up to 500 metres from the high tide line and the land between low tide line and high tide line as Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ). However, the distance is restricted to 100 meters or width of the creek, whichever is less in case of tidal influenced waterbodies connected to sea. Prior approval of Coastal Zone Management Authority (CZMA) was made mandatory for any construction in CRZ. The reason behind the move was livelihood security of the communities in coastal areas, and to address the dangers of natural hazards and sea-level rise due to global warming. Sometimes the courts ordered demolition of structures built in violation of CRZ notification. The most recent among these is the demolition of residential high-rise buildings in Ernakulum. Apartments built illegally, in violation of CRZ norms, at Maradu municipality, Ernakulum district, Kerala, were ordered to be demolished by the Supreme Court on May 8, 2019. The court observed that CRZ notification is meant to protect the environment and bring about sustainable development. The judges said that the violations should not be taken lightly; the law of the land must be obeyed and enforced. The Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (MoEFCC) on February 19 dealt with cases where CRZ clearance had not been obtained. The ministry’s official memorandum said that the activities which are otherwise permissible and have commenced construction/operation without clearance would be considered for prospective clearance if the proponent approaches CZMA, who in turn assesses environmental and ecological damages and lists mitigation measures through ‘Compensatory Conservation Plan’ (CCP) and ‘Community Resource Augmentation Plan’ (CRAP) to be implemented within three years of grant of approval. With the CZMA’s recommendation, the ministry would refer the application for clearance to ‘Expert Appraisal Committee’, who would examine the adequacy of CCP and CRAP. Generally, unscrupulous builders, powerful hotel owners and violators manipulate clearances. Unauthorised constructions in prohibited areas built by damaging natural sand dunes, by filling up river beds and lakes and also in no-development zones, eco-sensitive zones and on the seaward side of existing roads are rampant. Natural reserves of underground drinking water resources and the areas within high tide line are also not spared, in blatant violation of CRZ norms and building regulations. Damage to natural sand dunes, waterbodies and beaches cannot be mitigated through CCP. The Forest Survey of India report of 2019 suggests that while Gujarat, Maharashtra and Odisha have added mangroves, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Andaman & Nicobar Islands have lost them. The area under mangroves in Karnataka is stagnant. Karnataka has been planting mangrove species in the coastal belt regularly. The department must investigate why mangrove plantations are not adding to the forest cover. The only inference is that mangroves are being destroyed at the same pace that they are being planted.  The National Green Tribunal’s committee recently visited a housing project in the coastal area of Kakinada (Andhra Pradesh) and found 30% of 116 acres of mangrove has already been destroyed. The Collector of the district justified the project saying that the mangroves were not notified forests and the government was moving to bring down its status from CRZ I to CRZ II. No construction is permissible in CRZ I areas. Should such manipulation be allowed, given that mangroves have complex root systems efficient in dissipating sea wave energy and protecting coastal areas from tsunamis, storm surges and soil erosion? Frequent droughts, floods, landslides, cyclones, etc., in Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Gujarat indicate change of land use patterns in coastal belts and deforestation in Western Ghats. The construction of the coastal highway connecting Greater Mumbai and the bullet train project is destroying mangroves. If it is not arrested, cyclones like last year’s ‘Nisarga’ and ‘Tauktae’ will wreak greater damage the next time around. With an eye on reviving the Covid-ravaged economy, the central government has opened the floodgates for grant of prospective CRZ clearances to regularise illegal constructions, which were otherwise to be demolished. The ease of doing business through this relaxation will invite cyclones like ‘Tauktae’ to cause greater damage and bring untold human misery.  (The writer is a former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/coastal-violations-invite-greater-disasters-987822.html
20-05-2021||Kalaburagi||Now, Gulbarga MP takes it upon himself to get medication for black fungus||Gulbarga MP Dr Umesh Jadhav, who had made news by personally carrying 250 vials of Remdesivir injection from Bengaluru to Kalaburagi recently, has now managed to get injections required to treat black fungus disease as the district reported 14 black fungus (mucormycosis) disease.  The MP held a meeting with the doctors of government and private hospitals on Wednesday. On coming to know about black fungus disease being reported in the district, the MP shouldered the responsibility of bringing Amphotericin injection required to treat the black fungus disease from Bengaluru.  Jadhav met Avinash Menon at the drug control headquarters in Bengaluru on Thursday. “As the State is facing a shortage of the injection, Kalaburagi may get the injections four days later,” Menon said.  The MP then spoke to Health and Family Welfare Department commissioner Trilokchandra, apprised him of the situation in Kalaburagi and managed to get 28 vials of the injection. His personal assistant Kashinath Biradar will take the injections to Kalaburagi, the MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/now-gulbarga-mp-takes-it-upon-himself-to-get-medication-for-black-fungus-988094.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Health department to persuade those in home isolation to shift to CCCs||In a bid to control Covid-19, the health department has started making an effort to shift those in home isolation to the Covid Care Centres (CCCs). This will help in preventing them from moving around unnecessarily and thereby help check the transmission. The infected are persuaded to shift to the Covid Care Centres that are identified by the district administration, said DHO Dr Kishore Kumar. The department is taking measures to shift those who are above 45 years old suffering from diabetes, BP, infection in the lungs and to those who are below 45 years old, who are asymptomatic and do not have enough facilities in their house to remain in isolation. Already, 50-beds have been arranged at the ESI Hospital in Mangaluru for Covid Care Centre. A total of 22 have been admitted so far. There are 250 beds in the CCC set up at NITK, Surathkal. None have been admitted so far. At the taluk level, Morarji Desai Schools have been readied as CCCs and the infected will be sent there. Fear of hospitalisation The DHO said that a few people, in spite of suffering from symptoms of Covid-19, hide their conditions fearing hospitalisation. Such individuals are persuaded to get themselves admitted to the CCC to avoid any complications. Nodal officers have been appointed to each Covid Care Centres. The local doctors are advising on the health conditions at the Centres. In addition, a decision has been taken to appoint nurses to work in shifts. MLA D Vedavyas Kamath, who visited the CCC at the ESI Hospital in Mangaluru, said, “Nutritious food is provided to the infected at the Centre along with taking care of their health.” Constant monitoring In the meantime, to check the loitering of the infected in home isolation, the department has decided to take tough measures. Task Forces have been asked to resort to pasting posters outside the house of the Covid-19 infected, identify micro-containment zones and supply grocery to the households who are in need of it. More than 10 Covid Care Centres have been readied in the taluk and the city. The department is mulling over opening CCCs in the available hostels in the panchayat limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/health-department-to-persuade-those-in-home-isolation-to-shift-to-cccs-987857.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||11 oxygen generation plants to come up in Dakshina Kannada||The district may not face a shortage of oxygen in future, once all the 11 oxygen generation plants come up in various parts of Dakshina Kannada district, including the ones at the Wenlock Hospital and at the Lady Goschen Hospital, said Kota Srinivas Poojary, district in-charge minister. The state government has supplied 1.5 lakh Vitamin C tablets along with Zinc tablets. There is no shortage of medicines in the district, he told media persons in Mangaluru. The minister said a village-level task force has been set up in all the 223-gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada to effectively tackle Covid-19 and to check its spread. The MLAs have been coordinating with these task forces in their respective Assembly constituencies. Covid-19 vaccines About 58% of those above 60 years have availed their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Dakshina Kannada district while 39% of people have availed the second dose. In the age group of 45 to 59, 26% of the targeted people were administered with the first dose while 16% have received their second jab. Though the target is to vaccinate 10.92 lakh people in the age group of 18 to 44, it has been suspended for the time being, to help those waiting for their second dose of vaccine. To a query on the shortage of Covaxin in the district, the minister said the district has been receiving the vaccine as and when the State gets from the Centre. It will take eight to 10 days for the full-fledged supply of the vaccine. Extension of lockdown To a query on the extension of lockdown, Poojary said a majority of the ministers and deputy commissioners of various districts have appealed to the CM to extend the lockdown for a week. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will take a call on it shortly. The minister appealed to the Opposition leaders not to politicise the issue of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress leaders should not engage in misleading the people, he said. On exorbitant bills being charged by the private hospitals for treating the Covid-19 infected, the minister said he too had been receiving a lot of complaints about the same. A grievances redressal committee under the deputy commissioner has been constituted. If people bring it to the notice of the committee, then the DC will get the bills cross-checked to ensure that patients are not overcharged bypassing the price fixed by the government for treatment. In several cases, the hospitals have been directed to refund the amount as well, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-oxygen-generation-plants-to-come-up-in-dakshina-kannada-987871.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Demand for food from Indira Canteen increases during the pandemic||Jayaram and wife Chaitra from Mangaluru have remained jobless ever since the lockdown was announced. With no earnings, they are now dependent on the Indira Canteen for food. The couple were cobblers by profession and were residing in a rented house in Shakthinagara. Now, they are seeking shelter under the awnings of shops in Hampankatta to ensure that they get food to survive.  Similarly, Jagadish from Dharmasthala, who does a menial job to earn a living, too has been depending on the food from Indira Canteen to survive during the lockdown. Master kitchen The master kitchen of Indira Canteen at Urwa in Mangaluru has been supplying food to the Indira Canteens at Urwa, near Lady Goschen Hospital, Kavoor, Surathkal, Thokkottu and Pumpwell daily. "Around 650 packets of food are supplied three times in a day at the Indira Canteens near the Lady Goschen Hospital. The demand for food is high here as a majority of the destitutes, needy and the migrant labourers are found loitering nearby," said Indira Canteen manager Madhav Shetty to DH. Food packets The canteens at Urwa, Kavoor, Surathkla, Thokkottu and Pumpwell are supplied with 200 to 300 packets of food three times a day. "A few seek three to four packets citing the presence of physically challenged, elderly and ill persons at home. We cannot deny food to anyone. The Indira Canteen serves traditional food like 'Kadle-Bajil', 'Sajjige-Bajil', 'Upma' and 'Sheera' in the morning for breakfast while its rice items like 'Palav', 'Pudina Rice', 'Jeera Rice', 'Chitranna', 'Puliogare' are served in the afternoon and night." "Our staff who are residing on the outskirts of Mangaluru are scared to come for work in the city. As a result, we are facing shortage of staff to prepare rice, 'sambar', 'idli', 'vada' and other dishes. With the help of area corporator Ganesh Kulal, a few volunteers are helping us in packing the food every day," said Shetty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/demand-for-food-from-indira-canteen-increases-during-the-pandemic-987877.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two suspected Black Fungus cases reported in Chamarajanagar||Two Black Fungus cases have been identified in Chamarajanagar district for the first time, and the patients have been shifted to the K R Hospital in Mysuru, for further treatment. According to sources, the patients had visited a private hospital, where the doctors suspected that the symptoms were similar to Black Fungus and referred them to the district hospital. As the hospital lab does not have the facility to identify the Black Fungus, the patients have been shifted to the K R Hospital, in Mysuru. When contacted, Dr Dinesh of K R Hospital said, a separate ward has been opened for treating the patients affected from Black Fungus. "Three patients have undergone surgeries and they are stable. There is no information about the suspected patients from Chamarajanagar suffering from Black Fungus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-suspected-black-fungus-cases-reported-in-chamarajanagar-987908.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two held for torching 11 parked vehicles in Shivamogga||Shivamogga police nabbed two persons on charges of torching 11 cars, one autorickshaw and some bikes parked in front of their houses on Siddaiah and MKK Road in Shivamogga on Wednesday night.  According to police, some miscreants damaged the windshields of cars and torched auto-rickshaws parked near the houses. The hunt is on to nab the remaining miscreants.  District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa visited the spot and said that some anti-social elements are trying to disturb peace in the city during the lockdown. Such incidents are taking place in the old Shivamogga area frequently. The two youths who are arrested belong to the minority community and this is an attempt to harm communal harmony in the city. Police will find out the people behind the incident and bring them to justice, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-held-for-torching-11-parked-vehicles-in-shivamogga-987911.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Seven patients at Manipal hospital have Black Fungus||Seven patients being treated for Covid-19 at the Kasturba Medical College (KMC) hospital at Manipal have been infected with Black Fungus (mucormycosis), Udupi district health officer (DHO) Sudhir Chandra Sooda has said. Five women and two men are currently receiving treatment for the infection. The patients also have uncontrolled diabetes, Sooda told reporters on Wednesday. The patients, who were admitted to KMC for treatment of various health issues, had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. They are from Chitradurga, Dharwad, Harihara, Davanagere, Shivamogga, Ranebennuru and Koppala. No case of Black Fungus has been reported in Udupi district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-patients-at-manipal-hospital-have-black-fungus-987936.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sa Ra slams Ramadass for closing Covid Care Centres||K R Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh opposed the closure of 16 Covid Care Centres in the city on Wednesday. In a press conference here, on Thursday, Mahesh took severe exception against MLA S A Ramadass, also advisor for District level Task Force for recommending closure of the centres. When Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed the Health department and district administrations to open more number of Covid Care Centres, 16 centres have been closed in Mysuru city, he said.  Ramadass and his team had visited one or two centres where they might have witnessed flaws. It is not right to close 16 centres. Let the task force give an opportunity to the centres to correct themselves. There were nearly 300 patients at the centres and now, they need to be shifted to other centres due to the closure. Who will take the responsibility if any untoward incident is reported, he charged. Ramadass is the MLA for K R Assembly segment and has no power to take decisions over the centres out of his constituency. “Who gave him the authority to decide about the district? Has the district in-charge minister given his power to Ramadass,” he asked. Sa Ra Sneha Balaga will open a facility in Mysuru in the days to come. At present, the Balaga has opened a facility at K R Nagar, where 55 people are undergoing treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sa-ra-slams-ramadass-for-closing-covid-care-centres-988060.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘PHCs to be converted into Covid Care Centres’||With the rural areas reporting a surge in Covid cases, the Primary Health Centres (PHC) would be converted into Covid Care Centres, said, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "As soon as the person tests positive, the patient was suggested home isolation and treatment. There are complaints that they fail to stay isolated posing threat of infection to others. Hence, the positive patients will be housed in their respective PHCs, and treated." "Only if their health condition worsens, the patient would be shifted to taluk and district hospitals. All facilities would be provided at the PHCs," he said. Commenting on the black fungus, he said that such cases have been reported from several places and the patients are responding to the treatment. "As there is a shortage of medicines, it is being purchased from other countries. There are efforts to produce the medicines in our country," he said. Wearing PPE kit, the DCM visited the Covid ward and interacted with the patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/phcs-to-be-converted-into-covid-care-centres-988062.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Srikanteshwara temple EO ‘admits to mistake,’ audio goes viral||A telephone conversation, said to be of Executive Officer of Nanjangud Srikanteshwara temple and the person, over BJP state vice president B Y Vijayendra’s visit to the temple, has gone viral. Vijayendra and his wife visited the temple and offered puja on Tuesday, drawing criticisms.  When the caller asked the officer how could he give permission which is a violation during lockdown, the officer is heard saying “I have done a mistake. Punish me. Do whatever you want. I have another one year of service. I am ready to take voluntary retirement. I faced the same problem in Kukke Subrahmanya Temple also.”     The caller charges him saying, “Being a government official you have violated lockdown norms. Don’t you have sense?”  The officer replies, “The couple travelled from other district. Isn’t it a violation? Have you questioned it? Even they (couple) have to understand the situation and Covid norms.”    However, when DH tried to contact the officer, he was not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/srikanteshwara-temple-eo-admits-to-mistake-audio-goes-viral-988069.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid vaccine to all by end of year: DyCM||Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Thursday said that the state government aims to complete the first dose of Covid vaccination to all by end of the year. Speaking to reporters here, the minister said that the country is prepared to produce sufficient vaccines and every citizen will get vaccination by the end of the year. When asked about the treatment for black fungus, the minister said, "The Union government will procure medicines from the other countries and supply it to the states after import. Special arrangements have been made across the state to treat Covid patients. Even private hospitals will offer treatment and the government will supply needed medicines." According to the minister, around 100 people are undergoing treatment for black fungus and the death report due to the fungus is yet to be received. Ashwath Narayan also warned legal action against those treating black fungus cases secretely. The hospital must provide details about black fungus cases, he said. RAT and RTPCR tests will be increased in all the 149 PHCs of the district including 25 in Mysuru city. The aim is to bring down the rate of positive cases. To avoid delay in drug procurement, the process in now being carried out through Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society. This has ensured timely delivery of the required drugs, he told. The government has taken steps to procure drugs which is enough to treat 35-40 lakh infected persons. Government labs have been strengthened to conduct one lakh tests per day and private hospitals can handle 75,000 RTPCR tests every day. Besides this, 50,000 RAT tests are being done every day, he explained. As many as 30 lakh Rapid Antigen kits have been procured and tenders have been floated to procure one crore RAT and RTPCR kits and they have been given 4G exemption, he informed. The minister also met Suttur seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami at Suttur mutt and also chaired a meeting with the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-vaccine-to-all-by-end-of-year-dycm-988071.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||DC visits villages, meets Covid patients in isolation||As the number of Covid cases are on a rise in rural areas, Deputy Commissioner R Girish visited the houses of Covid infected persons, inquired their health and inspected the isolation procedures followed by them in Hassan on Thursday. The DC visited Hongare village, under Shantigrama hobli, and interacted with the patients and checked if medicines are provided on time. He inquired the villagers, whether door-to-door health survey has been conducted. He directed the officials to ensure that those with symptoms are provided zinc, vitamin C and other medicines, to check the pandemic. He directed the officials to shift a few patients, without isolation facilities to the Covid Care Centre and also suggested the Panchayat Development Officer to convert the schools into isolation centres. Tahsildar Shivashankarappa, Taluk Health Officer Dr Vijay and Shantigrama PDO K D Ramesh accompanied him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-visits-villages-meets-covid-patients-in-isolation-988072.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pvt clinic shut for not adhering to guidelines||A private clinic that failed to adhere to the guidelines, issued by the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment (KPME) Act, was ordered to close, at Shantigrama in Hassan taluk, on Thursday. Tahsildar Shivashankarappa and Taluk Health Officer Dr Vijay conducted a raid on Hasanamba clinic in Shantigrama. It was found that social distancing was not followed in the clinic and the patients suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) were being treated, without conducting RT-PCR tests. The clinic was registered under Ayush, but the patients were treated under allopathy medicinal system. As several flaws were observed Tahsildar Shivashankarappa ordered to close the clinic temporarily. A report was submitted to the DC later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pvt-clinic-shut-for-not-adhering-to-guidelines-988073.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two die of black fungus||Two persons, infected with Black fungus (Mucormycosis) died at KR Hospital in Mysuru on Thursday. A doctor, who wished to maintain anonymity, confirmed the deaths and said, "As many as seven persons, infected with black fungus, were undergoing treatment in the hospital. Out of them, two died. However, the doctor declined to disclose the details of the deceased." Meanwhile, two black fungus cases have been identified in Chamarajanagar district for the first time. The patients have been shifted to KR Hospital in Mysuru, for treatment. According to the officials, the patients had first visited a private hospital, where the doctors suspected that the symptoms were similar to black fungus and referred them to the district hospital. As Chamarajanagar hospital lab does not have the facility to identify black fungus, the patients have been shifted to the KR Hospital, in Mysuru. Dr Dinesh of KR Hospital said, "A separate ward has been opened for treating the patients affected by black fungus. Three patients have undergone surgeries for black fungus and are stable. He has no information about the patients from Chamarajanagar, suffering from suspected black fungus."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-die-of-black-fungus-988075.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan: Four-day lockdown forces people to throng markets||With the district administration enforcing the four-day lockdown a week, across Hassan district, from Thursday, there was heavy rush in the city markets, with people buying essential items, in the morning. In an effort to combat the rising Covid cases in Hassan district, District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah had recently announced that Hassan will go into complete four-day lockdown. The shops, selling essential items, have been given permission to do business on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, from 6 am to 10 am. The other four days, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday, there will be total lockdown in Hassan district. Kabbinakere vegetable market has been shifted to the city bus stand. There was heavy rush at markets to buy vegetables. There was no social distancing. The situation was similar at grocery stores also. The markets all over the district were crowded and vehicular density was more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-four-day-lockdown-forces-people-to-throng-markets-988076.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Online summer camps help children cope with stress during pandemic||With more than a year of the pandemic, schools remain closed and children are confined indoors. Children are affected a lot due to the second wave of the pandemic. With playing on fields and vacations a far fetched idea, they were forced to spend yet another summer at home, this year. Online summer camps have come not only as a stress-buster, but to showcase their creativity and take part in various activities of their interest. It may be recalled that the state government banned all summer camps for children, due to the Covid pandemic in 2020. The enrollment for online summer camps shot up last year. Following the lockdown for the second consecutive year, it was easy for the parents to find the best summer online camp, suitable for their children. The situation encouraged many persons to conduct online summer camps, music and dance classes that keep the children busy and entertained for more than an hour, every day. "Finding an online painting summer camp was not only safe, but it prevents the children from coming in contact with a lot of surfaces. I was able to get a good art teacher from Bengaluru," said Sowmya, a parent of a five-year-old boy. Shravya of Naavik Early Education Centre, who is conducting an online summer camp, said that they have students enrolled from all over the country. "We have students from Jaipur, Rajasthan, Delhi, Mysuru, Udupi, Bengaluru and other places. The online classes is for children from 3-6 years, conducted for two months. We ensure that they take part actively in the online camp, with a lot of creativity. We conduct five batches a day and each batch has 10 to 12 students. The hands on experience not only keep them busy, but also improves the motor skill activities. We have observed that young children are quite excited to bring their art works for showing," she said. Naavik also conducts online academic sessions from June. The children have an opportunity to interact with new people, and even display their work online, that increases their confidence and gives a sense of achievement. Online music camps have become a hit among children, as this involves one to one interaction with the teacher. There are many academies conducting virtual summer camps on music, dance, magic maths, science, creative writing and many more. Jagannath, a parent, opined that paying for online camps may be worth, if your child is occupied for several hours, giving you some time. "But, if your child requires a lot of supervision, it is not worth shelling out money. One can opt for a low-cost camp that needs less parent attention," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/online-summer-camps-help-children-cope-with-stress-during-pandemic-988078.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Complete lockdown for three days in Davangere from May 21||In order to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission, it has been decided to enforce complete lockdown from 10 am on May 21 to 6 am on May 24 in Davangere. Announcing this during a press conference on Thursday, District In-charge Minister B A Basavaraju said the number of cases is rising in the district, and most of the cases are from rural areas. There will be a complete lockdown from May 21 in the district, he said and appealed to the people to extend co-operation to the lockdown. Despite taking strict measures, the cases are rising in the district. So, a complete lockdown will be enforced in the district, he added. He also made it clear that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would take a call on the extension of the state-wide lockdown after May 24. Total lockdown On measures being taken during the total lockdown, Basavaraju said, all commercial and industrial activities will remain suspended during the complete lockdown. People are banned from using vehicles to purchase essential commodities. Only ten persons are allowed to attend wedding ceremonies, and five in funeral ceremonies, he added. Those who enter Davangere must be examined at the check-posts and the details of address they will be staying in the city, and the mobile numbers of such persons must be collected. Those who come from other districts must be under home quarantine for 14 days. The movement of vehicles is permitted only for medical emergencies. They must display necessary documents for travel. Food delivery via Swiggy and Zomato is allowed in hotels and canteens. Government offices will function as per the norms of the government, but, public visit to the offices is prohibited, he noted.   Only essential services He said, the staff of semi-government offices and private companies must work from home. The shops that sell milk, and meat are permitted to function from 6 am to 10 am. Essential services are permitted. Indira Canteens are permitted to provide food to people free of cost. Print and visual media journalists are permitted to discharge their duties, and they have been exempted from lockdown, he said. He said the sale of fruits and vegetables in push-carts in residential areas is permitted, and people can buy them at their doorsteps. Construction workers can carry on their activities if they are residing at the construction sites, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/complete-lockdown-for-three-days-in-davangere-from-may-21-988111.html
20-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress-fuelled vaccine hesitancy responsible for Covid-19 deaths: B Sriramulu||Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu said on Wednesday that the Congress party had misled the people on vaccination by creating hesitancy and that it should own up the responsibility for the Covid-19 deaths. “Four months back, the Congress, led by Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, launched a campaign to create doubts in the minds of people about Covid vaccine. They created hesitancy, said vaccines can cause infertility so on, so forth... Because of propaganda against Covid-19 jabs, people became vaccine-hesitant. This led to a surge in Covid-19 deaths,” Sriramulu told reporters here. “They (Congress leaders) want the cases and fatalities to soar so that it would bring disrepute to the country and undermine the efforts of PM Modi and CM Yediyurappa to tackle the pandemic,” Sriramulu charged. JD(S) leaders H D Deve Gowda and H D Kumaraswamy are cooperating with the government in the fight against the Covid-19. They (Congress) should learn from JD(S), he said. When asked about the Congress party’s offer to ‘donate’ Rs 100 crore from LAD funds for vaccine procurement, Sriramulu said, “This (LAD fund) is people’s money. It is just a ‘publicity gimmick’.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-fuelled-vaccine-hesitancy-responsible-for-covid-19-deaths-b-sriramulu-987792.html
20-05-2021||Mysuru||Heavy rain brings misery to Mysuru region||Heavy showers, coupled with thunder and lightning, lashed Mysuru city and many parts of old Mysuru region on Thursday evening. A heavy spell of shower in the evening resulted in waterlogging in many parts of the heritage city. Commuters travelling to hospital and for emergency works had a tough time in negotiating the flooded roads. The evening showers poured misery on Mandya town, where more than 10 full-grown trees and several electricity poles were uprooted. Rainwater gushed into several houses in the low-lying Haalahalli Layout slum, Vivekananda Layout and beedi workers colony, causing hardship to the residents. About 10 acres of banana plantation at Kunduru in Malavalli taluk was damaged in the rain coupled with strong winds. Parts of Kodagu and Chamarajanagar also experienced thundershowers while Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Karwar and Chikkamagaluru districts witnessed light showers through the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/heavy-rain-brings-misery-to-mysuru-region-988082.html
20-05-2021||National||3rd wave possible if vaccination not ramped up, Covid norms not followed: Scientist||If the vaccination drive against coronavirus is not ramped up and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is not maintained, there is a possibility of a third wave of the pandemic in 6-8 months, said M Vidyasagar, a scientist involved in the Sutra Model which uses mathematics to project the trajectory of Covid-19. He, however, stressed the Sutra model has not predicted any third wave and it is working on it. The IIT-Hyderabad professor cited a paper by Italian researchers on infected people with decreasing antibodies, which give some sort of immunity, in six months. "If the antibodies are lost, then there is a chance of immunity going down. In this case, vaccination has to be ramped up and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour must be practised. If not then there is a possibility of a third wave in 6-8 months," Vidyasagar said. "We are also adding the aspects of immunity and vaccination in our model for our future forecasts," he added. According to a study by the San Raffaele hospital in Milan, antibodies against coronavirus remained in the blood of patients with Covid-19 for at least eight months after they were infected. A recent serosurvey by the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) suggested that the neutralising antibodies declined significantly after five-six months, making people prone to reinfections. The coronavirus cases in the country peaked in September 2020 and there was a nationwide decline of new cases starting in October. "Using more stringent measures (more than 30 per cent inhibition of surrogate receptor-spike protein binding), the loss of neutralisation maybe even higher. "We speculate that this may be related to recurrence of outbreaks in March 2021, after the peak in September 2020," the IGIB paper said on the second wave that started raging from late March and has claimed thousands of lives since then. K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser, had said on May 5 that as the virus mutates further, a third wave of Covid infection is inevitable and it is necessary to be prepared for new waves. Two days later he said there may not be a third wave of coronavirus in the country, if strong measures are taken and effectively implemented at the state, district and city-level. "If we take strong measures, the third wave may not happen in all places or indeed anywhere at all. It depends on much how effectively guidance is implemented at the local level in the states, districts and cities everywhere. "The guidance about precautions, about surveillance, about containment, about treatment and about tests. This insidious asymptomatic transmission can be stopped if we follow the guidelines. This sounds difficult, it is difficult and we can and must do it," VijayRagahvan had said in a press briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3rd-wave-possible-if-vaccination-not-ramped-up-covid-norms-not-followed-scientist-987812.html
20-05-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine will be available for all by December: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda said on Wednesday the coronavirus vaccine will be available for all in the country by December. He also accused the Congress of spreading anarchy at the time of the pandemic. Nadda was reviewing the Covid-19 situation in Rajasthan in a virtual interaction with BJP state president Satish Poonia and party MPs from the state, a party statement said. Nadda said the prime minister had warned the chief ministers of the states in March itself and asked them to be prepared for the second wave of coronavirus. "India developed two indigenous vaccines for the first time in just nine months, which have been administered to 18 crore Indians so far. By the end of December, the vaccine will be available to all and its calendar has been set," he said. Nadda said the Modi government at the Center has ensured the availability and supply of oxygen and medicines to all the states. He said that real face of the Congress has been exposes after “revelation of its tool kit''. Even at the time of the pandemic, the Congress is trying to spread anarchy in the country and is working to destroy the morale of the people by spreading confusion among them, he alleged. Besides Poonia, Union ministers Arjunram Meghwal, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Kailash Chaudhary, MPs P P Chaudhary, Narendra Kumar, Manoj Rajoria, Jaskaur Meena, Swami Sumedhanand and Ranjita Koli joined the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-will-be-available-for-all-by-december-nadda-987814.html
20-05-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Finally PM, CM are on same page'||Karnataka with 22,838 Covid-19 deaths has the second-highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 only behind Maharashtra which has reported over 80,000 Covid-19 deaths. Delhi has the third-highest number of deaths due to the disease with 22,111 people succumbing to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-finally-pm-cm-are-on-same-page-987819.html
20-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 20||With 2,76,110 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,57,72,440, while the daily deaths were recorded below 4,000 after four days, taking the toll to 2,87,122, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,57,72,440 as of May 20, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,87,122  as of May 20, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged:  2,23,55,440 Total Vaccination:  18,70,09,792   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-20-987839.html
20-05-2021||National||US has provided over $500 million in Covid-19 relief to India, says White House||The US has so far provided over $500 million in Covid-19 assistance to India, the White House said on Wednesday, adding it would soon make a determination on distribution of the 80 million vaccines to other countries. "To date, the United States has provided over $500 million in Covid relief to India, including contributions from the US federal and state governments, American companies and organisations and private citizens," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told members of the White House Foreign Press Group in a virtual press conference call. The Biden administration, she said, is now working to extend that assistance to other South Asian countries that have been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. "We've sent seven air shipments, including health supplies, oxygen, oxygen supplies, and 95 masks, rapid diagnostic tests and medicine". "In terms of the 80 million doses (of Covid-19 vaccines), we know there's a great deal of interest in this understandably 60 million of AstraZeneca and 20 million of three other approved vaccines. Right now, it is working through an interagency process," Psaki said in response to a question. The interagency team including National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and those from the State Department are discussing to determine how the United States is going to distribute and share these vaccine doses. "Certainly, the plight of everything the people of India had been through is obviously on our minds… but there are also a range of countries and regions around the world that have been deeply impacted that are also in need. So, these are all factors. Hopefully, we'll have more on this in the coming days," Psaki said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-has-provided-over-500-million-in-covid-19-relief-to-india-says-white-house-987853.html
20-05-2021||National||India records 2.76 lakh new Covid-19 cases, deaths dip under 4,000 after 4 days||With 2,76,110 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,57,72,440, while the daily deaths were recorded below 4,000 after four days, taking the toll to 2,87,122, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 3,874 fatalities due to Covid-19 were registered in a span of 24 hours. The active cases have further reduced to 31,29,878, comprising 12.14 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 86.74  per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.     The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,23,55,440, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),  32,23,56,187 samples have been tested up to May 19 with 20,55,010 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-276-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-deaths-dip-under-4000-after-4-days-987860.html
20-05-2021||National||Estimated 4,000-6,000 refugees from Myanmar sought safety in India, says UN||An estimated 4,000 to 6,000 refugees from Myanmar have sought safety in India, a spokesperson for the UN chief has said, as the world body voiced concern over the rising levels of displacement of people since the military coup in the country in February. The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) said that in Myanmar, as of last week, approximately 60,700 women, children and men have been internally displaced. More than 1,700 refugees have crossed into Thailand in March and April, most of whom subsequently returned to Myanmar, and an estimated 4,000 to 6,000 have sought safety in India, Spokesman for the Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, Stephane Dujarric told reporters at the daily press briefing on Wednesday. Myanmar shares an over 1,600 km long unfenced and porous land border with India as well as a maritime boundary in the Bay of Bengal. Four North-Eastern states - Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram share the international boundary with Myanmar. The UN team in Myanmar has called on all countries across the region to offer refuge and protection to all people seeking safety, while humanitarian workers should be granted access to help them. UN colleagues again call on the military to refrain from violence and the use of disproportionate use, including the use of live ammunition. Dujarric said that UN officials in Myanmar are still gravely concerned over rising levels of displacement since the military takeover of the Government on February 1. “Since then, there has been widespread violence against civilians across the country. Clashes between the Myanmar Armed Forces and ethnic armed organisations in border areas has intensified,” he said. Last week, a statement issued by the spokesperson for the UN chief had said that 100 days since the Myanmar military takeover that left hundreds of civilians killed and included numerous arbitrary arrests and other human rights violations, the Secretary-General renews his call on the country's military to respect the will of the people and act in the greater interest of peace and stability in the country. The Secretary-General also encouraged ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) to swiftly follow through on its own commitments, and the international community to support regional efforts, to bring an end to the repression by the military. Guterres also called on the international community to respond to the increased humanitarian needs. The Secretary-General’s Special Envoy, Christine Schraner Burgener, was in the region and engaged intensively with a range of key stakeholders, including in light of the broader ramifications of the crisis. India has condemned the violence in Myanmar and condoled the loss of life, as it urged maximum restraint and called for the release of detained leaders, emphasised the situation to be resolved peacefully and underlined its steadfast commitment to democratic transition. India has also welcomed the ASEAN Five-point consensus on Myanmar, which calls for an “immediate cessation” of violence in the country and that all parties shall exercise utmost restraint. The 15-nation UN Security Council had held a private meeting in connection with Myanmar late last month. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti had later tweeted that in the Council, he said India welcomes the ASEAN initiative and Five-point consensus. He added that India will strengthen ASEAN’s efforts; the Security Council and the UN “should support their efforts.” He had added that India continues to “insist on the release of detained leaders and end to violence” and that New Delhi’s overall stand on the situation is consistent. The ASEAN Five-point consensus states that there shall be an immediate cessation of violence in Myanmar and all parties shall exercise utmost restraint; constructive dialogue among all parties concerned shall commence to seek a peaceful solution in the interests of the people. It also states that a special envoy of the ASEAN Chair shall facilitate mediation of the dialogue process, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of ASEAN; ASEAN shall provide humanitarian assistance through the AHA Centre (ASEAN Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance on disaster management) and the special envoy and delegation shall visit Myanmar to meet with all parties concerned. Schraner Burgener had told the Council in April that the regional security and economic consequences of the situation in Myanmar were getting worse and could deteriorate further. “The influx of refugees at the Indian and Thai borders and elsewhere is ominous and likely just the beginning,” she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/estimated-4000-6000-refugees-from-myanmar-sought-safety-in-india-says-un-987869.html
20-05-2021||National||Declare 'black fungus' an epidemic, Union Health Ministry urges states||The Union Health Ministry has urged states and union territories to make 'black fungus' or mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, stating that the infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality amongst Covid-19 patients. The ministry, in a letter, said that in recent times a new challenge in the form of a fungal infection namely mucormycosis has emerged and is reported from many states amongst Covid-19 patients, especially those on steroid therapy and deranged sugar control.  "This fungal infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality amongst Covid 19 patients," Joint Secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said in the letter. The treatment of this fungal infection requires multidisciplinary approach consisting of eye surgeons, ENT specialists, general surgeon, neurosurgeon and dental maxillo facial surgeon, among others, and institution of Amphotericin-B injection as an antifungal medicine. "You are requested to make mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, wherein all government and private health facilities, medical colleges will follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis, management of mucormycosis, issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (Gol) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "And, make it mandatory for all these facilities to report all suspected and confirmed cases to health department through district-level chief medical officer and subsequently to Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme surveillance system," the letter stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/declare-black-fungus-an-epidemic-union-health-ministry-urges-states-987891.html
20-05-2021||National||Former sprinter Milkha Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh has tested positive for Covid-19 and is in isolation at his Chandigarh residence. The 91-year-old, popularly known as Flying Sikh, is asymptomatic and claims to be in "high spirits". "A couple of our helpers tested positive and so all the family members did the tests. Only I returned positive on Wednesday and I am surprised," Milkha told PTI. "I am fine and there is no fever or cough. My doctor told me I will be alright in three-four days. I did jogging just yesterday. I am in high spirits," he added. The legendary athlete is a five-time Asian Games gold medallist but his greatest performance was the fourth place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Olympics. Milkha's son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh is in Dubai and said he would be returning to the country this week itself. "I will be flying back home on Saturday," said Jeev.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-sprinter-milkha-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-987896.html
20-05-2021||National||New cyclone warning in India as Tauktae toll rises||A major new storm was brewing in the Bay of Bengal off India's east coast on Thursday, forecasters warned just days after the biggest cyclone to hit the west of the country in decades left at least 110 people confirmed dead. Scientists say cyclones in the densely-populated region, currently reeling from coronavirus, are becoming both more frequent and stronger as climate change leads to warmer sea temperatures. Even before Cyclone Tauktae hammered the coast late Monday, torrential downpours at its outer bands and strong winds killed around 20 people. In Gujarat where winds smashed windows, felled tens of thousands of trees and knocked out power for huge numbers of people, the number of dead rose to 53, officials said late Wednesday. The toll could rise further, however, with local newspapers saying almost 80 people had died in the state, many killed by collapsing houses or walls. Around 200,000 were evacuated before the cyclone arrived and no serious problems were reported at Covid hospitals, however. The cyclone weakened as it moved northeast, dumping heavy rain in Allahabad and New Delhi, which reportedly had its wettest and coolest day in May in 70 years. The storm also pummeled offshore oil installations with waves up to eight metres (26 feet) high, dislodging one oil rig and several support vessels with around 700 people on board. Around 600 had been rescued by the navy but 38 remain missing from an accommodation barge for oil workers that ripped free of its anchors in the storm and sank. Thirty-seven bodies have been recovered so far and navy planes and helicopters were scouring the Arabian Sea for any more survivors. The vessel's chief engineer Rahman Shaikh told the Indian Express from hospital that the captain and the company had failed to take the cyclone warning seriously enough. "We had a big hole. Water started coming in. We tried using life rafts on the port side but only two could be launched and the (other) 14 were punctured," he told the paper. "I saw death coming but was saved by the grace of Allah," he said. "We are lucky to be alive," one crew member told AFP after he disembarked from a navy destroyer in Mumbai on Wednesday. "We were clinging onto the barge and luckily the life jackets helped us as the water was going over our head," he added. In its latest warning, the Indian Meteorological Department said that a cyclonic storm was on course to hit the eastern states of West Bengal and Odisha on around May 26. Cyclones in April and May before the monsoon season are becoming more common, scientists say. Last May, more than 110 people died after "super cyclone" Amphan ravaged eastern India and Bangladesh, flattening villages, destroying farms and leaving millions without electricity. But as with other recent cyclones, the death toll was far lower than the many thousands killed in previous cyclones of that size, a result of improved weather forecasting and better response plans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-cyclone-warning-in-india-as-tauktae-toll-rises-987900.html
20-05-2021||National||110 oxygen concentrators to be deployed in Karnataka||The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-Camp) has received CSR funding from Mercedes Benz Research & Development India (MBRDI) to deploy 110 oxygen concentrators in public healthcare centres across Karnataka.  The machines that have already arrived in Bengaluru will be deployed in close partnership with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Health Department of Government of Karnataka, C-Camp said in a statement. Dr Taslimarif Saiyed, C-Camp CEO & Director said, “Oxygen concentrators have the potential to address the critical gap in oxygen supply that we are witnessing across India. Lives can be saved with this technology.” He added that deployment is being done in collaboration with the state government at public healthcare centres including makeshift hospitals and Covid care facilities which especially lack infrastructure for cryogenic oxygen. The deployment comes, given the prohibitive cost and logistics associated with liquid oxygen tankers and the dearth of pressurized medical oxygen. Oxygen concentrators have emerged as a less expensive, more convenient and foolproof alternative, C-Camp said. “Oxygen concentrators concentrate the oxygen from ambient air by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream using pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology,” the bioscience research accelerator added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/110-oxygen-concentrators-to-be-deployed-in-karnataka-987902.html
20-05-2021||National||Explained | What’s a wave in a pandemic?||As India reels under the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, experts have warned about the "inevitable" third wave that is likely to hit the nation, given the high level of circulation of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.  While Principal Scientific Advisor K Vijay Raghavan said the time scale for the third wave is not clear, the government and health facilities across India have started ramping up infrastructure and medical supplies to prepare for the next wave, which is likely to affect children.  Given the failure to adequately prepare for the second wave of Covid-19, all resources are being used to avoid another wave. “What scientists are doing is prepare a map in the laboratory of all possible changes which can happen in the virus and see how these changes can affect immune evasion and vaccine evasion so that we are better prepared, both theoretically and in the laboratory to deal with these changes,” Raghavan had said. But, what is a wave in a pandemic? While there is no official definition of what constitutes a wave in a pandemic, it is generally used to define the rising and declining trends of infections over a period. Since the new cases often rise gradually to reach a peak before it declines slowly, it resembles the shape of a wave. The term wave is often used to describe a period when infection or a disease rise and come down, and resurge again later after a lull period.  In the case of Covid-19 too, we can see the pattern at a national as well as at a state/district level. At the national level, India witnessed the first wave last year when the country reported a peak of nearly 98,000 new daily infections in September. The daily new infections, then gradually declined, indicating a lull period. Since many assumed the pandemic to have come to an end, preparations for the second wave that is hitting India now were ignored. In the second wave, which is showing a declining trend now with less than 3 lakh new single-day cases in the past few days, India saw a peak of over 4.14 lakh new infections.  On Thursday, India reported 2,76,110 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,57,72,440, while the daily deaths were recorded below 4,000 after four days, taking the toll to 2,87,122.  Does the wave fizzle out on its own? No, the wave does not fizzle out on its own. A number of factors contribute to the decline in the spread of the infection. In the case of Covid-19, factors such as a strict implementation of lockdown, maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, vaccination as well as the natural evolution of the virus help in breaking the virus chain. Hence, multiple states have used lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. In the first wave, India announced a lockdown on March 24, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The lockdown was implemented from midnight for 21 days from March 25 to April 14. On April 14, PM Modi further extended the lockdown for three more weeks as India saw a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. Similarly, massive vaccination could help a larger part of the population become immune to the virus, thus, helping in curbing the intensity of the next wave as well as breaking the virus chain.  The government data shows that the second wave is plateauing across India and it expected that it would decline further in the coming days. However, considering the peak of over 4 lakh infections, the plateau period may be longer than what was witnessed in the first wave.   How can one identify a wave?  Currently, the new Covid-19 infections have been declining acoss the nation. If there is a surge in the fresh Covid-19 infections across the country, it would be termed as the third wave.  While the country witnesses a wave at the national level, states, districts and union territories can report peaks at a different time period. For instance, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are witnessing a peak in cases right now, while cases are declining in Delhi and Maharashtra. It, however, cannot be termed as the third wave because the overall trend across the country is showing a decline in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-s-a-wave-in-a-pandemic-987904.html
20-05-2021||National||Scanty data raise doubts on 2-DG drug for Covid-19 treatment||Doctors involved in the fight against Covid-19 have reportedly taken a cautious stance on the 2-DG drug approved by the Indian drug regulator for emergency use that claimed it reduces recovery time and oxygen dependency for coronavirus patients, citing inadequate publicly available data on the clinical trials. The 2-DG has until now been used as an unapproved cancer drug to inhibit glycolysis—one of the ways through which cells break down glucose in the body—which helps viruses get energy to replicate and spread. Preventing this process should theoretically slow down the Covid-19 virus, experts say. While German, Brazilian and US scientists have published papers last year on the possible use of 2-DG as a treatment for Covid-19, none of them are based on testing in on-ground hospital settings. The version of the drug rolled out in India has its grounding in a research paper written in March last year by a group of scientists mainly from the Patanjali Research Institute in Haridwar and has not been peer reviewed. Multiple attempts by Dr. Reddy’s in the last year that sought swift approval with shortened trials were shot down by the DGCI’s Subject Experts Committee, the expert panel of the Indian drug regulator, citing insufficient human testing. The regulator then granted approval to the drug after phase 2 and 3 clinical trials were conducted. Many top doctors remain circumspect about the indiscriminate use of the drug without enough data being available in the public domain. “I would only use it in research mode till we have data in the public domain. Studies have not been done in the population of diabetics and those with coronary artery disease. It may be useful in mild to moderate disease after validation in research mode,” Dr Shashank Joshi, expert member in the Maharashtra Covid task force, told the publication. Sumit Ray, head of critical care at Holy Family Hospital in New Delhi echoed Joshi’s sentiments, saying that he would not include it in his treatment of Covid-19 patients for the moment as the developers have not shown any significant clinical outcomes yet. The Ministry of Defence said in a press release on May 8 that the drug had been tested on 110 patients in Phase 2 trials but Dr. Reddy’s June 2020 listing of this Phase 2 trial mentions a sample size of only 40 participants. Phase 3 clinical trials of the drug were conducted on 220 patients between December 2020 to March 2021 at 27 Covid hospitals. Although 2-DG was authorised on May 1, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) has not made the minutes of the SEC meeting, where emergency authorisation was recommended, public as yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scanty-data-raise-doubts-on-2-dg-drug-for-covid-19-treatment-987905.html
20-05-2021||National||Barge P-305 sinking: MVA demands Dharmendra Pradhan's resignation||Rattled by a large number of deaths of crew members and oil workers in accommodation barge Papaa-305 at ONGC’s Mumbai High offshore development area along Maharashtra coast, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi demanded the resignation of Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and action against the top brass of the public-sector oil exploration company. The leaders of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress accused the ONGC officials of ignoring the warnings of the IMD, which had issued the forecast for Cyclone Tauktae on May 11. The cyclone hit the Maharashtra coast on Sunday and then it intensified as it passed over the Mumbai High and made a landfall in Gujarat. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and Shiv Sena spokesperson Arvind Sawant, who is also the President of Bharatiya Kamgar Sena, questioned the Centre and the BJP. “If there would have been a similar incident in Maharashtra, the BJP would have demanded resignations,” he said. Sawant, the MP of Mumbai South, said: “The ONGC is under the Petroleum Ministry headed by Dharmendra Pradhan… Why don’t the BJP leaders seek his resignation? Who will be held accountable for the huge number of lives in this tragedy, give compensation and other relief... merely pointing fingers won’t do.” The Sharad Pawar-led NCP said that the warnings were ignored.   “Everyone was made aware of  Tauktae cyclone and warnings were sent out for all to take necessary precautions. Local government agencies had made arrangements for people on coastal areas to move to safer places and fishermen were asked not to venture into the seas,” Malik pointed out. “Due to their failure to do so, the lives of 600 innocent workers were put in danger. Around 45 to 50 people are still missing and many have lost their lives due to this negligence,” he said, demanding that a case be booked for culpable homicide. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said: “This is clearly a man-made tragedy as the warning of imminent Tauktae Cyclone had been given in advance. Dharmendra Pradhan must resign taking moral responsibility… Action must be taken against all those responsible for endangering the lives of workers. The Modi government's reckless approach in handling Covid-19 already caused deaths of lakhs of people and it is continuing to exhibit the same. When will the Modi government learn lessons from their grave mistakes?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/barge-p-305-sinking-mva-demands-dharmendra-pradhans-resignation-987913.html
20-05-2021||National||Covid-19 second wave to fizzle out by July, 3rd wave in 6-8 months: Govt panel||The three-member panel, set up under the government’s Science and Technology Ministry, used the mathematical model known as the SUTRA (Susceptible, Undetected, Tested (positive) and Removed Approach) to estimate a figure of around 1.5 lakh cases per day by the end of May and a further reduction to 20,000 daily cases by June-end. India’s massive surge in Covid-19 cases has shown signs of abating in recent days, with several states reporting lower daily case numbers, with some of the worst-hit states also showing reduced positivity rates. Still, some states are yet to face the worst of the second wave, according to the panel's predictions. "States like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Kerala, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Haryana, besides Delhi and Goa, have already seen their peak," said Professor Manindra Agarwal from IIT Kanpur and a member of the panel. The model predicts, however, that some states are yet to peak, including Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the South, North-eastern states like Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura, as well as Himachal Pradesh and Punjab in the North. A third wave was unlikely to arrive before October, Agarwal said, adding that it would likely be localised as more people get vaccinated. The committee was honest about its inability to predict the breadth and scale of the second wave in the country. "We were very optimistic when we said the second wave will see 1.5 lakh cases daily. We were wrong," said Professor Mathukumalli Vidyasagar from IIT Hyderabad, who heads the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-second-wave-to-fizzle-out-by-july-3rd-wave-in-6-8-months-govt-panel-987915.html
20-05-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks free education for kids orphaned during pandemic||Amid several children losing both their parents or earning parent to the Covid-19 pandemic, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to provide free education to such children orphaned after the "unimaginable tragedy". The nation owes it to them to give them hope for a robust future after they encountered this tragedy, she said. Sonia suggested that these children could be provided free education at the Navodaya Vidhyalayas, which she described as former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's "most significant legacies". Her letter came on a day before the 30th death anniversary of Rajiv, who was assassinated in Sriperumpadoor on 21 May, 1991 during the Lok Sabha election campaign. "Amidst the devastation caused by the pandemic and the heart wrenching tragedies being faced by affected families, news of young children losing one or both parents to Covid-19 are the most poignant. These children are left with the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future," she said in the letter. She said it was Rajiv's dream to make high-quality modern education accessible and affordable to talented youth, predominantly from rural areas and there are now 661 Navodaya Vidhyalas across the country. “I am writing to request you to consider providing a free education at the Navodaya Vidhyalayas to children who have lost either both parents or an earning parent on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. I feel that as a nation, we owe it to them to give them hope for a robust future after the unimaginable tragedy that has befallen them," she added. Separately, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asking him to take public welfare steps such as ensuring that private hospitals do not overcharge people, inflation is reined in and relief given to traders. She said the middle class was reeling under the impact of the pandemic and people have had to bear "unbearable pain" due to the "lack" of preparation on the part of the administration. "The mayhem in April-May has made it clear that the government had no planning. Many unnecessary rules and red-tapism brought a mountain of problems for the people," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-seeks-free-education-for-kids-orphaned-during-pandemic-987919.html
20-05-2021||National||India's largest vial maker expects sales to triple on Covid-19 vaccine ramp up||Indian drug vial maker Schott Kaisha is expecting annual vial sales for Covid-19 shots to more than triple as vaccine production, including by one of its top customers Serum Institute, increases in response to a monster second wave of infections. An Indo-German joint venture between specialty glass makers Schott AG and Kaisha, the company expects to sell 380 million vials for Covid-19 vaccines in 2021-22, up from 113 million a year earlier, Director Rishad Dadachanji said in an interview. "The demand from our major customers has gone up two-fold, and is indicated to go up three-fold in the near future," Dadachanji said. Serum Institute of India, which makes AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shot, is planning to produce 100 million doses a month from July, up from 70 million earlier. A single vial can typically store several vaccine doses. A major vaccine hub, India has been running short of Covid-19 shots for its own people just when the pandemic has killed at least 114,000 people since mid-April. Schott Kaisha is also in talks with Indian manufacturers of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine to supply millions of vials, but is yet to receive bulk orders, Dadachanji said. "We have received enquiries ... The quantities are still in discussion." The company, which is India's largest maker of tubular borosilicate glass vials used to store drugs and vaccines by volume, is supplying vials for 14 Covid-19 vaccine candidates either in development or full production. It plans to increase its annual production capacity for the vials to 1.7 billion by year-end from 1.2 billion last year. The company by its own estimate has a 60 per cent-65 per cent market share. In the market for vial manufacturing, its rival and German drug packager Gerresheimer, which has four plants in India, has hired more staff to meet the rising demand for Covid-19 vaccine vials, Jari Tevajarvi, vice president for Asia plastic packaging, told Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-largest-vial-maker-expects-sales-to-triple-on-covid-19-vaccine-ramp-up-987923.html
20-05-2021||National||Nearly 2 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states, UTs: Govt||Nearly two crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories while around 26 lakh are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic along with test, track, treat and Covid-appropriate behaviour, it said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. "The government of India has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, more than 21 crore vaccine doses (21,07,31,130) to states and UTs. Of this, the total consumption (including wastage) is 19,09,60,575 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," the ministry said. "Nearly 2.00 crore (1,97,70,555) Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered," it said. "Furthermore, nearly 26 lakh (25,98,760) vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and UTs within the next three days," it added. The government has also been facilitating the direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs. Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination started from May 1. Under this strategy, every month, 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to the state governments totally free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-2-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-uts-govt-987930.html
20-05-2021||National||Received 40,300 govt requests for user data from India: Facebook report||Social media giant Facebook had said it has received 40,300 requests from the Indian government for user data in July-December  2020 period. The US based company in its Facebook's latest Transparency Report released on Thursday said that request from Indian Government in second half was13.3 per cent higher the January-June 2020 period when India had made 35,560 total requests. The company also said that it restricted access to 878 pieces of content in India on the directions of the Union ministry of Electronics and Information Technology in second half of 2020. These are mostly related to  security of the state and public order for violating Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, “Of these, 10 were restricted temporarily. We also restricted access to 54 items in compliance with court orders,” Facebook said in the report released on Thursday. The Centre made 40,300 total requests in the July-December 2020 period, of which 37,865 were legal process requests and 2,435 were emergency disclosure requests. The number of total requests made by India ranked second to the US, which had made 61,262 requests during the July-December 2020 period. The social media company said it complied with 52per cent of the India requests. In the case of the US, Facebook complied with 89per cent of the requests. On complying the request, Facebook said,  "Each and every request we receive is carefully reviewed for legal sufficiency and we may reject or require greater specificity on requests that appear overly broad or vague."  As per the Community Standards Enforcement Report, which was also released,  content actioned on adult nudity and sexual activity increased to 31.8 million in first quarter of 2021 from 28.1 million pieces of content in the preceding quarter.  The report found that prevalence of hate speech content was between 0.05 per cent and 0.06 per cent of views in the first quarter of 2021, which marks a decrease from the fourth quarter of 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/received-40300-govt-requests-for-user-data-from-india-facebook-report-987933.html
20-05-2021||National||Instead of becoming part of solution, some people spreading political pollution: Naqvi||Hitting out at the Congress over its criticism of the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday said those trying to use a "national calamity" as a "political opportunity" can never be well-wishers of the country. He also said that the government and society are working together on war-footing with sensibility to defeat the pandemic. Naqvi was in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and he visited the district hospital at Rampur to take stock of facilities regarding coronavirus treatment. He also held a review meeting with the commissioner, the district magistrate and other senior officials regarding works being done to tackle the pandemic, according to a statement issued by his office. Slamming the Congress, the senior BJP leader said those who are trying to use a "national calamity" as a "political opportunity" can never be well-wishers of the country. It is unfortunate that some people, instead of becoming a "part of solution", are spreading "political pollution", the minority affairs minister was quoted as saying by the statement. They are creating “fear and confusion” among the people, he added. The Modi government is working with commitment to ensure good health and well-being of the people from all sections of society, Naqvi said. The government’s priority is to make the country free from this unprecedented crisis and "we will get rid of this pandemic soon", he asserted. Hitting out at Congress leaders, Naqvi said that those who were earlier questioning the world’s largest vaccination drive are now creating confusion over the vaccination policy. When the coronavirus pandemic had started around January-February last year, there were negligible Covid treatment facilities in India, but now after a year of the pandemic, the government has worked effectively to ensure facilities and resources to tackle the challenges, he said. "Be it coronavirus testing labs; testing capacity; coronavirus testing kits; dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, production of N-95 masks, PPE kits, ventilators and medical oxygen, the country has adequate facilities and resources to ensure good health and well-being of the people," Naqvi said. He said that with regard to dedicated Covid hospitals, ICU beds, ventilators, medical oxygen supply, the Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in UP have worked effectively to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/instead-of-becoming-part-of-solution-some-people-spreading-political-pollution-naqvi-987935.html
20-05-2021||National||India going through difficult situation: EAM Jaishankar on coronavirus pandemic||The coronavirus pandemic may be the most serious in living memory but it should be seen as a recurring challenge and not as a one-off episode, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday, noting that India is particularly going through a difficult situation. Jaishankar also said the nature of the pandemic has also brought to fore concerns of trust and transparency and warned that opacity can no longer be overlooked as it has real implications for the rest of the world. In an online address at the 'Future of Asia' conference organised by Nikkei, the external affairs minister India, Japan and Australia are working on a supply chain resilience initiative and called for strengthening and de-risking the global economy through effective partnerships. He said meeting the health and medical requirements of the world effectively requires a mature recognition of the global nature of the underlying supply chains. "Barring a select few, it cannot be addressed purely nationally and in fact needs a collaboration of a very different order," Jaishankar said. He said the answer to the challenges thrown up by the pandemic is to expand and smoothen global flows while creating confidence that its outcomes are for the benefit of the entire world. "A year and a half ago, as the enormity of the COVID-19 pandemic dawned on the world, we were truly confronted by a black swan event. Since then, even though we may have addressed some facets of a very complex challenge, it continues its devastating course across geographies," he said. "We, in India, are going through a particularly difficult situation right now. Understandably, the world's attention is focused primarily on the public health response," Jaishankar said. He observed that the long-term impact of the pandemic on the global order, including on the future of Asia is yet to be fully comprehended. "This pandemic may be the most serious in living memory, but it should be seen as a recurring challenge and not as a one-off. It demands international cooperation on a scale that could not have even be conceived of earlier," he said. "No national capacity, however large, can be adequate. And just overflows from such capacities are clearly not enough to address global needs. Even a collective response, by itself, could fall short if it is just an aggregate of the present capacities," Jaishankar noted, He said the world will have to focus on re-engineering the way it works to prepare for and mitigate such "cataclysmic events". "COVID-19 has certainly triggered debates on issues like supply chains, global governance, social responsibility and even ethics. But for many of us gathered here today, it equally encourages an objective assessment of the contemporary world so that we are better prepared for tomorrow," he said. Referring to cooperation under the Quad framework, Jaishankar said its agenda covers vaccine collaboration, critical and emerging technologies, semi-conductors, supply chains, critical materials and connectivity, amongst others. "Recent Indian summits with the European Union and the United Kingdom, that saw advancement on FTAs, are also noteworthy in that regard," he said. The external affairs minister also mentioned key experiences in handling of the pandemic.   "The nature of the COVID experience has also brought to fore concerns of trust and transparency. Opacity can no longer be overlooked; it has real implications for the rest of the world," he said. "It was bad enough to be confronted with shortages and disruptions; worse that they could become pressure points. There are also worries that the financial distress caused by the pandemic could lead to new vulnerabilities," he added. Jaishankar said the coronavirus challenge has created a stronger case for greater international cooperation, be it in vaccine production or to facilitate economic recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-going-through-difficult-situation-eam-jaishankar-on-coronavirus-pandemic-987943.html
20-05-2021||National||India sees a worrying dip in daily Covid-19 vaccinations||In a worrying trend, India administered less than 20 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccine for the sixth consecutive day on Wednesday as vaccination centres across the country halted the nationwide drive owing to a shortage of the life-saving tool amid the pandemic. On Thursday, by 4 pm, about 11 lakh doses have been given, according to numbers on the Co-WIN portal. The daily inoculation has already hit a new low this week  -- about 15 lakh doses on Monday and as low as 13 lakh on Tuesday. The persistent drag in vaccinations is detrimental to the fight against the Covid-19, a second wave of which has left the country devastated. According to Co-WIN data, on Wednesday, nearly 92 of the 754 districts had no doses to administer. States across the country struggled to continue the drive, but in some regions, the situation appeared particularly worrisome. For instance, in Gujarat, only 5 of the 41 districts continued vaccination. And the number stood at 3 for Telangana, a state with 33 districts.  According to one estimate, nearly 15 states in the country had at least one district which did not have any dose to administer.  Experts believe vaccination is a key step in protecting people against the onslaught of more Covid-19 waves. As the virus mutates, it puts a large part of the population at risk. Another wave, experts say, would target more vulnerable sections like children.  Just for the adult population, the strength of 94 crore, nearly 190 crore of doses have to be administered and so far the number stands at around 18.76 crore doses, leaving India in a long battle against the virus that has killed nearly 3 lakh people.  In other parts of the world, the United States has administered 27 crore doses, fully vaccinating about 38 per cent of the population, according to the John Hopkins University tracker. The UK has lifted all lockdown restrictions, opening the country after more than a year of curbs. China says it is administering as many as 1.4 crore doses a day, leading the vaccine race for now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-a-worrying-dip-in-daily-covid-19-vaccinations-987946.html
20-05-2021||National||No money, no documents, Rohingyas battle Covid-19 symptoms with home remedies||With no money for treatment and no documents that will enable them to get vaccinated or tested, they are the Rohingyas, the nowhere people fending for themselves as a continuing pandemic pushes them further into the shadows of a city they call home.         The helplessness in the face of Covid-19 plays out in southeast Delhi’s Madanpur Khadar, one of the several camps in the city for Rohingya Muslims where the refugees battle it out on their own without access to testing centres, vaccines or doctors.         The government has eased testing and vaccine guidelines even for those who don’t have the requisite documentation, but many refugees said it hasn’t made a tangible difference at the ground level.                 The Madanpur Khadar camp is home to about 270 Rohingya Muslims, who fled their homes in Myanmar to escape persecution. Many of those living in the slum cluster said they have learnt to battle symptoms on their own – depending on home remedies such as saltwater gargles and withdrawing indoors into their cramped tenements to quarantine when they think it has gotten worse.          Among those showing symptoms is Amir*, a young daily wager who has been gargling with hot water four times a day to make his cough go away. It is helping somewhat but he doesn’t know what he will do if the situation aggravates. He doesn’t have an Aadhaar card or any other document, and neither do his neighbours.          “What can we do? We can’t get tests done, we can’t get vaccinated. For everything you need government documents which we don’t have,” he said. “There are around 20-25 people right now who are displaying Covid symptoms. We are treating ourselves at home. Going to the hospital is not even an option as we do not have the necessary documents,” he said. Last month, when the pandemic was at its peak, about 50-60 Rohingya refugees in the Madanpur Khadar camp displayed Covid symptoms. It has now come down to about 20-25, the residents said. According to NGOs, there are around 40,000 Rohingyas living in India. There are about  900 Rohingyas living in Delhi in camps in Madanpur Khadar, Kalindi Kunj and Shaheen Bagh. Naseer lost his wife six months ago. He thinks it was Covid-19 but can’t be sure even though he somehow managed to take her to the hospital. “My wife died after suffering from Covid like symptoms. I had taken my wife to the hospital but she passed away before she could get treated,” he said, adding that an ID card issued to him by the UN helped him access a hospital. Many others are scared of doing so because they fear they will be deported if identified as refugees. “People feel if they go to the hospital they will be identified as outsiders,” said the father of two. Naseer*, who runs a small grocery shop in the neighbourhood, also said people get scared when they have symptoms.        “They quarantine themselves, drink hot water and add lime to it, eat onions. Many of them have breathing difficulties and fever and cold and cough. Many people don’t even want to talk about it,” he said.          While untreated Covid-19 poses a risk not just for individuals but the community, it is not just about health for Rohingya Muslim refugees.           “Most of us work in the informal sector and have lost our jobs in this lockdown. The last one-and-a-half years have been tough. We have not been able to get employment and those who are working are also putting their lives at risk,” Naseer* said. The majority of those in the Madanpur Khadar settlement and others work as daily wage and contract labourers, ragpickers and other odd jobs.         Both Naseer and Amir came to India in 2012 to look for a better life and to escape the brutalities faced by the Rohingyas in Myanmar’s Rakhine state.        The Rohingya Muslims are the most persecuted minority in the world, the UN has said. According to NGOs, there are about 40,000 Rohingyas in India. Of these, about 900 live in Delhi in camps in Madanpur Khadar, Kalindi Kunj and Shaheen Bagh. A representative of the Rohingya Human Rights Initiative said health facilities have always been a problem for the Rohingya refugees.          “Rohingyas are more exposed because of the congested areas they live in… it’s not just about coronavirus but other diseases as well. Recently, several cases of diarrhoea were seen among children in the camp,” he said.         “We have identified such cases where symptoms of coronavirus are being seen. But without the requisite documents, treatment has been an issue and getting them vaccinated is a very big concern,” he said, asking not to be identified. He said no deaths due to the disease have been reported yet in Madanpur Khadar. According to recent guidelines by the Health ministry, those without ID cards will also be covered in the Covid vaccination drive through special sessions. However, it is not clear whether the list includes refugees. The list includes nomads (including sadhu/saints from various religions), prison inmates, inmates in mental health Institutions, citizens in old age homes, roadside beggars, people in rehabilitation centres/camps and any other identified eligible persons, aged 18 years or more.          The Centre has asked state governments to form district-level task forces to identify those who don't have any of the seven prescribed photo ID cards.          A United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokesperson said inclusion in health responses, vaccines to social safety nets is key to protecting refugees and their hosts from the Covid-19 virus.         “The UNHCR welcome the SOP issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for Covid-19 vaccination of persons without prescribed identity cards. This will provide an opportunity for vulnerable groups including refugees and asylum seekers to access vaccines… Safeguarding their health also protects the health of their host communities and members of societies,” the spokesperson told PTI in a written response.    Rohingyas have been displaced by waves of violence between Buddhists and Muslims in Rakhine. Thousands of them have fled Myanmar to take refuge in neighbouring countries, including India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-money-no-documents-rohingyas-battle-covid-19-symptoms-with-home-remedies-987951.html
20-05-2021||National||Fact-check: Israel didn’t name its fighter jet ‘Soumya’ after Kerala woman who died in Hamas attack||The mortal remains of 30-year-old Kerala woman Soumya Santhosh arrived from Israel to New Delhi on May 15. Santhosh was working as a caregiver in Ashkelon, near the Gaza strip and was killed by Hamas rockets on May 10. [Viral Hindi text: इजराइल ने अपनी फाइटर प्लेन पर #भारतीय बेटी का नाम #सौम्या को नमन लिखकर उससे #फिलिस्तीन आर्मी चीफ के घर पर बम गिरा दिया..सच्ची श्रद्धांजलि ]    Performing a reverse image search on Google we found that the fighter jet is Chengdu J-10, manufactured by the Chengdu Aircraft Corporation (CAC) for the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF), China.  Readers should note that the viral image is doctored because the original doesn’t say ‘Soumya’ on the side.  An image of Chengdu J-10, a Chinese fighter jet, that dates back to at least April 2020 was morphed with the text ‘Soumya’. Right-wing social media users in India have shared the doctored image with the false claim that Israel paid tribute to the Indian woman who lost her life in the recent violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-israel-didn-t-name-its-fighter-jet-soumya-after-kerala-woman-who-died-in-hamas-attack-987954.html
20-05-2021||National||Trade unions to observe May 26 as Black Day for Indian Democracy||Coinciding with the completion of six months of farmers' protest, a joint forum of the central trade unions, affiliated to the Opposition, has given a joint call to observe May 26 as 'Black Day for Indian Democracy', saying it is "time to call a spade a spade". The unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- are demanding free vaccine for all, strengthening the government-run public health system at all levels and immediate help to all unorganised/informal sector workers and unemployed people in terms of free food grains and cash subsidy of Rs 7,500 per month among others. "It is time to call a spade a spade. We begin by observing 26 May as the Black Day for Indian Democracy, wearing black badges, putting up black flags. We resolve on this day, not to rest till we achieve our demands, not to rest till a message is driven home that the toiling people will not remain passive bystanders, watching the Modi Government do as they please," a joint statement said. The unions' action also coincides with the similar call given by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). "May 26 is the day the Narendra Modi Government took the oath of office in 2014 and then again on 30 May in 2019. The 26 May is the day when the Chalo Dilli Kisan Andolan completes six months," the statement said. The day also marks six months from the All India Strike called by these unions on their continued demands for cash transfer to poor families, universally free rations to all needy, expansion of MGNREGA, and new employment scheme for urban areas, non-privatisation of PSUs and government departments, for scraping NPS and restoration of earlier pension scheme.  Explaining the rationale of the Black Day protest, the unions said the Modi government that has been in office continuously for the past seven years has "not only failed to deliver on the tall promises made while assuming office but is actually acting against the wishes of the toiling people with impunity". "It is acting in a blatantly irresponsible manner in the face of the terrible second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, all on the basis of a brute majority in the Lok Sabha," it added. The unions alleged that the Centre has "simply disowned" its responsibility in tackling the pandemic and asked the states to provide the medical help to the "bewildered population". "Shortages of vaccine doses, oxygen, hospital beds, even cremation facilities are alarming... (It) shows that the government is completely in the dark about what needs to be done in this hour of grave crisis. There is criminal negligence on the part of the government towards front-line fighters of this dreaded virus," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trade-unions-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-for-indian-democracy-987961.html
20-05-2021||National||Covid: HC asks hospitals to install PSA oxygen plants, says lessons be learnt from bitter experience||Maintaining that lessons must be learnt from bitter experience on oxygen shortage during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi High Court Thursday asked all the big hospitals in the national capital to install PSA oxygen plants to reduce dependence on outside sources. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said it is high time that at least hospitals with 100-bed facilities or more should have their own Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) oxygen plants. “Considering that the pandemic is once in a century and hopefully we will see the end of it sooner or later, we are of the view that larger hospitals with 100-bedded facilities or more should have their own PSA plants which should have a capacity of at least two times of their normal requirement,” the bench said. It also said smaller hospitals and nursing homes with 50 to 100 beds should have PSA plants with a capacity of their normal requirement. It will help in long way if such a situation again arises in future, the bench said. “The bitter experience that everyone has had in Delhi with huge shortage of medical oxygen has certainly left a lesson to be learnt particularly by hospitals,” the bench said. The court asked the Delhi government's Principal Secretary (Health) to take up the aspect of PSA oxygen plants with hospitals and file a status report in this regard by May 27. It said municipal corporations and Delhi Development Authority (DDA) should bring about some relaxations in building by-laws with regard to coverage area so that PSA plants can be installed at open parking spaces of the hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-hc-asks-hospitals-to-install-psa-oxygen-plants-says-lessons-be-learnt-from-bitter-experience-987968.html
20-05-2021||National||ITR filing deadline for FY21 extended till September 30||The government on Thursday extended the due date of filing income tax returns for 2020-21 for individuals by two months till September 30. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has also extended the ITR filing deadline for companies by a month till November 30. As per the income tax law, for individuals whose accounts are not required to be audited and who usually file their income tax return using ITR-1 or ITR-4 forms the deadline to file ITR is July 31. The deadline for taxpayers, like companies or firms, whose accounts are required to be audited is October 31. In a circular, the CBDT said an extension of time limits is being given for certain tax compliances "to provide relief to taxpayers in view of the severe pandemic". Also, the deadline for issuing Form 16 by employers to employees has been extended by a month till July 15, 2021, the CBDT said. The due date for filing the tax audit report and transfer pricing certificate has been extended by a month till October 31 and November 30, respectively. For filing belated or revised return of income, the due date is now January 31, 2022. Besides, the deadline for financial institutions to furnish the Statement of Financial Transaction (SFT) report has been extended till June 30, from May 31, 2021. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said the extension of due dates is likely to provide some relief to taxpayers on the tax compliance front. "However, for taxpayers, whose entire income tax liability is not discharged by TDS and advance tax and such shortfall is more than Rs 1 lakhs, they should endeavour to file their ITR within respective original due date to avoid the charge of interest u/s 234A, which is charged on filing ITR beyond the original due date at the rate of 1 per cent per month for every month/ part thereof after the original due date of filing ITR," Kumar added. The CBDT had on April 1 notified forms for filing I-T returns for 2020-21 fiscal, and said that keeping in view the ongoing crisis due to COVID pandemic and to facilitate the taxpayers, no significant change has been made in comparison to the last year's ITR Forms. The new ITR forms ask taxpayers if they are opting for a new tax regime. For 2020-21 fiscal, the government had given taxpayers the option to choose a new tax regime under section 115BAC of the I-T Act. The new I-T slabs would be for individuals not availing or foregoing certain specified deductions or exemptions while computing total income for tax purposes. Under this, annual income up to Rs 2.5 lakh is exempt from tax. Those individuals earning between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 5 lakh will pay 5 per cent tax. Income between Rs 5 and 7.5 lakh will be taxed at 10 per cent, while those between Rs 7.5 and 10 lakh at 15 per cent. Those earning between Rs 10 and 12.5 lakh will pay tax at the rate of 20 per cent, while those between Rs 12.5 and Rs 15 lakh will pay at the rate of 25 per cent. Income above Rs 15 lakh will be taxed at 30 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itr-filing-deadline-for-fy21-extended-till-september-30-987975.html
20-05-2021||National||Don’t take dip in Covid-19 cases lightly, virus could again hit badly, High Court warns Centre, Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the authorities concerned to take steps to create buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen, saying the drop in Covid-19 cases in Delhi should not be taken casually. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that it is the duty of the Centre and the Delhi government to ensure that all the preparations are made in the backdrop of scientists predicting the virus may raise its ugly head again, hitting the people badly. “If you don't take steps, we will come and chase you again. We are telling you; we mean business," the bench told the government counsel, adding the authorities should take its warning seriously. The Delhi government counsel informed the High Court that it has a buffer stock of 419 Metric Tonnes (MT) of LMO at different locations in the capital, and also arrangements are in progress to further augment the stock in next 10 days.   Both the Centre and the Delhi government share the responsibility to set up buffer stock of medical oxygen as per top court April 30 order, the court said. Reiterating that complacency cannot come due to drop in number of cases, the bench said: “This is a temporary phase. We know it is going to come back and hit us badly.”  The court asked the Centre to file a report in connection with the steps taken to create buffer stock by May 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/don-t-take-dip-in-covid-19-cases-lightly-virus-could-again-hit-badly-high-court-warns-centre-delhi-govt-987986.html
20-05-2021||National||Covid challenge remains as long as infection exists even at minor scale: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked officials to record the spread of coronavirus infection and its seriousness among the youth and children, and cautioned that the challenge posed by Covid-19 will remain as long it is present even at a "minor scale" in the country. In his second round of interaction with district magistrates and field officials on the pandemic, Modi spoke about concerns in various quarters about any spread of infection in the young generation due to mutations in the virus and asked officials to analyse the statistics in their districts. They will have to be better prepared for the future, he said. There have been reports that the virus may hit the young generation, a demography which has so far not been affected hard as the adult population with people in the older age bracket being seen more susceptible. Noting that active cases have seen a decline in the last few days, Modi referred to the experience of the last one-and-a-half years and told officials to work to ensure that people continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. When the tally goes down, people start thinking that there is no need to worry now, he said, cautioning against it. Modi called for collective responsibility in this regard among the government machinery, social organisations and elected representatives. The challenge remains as long as the infection is present even at a minor scale, he said. Noting that the pandemic has made their work more demanding and challenging, he said new strategies and solutions are needed to meet them and described the virus as "dhoort" (rogue) and "bahurupiya" (impersonator), a reference to its various mutations that has kept experts on edge. Our strategy should be dynamic, and be undergoing continuous innovations and upgrade, he said. Speaking on the vaccination programme, the prime minister said suggestions from states and other stake-holders have been incorporated and added that the Union Health Ministry is informing states about the availability of jabs for 15 days in advance. "With clarity about vaccination supply and timeline being available, vaccination management will become easier for you," he said, adding that its supply will be further strengthened. Modi also said that there is a need to prevent vaccine wastage, saying every dose wasted is denying someone protection shield against the disease. Asking officials to analyse data separately for urban and rural regions besides those for tier 2 and 3 cities, Modi said it will help them prepare their strategy accordingly. The prime minister stressed that officers use local experiences and also work together as a country. He also called for working to keep villages corona-free. Modi praised the officials for their efforts in making the good use of existing resources to fight "the biggest disaster in 100 years". The officials, who interacted with Modi via video-conferencing, were from Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. He had spoken to a group of field officials on Tuesday too. The prime minister emphasised on giving importance to people's ease of living as well and said the facilities for free ration for the poor and other essential supplies must be provided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-challenge-remains-as-long-as-infection-exists-even-at-minor-scale-pm-modi-987987.html
20-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka to go for stricter implementation of lockdown measures, says Bommai||In your evening news brief, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai says state to go for stricter implementation of lockdown measures; West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee says she felt ‘insulted’ at the meeting with the PM and Government says nearly two crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories.  Here is the top news of May 20, 2021: Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday indicated that police and the Home Department will go for stricter implementation of lockdown measures, like the seizure of vehicles, in the days to come, by making them more effective, as the state battles the second wave of Covid-19. The Minister's statement comes, as the government is likely to take a decision on extending the lockdown in the state, in a couple of days. Speaking to reporters, he said, in the coming days the measures taken by the police or home department like seizures of vehicles of those indulging in unnecessary movement among others, will be made more effectively. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with district magistrates of 54 of 100 districts with highest Covid loads got into a political row with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee saying she felt "insulted" at seeing that "CMs were made to sit like puppets"  at the "casual" meeting in which only the PM and some BJP CMs made small speeches. This was the second of such meetings after the Prime Minister had interacted with district magistrates of 46 districts from nine states including Karnataka on Tuesday. Nearly two crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories while around 26 lakh are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic along with test, track, treat and Covid-appropriate behaviour, it said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-to-go-for-stricter-implementation-of-lockdown-measures-says-bommai-988000.html
20-05-2021||National||PIL filed in SC for states to ensure treatment of non-Covid patients||A PIL was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking a direction to the Centre and states to ensure adequate medical treatment and facilities to non-Covid-19 Patients as the right to public health was a fundamental right. In his petition, advocate G S Mani pointed out about 2.70 lakh people died of Covid-19 infection. However, after the second wave, most of the states put restrictions and protocols resulting into denial of regular treatment and check-up of patients with heart, kidney, liver and lung ailments, pregnant women and those required to undergo major and minor medical operations and surgery. For heart patients and pregnant women, it has become very difficult to get admission. Though some private hospitals were providing online consultation, there was no such facility available in most of the government hospitals, he pointed out. Maintaining that right to life and public health is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, the plea claimed there was no pre planned mechanism in the states with regard to the public health and medical treatment.  "There should be more government hospitals, exclusively for non-Covid-19 patients. The doctors say that they get many calls for other emergencies. People are confused a lot. Emergencies are filled with Covid-19 patients, others can’t go in there," the plea asserted. Due to the second wave of Covid-19 infection, several state governments like Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana announced complete and partial lockdown for the month of April and May, 2021. Many state governments have extended such restrictions until June, 2021, causing denial of regular treatment for other diseases, the petitioner claimed||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-states-to-ensure-treatment-of-non-covid-patients-988004.html
20-05-2021||Assembly Election 2019||After increase in Covid case positivity for 10 weeks, decline reported since last 2 weeks: Govt||After a consistent increase in Covid-19 case positivity for 10 weeks, a decline has been reported since the last two weeks, the government said on Thursday. The number of districts reporting a decline in case positivity increased from 210 in April 29-May 5 to 303 districts in May 13-19, it said. Seven states have more than 25 per cent case positivity, while 22 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity, the government said. India witnessed a consistent upward trend in weekly tests for Covid-19 since mid-February and average daily tests increased by 2.3 times in 12 weeks, it said. According to a study, 50 per cent people still do not wear a mask and those who do about 64 per cent cover just their mouth but not their nose, it said. By June end, the average daily testing capacity for Covid will be augmented to 45 lakh, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-increase-in-covid-case-positivity-for-10-weeks-decline-reported-since-last-2-weeks-govt-988011.html
20-05-2021||National||ONGC barge tragedy toll mounts to 49||The toll in the ONGC’s Mumbai High tragedy involving accommodation barge Paapa-305 has mounted to 49 with more bodies of the crew and oil workers being recovered from the Arabian Sea on Thursday. Meanwhile, aerial reconnaissance and Search and Rescue (SAR) operations continue in the Mumbai High offshore development area by the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard. A total of 261 persons were there on board Paapa-305 of which 186 have been rescued over the last three days in what is being described as the biggest SAR operations on India’s western seaboard. “So far, we have recovered 49 bodies and a SAR operation is under way to look out for 26 missing persons,” Western Naval Command officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ongc-barge-tragedy-toll-mounts-to-49-988014.html
20-05-2021||National||PM congratulates Vijayan on taking oath as Kerala CM for second term||Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday on taking oath for a second term. Vijayan, who led the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to its second consecutive spell in power in the recent Assembly polls, was sworn-in as the chief minister of Kerala for the second successive term on Thursday. "Congratulations to Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on taking oath as CM and commencing his second term in office," Modi sain in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-congratulates-vijayan-on-taking-oath-as-kerala-cm-for-second-term-988015.html
20-05-2021||National||BJP MLA Biswajit Daimary files nomination for Assam Assembly Speaker's post||BJP MLA Biswajit Daimary on Thursday submitted his nomination paper for the post of the Speaker of the Assam assembly. Saffron party legislator Numal Momin will submit his papers for the Deputy Speaker's post. Daimary filed his nomination in presence of Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and BJP state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass. Earlier in the day, the BJP in a meeting chose Daimary to be the next Speaker and Momin as the Deputy Speaker for the 15th Assam legislative assembly, the first session of which will begin from Friday. In February, Daimary was re-elected to the Rajya Sabha after he switched sides to the BJP from the Bodoland People's Front (BPF). He contested the assembly polls from the Panery constituency and won by a margin of 35,852 votes. BJP MLA Momin was elected to the assembly for the second consecutive time from the Bokajan seat. On Wednesday, former minister and eight-time AGP MLA Phani Bhushan Choudhury was sworn in as the pro tem speaker of the 15th Assam Legislative Assembly. In the 126-member Assembly, the BJP-led NDA secured 75 seats. The Congress-led Grand Alliance bagged 50 seats and one was won by an Independent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mla-biswajit-daimary-files-nomination-for-assam-assembly-speakers-post-988016.html
20-05-2021||National||Blame game starts over sinking of ONGC's barge Papaa-305||Even as the Navy and the Coast Guard continue the Search and Rescue (SAR) operations, the blame game over the sinking of accommodation barge Papaa-305 seems to have begun and involves multiple agencies. Afcons Infrastructure Ltd together with its consortium partner Halani-Tes-Nauvata, has been working with ONGC for the revamp of its unmanned offshore platforms in the Arabian Sea.  The chartered barge along with its marine crew was owned and operated by Durmast Enterprises Ltd. While the ONGC did not release any official statement, a PTI report quoting top sources close to ONGC, said: “Inadequate advance notice and miscalculations of Cyclone Tauktae'’s ferocity and its path may have contributed to a false belief that oilfield operations in the Arabian Sea need not be paused.” In a press statement, Afcons Infrastructure Ltd said the weather forecasts received on May 14, 2021 from the “service provider predicted that sustained wind speed of maximum 40 knots (classified as a Tropical Storm) is likely to occur at our specific work location late 16/early 17 May". Elaborating about the preventive strategy, it said on May 14 itself, all vessels were advised to secure their respective work locations and move to safe locations at the earliest. Accordingly, all vessels and barges, including Papaa-305, commenced moving out of their work locations on May 14/15, 2021, while the other barges moved to Mumbai Port/Mumbai Outer Anchorage/Anchorage close to Revandanda. “However, the Master of Papaa-305 chose to move 200 metres away from the HT platform where it was working, deciding this as a safe location since the max predicted wind speed was only 40 Knots and his location was 120 nautical miles away from the eye of the tropical storm,” the statement said. “Unfortunately, the weather conditions deteriorated rapidly from the evening of May 16. The sudden deterioration of weather left no time at all for any further action to be taken by the Master of the vessel,” the statement said. The Afcons statement further pointed out: “As per the normal marine protocol, as well as the specific charter agreement for Papaa-305, matters concerning vessel safety lie under the responsibility of the Owner/Barge Master, who is in the best position to decide on the appropriate course of action regarding vessel safety, as he has the necessary skill sets as well as the understanding of his vessel and its equipment, under the prevailing local conditions.” On questions about why the people were not moved out, Afcons said: “Evacuation of the vessel is an extreme step only resorted to in case the vessel is in distress.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blame-game-starts-over-sinking-of-ongcs-barge-papaa-305-988017.html
20-05-2021||National||Govt says it aims to ramp up daily testing capacity for Covid to 45 lakh by June-end||With widespread Covid-19 infections in 22 states, the Centre on Thursday said it would ramp up the daily testing capacity up to 25 lakh by May and 45 lakh by June in order to screen people living in small towns and villages, where the epidemic was moving fast. In rural areas, the emphasis would be on expanding the rapid antigen tests for screening and isolation of positive patients, Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said on Thursday. The aim is to carry out 45 lakh testing by June 30, of which the gold-standard RT-PCR would constitute 18 lakh tests, whereas, rapid antigen tests would be 27 lakhs. For comparison, only for two days, the daily testing level crossed the 20 lakh mark so far. Also, it would mean that nearly 60 per cent of the testing would be conducted using the RAT – a stark contrast from the existing government guidelines in which it has been asserted that nearly 70 per cent of the testing should be by the RT-PCR method. So far, RAT was not a preferred choice as it could miss nearly 50 per cent of cases. But with the majority of the RT-PCR laboratories being concentrated in the cities, the government modified the testing strategy with greater use of RAT because rapid test facilities could be set up quickly in rural areas and the results would come in 15 minutes. Bhargava said such a change in the testing strategy was required for early detection, isolation and home care of Covid-19 patients as 80-90 per cent of such patients could be treated at home. Only those who are RAT negative and having Covid-19 symptoms, need to go for a second test using the RT-PCR method. “It is high time that India increased its Covid-19 testing capacity. While the daily new cases have more than quadrupled compared to the peak of the first wave, the daily average testing had only increased by about 60 per cent. This has led to a very high test positivity rates and the possibility of missing too many new cases in the present wave,” Rijo John, professor of health economics at the Rajagiri Institute of Social Sciences, Kochi told DH. “More testing is always good. As long as an increase in antigen testing capacity is done, not by compromising the RT-PCR capacity, such capacity augmentation is always welcome.” The ICMR has approved RATs made by 41 companies of which 31 are indigenous. Several state governments have placed procurement orders. The plan is to set up RAT booths at primary health care centres, community health care centers and 1.87 lakh subcentres. In addition, RAT booths will be set up with the community in schools, colleges, community centers and RWA offices. On the home-based diagnostics of Covid-19, Bhargava said ICMR approved one such RAT kit for home testing, while three more such kits are in the pipeline. The one, approved by the ICMR, has been developed by a Pune-based company known as Mylab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-says-it-aims-to-ramp-up-daily-testing-capacity-for-covid-to-45-lakh-by-june-end-988018.html
20-05-2021||National||Met warning ignored, say experts on ONGC barge sinking||The warnings of impending Cyclone Tauktae was first relayed on May 11. However, there seems to have been an error in judgement on the part of the ONGC and other agencies like Afcons and Durmast Enterprises Limited, according to experts who wished to remain anonymous. The cyclone passed over the Mumbai High offshore development area of the ONGC off the Maharashtra coast on May 17, as it moved from Goa to Gujarat – damaging Papaa-305, an accommodation barge near the Heera platform. “If I may recall, the first warning came on May 11, and there were several days in hand to take a call and secure the barges, and if needed move out people,” said an expert in the strategic sector and aviation.   “I have never seen such a devastating cyclone along with the Mumbai and Maharashtra coast for the last several years,” he said, adding that the ONGC operations team at the site should have taken a call based on latest weather reports. “In fact, the Maharashtra government evacuated 13,000 plus people from the coastal Konkan region and moved them to safety,” said a disaster management expert. Meanwhile, Chief Engineer Rehman Shaikh, told a newspaper that Papaa-305’s Captain Balwandir Singh ignored the warnings. “We received the cyclone warning a week before it hit. Many other vessels in the vicinity left. I told the captain that we must also leave for the harbour. But he told me that winds were not expected to be over 40 kmph and the cyclone would cross Mumbai in one or two hours. But in reality, the wind speed was more than 100 kmph. Five of our anchors broke. They couldn’t withstand the cyclone," Shaikh was quoted as saying by the newspaper. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas announced that a high-level committee would be set up to enquire into the sequence of events that led to the stranding of the ONGC vessels. The Yellow Gate police station in Mumbai, which has police jurisdiction over a huge region of Arabian Sea, has registered an ADR into the incident after the bodies were brought in. The Mumbai Police will be speaking to various agencies and take the advice of the Directorate General of Shipping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/met-warning-ignored-say-experts-on-ongc-barge-sinking-988022.html
20-05-2021||National||New e-filing site for taxpayers from June 7; existing to undergo 'blackout'||A new "taxpayer friendly" income tax filing website will be launched on June 7 as the Central Board of Direct Taxes on Thursday said the existing one will be phased out after a 'blackout period' of six days beginning next month. The board, that frames policy for the Income Tax Department, has urged taxpayers "to complete all their urgent tasks involving any submission, upload or downloads before June 1 to avoid any difficulty during the blackout period (June 1-6)". An order issued by the systems directorate of the department on Wednesday said the "transition" from the old portal -- www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in -- to the new --www.incometaxgov.in -- will be completed and made operational from June 7. "In preparation of this launch and for migration activities, the existing portal of the department www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in  would not be available for a brief period (taxpayers as well as external stakeholders) of six days from June 1 to 6," the order, accessed by PTI, said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) issued a statement and said that it "requests the patience of all taxpayers and other stakeholders during the switch over to the new e-filing portal and the subsequent initial period while they get familiarised with the new system". It added that to ensure there is no "inconvenience to taxpayers, the department will not fix any compliance dates during this period". "Further, directions have been issued to fix hearing of cases or compliances only from June 10 onwards, to give taxpayers time to respond on the new system," the board said. "If any hearing or compliance which requires submissions online has been scheduled during this period, the same will be pre-poned or adjourned and the work items would be rescheduled after this period," the CBDT said. It said that the new web portal will enable new features under six broad categories and it will also ensure quick refunds to taxpayers. The new taxpayer friendly portal is integrated with immediate processing of Income Tax Returns (ITRs) to issue quick refunds to taxpayers and all interactions and uploads or pending actions will be displayed on a single dashboard for follow-up action by the taxpayer. The new site will also has a free ITR preparation software available online and offline with interactive questions to help taxpayers fill ITR even without any tax knowledge, with pre-filling and for minimising data entry effort. For addressing queries of taxpayers there will be a call centre, tutorials, videos and chatbot or live agent.  The new website, as per the CBDT statement, will also subsequently enable a new online tax payment system with multiple new payment options using net banking, UPI, credit card and RTGS or NEFT from any account of the taxpayer in any bank, for easy payment of taxes. It also said that all key portal functions on the desktop will be available on a mobile app which will be enabled subsequently for access on a mobile network. The CBDT said the tax department has also "intimated external entities including banks, MCA, GSTN, DPIIT, CBIC, GeM, DGFT who avail services of PAN verification (from this website) etc. about the non-availability of the services." It has been requested to them "to make arrangements to ensure that their customers/stakeholders are apprised, so that any relevant activity can be completed prior to or after the blackout period". "The new e-filing portal is aimed at providing taxpayer convenience and a modern, seamless experience to taxpayers," the board said. "This is another initiative by the CBDT towards providing ease of compliance to its taxpayers and other stakeholders," CBDT spokesperson Surabhi Ahluwalia said in the statement. The e-filing portal is used by the taxpayers to file their individual and many other categories of ITRs and also to raise complaints seeking refunds and other works with the tax department. The taxman uses it to issue notices, get responses from the taxpayer and respond to their queries and to communicate final orders like assessments, appeals, exemption and penalties, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-e-filing-site-for-taxpayers-from-june-7-existing-to-undergo-blackout-988025.html
20-05-2021||National||China builds key highway through Brahmaputra Canyon in Tibet close to Arunachal Pradesh border||China has completed the construction of a strategic highway through the Brahmaputra Canyon, stated to be the world’s deepest, close to the Arunachal Pradesh border ahead of its plan to build a mega-dam over the gorge. Construction of a highway costing $310 million passing through the Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon, known as the world's deepest gorge with a maximum depth of 6,009 meters, was completed on Saturday last, state-run Xinhua news agency reported. The mighty Brahmaputra river is known as Yarlung Zangbo in Tibet. A 2,114-meter tunnel was dug through on Saturday morning, marking the completion of the major construction of the 67.22-km road connecting Pad Township in the city of Nyingchi and Medog County, cutting travel time by eight hours. Medog is the last county in Tibet, which is located close to the Arunachal Pradesh border. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of South Tibet, which is firmly rejected by India. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). The new highway was built on the former hiking route between Nyingchi's Pad Township and Baibung Township, Medog County, with an altitude difference of up to 2,892 meters between the highest and lowest spots of the road, the report said. It is the second significant passageway to Medog, following the first one connecting the county and Zhamog Township, Bomi County. After the new highway opens to traffic, the road length connecting the city proper of Nyingchi and Medog County will be shortened to 180 kms from 346 kms, cutting travel time by eight hours. The highway project was started in 2014, with an estimated investment of over 2 billion yuan, about $310 million, it said. China has already cleared a plan to build a mega-dam over Brahmaputra Canyon by the country’s Parliament, the National People’s Congress (NPC) in March this year, sparking concerns in India. A recent report by the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post said engineers have also expressed concern about the threats posed by landslides and barrier lakes to the dam. The Brahmaputra is the longest river in Tibet and its valley is the world’s deepest with a 7,000-metre drop from the highest mountain peak to the lowest basin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-builds-key-highway-through-brahmaputra-canyon-in-tibet-close-to-arunachal-pradesh-border-988027.html
20-05-2021||National||UK invites India to join G7 Health Ministers' Summit virtually||India is among the guest countries invited to join virtually at the 2021 G7 Health Ministers’ Meeting to be held at Oxford University on June 3 and 4 to will bring together the world’s leading democracies to agree on life-saving action in critical areas of global health, the UK government announced on Thursday. The University of Oxford has been chosen for its role at the heart of the global fight against Covid-19, with world-leading clinical trials and its not-for-profit partnership with AstraZeneca on Covid-19 vaccines. Attendees will come together to address the issues of global health security, antimicrobial resistance, clinical trials, and digital health and the discussions will inform the G7 Leaders’ Summit in Cornwall a week later between June 11 and 13. “Oxford is the birthplace of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine and at the heart of British life sciences. Oxford is a perfect location to stage pivotal meetings on how the world readies itself to combat future health threats,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock. “Collectively we can build back better from this virus and, as I gather with my Ministerial counterparts from the major democratic nations, we have an opportunity to learn from this pandemic and take measures that will develop global health security,” he said. The summit forms part of the UK’s 2021 presidency of the Group of Seven – which includes the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the US and the European Union – and will bring together health ministers from these nations in a physical setting. However, the UK government said that the two-day talks will also engage virtually with the G7 Presidency’s guest countries – India, South Korea, Australia and South Africa. “Oxford University is honoured to host the G7 Health Ministers. This past year has demonstrated just how much can be accomplished when universities, business and government work together to advance global health,” said Professor Louise Richardson, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford. “We hope that in the course of this meeting insights and information will be shared, ideas generated, and lasting partnerships forged. In particular, we hope that as a result of this meeting plans will be developed to ensure that we are never again caught unprepared for a pandemic,” she said. There will be a working ministerial dinner on the evening of June 3 attended by senior representatives from the life sciences industry, who are planning to convene concurrently in Oxford to discuss the themes under the UK Prime Minister’s Pandemic Preparedness Partnership between public and private sectors and key issues on the health agenda for the summit. “As a county with a world-class reputation for cutting-edge research and innovation in life sciences and healthcare, we look forward to welcoming our guests and hope that their time here contributes to strengthening partnerships and boosting collaboration in managing current and future global health threats,” said Councillor Liz Leffman, Oxfordshire County Council Leader. Oxford City Council Leader, Councillor Susan Brown, added: “Our city has rightly become synonymous with excellence in life science research and manufacturing. We are proud that Oxford’s name is carried by the vaccine used most widely across the world. “There is a real opportunity for those gathered to step up international support for the vaccination programmes still only in their early stages in many developing countries, particularly in Africa.” G7 countries account for two thirds of the world’s pharmaceutical markets and the three vaccines licensed for use in the UK were all developed in G7 nations – the UK, US and Germany. As host of this year’s G7 Presidency, the UK says it is determined to work with its partners to "build back better" from coronavirus and strengthen global preparedness for potential future pandemics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-invites-india-to-join-g7-health-ministers-summit-virtually-988029.html
20-05-2021||National||Centre should import black fungus medicine: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked the Centre to take steps to get the medicine, Amphotericin B, used for treating 'black fungus', from wherever it is available in the world. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh told the Centre to inform about steps taken to import the medicine for a new disease, primarily affecting Covid-19-recovered people, amid a shortage of the drug in the country. The court asked the central government to file status on the present production capacity of the medicine, details of producers licensed to produce it, enhanced capacity and by when the increased capacity be able to be manufactured. The court was told that currently Delhi has around 200 cases of mucormycosis (black fungus).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-import-black-fungus-medicine-delhi-high-court-988030.html
20-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: A worrying fall in daily Covid-19 vaccinations||When will Covid-19’s second wave leave us and when will the third wave make an appearance? These are the questions on everyone’s minds but there are no clear-cut answers. There are many theories though. A three-member panel of scientists set up by the Centre said they expected the country's second Covid-19 wave to taper off by the end of July and a third wave to arrive in another six to eight months.  Mumbai’s municipality received bids to import 1 crore Sputnik V vaccines and expects more proposals as authorities attempt an ambitious plan to vaccinate every adult resident of the city within two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-a-worrying-fall-in-daily-covid-19-vaccinations-988032.html
20-05-2021||National||Toolkit row: Congress asks Twitter to permanently suspend accounts of Nadda, Patra, Smriti, Santosh||Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter urging it to permanently suspend accounts of four senior BJP leaders—J P Nadda, B L Santosh, Smriti Irani and Sambit Patra—accusing them of "knowingly spreading misinformation" on toolkit issue to hide their "failures". The letter, written by AICC Research Department Chairman Prof Rajeev Gowda and Chairman Social Media Department Rohan Gupta, also accused the four BJP leaders of attempting to create unrest in the society. They alleged that the senior leaders of the BJP were grossly misusing the platform, which has led to "false information" and the potential to cause "social unrest" amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress leaders claimed that the BJP leaders forged the letterhead in a "pre-planned conspiracy" and printed certain "mischievous, false and fabricated content", which were circulated. They said an FIR has been filed. The Congress and the BJP were locked in a verbal duel after the latter accused its opponent of orchestrating a campaign to malign the Narendra Modi government over Covid-19 handling and tweeted a 'toolkit' to the party. However, Congress sources said that the toolkit barring one on Central Vista was not its work. "You will appreciate that the BJP leaders in order to divert attention from burning issue of the 'failure of the Modi government to provide aid in the current pandemic' deliberately ran this hate campaign, for which they manufactured and a forged a 'toolkit', which was wrongly attributed to the Congress," the letter said. The two leaders also said the BJP made "wild allegations" such as international and Indian journalists were criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the instance of Congress. "As Twitter's own policy and rules seek to discourage deceptive/synthetic/manipulated media that are likely to cause harm, we humbly request you to immediately remove the tweets... Also, you are requested to carry out a detailed probe" into the issue, they said. They also demanded that the Twitter accounts of the four leaders be permanently suspended as they are "habitual of manufacturing forged content and misusing the Twitter platform for disseminating the same," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-row-congress-asks-twitter-to-permanently-suspend-accounts-of-nadda-patra-smriti-santosh-988039.html
20-05-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccine output likely to fall short of target||India's output of Covid-19 shots for August-December is likely to be lower than the government's public estimate, according to internal projections shared with Reuters by two sources. Lower-than-expected production could delay India's plans to vaccinate all its adults this year, amid fears the country will face another surge of coronavirus infections in the winter. India's ongoing second wave, the world's worst since the pandemic began, has overwhelmed its health system. The government last week publicly estimated 146 crore doses of its three approved shots - AstraZeneca (Covishield), Sputnik V and Covaxin - would be made between August and December. Production of the Covishield vaccine, of which the Serum Institute of India (SII) is the biggest maker in the world, is expected to reach 10 crore to 11 crore doses a month from July and stay at that level for the foreseeable future, a source with knowledge of the matter said. That would be at least 20 crore doses less than the government's public forecast of 75 crore Covishield doses for the last five months of the year, a 27 per cent shortfall. An internal government projection for August and September shared by a second source put the monthly number of Covishield doses at 10 crore, out of 20 crore for all the three approved shots combined. The sources declined to be named discussing a subject on which Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has been criticised due to a shortage of vaccines. Immunisations have fallen sharply since an April peak. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare did not respond to queries from Reuters. SII, which is facing raw material shortages for another vaccine that the government is banking on, declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Covaxin-maker Bharat Biotech said that last month the company raised its annual production capacity to more than 50 crore doses, or about 4.2 crore doses a month. It has been producing about 1 crore doses a month. Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, the local distributor for Russia's Sputnik V, did not respond to a request for comment. Apart from the approved vaccines, the government has also forecast August-December production of 86.6 crore doses of five yet-to-be-approved vaccines. Overall, the government has pledged to make 267 crore doses available this year. SII has already halted exports until the end of the year to meet domestic demand, in a major blow to dozens of poor countries relying on it for supplies. India has so far administered 18.7 crore vaccine doses, the most after China and the United States, but fully immunised only about 3 per cent of its 135 crore people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccine-output-likely-to-fall-short-of-target-988045.html
20-05-2021||National||Modi govt busy managing Covid narrative rather than addressing issues: Former bureaucrats in open letter to PM||Over 100 former bureaucrats on Thursday sought to tear into the Narendra Modi government's response to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, claiming that it appeared to be more concerned with "managing the narrative" rather than addressing crucial issues at stake. The 116 bureaucrats under the ambit of Constitutional Conduct Group signed an open letter to Prime Minister Modi in which they lamented that even "authentic data" on tests, positive cases, and mortality figures among others, have not been publicly disseminated while warning that it would have "serious implications". They demanded that the Centre should provide free vaccination, ramp up RT-PCR testing in both rural and urban areas, make adequate funds available to the States for provision of medical facilities and "stop expenditures on non-essential items" like the Central Vista project among others. "We are aware that this pandemic threatens the entire world and is not going to leave the citizens of India untouched. And yet, what numbs our senses daily is not just the cries of the citizenry for medical assistance and the death toll in its thousands but the manifestly casual attitude of your government to the magnitude of the crisis and its implications for the mental and physical health of the community of Indians," the letter said. "Your government seems to be more concerned with managing the narrative of 'efficient' management of the Covid crisis rather than addressing the crucial issues at stake," the former bureaucrats, including former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon, former Cabinet Secretary K M Chandrasekhar and former Health Secretary K Sujatha Rao, said. The letter said that the "steady erosion" of the Cabinet system, the worsening federal relationships with the state that are especially governed by the Opposition parties, lack of informed consultation with experts and Parliamentary committees, the failure to take "timely" advice from experts and the absence of effective coordination with the states have had "disastrous consequences".  "Despite warnings from the international community and our own scientists, the breathing space between the first and the second waves was not used to augment critical resources such as medical staff, hospital beds, oxygen supplies, ventilators and drugs and other medical supplies. Even more inexcusably, no advance planning was done to secure adequate stocks of vaccines, despite India being one of the major vaccine suppliers to the world," the former bureaucrats said. "The complacency displayed by you and your ministerial colleagues at various forums not only diverted attention from the looming threat but probably also contributed to both state governments and citizens letting down their guard at a crucial juncture. As a result, your Atmanirbhar Bharat is today compelled to seek the help of the outside world to lessen the agony inflicted on its own people by your government," they said. The letter also found fault with the Centre's reliance on the newly set up PM-CARES that dried up funds for the states and non-payment of GST dues to the states among others. At the same time, the letter said, the government has incurred "unnecessary expenditure" on Central Vista. The former bureaucrats also were also critical of the election campaigning conducted by the BJP leaders, including Modi, in the recent Assembly elections as well as the Kumbh Mela.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-busy-managing-covid-narrative-rather-than-addressing-issues-former-bureaucrats-in-open-letter-to-pm-988050.html
20-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Ventilation can dilute viral load in air, says Centre||Just as smells can be diluted from the air by opening windows and doors and using exhaust systems, ventilating spaces with improved directional airflow decrease the accumulated viral load in the air, reducing the risk of transmission, a new advisory from the Centre said on Thursday. Calling ventilation a community defence that protects all of us at home or at work, the advisory to “Stop the Transmission, Crush the Pandemic” released by the office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India urged for introducing outdoor air in offices, homes and larger public spaces. "Measures to improve ventilation in these spaces must be taken up on priority in urban and rural areas alike, recommendations for hutments, homes, offices and large centralised buildings are given. Simple strategic placement of fans, open windows, and doors, even slightly open windows can introduce outdoor air and improve the air quality inside. The introduction of cross ventilation and exhaust fans will be beneficial in curtailing the spread of the disease," the advisory said.  Underlining the need to remember that simple tools and practices can reduce the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, it highlighted the important role well-ventilated spaces play in diluting the viral load of infected air in poorly ventilated houses and offices and how proper ventilation can decrease the risk of transmission from one infected person to the other. "In buildings with central air-management systems improving central air filtration, increased filtration efficiency is especially helpful when enhanced outdoor air delivery options are limited. In offices, auditoriums, shopping malls etc. use of gable fan systems and roof ventilators are recommended. Frequent cleaning and replacement of filters is highly recommended," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ventilation-can-dilute-viral-load-in-air-says-centre-988057.html
20-05-2021||National||EU's proposed Covid-19 vaccine patent pool is diversionary tactic: SJM||Days after starting a digital campaign to build pressure on WTO as well the government of India to ensure universal access to vaccines and medicines to fight Covid-19, RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagaran Manch on Thursday wrote to the European Union dismissing its proposed Covid-19 Vaccine Patent Pool as a mere "diversionary tactic" and asked it to unconditionally support the TRIPS waiver proposal. In a letter to Ugo Astuto, Ambassador Delegation of the European Union to India and Bhutan, the SJM asked the EU to constructively engage in the text-based negotiation to conclude the negotiation at the earliest without compromising the purposes and objectives behind the proposal. Underlining the need to keep peoples’ health above profit, the SJM stressed that the best option is to scale up the production of various Covid-19 medical products by removing the legal barrier against the freedom of operation. It held that the approach of charity such as donating vaccines and other medical products is not a sustainable strategy and these have failed so far to effectively address the problem. "This kind of approach is likely to lead to continuation of monopoly by a few companies over Covid-19 medical products and it will only accentuate the miseries of the people, as the same is likely to cause shortages and unaffordable treatment, which India and the world has gone through in recent months," the SJM said.  The SJM held that patents are not the only barrier and access to trade secrets is critical to scale up the production of vaccines and diagnostics. "Therefore, the EU's proposed Covid-19 Vaccine Patent Pool is a diversionary tactic, rather than addressing the real issue. The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) is writing to draw your attention to the EU’s reluctance to support a text-based negotiation of TRIPS Waiver proposal to suspend certain intellectual property (IP) for the Covid-19 medical products," SJM's National co-Convenor Ashwani Mahajan said in the letter. India along with South Africa had in October last year urged WTO to grant a waiver for limited years (which will be negotiated by the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights Council), from the implementation, application and enforcement of specific provisions of the TRIPS agreement for the prevention, containment and treatment of Covid-19. After the announcement of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) on May 5 to support the text-based negotiations on the waiver proposal, many countries came forward to support the negotiation. The SJM said that the announcement of the EU, however, is not clear in its support to the text-based negotiation. Further, the EU attempted to limit it to the scope of the TRIPS Waiver only to the vaccine patents, it said. The SJM reminded the EU that "international human rights obligation also includes an obligation to desist from taking measures that result in the infringement of human rights in other countries. Attempts to block the text-based negotiations is an indirect support to Covid-19 medical products that go against the concept of solidarity and even violate the right to health guaranteed under Article 12 of the International Covenant on Economic Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eus-proposed-covid-19-vaccine-patent-pool-is-diversionary-tactic-sjm-988061.html
20-05-2021||National||Centre should issue white paper on Covid-19 vaccination strategy: Congress||The Congress on Thursday said the government should issue a white paper on its Covid-19 vaccination strategy and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accelerate the work on inoculating all Indians against the viral disease on a war footing. Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said this is not the time for image-building but to help the people in need during the pandemic. He also expressed concern over the spread of the coronavirus in villages and said the prime minister needs to work together with the states to step up medical facilities in rural areas and vaccinate more and more people. "We demand that the government issue a white paper on its vaccination policy for all to know how many vaccines have been procured and are in the pipeline to vaccinate all Indians," Shukla told reporters. "This is not the time to indulge in image-building. Forget about your image, save people's lives instead. Set aside your image management and put together all your energies in helping people come out of Covid. Try and take everyone together," he said.   The All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary, who is in-charge of the party's Himachal Pradesh affairs, said the coronavirus is spreading in villages, which is a cause of worry. He highlighted the lack of testing facilities, hospitals, doctors and medical infrastructure in rural areas. "The number of corona-infected patients may have reduced, but the death rate is still high, which is of concern. This is a big challenge for us now," Shukla said. He said according to experts, around 90 lakh people have to be vaccinated daily to break the chain of the virus, but the current vaccination rate is very slow. "If the virus chain does not break, then the third wave is imminent. I would urge the central government and the prime minister to procure vaccines on a war footing and negotiate on behalf of the states," the Congress leader said, adding that the vaccines should be made available in the open market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-issue-white-paper-on-covid-19-vaccination-strategy-congress-988063.html
20-05-2021||National||Punjab govt announces Rs 1,500 per month for children orphaned in Covid pandemic||The Punjab government on Thursday decided to provide Rs 1,500 per month as social security pension and free education up to graduation to all those children orphaned in the Covid pandemic, as well as families that have lost their breadwinning member, beginning July 1. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said his government will ensure free education in government institutions for such children as well as kids belonging to families that have lost their breadwinner to Covid, according to an official statement. He dubbed it as the "state's duty to become the foster parents of the children" who have lost both their parents in the Covid-19 pandemic. Singh said affected persons would also be eligible for Rs 51,000 under the Ashirwad Scheme with effect from July 1 and would be entitled to free ration under the state smart ration card scheme and coverage under the 'Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana'. Earlier under the Ashirwad Scheme, Rs 51,000 financial assistance was given to a poor family for the girl's marriage, while there is an entitlement based cashless Health Insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh per family per year under the ‘Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana’. The state government would also assist the affected family members to find a suitable job under the 'Ghar Ghar Rozgaar te Karobaar Mission', said the chief minister after a high-level Covid review meeting. The relief measures will be provided to orphans until they attain the age of 21 years. In the case of families whose breadwinner has died, the relief measures would be provided for an initial period of three years, after which their situation will be re-assessed, and where the vulnerability continues to exist, the period may be appropriately extended, Singh said. The chief minister also announced the constitution of a monitoring committee, headed by the minister for social, security and women and child development, to review progress and relief measures for every single case. The committee shall meet at least once a month, he said. The Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development would be the nodal department for implementation of the relief measures for the Covid affected persons. The committee would also maintain a record of all such affected persons and apprise them about the welfare measures being offered to them. Besides, the committee would also coordinate with the departments concerned until the desired relief has been made available, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-govt-announces-rs-1500-per-month-for-children-orphaned-in-covid-pandemic-988074.html
20-05-2021||National||FIR against farmers over violence during protest against Haryana CM in Hisar||The Haryana police have registered a case against 350 unnamed farmers for allegedly attacking government employees and stone pelting during the protest against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar who had inaugurated a Covid hospital last week. The case has been registered on the complaint of Inspector Virendra Kumar, in-charge of Urban Estate Police Station, police said on Thursday. The case has been registered under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 188 (obstructing public servant in discharge of his public functions), 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code, a district police spokesperson said. Twenty policemen, including five women officials, were injured in the clash between the farmers and the police on Sunday, officials said. The police had lobbed tear gas shells and used force to disperse a group of farmers who tried to march towards the venue where Khattar had gone to inaugurate the Covid hospital on May 16. Scores of farmers have been protesting against the Centre's new farm laws since last November and opposing public functions of BJP-JJP leaders in the state. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions spearheading the stir against the farm laws, in a statement had condemned the alleged assault on the protesters. The police on Thursday clarified that tear gas was used first and then mild force was applied at the magistrate's order to protect the hospital from sabotage and to maintain law and order. They also maintained that although a meeting was held between the farmer leaders and police after the incident on Sunday evening, the IG Police (Hisar Range) did not give any assurance that no FIR would be registered against the protesters, as was being claimed by some farmer leaders. The police said when the protesters had started gathering on Sunday, the district police chief repeatedly informed them that the CM had already left the venue after inaugurating the Covid hospital. However, the protesters did not pay heed and carried on with the agitation.   The police added that though some senior farmer leaders made efforts to stop some of the young protesters who had turned aggressive, they did not listen to the leaders. “The agitators indulged in vandalism and blockade near the Jindal bridge and rammed barricades when the DSP and other police force reached the entrance of the newly-constructed Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjeevani Hospital. “They also tried to injure police officers by hitting them with vehicles and tractors several times. Heavy stones were also thrown at the police,” a police spokesperson said. Meanwhile, Haryana Congress leader and Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi condemned the registration of case against the farmers and sought a judicial inquiry into the entire incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-farmers-over-violence-during-protest-against-haryana-cm-in-hisar-988077.html
20-05-2021||National||CBI probing illegal commissions to sons of IIFCO MD, Indian Potash chief, others||The CBI is probing alleged illegal commissions worth over Rs 685 crore received during 2007-14 by the NRI sons of IFFCO managing director US Awasthi, Indian Potash Ltd managing director PS Gahlaut and others from overseas suppliers through transactions facilitated by AgustaWestland case accused Rajiv Saxena, the agency said. The commissions were received from suppliers of fertilisers and raw materials using a complex web of transactions, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) alleged in its FIR. The sham transactions were facilitated through circuitous routes in the garb of consultancy agreements to hide commissions to Awasthi, who is also the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Co-operative Limited's chief executive officer, and Gahlaut who allegedly imported fertilisers and raw materials at inflated rates, the agency has alleged. Similar modus operandi was allegedly adopted in sending bribes in the AgustaWestland helicopter corruption case too in which Saxena is facing probe. IFFCO is a multi-state farmers' cooperative while Indian Potash Limited (IPL) is its company involved in supplying fertilisers for which the government provides subsidies to keep rates in check. The CBI has alleged that between 2007-14, in order to claim higher subsidies, Awasthi and Gahlaut as part of a criminal conspiracy imported fertilisers at highly inflated rates, which included commission meant for both, from various overseas suppliers. The commission amounts were siphoned off out of India through their sons based in the US and other accused persons, including owner of Jyoti Trading Corporation and the Rare Earth Group, Pankaj Jain, his brother Sanjay Jain, and senior vice president of the company AD Singh, and chartered accountant Saxena, the CBI has alleged. "They allegedly siphoned off the commission through a complex web of fake commercial transactions through multiple companies registered outside India (beneficially owned by the accused persons) to camouflage the fraudulent transactions as genuine," it said in the FIR. The CBI has alleged that Saxena and his associates received $114.32 million, around Rs 685 crores at a transaction rate Rs 60 per dollar of illegal commission, in the bank accounts of his group companies and individual accounts of Jain, Gahlaut's son Vivek, Awasthi's son Amol and AD Singh. It has also alleged that $80.18 million -- Rs 481 crores approximately -- was channelised through Jain's Rare Earth Group and the remaining, $34.14 million -- Rs 204 crores approximately -- was received by Awasthi's brothers Amol and Anupam, and Vivek Gahlaut either in the accounts of the companies owned by them or in cash. The CBI had received two complaints, forwarded by the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, carrying identical allegations from MP Nishikant Dubey and Sudish Tripathi of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. "It is further alleged that IFFCO set up its 100 per cent subsidiary namely Kisan International Trading FZE in Jebel Ali, Free Zonal Dubai, for importing fertilizers and other raw materials from foreign companies/ firms. One such supplier is Uralkali Trading Limited, Gibraltar (a British overseas Territory)," the CBI FIR said. The CBI alleged that Uralkali Trading Limited, Gulf Marine and Rare Earth Group raised inflated bills in favour of Kisan International to cover bribes for Awasthi and Gahlaut. The bribes by suppliers were routed through companies of Saxena -- Midas Metal International and others -- that justified the payments by entering into consultancy agreements without providing any consultancy work, it alleged. Most of the commissions were received from Uralkali General Trading in the account of Midas Metal International LLC during 2012-14 and the commissions were routed under instructions of Jain and his associates. "Subsequently, the amounts were transferred to the Awasthi brothers and Vivek Gahlaut and others by Rajeev Saxena as per the instructions of middleman Pankaj Jain. For justifying such transfers Rajeev Saxena made an agreement with Africa Strategic Advisory Services of Anupam Awasthi. Anupam Awasthi raised invoices on the companies of Rajeev Saxena for the so-called services," the FIR stated. The agency has alleged that large sums of cash and cheque payment in Arab Emirates Dirham was made from the accounts of companies of Saxena or by Saxena in his individual capacity to Amol Awasthi, Vivek Gahlaut and Pankaj Jain on Jain's instructions. "Similar modus operandi was adopted in case of other manufacturers/suppliers wherein materials were directly shipped to India and incentives were paid through intermediaries/hawala operators,” the CBI said. “Inputs revealed that beneficiaries of the bribe money are Amol Awasthi and Anupam Awasthi, both sons of US Awasthi and Vivek Gahlaut, son of Parvinder Singh Gahlaut, who are Non-Resident Indians living in USA," the FIR said. The payments from Saxena were allegedly made to Catalyst Business Solution Pvt Ltd, USA, a company beneficially owned by Amol Awasthi, Thorn Lock Associates, a company beneficially owned by Vivek Gahtaut, and Terra Firma Commodities DMCC, Dubai, a company beneficially owned by Amol Awasthi and Vivek Gahlaut, without any genuine transaction, the CBI alleged. "Such transfers were actually receipt of illegal commission generated out of import of fertilizers and raw materials by IFFCO and IPL on inflated prices," it said. The CBI has registered a case of corruption against US Awasthi and PS Gahlaut for alleged irregularities in the import of fertilisers and claiming subsidies, officials said. After registering the FIR, the CBI on Wednesday searched 12 locations in Delhi, Mumbai and Gurugram at the premises of Awasthi and Gahlaut, they said. Pankaj Jain, Sanjay Jain, Amrinder Dhari Singh and Saxena have also been named in FIR as accused. The agency has also booked an employee of Pankaj Jain, Sushil Kumar Pachisia and unidentified Directors of IFFCO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-probing-illegal-commissions-to-sons-of-iifco-md-indian-potash-chief-others-988079.html
20-05-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with Varanasi doctors, paramedical staff on May 21||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with doctors, paramedical staff and other frontline health workers of Varanasi on Friday via video conferencing.    His office said Modi will review the working of various Covid-19 hospitals in Varanasi, including the Pandit Rajan Mishra Covid Hospital, which was recently started through the joint efforts of the DRDO and the Indian Army. He will also review the working of non-Covid-19 hospitals in the district.    Modi will also discuss the ongoing efforts for tackling the second wave of Covid-19 in Varanasi and preparations for the future, the Prime Minister's Office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-varanasi-doctors-paramedical-staff-on-may-21-988080.html
20-05-2021||National||CSC to set up one lakh LPG centres in rural India||The Common Service Centres (CSC), an Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) under the Ministry of Electronics and IT, on Thursday announced that it plans to set up one lakh LPG distribution centres across India, with focus on rural and semi-urban areas, by March 2022. So far the CSC has opened around 21,000 LPG centres in all the states in tie-up with three government oil marketing companies – BPCL, HPCL and IOC. “Today, we have reached a major landmark of 10,000 LPG distribution centres in tie-up with BPCL. We are fast expanding our network of CSCs distributing LPG cylinders mainly in rural areas. We have around 6,000 LPG distribution centres operating in tie-up with HPCL and over 5,000 with IOC. By the end of the current financial year, we will have one lakh LPG distribution centres operational across India,” said CSC SPV Managing Director, Dr Dinesh Tyagi. CSC has opened these LPG distribution centres in all the states, where the top five states with maximum number of centres are UP, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan.  “Our LPG centres aim to provide clean cooking fuel to poor households and replace the unhealthy conventional cooking fuels such as firewood, cow dung, etc. Within poorer households, women often face a collective burden of farm work, housework and family care,” CSC SPV CEO Sanjay Kumar Rakesh sad. Commenting on CSC Bharat Gas Distribution Centres reaching the 10,000 distribution centre milestone, BPCL Executive Director Santosh Kumar said: “CSC VLEs should organise health camps to create awareness on health benefits among villagers of using LPG instead of coal as well as safety issues. The customer contact will also be helpful in creating business for VLEs. CSCs have played a significant role in promoting rural enterprise as well as digital inclusion, mainly for rural citizens. To fulfil the last mile gap, the role of CSCs will be very significant.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-to-set-up-one-lakh-lpg-centres-in-rural-india-988090.html
20-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Nishank chairs meeting with directors of leading institutes||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Thursday chaired a Covid-19 management review meeting with directors of leading institutions, including IISc and IITs, and said positive thinking can help avoid unnecessary anxiety among students and the teaching community. During the meeting, the online education being imparted by these institutes was also reviewed. There is a need to maintain the quality of education in these institutes of national importance besides taking adequate safety measures for managing the Covid-19 situation, the minister said. "The positive thinking and positive reactions to the current situation could avoid unnecessary anxiety among students and the teaching community. An effort by the Institutes would be helpful in creating positive atmosphere in society," Nishank said at the meeting. The status of imparting online education and virtual laboratory courses by the institutes was also reviewed by the minister. Besides IITs and IISc, the meeting was also attended by directors of NITs, IISERs and IIITs. "Directors of the institutes mentioned that they have already started online teaching since the commencement of initial lockdown in March’20. Some of the institutions have also developed their own app for online teaching and evaluation," a Union education ministry official said. "They also informed that for students facing connectivity issue, the lecture contents were made available even for later use which they can download from anywhere and study," the senior official said. The status of Covid-19 cases on the campus of these institutions and handling of the situation was also discussed. The institutes detailed their Covid-19 management strategies, the voluntary service they have extended to the local administration for creating awareness and support for management of the situation in their respective state, the official said. The institutes also briefed the minister about the vaccination drive undertaken for campus residents in consultation with local administration and as per the guidelines. "Minister commended the institutes in developing low cost RT-PCR machines, kits, ventilators, mathematical modelling of predicting the trend of Covid-19 and successfully placing them at the disposal of state health departments. Many of the research products have been commercialised through the incubation cells and start ups set up by these institutes," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-nishank-chairs-meeting-with-directors-of-leading-institutes-988113.html
20-05-2021||National||Significant contraction in global economy due to Covid-19 pandemic: Vardhan||There has been a significant contraction in the global economy due to Covid-19 and recovery will only pick up pace once the world puts the pandemic behind it together, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. Chairing the opening session of the 33rd meeting of the Health Ministers of Commonwealth countries, he also said that “no country can remain safe in silos”. The theme of this meeting is “Commonwealth Response to Covid-19: Ensuring Equitable Access to Vaccines and Building Resilience for Health Systems and Emergencies”. “The economic cost of this pandemic has already run into hundreds of billions of dollars leading to a significant contraction in the global economy. The road to recovery may be hard and shall only pick up pace once the entire world is able to put the pandemic behind it together," Vardhan was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. The minister addressed the meeting through video conference and shared his views on the way forward. “We must acknowledge that if the threat continues to loom in any country or region, it holds the potential to spill over and cover the entire globe. No country can remain safe in silos!” Vardhan said. Explaining India's stance on the global strategy to combat Covid-19, he said national prevention strategies have been built largely on the prongs of early testing, isolation and treatment of cases along with population wide vaccination. However, for effectively ending the pandemic, more Covid-19 vaccines need to be developed and once proven to be both safe and efficacious against the virus, must be deployed rapidly across the world, the minister said. To this end, the World Health Organisation-led initiative 'Access to Covid-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator' has proven to be a ground-breaking global collaboration which is expediting development, production, and equitable access to Covid-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines, he said. COVAX, the vaccine pillar of ACT Accelerator, aims to deliver at least two billion vaccines by the end of 2021, covering 20 per cent of the most vulnerable population in about 92 low and middle-income countries. India believes that this alone may not be enough and must be supplemented by all multilateral and bilateral platforms in accelerating coordinated action focused on equitable access to vaccines while also ensuring fair and transparent pricing, Vardhan said according to the statement. The minister reminded member delegates that India has provided Covid-19 vaccines to more than 90 countries under its ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative and is committed to working with all partners to do more, it said. Vardhan also outlined how India can help the world and said that “in addition to the vaccines, cold chain infrastructure, skilled manpower and robust IT infrastructure also needs to be put in place to quickly inoculate our people”. Sharing of knowledge, resources and technology, especially with small and vulnerable states is thus imperative to end this global threat, he said. Vardhan noted that the poor and vulnerable are often left reeling under severe financial distress due to any illness. This Covid-19 pandemic has thus foregrounded the need to intensify efforts towards achieving the ultimate goal of universal health coverage, he said. “My motto has always been 'Health for those without wealth',” Vardhan said, according to the statement. He informed the meeting how the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ programme, which is the largest health insurance scheme in the world, is providing coverage to over 500 million people, it said. Vardhan took a strong note to build not only resilient but also transparent global health systems. “In a closely interconnected world like ours, a threat in any region can turn into a grave challenge for all of us in no time,” he said. “Thus, building dynamic global response systems which are quick in identifying emerging health threats and directing an international response to contain them has become imperative for addressing all current and future challenges," Vardhan said. He said that Commonwealth Health Ministers met virtually in May 2020 for the first time to define a coordinated mechanism for responding to the ongoing pandemic which had proposed on building a Covid-19 Technical Working Group by leveraging a tailored price-sharing database for medicines, vaccines and health technologies. The minister hoped that the deliberations over the next two days would continue to build on the progress of the collaborative efforts so far, the statement said. Vardhan urged states to not just focus on Covid management but also on Commonwealth's pre-Covid health priorities and non-Covid health challenges like non-communicable diseases, immunisation, malnutrition that the Commonwealth, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/significant-contraction-in-global-economy-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-vardhan-988116.html
20-05-2021||National||Govt to distribute oilseeds kit to farmers to increase edible oil production in the country||Aimed at achieving self-sufficiency in the production of edible oil in the country, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has set the target to bring an additional 6.37 lakh hectare area under oilseeds. Through this additional 6.37 lakh hectare area under oilseeds, the Ministry is hoping to produce 120.26 lakh quintals of oilseeds and edible oil amounting to 24.36 lakh tonnes. As per Kharif Strategy 2021 formulated by the Ministry, the Centre will distribute high yielding varieties of seeds to farmers to enable the farming community to use it in farming to grow oilseeds, said a statement from the Ministry of Agriculture. "More than 8 lakh Soybean mini-kits and 74,000  groundnut mini-kits to be distributed under the National Food Security Mission (Oil Seeds and Oil Palm) Mission during Kharif season," said the statement. In India Kharif, the major agriculture season starts from June to October which depends on monsoon rainfall. These kits will be distributed in high oil seeds production districts including districts in Karnataka. "The Government of India through the National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm has the objective to augment the availability of edible oils and reduce the import of edible oils by increasing the production and productivity of oilseeds and oil palm," said the statement. As a result of the programme, the production of oilseeds has increased from 27.51 million tonnes in 2014-15 to 37.31 million tonnes in 2020-21 (2nd advance estimates), while the area has increased from 25.99 million hectares to 28.82 million hectares and yield from 1075 kg/hectares to 1295 kg/hectares during the same corresponding period," said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-distribute-oilseeds-kit-to-farmers-to-increase-edible-oil-production-in-the-country-988127.html
20-05-2021||National||Punjab to explore possibility of procuring Covid-19 vaccines from global sources||Amid an acute shortage of anti-coronavirus vaccine, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the health department to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of immunisation shots from all possible sources, an official statement said. The state government will reach out directly to all vaccine manufacturers for direct purchase of various Covid vaccines, including Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, Singh said in the statement. Punjab can store 35 lakh Sputnik V vaccines, which require a storage temperature of minus 18 degrees Celsius, he added. The chief minister said all efforts would be made for procurement of vaccines to meet the acute shortage in the state which has received fewer than 44 lakh vaccine doses so far from the Union government, of which only one lakh is currently available for use and which will be exhausted within a day. The state government was forced to stop the vaccination drive for phase I and phase 2 categories in the last three days because of non-availability of doses, the chief minister said as he directed all concerned departments to continue pursuing the matter of supply aggressively with the Centre. According to the central government’s vaccine allocation for phase III (18-44 age group), the state government has been able to buy only 3.6 lakh doses, including 63,000 received on Wednesday. A total of 2.3 lakh doses have been used, leaving only 1.3 lakh, Singh said.   Pointing out that almost one lakh unregistered construction workers and their family members had so far come forward for getting vaccinated in line with the state government's prioritisation of vaccination for 18-44 category, Singh asked the labour department to ensure the registration of these workers on priority. During the coronavirus review meeting, Covid expert group head Dr K K Talwar noted that the existing vaccines had been found to be effective against the new variants/mutants so far. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Punjab Police had lost 21 personnel to the virus in the last five months, and of these, 50 per cent were not fully vaccinated. Meanwhile, the chief minister launched a WhatsApp chatbot for self-care during home isolation, information on bed availability and vaccine centres etc. Patients in home isolation can enter their vitals in the app and these will be monitored by experts who will advise them on the course of treatment. The app is available in three languages – English, Punjabi and Hindi, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-to-explore-possibility-of-procuring-covid-19-vaccines-from-global-sources-988131.html
20-05-2021||National||Centre cuts subsidy on sugar exports to Rs 4,000 per tonne from Rs 6,000 on high global prices||The Centre on Thursday slashed subsidy on sugar exports from Rs 6,000 per tonne to Rs 4,000 per tonne with immediate effect in view of firm global prices. For the ongoing 2020-21 marketing year (October-September), the government had fixed a subsidy of Rs 6,000 per tonne to facilitate exports, thereby improving the liquidity of mills and enabling them to clear cane price dues to farmers. Sugar mills were mandated to export 6 million tonne of sugar in the current year. So far, 5.7 million tonne of the sweetener has been contracted for export. "Keeping in view of firm global prices of sugar, we have reduced subsidy on sugar exports by Rs 2,000 per tonne to Rs 4,000 per tonne with immediate effect," Joint Secretary in the Food Ministry Subodh Kumar told PTI. The ministry has issued a notification in this regard on May 20. And the reduced subsidy rate will be applicable to export agreements executed on May 20 or later, he said. There won't be an impact of this decision on sugar exports from India, he added. Observing that there has been a steady increase in global prices of sugar because of likely shortages in the world market, Kumar said, "If there is a further increase in global prices, we will further reduce the subsidy". Commenting on the development, All India Sugar Trade Association (AISTA) Chairman Praful Vithalani said, "The Government wishes that some sugar trade should take place without subsidy. Since 5.7 million tonne of sugar has been contracted already in the current year, the world should know that sugar from India will be available without subsidy hereafter". He said there won't be any impact on sugar exports and there is a demand for raw sugar from India without subsidy. Sugar production in India has reached more than 30 million tonne so far in the 2020-21 marketing year, higher than 27.42 million tonne achieved in the 2019-20 year, as per the industry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-cuts-subsidy-on-sugar-exports-to-rs-4000-per-tonne-from-rs-6000-on-high-global-prices-988134.html
20-05-2021||National||Why the second Covid wave is hitting the young hard||The second Covid-19 wave in the country has been much more devastating than the first with fast-spreading variants that seem to be infecting younger people. While official data shows only a slight increase in the trend, several pockets of the country have reported sharp upticks in the proportion of younger people being affected. Chandigarh has registered the highest number of infections among those aged between 21 and 30 years, in roughly the last three months. According to official data, of the lives claimed during the second wave in Uttarakhand, 40 per cent were below 50 years of age. All India Institute of Medical Sciences Delhi Director Randeep Guleria has noted that the virus was mainly affecting the younger population in Delhi. Meanwhile, official statements on a new variant in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana have stated that it was spreading rapidly in younger age groups. Outside India, Singapore has shut down schools as the city-state said new variants -- it claimed originated in India, responding to a tweet from Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal -- were infecting children. Doctors have struggled to pinpoint the exact reason for this change in the virus’ behaviour although there are a number of contending theories for a potential cause. Bhargava had, however, mentioned that the comparison of data during the first and the second wave of Covid-19 has shown that there is not much age difference. It was the younger generation that had stepped out for work, engaged in social gatherings and flouted Covid protocols once lockdowns were eased, Chatterjee added. The younger generation had been left out of the vaccination drive until this month, with the more vulnerable age group of 45 years and above being given preference in the initial drive. The condition is known as “happy hypoxia” wherein the oxygen level drops suddenly and could even cause death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-the-second-covid-wave-is-hitting-the-young-hard-988138.html
20-05-2021||National||India-China ties at crossroads: Jaishankar||The relationship between India and China is at a crossroads and its direction depends on whether the neighbouring country adheres to various agreements on maintaining peace and tranquility along the border, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday referring to the eastern Ladakh standoff. Jaishankar said the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's visit in 1988 to China 26 years after the 1962 conflict led to a consensus on having stability along the frontier which was followed by the signing of two important agreements in 1993 and 1996 on maintaining peace and tranquility at the border. The stability at the border led to the expansion of relations in several sectors, but it was adversely impacted following what happened in eastern Ladakh, he said at a webinar organised jointly organised by the Financial Times and the Indian Express. At a media briefing, Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas would enable progress in the bilateral relationship. The ties between the two countries came under severe strain following a deadly clash in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh in June last, over a month after the border standoff began between the Indian and Chinese militaries in multiple friction points in the region. "I think the relationship is at a crossroads and which direction we go depends on whether the Chinese side would adhere to the consensus; whether it would follow through on the agreements which we both have done... What is very clear in the last year is that border tensions cannot continue with cooperation in other areas," he said. Asked about China's attempts to expand influence in the region and competition between the two countries, Jaishankar said India is ready to compete and it has its inherent strength as well as the influence that goes deep into the Indo-Pacific on the one side and Africa and Europe on the other. "It is one thing to compete, it is another thing to have violence on the border," he said. "I am ready to compete. That is not the issue for me. The issue for me is how do I manage a relationship if the basis of the relationship has been violated by one side," he said. The external affairs minister said the economic relationship and ties in other sectors between the two countries were driven by the stabilisation of the border through the 1980s and 1990s. "I do not have a clear cut answer at this point of time. We had the border conflict of 1962 and it took us really 26 years to have the first prime minister's visit in 1988 when Rajiv Gandhi went to China. There was a 1988 sort of consensus which stabilised the border," he said. He was asked about where things stand now in ties between the two nations. Jaishankar said the agreements in 1993 and 1996 on border management paved the way for the expansion of overall ties. "Those agreements essentially stipulated that you will not bring large armed forces to the border and the Line of Actual Control would be observed, respected and there would be no attempt to change the status quo unilaterally. Now what we saw last year was actually China departing from the 1988 consensus," he said. Jaishankar said there is definitely going to impact the ties if the peace and tranquility at the border are disturbed, "if you disturb the peace and tranquility if you have bloodshed as you pointed out if there is intimidation if there is continuing friction at the border." To a question on further disengagement in eastern Ladakh, Bagchi said that full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas would enable progress in the bilateral ties. He also referred to Jaishankar's telephonic talks with the Chinese foreign minister last month. Bagchi said Jaishankar conveyed to his Chinese counterpart that while the process of disengagement had commenced earlier this year it remained unfinished and emphasised on early completion of the process. "In this context, the two sides have agreed in the interim that they would maintain stability on the ground and avoid any new incidents," he said. "It is our expectation therefore that neither side should take any action that is not keeping with these understandings. Full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas would enable progress in the bilateral relationship," Bagchi added. India and China completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks with the Indian Army on April 9. The Chinese military is currently conducting a drill in its training areas near the Ladakh region. Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane said on Wednesday said India is keeping a constant eye on activities by the Chinese military. He also hoped that both sides will be able to make forward movement in resolving issues in other areas||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-ties-at-crossroads-jaishankar-988139.html
20-05-2021||National||Shortage of Amphotericin B used to treat 'black fungus' to be resolved soon: Centre||The Centre on Thursday said a shortage of Amphotericin B, which used to treat mucormycosis, will be resolved soon as five more pharmaceutical companies have got approvals for producing the drug in India. Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya said that within three days, five more pharma companies have got approval for producing Amphotericin B in India. This will be in addition to the existing six pharma companies that have been producing the drug. The minister also said that the existing pharma companies have already started ramping up the production. He further informed that Indian companies have also placed orders for importing 6 lakh vials of Amphotericin B.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shortage-of-amphotericin-b-used-to-treat-black-fungus-to-be-resolved-soon-centre-988142.html
20-05-2021||National||Bylakuppe Tibetans adapted to low altitude living, CCMB research finds||A CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology research has revealed that the blood parameters of Tibetans in Karnataka are significantly different from their counterparts in the high-altitude Ladakh. Bylakuppe in Mysore district is said to be one of the largest settlements of the Tibetans in exile. Tibetans are one of the oldest high-altitude inhabitants in the world, with known genetic and physiological factors sustaining them in low-oxygen conditions. The Tibetan migration to Bylakuppe started about six decades back, following the People Liberation Army's control of Tibet that began in 1950. The Hyderabad-based CCMB researchers have now compared the physiological aspects of the people of Tibetan ethnicity residing at 4500-4900 meters altitudes in Ladakh with those in Bylakuppe, which lies at an altitude of about 850 meters from the sea level. “Our study suggests that when Tibetans reside in non-native, low-altitude, area for a long time, their body undergoes various adaptations to cope with the relatively hyperoxic environment in the low-lying areas”, said Dr K Thangaraj, lead investigator of the study, and presently director, DBT-Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), Hyderabad. Hyperoxic refers to a state of abundant oxygen supply. "We found that the red blood cells, haemoglobin concentration and hematocrit are significantly lower in the low-altitude Tibetans. Their haemoglobin levels are much closer to those living on the plains than the other Tibetans who live beyond 4500 meter altitude”, said Nipa Basak, first author of the study. Earlier studies have shown that Tibetans with lower haemoglobin concentration have better reproductive fitness among the women and exercise capacity among the men. “It would be interesting to explore exercise capacity and reproductive fitness in the low-lander Tibetans. It will also be worthwhile noting how long these changes persist if the Tibetan inhabited in Karnataka migrates back to high-altitude,” says Dr Thangaraj. The study, recently published in the Journal of Blood Medicine, was carried out in collaboration with researchers from Ladakh and Karnataka, including Dr Tsering Norboo, from Ladakh Institute of Prevention, a Leh based organisation, and Dr MS Mustak from Mangalore University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bylakuppe-tibetans-adapted-to-low-altitude-living-ccmb-research-finds-988144.html
20-05-2021||National||90% of armed forces personnel have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine||Around 90 per cent of the armed forces personnel have been given both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine so far, sources said on Thursday. They added that 97 per cent of approximately total 16 lakh armed forces personnel have got a single dose of the vaccine. On March 22, the Centre informed the Parliament that 119 armed force personnel had died of Covid-19, while 44,766 had contracted the infection in the three services. Sources said on Thursday that the figures have increased to 140 deaths and about 52,000 infections as on Wednesday. India has been badly hit by a second wave of coronavirus infections, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of vaccines, oxygen, drugs, equipment and beds. With 2,76,110 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,57,72,440, while the daily deaths were recorded below 4,000 after four days, taking the toll to 2,87,122, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 3,874 fatalities due to Covid-19 were registered in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/90-of-armed-forces-personnel-have-received-both-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-988146.html
20-05-2021||National||Puri Rath Yatra: 8 carpenters test Covid-19 positive; making of chariots on||Shree Jagannath Temple Administration Thursday said construction work on the chariots of the three deities of Lord Jagannath, his brother Balabhadra, and sister Subhadra, for the annual Rath Yatra in the pilgrim town here is going on as per schedule even as eight carpenters engaged in the task have tested Covid-19 positive. SJTA chief administration Krishan Kumar said of the 88 servitors involved in the construction of the chariots, three servitors of Maharana community and five sevayats belonging to the Bhoi community have been infected with the virus, and are undergoing treatment at a facility here. The progress of chariot-making for the annual Rath Yatra on July 12 is going on as per schedule, Kumar said. The festival marks the annual journey of the three deities from the Jagannath Temple to the Gundicha Temple. The festival ends after nine days when the deities return to the Jagannath Temple. "Only those servitors, who have tested negative, are being allowed to work in the 'Rath Khala' (construction yard) to make the chariots," he said. The SJTA has decided to make the 'Rath Khela' a bio-bubble, Kumar said. A bio-bubble is a safe and secure environment isolated from the outside world to minimise the risk of transmission of Covid-19, he said. There will be a restriction on the entry of people into the 'Ratha Khala' area. The workers are being kept in isolation and given separate accommodation till the work is completed, the SJTA chief administrator said. "They are not allowed to visit their families or none from their families can come to meet them. They are kept in complete isolation to protect them from the infection. "All of them use face masks and sanitisers. They will soon be provided with N-95 masks. Social distancing is also maintained as far as possible," Kumar said. Of the three Maharana servitors who tested positive for Covid-19 two were in charge of the construction of Lord Jagannath's 'Nandighosh' chariot and one was working on the 'Darpadalan' chariot of Devi Subhadra, said SJTA administrator (development), Ajay Jena. In the second wave of the Covid pandemic, two servitors and two of their family members have succumbed to the infection so far, Jena said. The SJTA has made provisions for testing and treatment of all the servitors on chariot construction duties, and for those conducting rituals at the 12th-century shrine. The Lords annual Chandan Yatra (sandalwood festival) is also going on by following Covid-19 safety norms, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puri-rath-yatra-8-carpenters-test-covid-19-positive-making-of-chariots-on-988152.html
20-05-2021||National||Nobody foresaw a 40 times stronger Covid-19 second wave coming in India, says External Affairs Minister||The second Covid-19 wave was expected, but no one foresaw that its extent would be fourty times greater than the first, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday, amid growing criticism over the response of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s government to the crisis over the past few weeks. “You have to really understand how dramatically the second wave unfolded. From 10,000 a day till the end of February, within a matter of weeks, the cases rose up to 4,00,000 a day. That is a 40X increase,” he said while virtually participating in a conference on Future of Asia organised by Nikkei. Jaishankar was asked what had gone wrong with the second Covid-19 wave, which had wreaked havoc across India. He said that people had been aware of the possibility of a second wave coming after the first and that was why the Union Government had focussed on vaccination and expanding the healthcare infrastructure. “Most modelling focused on a second wave being something more than the first wave. Nobody saw a 40X wave coming at us as the second wave”. His comment came even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government drew flak from the opposition parties for alleged shortcomings in preparation for the second Covid-19 wave resulting in the death of thousands of people across the country. The External Affairs Minister said that the pandemic might be the most serious in the living memory, but it should be seen as a recurring challenge and not as a one-off. He said that the pandemic demanded international cooperation on a scale that could not have even be conceived of earlier. “No national capacity, however large, can be adequate. And just overflows from such capacities are clearly not enough to address global needs. Even a collective response, by itself, could fall short if it is just an aggregate of the present capacities,” he said. The diplomat-turned-politician said that what the international community would now have to conceptualise is re-engineering the way the world worked and mitigate such cataclysmic events. “The Covid-19 has certainly triggered debates on issues like supply chains, global governance, social responsibility and even ethics. But for many of us gathered here today, it equally encourages an objective assessment of the contemporary world so that we are better prepared for tomorrow.” The External Affairs Minister said that India, on its part, could help strengthen and de-risk the global economy through more effective partnerships. He referred to India’s collaboration with Japan and Australia for a Supply Chain Resilience Initiative. “As far as the Quad arrangement that also involves the United States is concerned, its agenda today covers vaccine collaboration, critical and emerging technologies, semi-conductors, supply chains, critical materials and of course, connectivity, amongst others,” he said. India’s recent summit with the European Union and the United Kingdom had seen advancement on the Freed Trade Agreements, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nobody-foresaw-a-40-times-stronger-covid-19-second-wave-coming-in-india-says-external-affairs-minister-988154.html
20-05-2021||National||India engaged with US entities for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines: MEA||India is engaged with American entities for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines from the US and their possible manufacturing in the country subsequently, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Hit by a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, India has been focusing on ramping up domestic production of Covid-19 vaccines as well their procurement from abroad. "We remain engaged with US entities on the prospect of procuring vaccines from the US and also perhaps manufacturing them in India subsequently," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. "This would augment our vaccine availability. Once this is available, whether it is through procurement or subsequent manufacturing," he said. Bagchi also said that India has noted the announcement by the US on supplying Covid-19 vaccines to some countries. The US announced earlier this week that it will share an additional 20 million coronavirus vaccine doses with other countries in addition to the 60 million it has already committed. "We have, of course, noted the recent announcement by the US government of its intention to make some vaccines available to some other countries," Bagchi said. He said all vaccines to be procured from abroad would need to be compliant with India's regulatory guidelines. "I would like to emphasise that all vaccines that may be procured from abroad would need to be as per our regulatory guidelines. I understand that the US has also indicated that any vaccines it sends abroad would be after obtaining FDA (Food and Drug Administration) clearance for product quality," he said. Recently, Charge D'Affaires of the US embassy Daniel B Smith said the US was looking at joint production of Johnson and Johnson's Covid-19 vaccines in India and ways to help manufacturers like the Serum Institute of India (SII) to boost production. As India was facing a rapid increase in coronavirus infections, the US deployed six planeloads of life-saving supplies in support of the country's fight against the pandemic. The US government's assistance to India is estimated at about $100 million. To a separate question, Bagchi said a large number of countries have expressed solidarity with India in its fight against the second wave of the pandemic. He said around 40 countries have sent medical equipment and other supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-engaged-with-us-entities-for-procurement-of-covid-19-vaccines-mea-988155.html
20-05-2021||National Politics||Chief ministers not allowed to speak at PM Modi's Covid-19 meeting, alleges Mamata Banerjee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with district magistrates of 54 of 100 districts with highest Covid loads got into a political row with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee saying she felt "insulted" at seeing that "CMs were made to sit like puppets"  at the "casual" meeting in which only the PM and some BJP CMs made small speeches. This was the second of such meetings after the Prime Minister had interacted with district magistrates of 46 districts from nine states including Karnataka on Tuesday. Soon after the meeting that was held through video conferencing, Banerjee said, "This was a casual and super flop meeting. Only CMs of BJP-ruled states were allowed to speak and others were reduced to puppets. We feel insulted and humiliated. This is an attempt to bulldoze the federal structure of the country. PM Modi is so insecure that he did not listen to us." Reacting sharply to it, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad called Banerjee's conduct after the meeting as "shameful, indignified, condemnable and least expected from the Chief Minister of a large state like West Bengal". Reeling out data, Prasad alleged that "Mamata Banerjee rarely attends meetings called by the Prime Minister" and when she does it like on Thursday she "tried to disrupt" it. "Nothing can explain this better. The Prime Minister had called a meeting of CMs on March 17 in the middle of the election campaign in Bengal, when it was felt that the nation needs to be addressed in wake of the surge in the numbers of Corona in Maharashtra. Mamata ji did not attend it. Barring one or two (ek aadh), Banerjee did not attend meetings held even earlier. We have data. "On May 14, when the Prime Minister held a meeting on infrastructure, she did not participate, Mamata Banerjee did not come for the meeting on the land bill. In 2019 Mamata ji also did not participate in the governing body meeting of NITI or the other one on the one nation one election meeting the same year. She does not attend the meetings of the Prime Minister but today she wants to create disturbance in the meeting," Prasad said. The BJP leader also alleged that Banerjee did not allow even the District Magistrate of 24 Paragnas of her state to speak, saying she knows more than the DM. "This is very unfortunate for a Chief Minister to engage in this kind of undignified conduct in a meeting called by the Prime Minister. And she is not doing it for the first time.  I want to ask Mamata ji, what is her problem if the PM of India is seeking to know about best practices done in their districts by the DMs in the country. Why this should not happen. We know a number of districts have done good work. Modi is concerned about the political colour of the state in which such districts are located. Wherever the best practices are, they should be appreciated," Prasad insisted. Ruing that today when the country should fight the war against the pandemic, such conduct is painful, Prasad said, "there is still time, talk about people rising over politics. It is very necessary to have one voice. Mamata ji please look within is your conduct today proper? Mamata's close aide and BJP leader Suvendi Adhikari, who defeated her from Nandigram in the recently concluded Assembly, attacked her saying the CM has once again shown her total disinterest in administration. Adhikari said "true to her style, she has politicised a meeting the Prime Minister held with district officials, where grassroots level practices to fight Covid-19 were being discussed." Countering her charge that Opposition CMs were not allowed to speak, Adhikari said, "5 out of the 7 District Officials who spoke today belonged to non-BJP ruled states of Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh. Cooperative federalism is the firm commitment of PM Narendra Modi unlike CM Mamata Banerjee, who only believes in confrontational federalism." He rued that while west Bengal’s Covid numbers are miserable, but the Chief Minister wants to play politics, "TMC is still busy in gory victory dances and targeting opponents" and suggested "it is better they get down to work because the great People of West Bengal are watching!" Banerjee, however, said the prime minister neither asked how West Bengal is handling the Covid situation nor if the state has enough stock of vaccines and oxygen. "There was not a single question from the PM about the 'black fungus'," she said. This was the second time the Prime Minister's meetings with Chief Ministers got on to a discordant note. Earlier on April 23, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had gone public with his remarks in a meeting, asking whether the people of Delhi do not have right to the nation's resources equally. His comments that he finds himself helpless in arranging oxygen for patients, had sparked a row. Banerjee and Kejriwal are two Opposition Chief Ministers, who have often run into a row with the Centre. On the contrary, the BJP  government of Madhya Pradesh in an official statement after the meeting said its strategy to tackle the coronavirus situation in the state has been appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who asked other states to take similar steps. Chief Minister and officials from Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh were present in the meeting. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister took note of the growing concerns about the possibility of greater infection risk to youngsters and kids in future and asked the district magistates to collect data on Covid infection and the impact due to coronavirus mutations on them. Calling the virus "dhoort" (cunning) and "bahurupiya" (one who changes face), Modi called for dynamic and innovative strategy to fight the pandemic, which he said needs constant updation. In the meeting, Modi was keen to take steps to check vaccine wastage saying even single dose going waste denies someone protection shield. Noting that active cases have started to reduce in recent times, Modi said the challenge remains as long as this infection is present even on the minor scale. He stressed the need to use local experiences to check the pandemic and urged the need to amplify the message of keeping villages Corona-free by devising strategy in a rural and urban specific way. "Every epidemic has taught us the importance of continuous innovation and change in our ways of dealing with epidemics. The methods and strategies in dealing with the pandemic should be dynamic as the virus is expert in mutation and changing the format," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chief-ministers-not-allowed-to-speak-at-pm-modis-covid-19-meeting-alleges-mamata-banerjee-987892.html
20-05-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi writes to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, seeks relief for middle class from Covid-19 impact||Asserting that middle class is reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to take public welfare steps such as ensuring that private hospitals do not overcharge people, inflation is reined in and relief given to traders. In a letter to Adityanath, Priyanka Gandhi said the second wave of the pandemic has severely affected the masses and people have had to bear "unbearable pain" due to the alleged lack of preparation on the part of the administration.  "The mayhem in April-May has made it clear that the government had no planning. Many unnecessary rules and red-tapism brought a mountain of problems for the people," the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh said. While on one hand the pandemic has taken so many people away from us, on the other it has created huge difficulties in terms of livelihood, employment and business, Priyanka Gandhi said. "Today, crores of people are apprehensive about their future, their means of earnings have decreased and inflation has increased very fast.  This has particularly put the middle class in trouble," she said. Instead of leaving the people to fend for themselves in these difficult situations, the government needs to take some public welfare steps and provide relief to the people, she said. In her letter to Adityanath, Priyanka Gandhi made five suggestions for providing relief to the people of the state. She pointed out that while private sector hospitals have played a big role in the pandemic, there have also been complaints from across the state of private hospitals charging a hefty amount for treatment from the people.   Priyanka Gandhi urged the chief minister to sit with the representatives of private hospitals so that people-friendly prices can be fixed according to the medical facilities provided. The state government should also ensure compensation to those who have been charged excess money by hospitals, she said. Priyanka Gandhi also called on the chief minister to rein in inflation and fix the prices of household items such as edible oils, vegetables and fruits, so that people don't have difficulties during lockdown. The Congress leader also flagged the problems being faced by the people due to high electricity bills and urged the state government to give relief in their payment, while also not increasing the price of electricity any further. "Schools in the state are closed but parents are under pressure to deposit fees every month. There is also a crisis in front of schools to pay salaries to their teachers etc.," she said. The state government should sit down with the representatives of the schools and parents and prepare a roadmap for providing a fee waiver as well as a package of financial aid to the schools. Priyanka Gandhi also called for a roadmap to be prepared to give relief to the state's traders and shopkeepers who are facing problems due to lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-writes-to-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-seeks-relief-for-middle-class-from-covid-19-impact-987925.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Jamia professor who asked for oxygen bed dies of Covid-19||Days after she put out an SOS message on Twitter asking for an ICU bed for herself, Jamia Millia Islamia professor Nabila Sadiq lost her battle to coronavirus at the age of 38. She is the fifth serving professor from the varsity to have succumbed to the virus in the last one month. Sadiq had lost her mother Nuzhat to the virus on May 7 and is survived by her 85-year-old father Sadique, who is 80. Sadiq was an assistant professor at the Sarojini Naidu Centre for Women's Studies at the varsity. She had put out a message on May 4, "Any icu bed leads? For myself." Later, she tweeted that she had got an ICU bed. Her students and well-wishers had arranged a bed for her at Alshifa Hospital where she also tested positive for coronavirus. Later, she was shifted to a hospital in Faridabad where she passed away on Monday night. Mohammad Waqar, a former student of the varsity and who knew her since he had worked as a research assistant at the Sarojini Naidu Centre, was one of those who was instrumental in arranging a bed for her. "She was admitted to Alshifa Hospital where the CT scan showed that 21 per cent of her lungs were damaged. She had asthma since childhood which made her condition critical. We arranged for a bed in Faridabad hospital where she was admitted on May 7. Initially, she was bipap, then she was put on NIV and later on ventilator but she could not survive. She was quite friendly and would always stay in touch with friends and relatives," he said. Since her condition was critical, she was not informed about her mother''s demise. Her father, Sadique, had also tested positive for the virus, but was discharged from the hospital. "Her father was informed about her demise on Tuesday morning by neighbours. He is a very strong man. He was a professor at Aligarh Muslim University and then at Jawaharlal Nehru University," Waqar said. Sadiq was a former JNU PhD scholar. Former JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh expressed condolence on her demise. "Our beloved Professor Nabila Sadiq is no more. Rest in Power," she posted on Twitter and Facebook. Retired JNU Professor Kamal Chenoy, in a Facebook post, called her bright and "committed to academics" and condoled her demise along with his wife Anu Chenoy. "How does one begin to condole the completely untimely and completely preventable death of a student, of a daughter of a valued colleague, the sister of another brilliant young student? There are few words but a lot of emotion," he said in a Facebook post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-professor-who-asked-for-oxygen-bed-dies-of-covid-19-987780.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||MP: Police thrash woman for not wearing mask in public||A woman was allegedly beaten up and dragged by some police personnel on a road for not wearing a mask while going out to buy vegetables amid the Covid-19 pandemic in Madhya Pradesh's Sagar district. After a video of the incident, which took place on Monday in Rahli town, went viral, a police official said the woman allegedly hit a female cop first. The woman and her daughter were stopped by police around 11 am on Monday for not wearing masks. The police tried to take them away in a jeep to an open jail as punishment, but the duo resisted and allegedly hit a policewoman. In the video, some police personnel, including a female cop, were seen beating up the woman, pushing her down and dragging her by her hair. They were trying to shift her in the police jeep while she was resisting it and in the process, they thrashed her. However, Rahli's sub-divisional officer of police Kamal Singh said the "video showed only half of the incident". "The woman hit a female cop first and the latter had bruises on her face of an injury caused by nails," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-police-thrash-woman-for-not-wearing-mask-in-public-987887.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi: Fire breaks out on third floor of ESI Hospital, all patients evacuated safely||A fire broke out at ESI hospital in West Delhi's Punjabi Bagh area on Thursday, Delhi Fire Service officials said. No injury has been reported so far, they said. "A call was received around 1.16 pm that a fire broke out on the third floor of ESI Hospital in Punjabi Bagh area," said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service. He added that the blaze did not take place in a Covid-19 block of the hospital. According to information, all patients have been evacuated safely. However, a search operation is going on, he said. A total of seven fire tenders were rushed to the site and fire-fighting is underway, Garg added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-fire-breaks-out-on-third-floor-of-esi-hospital-all-patients-evacuated-safely-987895.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees dip in Covid-19 cases but rise in 'black fungus' infections||While Delhi has witnessed a dip in Covid-19 cases, a new challenge has come up for the capital in the form of rising 'black fungus' infections, also called mucormycosis. At least 185 people contracted the 'black fungus' infection after getting Covid-19 and are admitted in seven hospitals in Delhi. Due to the rapid increase in the number of mucormycosis cases, there is now a shortage of medicine used to treat the infection. On Wednesday, there were 61 mucormycosis patients getting treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Sir Ganga Ram hospital was treating 69 more. In the past, AIIMS used to get only 12-15 patients having the 'black fungus' infection in a year.  While Sir Ganga Ram hospital had received 10 cases of this infection in two weeks in December, the same has increased manifold in recent past. “We have seen almost 100 cases of the infection from May 7 or 8. Several smaller hospitals across the city are also referring patients to us,” told Dr Ajay Swaroop, head of the ENT department at Sir Ganga Ram hospital. People with uncontrolled diabetes, low immunity, and those given excessive steroids are usually at higher risk of the 'black fungus' infection. According to doctors, some Covid-19 patients got infected after taking steroids at home without any medical consultation. Dr Sumit Mrig, head of the ENT department at Max hospital, Saket, told the publication, “People have been taking steroids at home without supervision; many of them were pre-diabetic and not aware of their sugar levels, thus, causing mucormycosis.” Due to the sudden rise in 'black fungus' cases, the demand for the drug Amphotericin B has also gone up. It is the only drug that can treat this fungal infection. To prevent black-marketing and overuse of the drug, Satyendar Jain, Delhi health minister said, “The treatment of the infection can be done only in hospitals, so the drug is directly being given to hospitals.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-dip-in-covid-19-cases-but-rise-in-black-fungus-infections-987898.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Plea made in Delhi HC to consider release of elderly, vulnerable in jail||A petition has been filed in the Delhi High Court for a direction to the high-powered committee to release elderly inmates from overcrowded Tihar and other jails in the national capital in view of looming threat of contracting Covid-19. Advocate A P Singh, in his letter to the Chief Justice, said that the need of the hour in such unprecedented situation of the pandemic is interim bail or parole for the convicts, not based upon some legal consideration but more in the nature of human rights to safeguard the life and health of prisoners. He said that out of 17,893 inmates at Tihar jail, the number of those in between age of 50 to 60 years is 781, those between 60 and 70 years is 221 and those above 70 is 53. As condition of the prison is not as per prescribed norms, there is an urgent need to consider release of the elderly and vulnerable in view of new variant of Covid-19 which was found to be more fatal and highly transmissible, he said. On May 8, a Supreme Court bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana directed the high-powered committee, formed last year in every state, to consider releasing prisoners from jails across the country, in view of raging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to considering fresh release, the court directed that the high-powered panel should forthwith set free all the inmates, who had been released earlier following the order of March  23, 2020 in the Suo Motu matter, by imposing appropriate conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-made-in-delhi-hc-to-consider-release-of-elderly-vulnerable-in-jail-987924.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Police seek five more days of Navneet Kalra's custody in oxygen concentrator black marketing case||The Delhi Police on Thursday asked a court to grant five more days of custody of businessman Navneet Kalra to interrogate him for allegedly hoarding life-saving oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices in black market.  The Crime Branch produced Kalra before Metropolitan Magistrate Akanksha Garg of Saket Court at the end of the three days of his police custody. The accused has also filed bail application in the case, which will come up for hearing along with the application of police seeking his further remand. During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Kalra. The absconding restaurateur was nabbed from Gurugram on May 16 night and formally arrested the next day.  During the three-days custodial interrogation, the police took Kalra to the three upscale restaurants owned by him in Khan Market and Lodhi Colony. He was also taken for the mandatory medical examination. The police claimed that the concentrators were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant prices of Rs 50,000 to 70,000 a piece as against its cost of Rs 16,000 to Rs 22,000.    The concentrators are a crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 patients and are on high demand amid the second wave of the pandemic. On May 5, a case was registered against Kalra under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.  The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also registered a money laundering case against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-seek-five-more-days-of-navneet-kalras-custody-in-oxygen-concentrator-black-marketing-case-987929.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Dedicated centres to be set up for treatment of black fungus cases in Delhi: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said dedicated centres will be set up for the treatment of black fungus or mucormycosis cases at three city government-run hospitals. He made the announcement after discussing the rise in black fungus cases with officials and specialists at a meeting. "Three important decisions were taken at the meeting. Centres will be set up at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital for treatment of black fungus," the CM tweeted. The drugs used in the treatment of the fungal infection will be arranged in enough quantity and awareness will be created among people for prevention against the disease, he said. "We have to stop the spread of the disease and have to give best possible treatment to those suffering from it," he said in another tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dedicated-centres-to-be-set-up-for-treatment-of-black-fungus-cases-in-delhi-kejriwal-987938.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Deadly 'black fungus' surges among Covid-19 patients||Special hospital wards will be set up in India's capital New Delhi to fight 'black fungus', authorities said Thursday as the life-threatening infection surged among coronavirus patients. A rare disease in normal times, authorities say thousands have developed Mucormycosis -- or black fungus -- across India as it battles a Covid-19 wave that has killed more than 100,000 people in the past month. Some doctors say the high use of steroids to combat the coronavirus has caused the black fungus explosion. The disease kills more than 50 per cent of sufferers within days. In some cases, eyes and upper jaws are removed by surgeons to stop the spread of the infection. New Delhi's chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said special wards would be set up at three hospitals to handle the increased number of black fungus cases. He also vowed to ensure that all patients will get the medicines they need, with anti-fungal drugs the latest shortage to hit India's already stretched healthcare system. There are more than 200 black fungus patients in New Delhi hospitals, with dozens on waiting lists for beds, according to media reports. Indian social media has been flooded with requests from relatives of Mucormycosis sufferers pleading for help to find medicines. The Rajasthan and Telangana states have declared black fungus epidemics. Maharashtra state alone has reported more than 2,000 cases. Authorities have not been able to give a figure for Mucormycosis deaths since the coronavirus wave hit six weeks ago. Black fungus is caused by organisms called mucormycetes, which can enter the body through breathing or skin injuries. These are naturally present in soil and decaying organic matter, but once inside humans, they can infect air pockets behind the forehead, nose, cheekbones and between the eyes and teeth. Some doctors say there has been panic use of steroids to combat Covid-19 which has helped the spread of black fungus. Coronavirus patients with diabetes and a weakened immune system are particularly prone to black fungus. Many of the drugs used to fight the coronavirus suppress the body's immune system that would normally ward off a fungal infection. The prevalence of diabetes in India is among the highest in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deadly-black-fungus-surges-among-covid-19-patients-987941.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Cyclone Tauktae impact: Incessant rains lash Uttarakhand||Remnants of Cyclone Tauktae coupled with a western disturbance led to incessant rains in Uttarakhand for over 24 hours on Thursday, causing a sharp dip in temperature at most places in the state. Nainital received 132 mm of rainfall followed by Mussoorie which received 103 mm and Mukteshwar which recorded 85 mm of rainfall over the last 24 hours, Rohit Thapliyal, a scientist at the MeT office here, said. Dehradun received a moderate 47.7 mm of rainfall, Pantnagar 43.6 mm, Tehri 56. 8 mm and Pithoragarh 43.5 mm rainfall, he said. Several towns recorded maximum temperatures of 8-10 degrees below normal, while temperatures fell sharply in the hills where wintry conditions returned. Upper Himalayan regions of the state, including Badrinath in Chamoli district and Kedarnath in Rudraprayag, also received snowfall. The MeT department has warned of heavy rains in the hill districts, including Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Tehri, Pauri, Bageshwar, Nainital, Almora and Champawat. Thapliyal attributed the incessant rains which began on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday to the remnants of Cyclone Tauktae following its landfall coupled with a western disturbance. He said the intensity of rain may weaken in the Garhwal region later on Thursday but will shift to the Kumaon region which needs to remain on the alert. The MeT department has advised people residing near rivulets and streams to remain cautious. Commuters or people travelling on vehicles need to be careful, it said. People are advised to be cautious and take shelter during thunderstorm and lightning activities, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cyclone-tauktae-impact-incessant-rains-lash-uttarakhand-987955.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi University postpones final year, semester exams to June 7||The Delhi University has postponed the exams for final semester/year students to June 7, an official order said on Thursday. The exams were scheduled to be held from May 15. However, due to the rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the exams were deferred till June 1. The university, in a statement, said it will soon release the new date sheet. "The new date sheets shall be released in soon and shall be available on the website of the University of Delhi. The detailed guideline regarding the May/June 2021 examination will be issued in due course of time," it said. The exams will be held online and in the open book format.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-postpones-final-year-semester-exams-to-june-7-987970.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Youth arrested in UP's Azamgarh for appealing to hoist Palestine flag||Police on Thursday arrested a youth in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh district for appealing to the Muslims to 'hoist' the Palestinian flag on their houses and vehicles to show their protest against the ongoing Israeli attack on Gaza. The youth, identified as Yasir Akhtar, a resident of Sarai Mir locality in the district, had allegedly made the appeal in a message on his Facebook page. ''Muslims should hoist Palestinian flag atop their houses and vehicles after Friday prayers,'' he had said in the message. The post, which garnered a large number of responses and comments, alerted the cops, who launched a hunt to nab the youth. The cops were able to trace the youth with the help of his cell phone number, sources said. ''A case has been registered against him at Sarai Mir police station and he is being quizzed,'' said a senior police official in Azamgarh. ''We will not allow any attempt to disturb peace,'' the official added. The police had earlier arrested several youths in Kashmir, who had held demonstrations against the attack on Gaza by Israel after Hamas militants fired a barrage of rockets into Israeli towns. Over 200 people, including children, have been killed in the attack, which is still continuing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-arrested-in-ups-azamgarh-for-appealing-to-hoist-palestine-flag-987988.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||First case of black fungus reported in Himachal Pradesh||The first case of Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, has been detected in Himachal Pradesh, officials said on Thursday.  A native of Khagar in Hamirpur district has been diagnosed with Mucormycosis infection, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) hospital's senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said.  The woman is currently being treated at IGMC here, where she has been referred from Mandi's Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Hospital Nerchowk, he added.  Her condition is stable and Mucormycosis has been found near her nose, Raj said.  The woman is also suffering from diabetes and blood pressure, he said, adding that she was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 4.  She was referred from Hamirpur to Nerchowk Medical College after she started having breathing problem on May 8, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-case-of-black-fungus-reported-in-himachal-pradesh-988028.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||UP govt bans any hike in school fees for upcoming academic session||The Uttar Pradesh government has banned any increase in school fees across all the boards for the upcoming academic session (2021-2022) owing to the coronavirus pandemic situation, Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said on Thursday. Sharma, who also holds the portfolio of Secondary Education department, in a statement said many families are affected economically due to the Covid-19 second wave and schools are physically closed while online classes are going on. "Keeping this in mind, the government has taken a balanced decision so that the common man does no have to bear extra load and also schools could provide salaries to teachers and other staff," he said. The Deputy CM said schools can take fees in accordance with the arrangements they had for the 2019-20 session as the fees was not hiked last year also due to the similar situation during the first wave. "Those who have taken hiked fees in this academic session should adjust it in future and also no transportation fees should be charged for the days that the schools are closed," he ordered. Sharma also said if parents are not able to pay three months advance fees, they should be given an option to pay monthly and should not be forced to pay in one instalment itself. He said activities like computer, sports, science laboratory, library, annual function related fees should also not be charged on the students. "If the parents of a student are suffering from Covid-19, their current month's fees could be adjusted in the next month's fees on their written request," Sharma said. Schools should regularly make payments to teachers and their staff, he further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-bans-any-hike-in-school-fees-for-upcoming-academic-session-988033.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir reports 67 fatalities, over 4,000 new Covid cases||Jammu and Kashmir Thursday reported 4,139 new coronavirus cases and 67 more fatalities. In four days, 273 Covid-19 patients have succumbed in J&K, taking the tally of deaths has reached 3,422. On Thursday, out of 67 deaths, 43 were reported from Jammu division and 24 from Kashmir Valley. A total of 4,169 patients recovered from Covid-19 on Thursday, and with it J&K has witnessed 58,966 recoveries in just 20 days, which as per the health experts, is a good sign amid the second wave of the pandemic which has engulfed the Union Territory.   The total number of recoveries reported in the UT since the outbreak of Covid has reached 2,06,081. In the last three days, the number of Covid-19 recoveries in a day has outnumbered the number of positive cases. On Wednesday, 4,338 persons recovered from Covid, while 3,969 tested positive. Similarly, on Thursday 4,169 patients recovered as against 4,139 new cases. As per the official figures, the administration has increased the bed capacity for Covid patients to 5,486 of which 3,307 patients are admitted, 2,767on oxygen support and 125 on ventilator support. In the second wave of the pandemic, the number of cases has shown an upsurge at a rapid pace in comparison to last year. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is nearly 21,000 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is over 18,600. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, the valley is also one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. The coronavirus outbreak was reported in Jammu and Kashmir on March 7, 2020, when two persons tested positive for the deadly virus. The peak of the first wave was September 12 when 1,698 positive cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-67-fatalities-over-4000-new-covid-cases-988064.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||2 places in MP find place in UNESCO's tentative list of natural world heritage sites||Two places in Madhya Pradesh - marble rock formations of Bhedaghat Lamheta ghat in Narmada valley and biodiversity-rich Satpura Tiger Reserve (STR)- have found a place in the UNESCO's tentative list of natural world heritage sites, a minister said on Thursday. "It is a moment of pride for Madhya Pradesh," Union Culture Minister Prahlad Patel said in a statement on Thursday. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had sent a proposal to the UNESCO about nine places in the country, of which six, including Bhedaghat-Lemhetaghat and STR made it to the tentative list of the natural world heritage sites, he said. State Home Minister Narottam Mishra said, "It is a thing of pride for Madhya Pradesh that not only one, but two places have figured in the UNESCO's list." "Congratulations to Chief Minister and thanks to the Prime Minister and Union Culture Minister," he told reporters here on Thursday. The development is likely to give a boost to the tourism business at the two places, which already records a good number of footfalls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-places-in-mp-find-place-in-unescos-tentative-list-of-natural-world-heritage-sites-988105.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal gives Rs 1 crore aid to family of deceased 'corona warrior'||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday provided financial assistance of Rs one crore to the family of late Covid warrior Sheoji Mishra, a school teacher. Mishra had contracted coronavirus during his Covid duty in RSBV, Kalyanvas on June 4 last year and three days later, he succumbed to the infection. Kejriwal commended Mishra for continuing to serve people till his last breath. "Late Shri Sheoji Mishra was a very hardworking and dedicated teacher in our Delhi government school. He passed away after getting infected while being on COVID duty last year. I can understand the pain and grief of his family. While we cannot bring him back, I, on behalf of the Delhi government, have provided him with the monetary support of Rs 1 crore," said Kejriwal in a statement. Mishra, a Delhi resident, had joined the service in 1999. He is survived by his wife Saroj Mishra and two sons. The Delhi government school, in which he worked as an English teacher, was facilitating screening, movements, providing food, and temporary stay (night shelter) to the migrant labourers. Besides the monetary assistance, Kejriwal also assured the family of a job for Mishra's elder son by the Delhi government. "His elder son is preparing for a job, and the Delhi government will provide his elder son with a job. We will also stand beside them in any assistance that they shall need in the future," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-gives-rs-1-crore-aid-to-family-of-deceased-corona-warrior-988114.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||More than 150 Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi will have to be shut from Friday: AAP MLA||Delhi’s stock of Covishield vaccine for the 18-44 age group will last less than a day and the city government will have to shut more than 150 vaccination centres on Friday, AAP MLA Atishi said on Thursday. Delhi has received 8.17 lakh vaccine doses for the 18-44 years category so far, of which, 7.49 lakh doses had been utilised by Thursday morning. “We have already exhausted the Covaxin stock. The remaining Covishield doses will last less than a day for this category after Thursday evening,” Atishi said while presenting the vaccination bulletin online. “Therefore, we will have to shut more than 150 vaccination centres meant for the 18-44 age group from Friday. We appeal to the central government to make more vaccines available for this category immediately,” she said. The national capital has so far received 45.44 lakh vaccine doses for healthcare workers, frontline staff and those aged above 45, of which, 42.99 lakh doses have been administered, the AAP MLA noted. Around 50,000 Covishield doses are on the way to Delhi for this age group, she said. “After Thursday evening, the city will have two days of Covaxin stock and nine days of Covishield doses left for this category,” she said. The AAP leader added that 68,604 people received vaccine jabs on May 19. Fewer doses were administered as dispensaries conduct routine immunisation for children on Wednesdays and Fridays, she said. A total of 48.69 lakh doses have been administered in the national capital since the inoculation drive began on January 16. Around 11.01 lakh people have got both the doses. Healthcare workers, frontline staff and those aged above 45 are being given the jabs at 623 centres, whereas beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group are being inoculated at 368 centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-than-150-covid-19-vaccination-centres-in-delhi-will-have-to-be-shut-from-friday-aap-mla-988128.html
20-05-2021||North and Central||In the interest of state, J&K govt terminates tainted DSP from service||Tainted deputy superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Davinder Singh, who was chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for providing support to Hizbul Mujahideen militant outfit, was on Thursday dismissed from service. According to a government order (No 451-JK (GAD) of 2021) issued by General Administration Department (GAD) on the directions of Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor, Davinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police (under suspension) has been dismissed from service with immediate effect. “….., the Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Mr Davinder Singh, DSP (under suspension),” the order reads. While Article 311(2) says no government employee shall be dismissed or removed or “reduced in rank” except after an inquiry, its sub-section C says this clause will not apply “where the President or the Governor, as the case may be, is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold such inquiry”. Accordingly, the order says, the LG dismisses Davinder Singh, with immediate effect. Singh, then serving DSP, was arrested in January 2020 while accompanying two Hizbul Mujahideen militants in a vehicle bound for Delhi. The police recovered AK-47s and other arms from the car they were travelling in. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Besides Singh, two teachers of the School Education department from north Kashmir’s Kupwara district were also dismissed from service with immediate effect by the LG administration. Earlier this month, the LG administration had terminated the services of three government employees, including a Naib tehsildar, an assistant professor and a school teacher after a panel identified them as being involved in ‘anti-national’ activities. In April, the J&K government had announced the formation of a Special Task Force (STF) to bring under the scanner government employees allegedly involved in ‘anti-national’ activity. The STF has been empowered to compile records of such employees and refer it to the committee constituted on July 30 last year. There were complaints that government employees, who were allegedly involved in anti-national activities during street protests, instigating people against security forces were neither booked nor FIRs allowed to be filed against them by political governments. In July last year taking note of the situation, J&K government constituted a panel to scrutinize and recommend cases for dismissal of their services. Sources said social media activities of the employees, even under fake identity, would also fall in the category of anti-national activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-the-interest-of-state-jk-govt-terminates-tainted-dsp-from-service-988129.html
20-05-2021||Oasis||Sometimes, walking away is a step forward||If we let ourselves see the world through the eyes of others, then there is a possibility that we will lose sight of who we are and what we want. Our decisions will be coloured by the hues of how we want to be perceived. In our attempt to please others, we end up pleasing no one, least of all, ourselves. Aesop’s fable underscores this notion in a rather humorous way. A man and his son were going to the market with their donkey. It was a long winding path. As they trudged along, a bystander commented, “Are you dull-witted? Why would you walk when you can ride the donkey?” The man quickly put the boy on the donkey and they continued on their journey. Soon they passed a group of men who jeered, “See that apathetic youth, he lets his old father walk while he rides.” The man then hastily got on the donkey himself and let his son walk along alongside them. They had not gone far when some onlookers ridiculed them again, “Look at the lazy buffoon sitting on the donkey and letting his poor son lumber along.” The hapless man did not quite know what to do next, so he decided that both he and his son will sit on the donkey for the rest of the way. Just as they were nearing the market, the passers-by began to sneer at them. “Aren’t you ashamed of yourself?” they said, “for overburdening that poor animal of yours?” The man had had enough. At last, he and his son cut down a pole, tied the donkey’s feet to it, and raised the pole and the donkey to their shoulders. With abject distress, they walked around the marketplace while everyone looked at them with derision.  Since we live in a world of appearances, we will be judged by what we appear to be. Often, we cannot control or change things outside of ourselves, but we must remember that life is not just what is happening to us. It is more about how we react. If the father and son had disregarded the opinion of others and had done what felt right naturally, they would have reached the market place perhaps a little tired but happy. Sometimes walking away is a step forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/sometimes-walking-away-is-a-step-forward-987828.html
20-05-2021||Opinion||Paying Americans to get vaccinated might work but is it ethical?||By Christopher Robertson for The Conversation A financial shot in the arm could be just what is needed for Americans unsure about vaccination. On May 12, 2021, the Republican governor of Ohio, Mike DeWine, announced five US$1 million lottery prizes for those who are vaccinated. Meanwhile, in West Virginia, younger citizens are being enticed to get the shot with $100 savings bonds, and a state university in North Carolina is offering students who get vaccinated a chance to win the cost of housing. Many companies are paying vaccinated employees more money through bonuses or extra paid time off. The push to get as many people vaccinated as possible is laudable and may well work. But leading behavioral scientists are worried that paying people to vaccinate could backfire if it makes people more skeptical of the shots. And ethicists have argued that it would be wrong, citing concerns over fairness and equity. As a behavioural scientist and ethicist, I draw on an extensive body of research to help answer these questions. It suggests that incentives might work to save lives and, if properly structured, need not trample individual rights or be a huge expense for the government. In the United States, incentives and disincentives are already used in health care. The US system of privatised health insurance exposes patients to substantial deductibles and copays, not only to cover costs but to cut down on what could be deemed as wasteful health care – the thinking being that putting a cost to an emergency room visit, for example, might deter those who aren’t really in need of that level of care. In practice, this means patients are encouraged to decline both emergency and more routine care, since both are exposed to costs. Paying for health behaviours In the case of Covid-19, the vaccines are already free to consumers, which has undoubtedly encouraged people to be immunised. Studies have shown that reducing out-of-pocket costs can improve adherence to life-sustaining drugs, whether to prevent heart attacks or to manage diabetes. A payment to take a drug goes one step further than simply reducing costs. And if properly designed, such incentives can change health behaviors. Payments and cash prizes have been shown effective in encouraging blood donations, adherence to blood thinner drugs, blood glucose monitoring, physical activity and smoking cessation. And for vaccination in particular, payments have been succesful for human papillomavirus (HPV) in England; hepatitis B in the United States and the United Kingdom; and tetanus toxoid in Nigeria. The effects can be substantial: For example, for one group in the HPV study, the vaccination rate more than doubled with an incentive. For Covid-19, there are no field studies to date, but several survey experiments, including one my group conducted with 1,000 Americans, find that incentives are likely to work. In our case, the incentive of a tax break was enough to encourage those hesitant about vaccinations to say they would take the shot. Coercion concerns Even if incentives will save lives by increasing vaccinations, there are still other ethical considerations. A key concern is protecting the autonomous choices of people to decide what they put into their own bodies. This may be especially important for the Covid-19 vaccines, which – although authorised as likely safe and effective – are not yet fully approved by the Food and Drug Administration. But already people are often paid to participate in clinical trials for drugs that have not yet been approved by the FDA. Ethicists have worried that such payments may be “coercive” if the money is so attractive as to override a person’s free choices or make them worse off overall. One can quibble about whether the term “coercion” applies to offers of payment. But even if offers were coercive, payments may still be reasonable to save lives in a pandemic if they succeed in greater levels of immunisation. During the smallpox epidemic nearly 100 years ago, the US Supreme Court upheld the power of states to mandate vaccines. Compared with mandating vaccination, the incentives to encourage vaccines seem innocuous. Exploitation and paternalism Yet some still worry. Bioethicists Emily Largent and Franklin Miller wrote in a recent paper that a payment might “unfairly” exploit “those US residents who have lost jobs...or slipped into poverty during the pandemic,” which could leave them feeling as if they have “no choice but to be vaccinated for cash.” Others have noted that vaccine hesitancy is higher in nonwhite communities, where incomes tend to be lower, as is trust in the medical establishment. Ethicists and policymakers should indeed focus on the poorest members of our community and seek to minimise racial disparities in both health outcomes and wealth. But there is no evidence that offering money is actually detrimental to such populations. Receiving money is a good thing. To suggest that we have to protect adults by denying them offers of money may come across as paternalism. Some ethicists also argue that the money is better spent elsewhere to increase participation. States could spend the money making sure vaccines are convenient to everyone, for example, by bringing them to community events and churches. Money could also support various efforts to fight misinformation and communicate the importance of getting the shot. The cost of incentives Financial incentives could be expensive as a policy solution. As in Ohio, lottery drawings are one way to cap the overall cost of incentives while giving millions of people an additional reason to get their shot. (The author is a behavioural scientist at Boston University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/paying-americans-to-get-vaccinated-might-work-but-is-it-ethical-987885.html
20-05-2021||Opinion||A jolt to the hegemon||Himanta Biswa Sarma’s selection in Assam has shown that the Modi-Shah combine can be coerced and opens the possibilities of altering the power dynamics within the BJP Article 1 of the Indian Constitution states: India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States. The draft article was debated and finalised after discussions on November 15 and 17, 1948 and again on September 18, 1949. Dr B.R. Ambedkar, speaking on behalf of the Drafting Committee, emphasised that the term ‘Union of States’ was used to put it beyond doubt that India was a federation of states. Ambedkar added that the chosen nomenclature, to describe India constitutionally, was “not the result of an agreement by the States to join in a Federation”. Since the agreed federation was not a structure or arrangement agreed to after negotiations, “no State has the right to secede from it.” That being the country’s structure, the organisational arrangement of political parties is too on similar lines. Barring regional ones, all parties have national office bearers and larger national councils or executives. Every party has state units, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) included, and there are state-level office bearers and state executive bodies. To ensure a democratic character, every party has units down to the districts, cities, towns, blocks and village levels. Yet, barring the odd party, mainly communist parties, few are run on truly democratic lines. Usually, national leaders decide for the states, the state leaders do so for the districts, and the system percolates down to the lowest rung. India’s democracy, however, was not dysfunctional from the beginning, especially when the Congress party hegemonised the political and electoral system. Back then, the Congress party had robust state units and satraps were authoritative individuals of standing. The situation started altering after the Congress split in 1969 which paved the way for Indira Gandhi’s emergence as the party’s unchallenged leader. Her hegemonic style of running the party continued even after returning to power in 1980. Her habit of appointing faceless state leaders as chief ministers reached a peak within a couple of years of her comeback and prodded cartoonist RK Laxman into drawing one of his unforgettable ones. It had her walking past a file of Congress leaders. After stopping, she pointed at one of the leaders standing in the file: ‘O.K. you, there, you are the CM. What’s your name?’ In contrast to the Congress style of the national leadership (read Indira Gandhi and her coterie) micro-managing state units, the BJP, which began becoming a party of consequence from the mid-1980s, showcased what being a “party with a difference” meant. Although three stalwarts, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi dominated the central leadership, several among other national office bearers and the executive body were an able foil to them. In addition, there existed within the party extremely influential satraps, Bhairon Singh Shekhawat in Rajasthan, Sunderlal Patwa in Madhya Pradesh, Kalyan Singh in Uttar Pradesh, Shanta Kumar in Himachal Pradesh, the duo of Keshubhai Patel and Shankersinh Vaghela in Gujarat, Madan Lal Khurana in Delhi and BS Yediyurappa in Karnataka. Although the BJP led the coalition government at the Centre between 1998-2004, the party was not hegemonised by the government and organisational leaders had sufficiently fair elbow room and played a role in influencing policy. Even after the defeat in 2004, partially due to Vajpayee’s divergence with the party and Sangh Parivar, the state leaders continued holding sway in states, for instance, Shivraj Singh Chouhan in MP and Raman Singh in Chhattisgarh, along with others already named, were dominant leaders and were primary deciders when it came to decisions regarding their state. This situation was dramatically altered in the Modi era. Besides being marked by excessive centralisation and mere lip-service to the principle of federalism, post-2014 the BJP has become a party driven by an all-powerful duo. It is pertinent to recall the letter by party veterans led by Advani after the BJP’s defeat in Bihar in 2015. It voiced the concern at the disappearance of inner-party democracy and domination by a handful. In almost every state election during the first term of the BJP in office, the party contested state elections, except where the party was the incumbent, without a chief ministerial candidate. Narendra Modi acted as the principal vote-catcher and the eventual chief minister was made out to be a proxy for the prime minister. In most states, new faces from non-dominant social groups were chosen as chief ministers. Simultaneously, the stature of regional stalwarts like Chouhan was clipped as part of the drive to eliminate any possible threat to the Modi-Amit Shah duo. In time, especially after becoming the chief minister in March 2020, Chouhan too became a pale shadow of the two and often aped them, while he earlier steered clear of the politics of extreme polarisation. Curtailing influence of regional leaders blunted all challenge although it was self-limiting in states where there were strong regional leaders. As a result, in several states, the assembly election results were at variance with the parliamentary polls held previously. In the recent bunch of state elections, the BJP in West Bengal and Assam, the two states where it had stakes, post-verdict has propped up not just popular regional leaders but also those who are not part of the ideological stable. Both Himanta Biswa Sarma and Suvendu Adhikari did not rise vertically to their positions but are lateral entrants. Historically speaking, the BJP took on several leaders from outside the RSS/Jana Sangh fold when the party was established in 1980. This trend has continued over the decades but the party became more liberal after 2014 in encouraging lawmakers and mass leaders from other parties to cross over to the BJP. This has led to contradictions in several state units as the old guard has flagged increasing reliance on turncoats, as in Bengal where a large number of Trinamool Congress legislators and ministers left and joined the BJP, where they were given preferential treatment over those who worked for decades to strengthen the party. Adhikari’s appointment, made with the intention to prevent his possible ghar wapasi to the Mamata Banerjee camp, will certainly dampen spirits of the likes of Dilip Ghosh. It also sets a wrong precedent by sending a message that loyalty is not always rewarded. Sarma’s selection, however, also has the potential to set a dangerous example for the power duo in the BJP. According to reports, the national leadership was inclined to continue with Sarbananda Sonowal because he was part of the party and RSS since his youth. But Sarma succeeded in forcing his selection due to support among legislators, which has shown that the Modi-Shah combine can be coerced. That this has come at a time when questions have been asked about the efficiency and administrative capacities of the government, opens the possibilities of altering the power dynamics within the BJP. A clear message has been delivered to the BJP national leadership - the polity is still federal in character regardless of greater centralisation and emergence of coercive federalism in the country. How the inner equations within the BJP shape up over the next couple of years will have a bearing on the future direction of politics. (The writer is an NCR-based author and journalist. His books include, The RSS: Icons of the Indian Right, and Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-jolt-to-the-hegemon-987958.html
20-05-2021||Panorama||BJP made big promises in Assam. Can Sarma deliver on them?||On May 2, BJP and its allies in Assam not only won the mandate to form their government for a second consecutive term but also ended the speculation that the CAA would scupper the saffron party's prospects.  The BJP has overcome another challenge now – that of the delicate task of replacing a sitting Chief Minister. Sarbananda Sonowal has been replaced with Himanta Biswa Sarma as the new CM. The challenges that lie ahead for the Sarma government amid the pandemic, however, seem tougher, given the big promises that the BJP made during the campaign to ensure that the anti-CAA sentiments did not turn into votes against it.  Making Assam "infiltrator-free”, flood-free and violence-free tops the list of promises the BJP brass repeatedly made to voters. "The Covid-19 pandemic is definitely the biggest challenge for us at the moment. But fulfilling the promises we made to the voters -- be it waiving the microcredit loans, giving a new dimension to the Arunodoi scheme (cash benefit transfer) and making Assam flood-free -- are definitely the tasks on which we have to deliver," Sarma told reporters soon after taking oath as CM on May 10.  ‘Infiltrator-free’ Assam  The BJP poll manifesto promised a "corrected NRC" as part of its vision to make Assam "infiltrator-free”. Although the manifesto did not spell out how it plans to correct the NRC even after the release of the final updated list, Sarma said, "We want re-verification of 20% applications in the districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% in the rest of Assam. If the re-verification reveals large-scale anomalies, we will urge the court to have another look into the issue." The NRC list was updated under the supervision of the Supreme Court.  The final list of the NRC, released in August 2019, had left out a little over 19.06 lakh people, out of the 3.29 crore applicants, triggering a citizenship crisis in Assam. These people failed to prove with documents that they or their forefathers lived in Assam on or before March 24, 1971, the cut-off date decided in the Assam Accord of 1985. The accord had promised to detect, delete (from voters’ list) and deport the post-1971 migrants to Bangladesh, irrespective of their religion.  Union Home Minister Amit Shah had claimed credit after the draft NRC was released in July 2018. But Sarma was the first politician to reject the final list of the NRC, saying that many ineligible persons made it to the list while genuine citizens were left out. The change in stand, according to BJP workers, was due to the fact that the final list left out more Hindus than Muslims. BJP wants to give citizenship to the post-1971 Hindus through the CAA and identify the post-1971 Muslims alone as "infiltrators" through the "corrected" NRC.  Two days before Sarma took oath as CM, Hitesh Deb Sarma, the state co-ordinator of NRC, moved the Supreme Court with a plea for complete, comprehensive and time-bound re-verification of the draft NRC list and the supplementary lists published in 2018. BJP insiders admitted that preparing a flawless NRC in the next five years is going to be tough given the complexities the process involves. Flood-free Assam  Amit Shah made repeated claims before the polls that the BJP-led government would make Assam flood-free in five years by constructing big lakes and diverting floodwaters for irrigation and tourism purposes. Addressing the annual flood problem in Assam has remained a promise during every election in the state but no party in the past had made a claim about making the state flood-free in five years. "It is not a pragmatic promise at all. It is not at all possible to tame the mighty Brahmaputra, which flows down from Tibet. The people of Assam are dependent on flood for agriculture, irrigation. Again, if there is no flood, animals in Kaziranga and many other rain-fed forests will disappear due to lack of grass and food stock," Robin Medhi, a BJP worker in Jagiroad in Morigaon district in central Assam had told DH before the elections on March 27. BJP retained the Jagiroad seat. Ahead of the 2016 elections, the BJP had promised to address the flood problem by dredging the Brahmaputra, Barak and the tributaries, but the promise remained unfulfilled in the past five years. In his first meeting to review flood control measures, CM Sarma hinted about a similar attempt and asked officials to identify the rivers where dredging is possible. Assam reports more than 100 deaths in floods almost every year while thousands of hectares of croplands are damaged or eroded.  Militancy-free  In his first press conference as CM, Sarma appealed to Paresh Baruah, the leader of the banned militant group ULFA (Independent) to come forward for talks and end its 40-year-long armed violence. The appeal was part of the BJP's pre-poll promise of making Assam violence-free in five years. Another faction of ULFA and the rebel groups in Bodoland region have already joined the mainstream but the Paresh Baruah-led group is still carrying out violent activities. An employee of ONGC who was recently abducted by the group is still in its captivity.  Baruah, who is believed to be hiding somewhere on the Myanmar-China border, called up local television channels welcoming Sarma's appeal. A few days later, the ULFA group declared unilateral ceasefire for three months citing the Covid-19 situation. Many in the BJP termed this a new step towards "lasting peace" in Assam.  Political observers in Assam believe that fulfilling the economic promises, such as waiving the micro-credit loans (estimated to be Rs 1,200 crore) and giving one lakh jobs would also be big challenges for the Sarma government given the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bjp-made-big-promises-in-assam-can-sarma-deliver-on-them-987827.html
20-05-2021||Right in the Middle||A robot for house-help||I am almost eighty, live alone and depend on a maid for housework, but I have been without a house-help since early April. In the meantime, the Karnataka government has imposed lockdown restrictions, progressively going stricter. The net result is that while I could get food delivery, keeping the house clean for over 45 days became a Herculean task.On my daughter's advice, I bought a cleaning robot online that could clean and mop! On its arrival the next day, the first shock was to find a number of accessories and parts. The quick set-up diagram was not of much help. I looked for tutorial videos on the brand and model. I was delighted to find one but my joy was short-lived, as the model shown was a little different. However, after noting the useful clues, I set it up the best I could. The robot has a separate docking station. I plugged it in. Instructions said to be charged for 6.5 hours. After the due period, I placed the bot on the station. Immediately, it said some gibberish in English with a bright red warning light. I recorded the message and sent it to my son-in-law to know what it meant; he too could not decipher it. Worried about not spoiling the gadget, I removed the bot and opened another vague user manual. This one had fault-finding notes with meanings for various lights. The gist was I had to place the bot on the station and charge it for 6.5 hours. I decided to try the next day.I had to register the bot for warranty and mobile app purposes, which was a breeze. Now the app started causing trouble. But one had to set up the app to start. The bot, in the meantime, took off on its journey for house cleaning, even before I fitted some parts. I ran behind it and put the switch off. Another red light and a warning. I gave it up for another day. On the fourth day, I was determined to use it. I patiently watched the video again, re-read the user manual and app instructions, fitted all the parts and switched it on. It started cleaning. I must admit it did a thorough job, though it seemed to have enmity with the kitchen as it was not cleaned well. The next step was mopping. It began, but the same problem with the kitchen. I also found it was repeatedly going around some areas and not so for the rest, followed by some gibberish. After switching off, serendipitously, I found advanced settings for mopping, blocking areas, water pressure, and vacuum force-level. I will remedy it in my next attempt and ensure the kitchen becomes its friend too. Luckily, no visitors during lockdown!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-robot-for-house-help-987830.html
20-05-2021||Second Edit||Tauktae is just the start amid India's Covid fight||A severe cyclone has battered India’s west coast in recent days. The most powerful cyclone in the Arabian Sea in decades, Cyclone Tauktae has claimed lives, destroyed infrastructure and laid waste crops as it raced from Kerala to Gujarat. Over the weekend, scores of lives were lost in the southern states, including eight in Karnataka. It narrowly missed Mumbai and made landfall in Gujarat late on Monday. Although Mumbai escaped Tauktae’s full wrath, it has suffered, nonetheless. The storm set adrift three ONGC barges, one of which capsized. While the Indian Navy has been able to rescue 184 personnel aboard one of these barges, hundreds of others are still missing.  High waves and strong winds are hampering the Navy and Coast Guard’s use of choppers in the search and rescue missions. State governments have done a good job in evacuating lakhs of people from coastal areas. They must follow up on that effort by providing food and water to the evacuees. Cyclone Tauktae has hit India at a time when the country is already struggling to deal with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Several Covid-19 centres had to be evacuated. The cyclone has weakened India’s already limited health infrastructure. With lakhs of people being packed into relief centres, the danger of coronavirus infections spreading among them looms. Uprooted trees have hampered transport of oxygen and medical equipment. These must be cleared immediately. Cyclones in the Arabian Sea are rare; they account for just 6% of all tropical cyclones. On an average, the Arabian Sea sees just two or three cyclones and even these are usually weak. Global warming is changing that. For the fourth consecutive year, India’s west coast has been hit by a severe cyclone and that too in the pre-monsoon period. As global warming gathers pace, the frequency and intensity of cyclones striking India is expected to grow. What is more, they may not be confined to certain periods of the year. Even as India begins to assess the damage done by Cyclone Tauktae, another cyclone is churning the seas. Cyclone Yaas is gathering pace in the Bay of Bengal and is expected to strike India’s east coast by end-May. In a little over a week, the monsoons will make their advance along the west coast. Is India prepared to deal with this combined fury? Covid centres along the coast should be moved further inland. More buildings need to be converted into relief centres so that there is no crowding. We need to prepare for the outbreak of water-borne diseases and epidemics, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/tauktae-is-just-the-start-amid-indias-covid-fight-987823.html
20-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu residents want home delivery of products all day during lockdown till May 31: Survey||A survey conducted by a leading community social media platform has found 84 per cent of residents favour continuation of the Covid-19 lockdown in Tamil Nadu till May 31, but many want home delivery of all products through the day with no restrictions on time. The survey conducted by LocalCircles also said small businesses that operate in Tamil Nadu say they need to have a model that enables them to operate safely despite COVID-19. The new DMK government in the state imposed a lockdown on May 10 which will be in force till May 24. Indications are that the lockdown will be extended by two weeks. The survey found consumers want home delivery of all goods – not just essentials that are allowed now – through the day so that they can buy whatever they want. Many small businesses are keen that they be allowed to function in home delivery mode only during the lockdown, the survey said. The survey received more than 20,000 responses from citizens residing across 32 districts of the state. While 62 per cent respondents were men, 38% respondents were women. It found 84 per cent residents of Tamil Nadu support continuing lockdown till May 31st, while one in three surveyed in favour of permitting businesses to do home deliveries any time. “They are of the view that e-commerce deliveries should be permitted all day and retail stores should also be permitted to operate in home delivery mode all day. This question in the survey received 4,080 responses,” LocalCircles said. The survey said 74 per cent of them believed home delivery of goods should be the primary model that should be used during lockdown/curfew in districts/cities, while 69 per cent said “school books, stationery & equipment for online classes”, and 32 per cent “children apparel, footwear, raincoats, etc.”. LocalCircles said gadgets is the top category in which households in Tamil Nadu will have a need to purchase in the next 3 months. Also, over 550 retail businesses located in Tamil Nadu have expressed the need for the Government to enable them to at least operate in a contact-less or home delivery mode only till the Covid-19 situation improves considerably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-residents-want-home-delivery-of-products-all-day-during-lockdown-till-may-31-survey-987811.html
20-05-2021||South||Telangana declares Black Fungus infection as epidemic||The Telangana government has declared Black Fungus (mucormycosis) a disease that is primarily affecting Covid-19 recovered patients as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, an official notification said on Thursday. All government and private health facilities shall follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of Black Fungus by the union health ministry and Indian Council of Medical Research, it said. "It is also made mandatory for all government and private health facilities to report all suspected and confirmed cases to Health Department," the notification said.  Medical Superintendents of all government and private hospitals shall ensure strict compliance and send reports on a daily basis attached in the form of the annexure to the health Department, it added. A senior official of the Health Department on Tuesday said the state has about 80 cases of Black Fungus under treatment in both government and private hospitals. The government has designated the Gandhi General Hospital and state-run ENT Hospital as nodal centres for the treatment of Black Fungus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-declares-black-fungus-infection-as-epidemic-987861.html
20-05-2021||South||Pinarayi Vijayan sworn in as Chief Minister of Kerala for second time||Scripting history, the LDF government in Kerala led by Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday was sworn in for the second consecutive time. It is after a gap of 40 years and the first time after the formation of the present CPM-led Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala that a front was able to retain power in Kerala. In the 140-member Kerala Assembly, the LDF won 99 seats, which is eight more than that of the 91 seats secured in 2016. Social welfare and development initiatives of the LDF government led by Vijayan was a highlight of the election outcome. Vijayan and 20 members of the Cabinet, including three women, took the oath from Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan at a function in Thiruvananthapuram. Participation at the event was restricted to less than 500 to maintain social distancing. The High Court had also directed the government to keep the participation at the event to the minimum possible and to ensure Covid-19 protocols were followed. UDF leaders stayed away from the event citing the Covid-19 situation. After the swearing-in ceremony, the ministers proceeded to the Raj Bhavan for a customary reception by the Governor. The first Cabinet meeting would be held at the Secretariat afterwards. In the 21-member Cabinet, 12, including Vijayan, are from the CPM, four from the CPI and five from coalition partners. Apart from four, all are first time members of the Cabinet. Even as the formal announcement of portfolios of ministers was awaited, the youngest member and journalist-turned politician Veena George is most likely to be the health minister, replacing K K Shailaja. Vijayan's son-in-law Mohamed Riyas, who is DYFI national president, is also included in the cabinet and he is likely to given the tourism and public work portfolio. The Chief Minister might be retaining key portfolios like Home and Information Technology. Former Rajya Sabha MPs K N Balagopal and P Rajeev and former Kerala speaker K Radhakrishnan are among the members of the Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayan-sworn-in-as-chief-minister-of-kerala-for-second-time-987932.html
20-05-2021||South||Pinarayi Vijayan: The 'captain' who scripted history by steering LDF to second successive win||Weathering many a storm, 'captain' Pinarayi Vijayan steered the Left ship to safe waters in the 2021 assembly elections with a thumping win and rewrote Kerala's political history of voters swinging between the Congress and Communists once in five years. Breaking the four-decade old trend of Keralites choosing between the rival fronts every five years, the 77-year-old has also affirmed his grip on the party, virtually becoming its face, something new in the Left scheme of things. Unshakeable politician, shrewd strategist, 'double-breasted' comrade, pragmatic administrator, crisis manager-Vijayan may have earned a volley of epithets but will certainly go down in Kerala's history as the man who led the Left dominance in the state despite facing political storms and natural calamities. With the historic victory, leading LDF to victory in 99 out of 141 seats, Vijayan's supremacy in the party and the government has become total and he has once again established himself as the most towering and unquestionable Left leader in the state. Not just political observers but even his critics now praise Vijayan for his 'able' leadership and timely political strategies, which are considered as major factors that have helped the Left front government ensure continuity of rule. Though Vijayan was not as popular as former CM and Left stalwart V S Achuthanandan among commoners and grassroot level party workers during the initial period, he, however, made use of every single opportunity to leave his imprint in the minds of people in the last five years. Whether it was anti-CAA protests, the two devastating floods, cyclone Okhi, Nipah virus or the latest Covid-19 pandemic , Vijayan, seen as a hard taskmaster and a man of few words, succeeded in projecting himself as the 'leader fighting for the state's cause', cutting across party lines. During the election campaign, there was an attempt by his hardcore followers to call him by the nickname "captain", which raised many eyebrows as even many Left sympathisers felt that the Marxist party had no tradition of projecting any individual as its face. The shrewd strategist that he is, Vijayan turned brickbats into bouquets when some political opponents called him by his caste name to evoke pride among the politically dominant Thiyya community, to which he belongs to. Vijayan hails from a poor toddy tapper's family in politically volatile Kannur, the birth place of the communist movement in the southern state. A CPI (M) politburo member, Vijayan ensured there was not even a single voice of dissent against him either within the government or the party throughout the period, which had earned him the nickname of 'dictator' on many occasions. But, it was not a cakewalk for Vijayan, both as an administrator and politician in these years as the opposition attacked his government with a plethora of corruption charges, especially targeting his office. For the first time in the history of the state, the Chief Minister's office came under a cloud in the gold smuggling and the Dollar smuggling cases, and his confidant and former principal secretary M Sivasankar was arrested by the central agencies probing the cases. Whether it was the gold smuggling case, sprinkler deal, deep sea fishing pact or accusations against police and home department, the Kannur strongman remained unfazed and dared his rivals to prove the charges. His biggest test came in 2018 in the Sabarimala women's entry issue when Vijayan, going by the gender equality principles of his party, decided to implement the apex court verdict permitting women of all age groups at the hill shrine and had to face the worst political and personal attacks of his life. The ruling dispensation suffered a big jolt in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as it suffered the worst drubbing by losing 19 of the 20 seats to arch rival Congress-led UDF, seen as an indicator of people's mood then vis-a-vis the Sabarimala issue. Interestingly, even though the party leadership was ready to soften its position on the women's entry issue, Vijayan stuck to his stand. However, in winds of change, the Left returned to winning ways in the 2020 local body polls, even as the bloc, led by Vijayan, steamrolled the Congress and BJP, which drew a blank in the April 6 polls. Whenever the opposition BJP and Congress attacked him with corruption charges, Vijayan, also the longest-serving CPI(M) state secretary, answered with a handful of development and welfare programmes implemented by his government, which silenced his opponents on many occasions. Even his critics admit that Vijayan, as a stubborn administrator, had made long-pending projects, including the Kochi-Mangaluru GAIL pipeline and the development of national highway, become a reality in the state. Vijayan earlier had a short stint as the state's power minister during 1996-98 before taking over the party reins. During his period as state secretary, the in-fighting in the party between Vijayan and his bete noire Achuthanandan came to the fore. Vijayan was suspended from the Politburo in 2007, along with Achuthanandan, after the two openly criticised each other through the media. Later, they were reinstated. However, Achuthanandan was again dropped from the highest party body for breaching party discipline. During his tenure, the state witnessed a giant leap in power generation and distribution capacity due to the productive measures taken by him as a minister. Vijayan was born in 1944 to Mundayil Koran and Kalyani in Pinarayi in Kannur. He became the Kannur district secretary of the Kerala Students Federation while studying BA (Economics) in Brennen College in Thalassery and also worked as a handloom weaver after his schooling for a year before being able to continue his higher studies. He went on to become its state secretary and, later, state president of the KSF. In 1968, at the age of 24, Vijayan even found a place in the Kannur district committee of the CPI-M. Two years later, he was fielded from Koothuparamba and Vijayan became an MLA at the age of 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayan-the-captain-who-scripted-history-by-steering-ldf-to-second-successive-win-987985.html
20-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu rolls out free Covid vaccination for 18-44 age group||Tamil Nadu, which has fared quite badly in vaccinating its people, Thursday opened up vaccination for those in the age group of 18-44 after it received supplies of Covishield and Covaxin it had ordered on its own. Chief Minister M K Stalin launched the vaccination drive at a health facility in the knit wear hub of Tiruppur during his visit to western districts. The state has so far received 9.62 lakh doses of vaccine from Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech Limited from its orders. “These will be used to vaccinate those between 18-44 years of age. We are expecting more supplies in the coming days and we hope the drive will go on without any break,” an official said. While the state government will fund the vaccination for 18-44, the Centre has provided vaccines for those above 45 years of age. Tamil Nadu had last week floated a global tender for procuring 3.5 crore vaccines and it plans to vaccinate a total of 5 crore people. The state's vaccination drive is quite slow with just 70.5 lakh people getting their jabs so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-rolls-out-free-covid-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-988003.html
20-05-2021||South||Jagan government presents Rs 2.29 lakh crore budget for 2021-22||The YSRCP government has presented the 2021-22 budget with an outlay of Rs 2,29,779 crore. The health sector is allocated Rs 13,830 crore which also includes the Covid-19 care expenses and vaccination drive. Presenting his third budget in a row, state finance minister Buggana Rajendernath said that out of the total outlay, social welfare took the lion’s share followed by agriculture and health sectors. A gender budget with a total outlay of Rs 47,283 crore and children budget with Rs 16, 748 crore were also tabled. The agriculture budget, tabled by minister K Kannababu, is Rs 31,256 crore. The TDP has boycotted the proceedings, protesting that the one-day assembly session does not allow discussions on the pressing issues in the state, especially the Covid-19 spread. The party has instead organized an online mock assembly on Thursday and Friday, which it said is to highlight the failures of the Jaganmohan Reddy government. After the AP legislative assembly passed the appropriation bills by voice vote, the house was adjourned sine die by Speaker Tammineni Sitaram. In March, the Reddy government has, for the second consecutive year, taken the ordinance route for clearance of the state expenses for the initial three months of the fiscal. The assembly had also passed the Andhra Pradesh Medical Education and Research Corporation Bill 2021, Andhra Pradesh Survey And Boundaries Amendment Bill 2021, Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws Amendment Bill, 2021 and Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws Second Amendment Bill 2021 while the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty Bill 2015 was withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-government-presents-rs-229-lakh-crore-budget-for-2021-22-988031.html
20-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's Finance Minister vs Jaggi Vasudev – the 'Temple War' on Twitter||When Tamil Nadu's new Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan called spiritual leader Jaggi Vasudev, also known as Sadhuguru, a “publicity hound” for demanding that temples in the state be freed from government control, not many were surprised. The investment banker-turned politician, who hails from an illustrious family that has dedicated itself for public service, had been vocal against Vasudev for his 'Free TN Temples' campaign for the past few months even when his party, DMK, was in the Opposition. The party is also opposed to the campaign. In an interview to a popular Tamil media group in March, Thiagarajan, a staunch believer in a rationalist party, had launched a frontal attack against Vasudev seeking to know what was his contribution to temples in Tamil Nadu. Many DMK Twitter handles had amplified his tweets then in March and now. The debate reignited earlier this week after Thiagarajan gave an interview to a Chennai-based newspaper reiterating his stand that temples should stay under government control, and termed Vasudev as a “publicity hound who is trying to find another angle to make more money.” As content of the interview went viral on social media, many followers of the spiritual guru, and BJP leaders attacked Thiagarajan for his comments on Vasudev. For three days, the Finance Minister's Twitter timeline was flooded with responses -- both positive and negative – on his statement. Vasudev's campaign is supported by the BJP, which wants temples to be freed from government control. Over 44,000 temples across Tamil Nadu are managed by the government through the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Department. The campaign had urged the state government to authorise third party audits to determine the quality of temple management as well as to establish unambiguous data about temple properties, rents, administrative policies, day-to-day rituals and personnel appointment. In its response, Vasudev's Isha Foundation termed Thiagarajan's statement as “unfortunate” and “trivialises the efforts and dedication of millions of Isha volunteers worldwide who are working tirelessly in service of humanity.” As trolling and counter-trolling continued for days, Thiagarajan issued a statement on Wednesday saying he will make “no comments on the issue until any new information or further developments come to light.” “The evidence in my possession (some public & some not) which I will share with all relevant authorities (as just a dutiful citizen), convinces me beyond all probable doubt that Jaggi Vasudev has repeatedly, consistently, and continuously violated multiple laws and statutes,” he said, while reiterating his stand that Vasudev is on the wrong side of the law. Within hours, several Twitter handles began alleging that the minister was an Overseas Indian Citizen (OCI) and should be disqualified from holding legislatorship. “Filtered idiots have become insane from drinking too much cow urine - alleging I am on OCI card holder (who cannot even vote). Limitless stupidity,” he responded to some of the tweets on Thursday. And in replies to some of the tweets, particularly from BJP handles, Thiagarajan reiterated his family's contributions to temples, while subscribing to the self-respect policy often quoted by Dravidian parties. “That's where we differ, you see. My views are formed by facts and reason, & remain so irrespective of my leader's old statements My beloved leader expected Rationalism from me, NOT Cultish followership. It's called Self-Respect. You should try it some time. It is intoxicating! (sic),” Thiagarajan wrote, in response to BJP's Narayanan Tirupathy. Tirupathy had posted an old video of the late DMK patriarch praising Vasudev at an event, asking Thiagarajan to have a look. For the DMK, a rationalist party, Thiagarajan is the go-to person whenever BJP throws “anti-Hindu” barb at it. Thiagarajan, chief of the DMK's IT wing, represents the Madurai (Central) constituency in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. Before jumping into politics to carry forward the legacy of his grandfather P T Rajan, Thiagarajan had worked with some of the top financial institutions like Lehman Brothers and Standard Chartered. The present panchaloha idol of Lord Iyappan at Sabarimala was also installed due to the efforts of Thiagarajan's grandfather Rajan in the 1950s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-finance-minister-vs-jaggi-vasudev-the-temple-war-on-twitter-988035.html
20-05-2021||South||'Black fungus' declared as notifiable disease in Tamil Nadu||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday declared 'black fungus' or Mucormycois as a notifiable disease after nine people were found to have been infected with it in the state. "Currently nine people are being treated for the disease, of which six are old cases and three, new ones. Seven of them are diabetic... all are stable," health secretary J Radhakrishnan told reporters here. Pointing out that the black fungus was already in existence much before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said people with uncontrolled diabetes and consuming steroids and those in Intensive Care Units for a long time were more susceptible to the disease. To study what measures need to be taken, a 10-member 'Mucormycois Committee', comprising senior medical professionals, has been formed, he said. The advantage of announcing black fungus as a notifiable disease was that all hospitals would immediately inform the government if they come across such cases, enabling the administration know which place or district was reporting more such numbers, he said. Radhakrishnan urged people not to panic or believe in rumours in various social media platforms about the disease. Quoting media reports, he said the impact of 'black fungus disease' was more in places like Rajasthan and Maharashtra. He said the government has placed orders to procure more Amphotericin-B injections for treatment of 'black fungus' and added that one should not forget about the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state. "The Health department is also focusing on other diseases during the Covid-19 pandemic. We have seen 2,000 babies getting delivered amid these Covid-19 times. People need not panic about black fungus disease", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/black-fungus-declared-as-notifiable-disease-in-tamil-nadu-988047.html
20-05-2021||South||Loads of garbage washed ashore in Kerala after cyclone Tauktae||The high tides from Tauktae cyclone has not only caused extensive damages to houses and boats along the coastal areas of Kerala, but also highlighted the garbage dumbing menace in the sea as loads of plastic garbage, ranging from water bottles to used chappals, were washed ashore. The issue was mainly felt at cities of Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode. At places where sea wall are set up, the garbage was washed ashore over sea walls along with the high tides and accumulated at the shore. Many people who returned to their houses at Poonthura coastal areas in Thiruvananthapuram found it difficult to enter their houses as the streets towards their residences were filled with the garbage. Though the corporation authorities and volunteers cleared the streets, the people are concerned that the garbage would return to the sea itself in the due course as the state lacked proper garbage treatment facilities. A J Vijayan, an expert in issues affecting the coastal areas, said that the garbage issue being faced by the sea was aggravating day by day. Unless effective garbage treatment facilities are set up in cities, the issue would continue to aggravate. The plastic garbage being disposed at various parts of the city reaches the sea through the canals and rivers. Hence, the garbage issue is mainly felt near estuaries. A few years ago, a voluntary organisation carried out a cleaning drive at some parts of south Kerala and collected around 55,000 kilogram of plastic waste. Vijayan said that dumping of garbage in the sea was also causing huge inconvenience to fishermen as it was affecting fishing activities and even damaging the fishing nets and engines of boats. On many occasions, the fishing nets would be filled with garbage than fish.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/loads-of-garbage-washed-ashore-in-kerala-after-cyclone-tauktae-988052.html
20-05-2021||South||Row over Devaswom portfolio to Dalit leader in Pinarayi Vijayan's new government||While the decision to give Devaswom portfolio in the new Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala to CPM senior member and Dalit leader K Radhakrishnan is being highlighted by CPM cadres as a strong political message, the Dalit communities allege sidelining the senior CPM leader and giving inadequate representation to the community. It is after around 40 years that a person from the Dalit community is being given the Devaswom portfolio in Kerala. M K Krishnan of the CPM was the last Devaswaom minister from the Dalit community, during 1980-81. Before that three Congress ministers from Dalit communities were given Devaswom portfolio. Radhakrishnan is a CPM central committee member, former Speaker, former minister and five time legislator and is a graduate in economics. CPM cadres are maintaining that by giving him the Devaswom portfolio the LDF government has upheld its progressive stature which is very relevant in the backdrop of the Sabarimala women entry issue. However, a section of Dalit activists felt that giving Radhakrishnan the Devaswom portfolio could be seen only as an attempt of the CPM to challenge the hindutva agenda played up by the opposite camps rather than any concern toward the Dalit community. Social activist Dhanya Raman said that if the CPM had such genuine concerns towards the Dalit community they could have given Devaswom portfolio to the lone member from Dalit community in the previous ministry also (law minister A K Balan). She also said that even when some first time MLAs were being made ministers, the lone CPM member from the Scheduled Tribe community O R Kelu, who is a two time legislator, was sidelined. If the left-front had genuine concerns for the Dalit communities, at least two minsters from the Dalit communities should have been included in the cabinet and Radhakrishnan should have been given a more prominent protfolio, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-devaswom-portfolio-to-dalit-leader-in-pinarayi-vijayans-new-government-988053.html
20-05-2021||South||Accept TN cabinet's decision & release seven Rajiv case convicts: Stalin to President||Asking President Ram Nath Kovind to accept the 2018 recommendation of the state Cabinet, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin has written to him demanding remission of life sentence and immediate release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. In a two-page letter to Kovind – written on May 19 and delivered in person by DMK MP T R Baalu to President's Secretariat on May 20 – Stalin reminded the President of a resolution passed by the then Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet recommending the release of the seven persons. The cabinet had on September 9, 2018 recommended to Governor Banwarilal Purohit to release Murugan, Santhan, Nalini, Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, and Ravichandran. However, the Governor sat on the file for over two years and passed the buck by saying the President was the competent authority to decide on their release. “These persons have already suffered hardship and agony in the past three decades and have paid a heavy price. There has already been an inordinate delay in the consideration of their pleas for remission. In the present circumstance of Covid-19 pandemic, Courts are also recognising the need to decongest prisons,” Stalin wrote in the letter. The issue of seven convicts is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with almost all political parties – barring Congress and BJP – endorsing the decision to release them from jail. The AIADMK government had in 2018 passed the resolution and sent it to the Governor, who told the Supreme Court after two years that he cannot take a call on it. The Centre has also been arguing that only it can decide on the release of the seven convicts as the case was investigated by its agency, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In the letter, Stalin also noted that all parties support their release from prison. “I therefore request the Hon'ble President to kindly accept the recommendation of the state government dated 9.9.2018 and pass appropriate orders to remit the life sentence of all the seven convicts and direct their release immediately and oblige,” Stalin said. Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated by an LTTE suicide bomber at Sriperumbudur on May 21, 1991, before he was to address an election rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/accept-tn-cabinets-decision-release-seven-rajiv-case-convicts-stalin-to-president-988099.html
20-05-2021||South||C K Kumaravel quits Makkal Needhi Maiam||Another well-known name in actor Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam, C K Kumaravel, quit the party on Thursday, objecting to the "individual" based approach of the MNM. Proprietor of a chain of salons, Kumaravel had earlier also quit the party in 2019, but rejoined it later. In his resignation letter to the MNM chief, Kumaravel also alleged 'misguidance' by Haasan's political advisors and claimed their focus was on winning only one seat in the April 6 Assembly polls, apparently Coimbatore South constituency from where the former contested unsuccessfully. The party and its leader were well-received earlier and the expectations about it grew, "but today we have lost our chance," he said. While the party had all the makings to sit in the opposition, it now lacked even a single member, Kumaravel said. "The reason is your political advisors and their misguidance. Their narrow thinking and activities that we can win just in one segment had shattered people's trust on us and their expectations," he said. Those who had quit the party have place before Haasan, as well as the media, the reasons for the party's drubbing, Kumaravel said. Incidentally, former vice president Dr R Mahendran and ex general secretary M Muruganandam, who had quit MNM earlier, had alleged lack of democracy in the party. "I want to travel in the path of secular politics, rather than one that is dependent on an individual," Kumaravel said, adding, he was resigning from the primary membership. He also thanked Haasan for the love and affection shown by the party chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/c-k-kumaravel-quits-makkal-needhi-maiam-988126.html
20-05-2021||South||'Metroman' fulfils promise to voters despite losing elections||Despite losing the Assembly elections, 'Metroman' E Sreedharan has kept his promise to a section of his voters by taking the initiative in getting power supply for them. Families of Mandhuraveeran colony near Palakkad town had urged Sreedharan during the election campaign to help them restore the power supply that was cut due to dues. Sreedharan assured the people that he would get it done even if he loses the election. Even as Sreedharan lost the election, the people did not lose their hope. Sreedharan paid Rs 81,525 required for restoring power supply to nine houses and getting fresh connections to eleven houses in the colony. A cheque for the amount was handed over to KSEB officials the other day.  88-year old Sreedharan had given a tough fight to Congress's Shafi Parambil at Palakkad as he lost by around 3,800 votes only. He was even informally projected as Chief Minister candidate by the BJP in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/metroman-fulfils-promise-to-voters-despite-losing-elections-988133.html
20-05-2021||South||Jaggi Vasudev welcomes Tamil Nadu decision to go transparent on temple assets||Spiritual leader and founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev on Thursday termed as “historic step in the right direction” the Tamil Nadu Government's decision to go transparent on assets held by temples under its control by uploading all relevant documents and records online. Vasudev, who launched a campaign Free TN Temples earlier this year, said the decision was a historic step in the right direction. “We appreciate your swift action, responding to citizens’ call. Transparency is the first step towards good governance,” Vasudev said. He had Free TN Temples campaign earlier this year and had urged the state government to authorise third party audits to determine the quality of temple management as well as establish unambiguous data about temple properties, rents, administrative policies, day-to-day rituals and personnel appointment. Vasudev's comments came two days after Minister for Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) P K Sekar Babu asked officials to upload details of temple lands, buildings, and other records online. The meeting had decided that details of land and buildings owned by temples under the department and their records should be uploaded on the HR&CE website for public viewing. During the meeting, the minister also said documents relating to movable and immovable properties owned by temples in the state should also be uploaded on the website. Vasudev's campaign had received both support and opposition in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jaggi-vasudev-welcomes-tamil-nadu-decision-to-go-transparent-on-temple-assets-988150.html
20-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu reports 9 cases of 'black fungus' infection||As many as nine Covid-19 patients, including those who have diabetes, have been diagnosed with mucormycosis or 'black fungus' in Tamil Nadu, which on Thursday declared the infection as a “notified disease.” Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan asked people not to panic over mucormycosis which is said to affect eyes and other organs while announcing that the government has set up a 10-member committee to monitor the spread of the disease in the state. Hours later, Radhakrishnan issued an order notifying mucormycosis as a “notified disease.” The infection has been found on many patients who have recovered from Covid-19 across the country. “There is no need to panic. Nine patients in Tamil Nadu have been diagnosed with mucormycosis. Six of them are old cases, and three are new. Of the nine patients, seven have diabetes,” Radhakrishnan said, adding that hospitals that detect the infection should immediately notify the Directorate of Public Health (DPH). Doctors said the infection can be treated at the early stage using the drug, Liposomal Amphotericin B that is used in the treatment of the fungal infection. Radhakrishnan said though the government has enough stock, it has placed an order for another 5,000 vials. Dr K Vasantha, an eminent ophthalmologist and past president of Tamil Nadu Ophthalmology Association, told DH that the incidence of the disease is rare in normal times. “I have attended to just two such cases in my career, and it is a rare disease. If one gets infected with the disease, their blood sugar will shoot up even if they don't have diabetes. Both patients I attended to had uncontrolled diabetes,” she said. She said the disease could be caused due to use of steroids and immuno-suppressants in Covid-19 patients. Dr Vasantha added that the drugs available now can treat the infection in its early stages. “It will spread through nose, sinuses, lungs, and eyes. If it reaches the brain, it will be very difficult to treat,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-9-cases-of-black-fungus-infection-988151.html
20-05-2021||South||500 teachers test Covid positive, 15 die after Telangana poll duty||About 500 teachers, who were on poll duties in the Warangal, Khammam corporation elections and the Nagarjuna Sagar Assembly by-poll in April, tested positive for Covid-19. Since the first week of May, 15 teachers among them died after getting infected with Covid-19, according to the Telangana State United Teachers Federation. Recently, Telangana High Court observed that those 15 teachers will be recognised as Covid warriors and will be given compensation. Also, Rs one lakh relief for the teachers testing positive for Covid-19 was announced by the Telangana government.  One such teacher who died was Sandhya. Her husband Mohan Rao who had accompanied her to the polling station said that no Covid protocols were followed. A defective thermometer was used to check the temperature of the people and the staff was not provided with any PPE kit when Covid positive patients came to vote, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/500-teachers-test-covid-positive-15-die-after-telangana-poll-duty-988153.html
20-05-2021||State||Karnataka doctor booked for not wearing mask||The Kadri police have booked a case against a physician on the charge of violating the guidelines on wearing mask. Dr B Srinivas Kakkilaya reportedly visited a super market without wearing the mask. The staff at the super market asked the doctor to wear the mask following which a verbal argument ensued. A video clipping of the CCTV footage went viral on social media. Subsequently, the super market staffers lodged a complaint withthe police. A case has been booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. The Indian Medical Association and The Association of Medical Consultants, Mangaluru condemned statements by Dr B S Kakkilaya.  “The Indian Medical Association and AMC does not stand by any of the actions and statements by the said doctor and stands by the government guidelines and endorses mask wearing by everyone in a public place, social distancing, hygiene and frequent hand washing/sanitising as per the current evidence and guidelines of WHO,” said a release from IMA Mangaluru SecretaryDr Animesh Jain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-doctor-booked-for-not-wearing-mask-987783.html
20-05-2021||State||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa launches 1,000-oxygen bed facility near Ballari||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa virtually inaugurated a 1,000-oxygenated bed Covid care centre near Ballari developed by JSW Steel.  There will be uninterrupted oxygen supply to this Covid care centre from the JSW steel production unit. There is a 4.8 km pipeline that will enable the oxygen supply. Speaking on the occasion, Yediyurappa said the infrastructure was developed within 15 days. The Ballari district administration will take care of the hospital, he added. As for ensuring adequate oxygen supply in the state, the government is making all efforts to ensure that all private medical colleges have their oxygen plant, he said. The government is partially funding these plants, too.  Also, the government has come up with a three-point strategy for oxygen in state which includes increasing liquid oxygen supply, ensuring local production through oxygen generators and concentrators and purchase of more cylinders, the CM added. Ballari district in charge minister Anand Singh, who also took part in the virtual launch, said the initiative would be useful for meeting the oxygen requirement of Covid infected patients in Ballari district. Yediyurappa also received 200 large medical grade 10 LPM oxygen concentrators from Greenko Group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-launches-1000-oxygen-bed-facility-near-ballari-987786.html
20-05-2021||State||Karnataka High Court bins PIL seeking action against police excesses||The High Court on Wednesday dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking registration of FIR and departmental enquiry against policemen who assaulted general public while enforcing lockdown norms. A division bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice M Nagaprasanna said that a remedy is always available under the criminal procedure Code (CrPC) by way of filing a private complaint if such excesses are used by the police. The petition is filed by S Balakrishnan, a city-based advocate and a trade union activist. The petitioner cited media reports in support of his contention that the police had indulged in excess force against the public. “There may be some stray incidents, for which a roving probe cannot be ordered. They (police) may not be doing that out of any pleasure,” the bench observed.  The petitioner had quoted the example of police brutality on Lala Lajpat Rai during the freedom struggle. The bench observed that lathi charge during the freedom struggle cannot be equated with the state police’s action against violators of lockdown norms. In the present context, the police are standing on the streets as frontline workers risking their own lives only to enforce lockdown norms to contain the spread of Covid-19. The bench said the entire world is facing a grave situation following the spread of the virus and frontline workers have lost their lives. Cost imposed The bench dismissed the petition and also imposed a cost of Rs 1,000 on the petitioner for filing a frivolous petition. Justice Sharma orally observed that in his experience, Karnataka police are a well-disciplined police force in the country. He also pointed out that there is a habit among some people who venture out in their high-end cars just to get a glimpse of the city roads during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-bins-pil-seeking-action-against-police-excesses-987787.html
20-05-2021||State||20 children get Zydus Cadila clinical trial Covid-19 vaccine in Karnataka||Even as children are predicted to be at risk in the possible third wave of Covid-19, a Karnataka trial site for Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D Covid vaccine has successfully vaccinated 20 children as part of the company’s phase 3 efficacy trials.  Out of 1,700 volunteers who participated in phase 3 trials in Karnataka, 20 were children between 12 and 18 years. According to Dr Amit Bhate, director and principal investigator at Jeevan Rekha Hospital in Belagavi, the children showed no side effects and all of them completed the first dose.  “In each of these 43 trial sites across India, about 20 to 30 children were vaccinated. We are the only trial centre in Karnataka for paediatric volunteers. The three-dose vaccine is given on day 0, day 28 and day 56. The second dose administration to the children is under way and after every dose, blood samples are taken to test antibody levels,” he said. Bhate added, “The observation period has been extended from eight months to twelve months and these children will be observed for at least a year as part of the trial post-vaccination. The paediatric volunteer group consists of an equal number of boys and girls. The hospital has also applied to be part of Covaxin’s clinical trial for children aged 2 to 12 years of age beginning next month.”  Currently, children are vaccinated against 12 vaccine-preventable diseases -- diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, polio, tuberculosis, hepatitis B, meningitis, pneumonia, Haemophilus influenza type B, Japanese encephalitis, rotavirus, and measles-rubella (MR). Dr Bhaskar Shenoy, paediatric consultant, Manipal Hospital, who specialises in paediatric infectious diseases, vaccines, and Kawasaki disease (affects paediatric Covid patients) said these vaccines were thoroughly researched. He said they were not rolled out for children without safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data being made publicly available. “Currently, the phase 1 (safety) and phase 2 (immunogenicity) trial data for this vaccine are not publicly available. Only after the phase 3 trials are complete and data from a minimum one-year observation period is available, approvals should be given. Children’s physiology, body structure, and tolerability of side effects are also different. We need robust data for approvals,” Shenoy said.  However, Dr Shantharaj A, president, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Karnataka State branch and Dr Srinivas S, paediatrician and chairman, Indian Medical Association standing committee for child health, said time is of the essence and accelerated approvals of paediatric Covid vaccines were the need of the hour. “We cannot wait for years to get approvals. Before children start succumbing to Covid at a scale at which adults are, we need to vaccinate them,” Shantharaj told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/20-children-get-zydus-cadila-clinical-trial-covid-19-vaccine-in-karnataka-987801.html
20-05-2021||State||Covid-19 positivity rate dropping in Karnataka, says K Sudhakar||Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Wednesday that Karnataka’s positivity rate was dropping despite testing only symptomatic patients. “This is a good sign,” he said. “Of course, I agree that the number of tests conducted has reduced. We will take measures to address that,” he added, while responding to questions at a news conference. The reduction in tests, he said, was not intentional and was due to technical issues which are being “sorted out.” According to the latest analysis by the state Covid-19 War Room, Karnataka’s positivity rate has dropped from 32.5% to 26.46%. According to the latest analysis by the State Covid-19 War Room, the positivity rate exceeds 30% in 11 districts and it is over 40% in three districts: Uttara Kannada (46.51%), Ballari (44.39%) and Belagavi (43.22%). Sudhakar said there was no correlation between a lower positivity rate and reduced tests. He said this when it was pointed out that there was a 24% reduction in testing. The minister said 30% of the tests conducted were Rapid Antigen Tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-positivity-rate-dropping-in-karnataka-says-k-sudhakar-987805.html
20-05-2021||State||PDS mechanism has collapsed in Karnataka, alleges Khader||U T Khader, MLA, has alleged that the Public Distribution System (PDS) has completely collapsed in Karnataka. At a time when people are in distress following the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has failed to distribute ration cards to the needy and the poor, he said The Food Security Act, also termed as Right to Food Act, aims to provide subsidised foodgrains to the poor through the PDS. Unfortunately, without ration cards, people are unable to demand for their rights, he told media persons in Mangaluru on Wednesday. Without ration cards, the poor are eagerly waiting for food. They are made to run from pillar to post. Why have the ministers and the BJP MLAs failed to raise a voice? he asked. The government should clearly inform people on why they are unable to generate ration cards and issue the same for needy applicants. Further, he urged the state government to stop suspending the BPL cards. He also asked the state government to initiate measures to supply parboiled rice, instead of white rice, to the cardholders through the PDS in the coastal districts and Malnad. He also urged the BJP government to continue the programmes of supplying 'tur dal' and green gram, along with rice through PDS to the poor. Coming down heavily on the Prime Minister for terming the deputy commissioner as the commander-in-chief for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, the MLA said that that DCs already have magisterial power to take a decision. By terming them as commander-in-chief, what additional powers have been entrusted to the deputy commissioners? he asked. Do DCs have the power to transfer DHOs and doctors if they fail to perform their duties effectively? The PM had directed for the constitution of village-level task force committees to tackle the pandemic. “We already have village-level task force committees that were constituted two months ago,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pds-mechanism-has-collapsed-in-karnataka-alleges-khader-987883.html
20-05-2021||State||Karnataka HC asks legislators about their aid to fight Covid-19||The High Court on Thursday disposed of a batch of public interest petitions filed by three legislators on various issues relating to the Covid-19 pandemic. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar posed a series of queries to the petitioner legislators on their contribution in fighting the pandemic. The court asked, being the privileged section of the society, whether they have set up beds for the Covid-19 patients in their constituencies and whether they have helped in procuring oxygen during medical emergency situations. The court observed that it has passed various directions, up to 800 pages, since last year. The bench directed the government to file a response in relation to some of the prayers in the petitions, before disposing them. The petition filed by K R Ramesh Kumar, former speaker and MLA from Srinivasapur constituency in Kolar district, sought directions to make arrangements for the collection of swabs for RT-PCR test from remote villages across the state. It also prayed for providing mobile laboratories in every corner of the state. Kumar contended that private hospitals are withholding bodies of Covid-19 victims, in violation of the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (KPME) Act. The bench said it would be appropriate for the government to issue a circular regarding the RT-PCR tests in remote villages, in the wake of more cases being reported from rural areas. Another legislator H K Patil prayed for a direction for making available oxygen cylinders with Isro, for storage. The petition was withdrawn when the court declined to entertain the prayer. Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council S R Patil filed a petition claiming that district administration has been forcing nursing homes to discharge Covid-19 patients in Bagalkot. The court pointed out that as an MLA, the petitioner cannot take the cause of private hospitals. The hospitals can approach the appropriate forum with grievances, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-asks-legislators-about-their-aid-to-fight-covid-19-988067.html
20-05-2021||State||Karnataka HC directs govt to rework Covid-19 vaccination strategy||The High Court on Thursday directed the state government to meticulously rework its vaccination strategy in line with the modified guidelines and timeline between doses issued by the central government. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar referred to the extended timeline between two doses for Covishield and also deferring of vaccination to those who contracted the virus. Observing that the situation regarding vaccination in the state continues to be critical, the bench said the state government will have to further prioritise administration of second dose which is already overdue. “The state government can work out date-wise data of the number of beneficiaries who will be completing 12 weeks in case of Covishield and 6 weeks in case of Covaxin. While doing so, the state government will have to exclude those whose vaccination has been deferred by 3 months as stated in the letter (by the Union Government) dated 19 May, 2021. Unless the state government prepares data everyday it may not be possible to effectively administer the second dose,” the bench said. The union Health Ministry had made changes in vaccination policy, including deferring vaccination to those infected by three months after recovery. Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi submitted that as on date (Thursday) 7.15 lakh doses of Covishield and only 97,440 doses of Covaxin are available in the state. The Additional Solicitor General for the central government submitted that by the second fortnight of May 2021, a total 9.17 lakh free doses of Covishield will be supplied by the Centre, while the state can directly procure 7.04 lakh doses. Similarly, the Centre will supply 1.64 lakh free doses of Covaxin while the state can purchase 2.44 lakh doses of home-grown vaccines by direct procurement. The bench directed the state and central governments to jointly address the serious issue of shortage of Covaxin. The court also asked the state government whether private agencies will also be allowed to administer a second dose. “When there is an acute shortage of second dose, the state government will have to come out with a policy which will be rational and fair. The response of the state government on the policy as well as on the question of issuing directions to private agencies shall be filed on record on the next date when these petitions will be heard,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-directs-govt-to-rework-covid-19-vaccination-strategy-988085.html
20-05-2021||State||Govt doctor sets a model; installs oxygen points outside hospital||A government doctor has set a model by installing oxygen points on the premises of the hospital to provide life-saving gas for the Covid patients.  Dr Rajkumar, an orthopaedician serving at the government hospital in Channapatna has spent around Rs 1.50 lakh got installed 15 oxygen points - nine near the fever clinic and six points in the general patients section. The doctor’s brother too joined hands in this effort.  With oxygen points available outside the emergency room of the hospital, Covid patients in need of oxygen can avail of the facility, even without getting themselves admitted. All these points are connected with the oxygen supply network of the hospital.  “Any Covid patient in emergency need of oxygen can make use of these oxygen points. They need not get admitted themselves to the hospital for this purpose. As a result, we can ensure timely treatment and thus can save many precious lives,” Dr Rajkumar said. The project has been named “Vaayu Sanjeevini”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-doctor-sets-a-model-installs-oxygen-points-outside-hospital-988092.html
20-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka has second-highest Covid-19 death toll in India||Karnataka with 22,838 Covid-19 deaths has the second-highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 only behind Maharashtra which has reported over 80,000 Covid-19 deaths. Delhi has the third-highest number of deaths due to the disease with 22,111 people succumbing to the disease. India saw record 4,529 fatalities due to coronavirus in a single day pushing the Covid-19 death toll to 2,83,248, while 2,67,334 fresh infections were recorded taking the total tally of cases to 2,54,96,330, according to the Union Health Ministry data on May 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-has-second-highest-covid-19-death-toll-in-india-987818.html
20-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Home Minister indicates stricter implementation of lockdown measures in days to come||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday indicated that police and the Home Department will go for stricter implementation of lockdown measures, like seizure of vehicles, in the days to come, by making them more effective, as the state battles second wave of Covid-19. The Minister's statement comes, as the government is likely to take a decision on extending the lockdown in the state, in a couple of days. "As cases are increasing in rural areas, Deputy Commissioners of various districts have imposed lockdown measures strictly, people should also understand the seriousness and cooperate," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters, he said, in the coming days the measures taken by the police or home department like seizures of vehicles of those indulging in unnecessary movement among others, will be made more effectively. "...for instance in Yadgir there are reports about five people going on a motorcycle to attend a marriage, what should we say, so people will have to cooperate with the police to make the lockdown successful," he added. Responding to a question on extending the lockdown, Bommai said the Chief Minister has said that a decision on this will be announced on May 23. The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the Covid cases continued to spike. With the current lockdown ending early next week, several leaders, including ministers, have expressed themselves in favour of extending it, to control the spread of Covid. Noting that the Chief Minister has announced the financial package, within the financial limitations, Bommai said, he has also said that if anything needs to be done in the future, it will be considered. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday had announced a over Rs 1,250 crore financial package, to provide relief for those whose livelihoods have been affected by Covid-19 induced lockdown. Opposition parties Congress and JD(S) have termed the package as unscientific and meagre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-home-minister-indicates-stricter-implementation-of-lockdown-measures-in-days-to-come-987890.html
20-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||One-third of Karnataka's Covid-19 deaths reported in first 20 days of May||One-third of all Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka — since the first case in March last year — were reported in the first 20 days of May. Data compiled from state government Covid bulletins shows that of the 23,306 deaths reported till date, 8,321 deaths — 34.88% — were in May, reflecting a significant spike in fatalities during the second wave. The peak of the second wave in terms of Covid positive cases was around five times the first, as maximum daily cases peaked at around 10,000 cases in September 20, whereas it was 50,112 cases when the second wave peaked in Karnataka on May 5. Experts note that the data pointed at the high infection rate of the B.1.617 variant causing the second wave to peak in just six to eight weeks, as compared to the variant last year which took six-seven months. Total deaths due to Covid was 12,081 on December 31 in Karnataka. In the next three months, cases declined in the state drastically as the first wave ebbed, resulting in 504 deaths in the next three months till March 31. The surge in the second wave led to an average of 100 deaths due to Covid per day in April. In May, the average number of deaths reported per day was 416, despite complaints of under reporting of deaths. As of May 20, total deaths stood at 23,854 - almost double the fatalities recorded in Karnataka just 50 days ago. Case numbers too surged from 973 cases reported on March 1 to over 4,000 cases by the end of the month. By April 15, infection numbers grew by about three times to 14,000 plus cases a day. On May 5, Karnataka recorded 50,112 cases - the highest single day spike of cases after which case numbers have marginally declined. Karnataka added a whopping 13.84 lakh cases from March 31 to May 19, as case numbers rose from 9.51 lakh to 23.03 lakh in the period. The exponential surge in cases during the second wave, according to virologist T Jacob John, was due to two factors. “One was that the first wave left a sufficient number of susceptible people. The first wave probably infected about half the population, leaving the other half vulnerable,” he said. The second was infection rate of the variant was four times that of the one that swept the country last year. “What happened in six months during the first wave took six to eight weeks in the second wave,” he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-third-of-karnatakas-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-first-20-days-of-may-987948.html
20-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka village stamps out Covid cases with self-enforced curbs||The residents of Katagi Shahapur village have not seen a single case of Covid-19 this week as a result of implementing strict protocols that they had put in place at the onset of the first wave last year as well. “Initially, nine cases were reported in Katagi Shahapur. No fresh cases have been reported from May 16,” Ramakrishna Reddy, Medical Officer at the Hattikuni Primary Health Centre, covering the village, told the publication. “During random RT-PCR testing conducted on the villagers last month, only nine cases were reported, all asymptomatic in nature. On Sunday, the reports came negative after a retest. Random RT-PCR testing will be conducted in the village after some days.” The villagers, however, said that they had not had a single case. They claimed that they had taken precautions since the initial rumblings of the second wave and had prohibited all movement inside the village, except for lighting lamps at village temples. A local told the newspaper that the elders of the village had called a meeting after witnessing the horrifying tales of people from Yadgir and other districts dying due to Covid and the shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir, deciding to disallow people from coming in or going out of the village. “Katagi Shahapur villagers are health conscious and hence volunteered to take such strict measures. We did not force them to implement a lockdown,” Yadgir tax officer Chennamallappa told the publication. Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday hinted that law enforcement would tighten the implementation of lockdown measures, including the seizure of vehicles, in days to come, citing the growing spread of the virus in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-village-stamps-out-covid-cases-with-self-enforced-curbs-987960.html
20-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah accuses govt of restricting access to Covid-19 information||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah accused Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa of restricting access to information on measures taken to tackle the pandemic. His outburst came after the state denied permission for the former CM to host a zoom meeting with DCs of districts. The Congress leader said that he was forced to host such a meeting as officials repeatedly refused to furnish the required information sought by the opposition parties on steps taken to tackle Covid pandemic in rural areas. In a letter to the CM, Siddaramaiah noted that he had requested Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on May 17 to allow him to host the video conference with DCs, zilla panchayat CEOs and district health officers. However, the request was denied by the chief secretary who informed that the Opposition leader could not hold such a meeting as rules and regulations did not allow for it. "I urge you to direct officials concerned to immediately appear via zoom and provide information," he said. KPCC president D K Shivakumar backed the demand by Siddaramaiah, recalling that Yediyurappa was allowed to host a meeting of district officials as opposition leader. "The government's decision to prevent us from learning how people are being assisted during such testing times, shows how they are destroying the democratic set up," he said. Leaders of the party were denied permission to travel to Ballari district and assess the situation there, he said. "Despite the government's best efforts to hide the shortcomings at hospitals, we get to know if anything goes wrong," Shivakumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-accuses-govt-of-restricting-access-to-covid-19-information-988006.html
20-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Gram Panchayats in Karnataka to get Rs 50,000 advance to shift Covid-19 patients to coronavirus care centres||Gram Panchayats in Karnataka will get Rs 50,000 each as advance to shift coronavirus patients to Covid care centres, Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Thursday. He was referring to the package announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday. Yediyurappa had said that 6,000 gram Panchayats will be given the sum in advance from the State Disaster Response Fund. "The Chief Minister has decided to provide Rs 50,000 advance to all village Panchayats. Village task force committee will utilise this fund to shift Covid patients to care centres," Sudhakar told reporters. The Minister also said districts in Karnataka with more number of Covid cases will get 25 oxygen concentrators. "State has received 800 concentrators recently which will be distributed to districts with more cases like Hassan, Mandya, Chikkaballapur, Kolar, Chitradurga where there is lack of facilities," Sudhakar said. He also said that the state health department is working out to provide more assistance like ICU facility and oxygen in all medical colleges across the state. Sudhakar said he would soon tour Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Davanagere, Haveri, Hubballi and Gadag medical colleges this week to review the situation. The minister also appealed to the district administrations and all public representatives to participate actively in Covid containment activities.   "At present the positivity rate is at 27 per cent. We are aiming to reduce it further by 5 per cent. IIT Kanpur has provided database research inputs to other countries on Covid projections and centre has also advised on this. We are also working on reducing mortality rate," Sudhakar said. To a question, the minister said the government was not hiding any statistics. "There is no point in hiding the statistics. We are conducting more than 1.25 lakh tests everyday. We are working to further increase the number and get the report within 24 hours," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gram-panchayats-in-karnataka-to-get-rs-50000-advance-to-shift-covid-19-patients-to-coronavirus-care-centres-988010.html
20-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pvt school staff pressure Karnataka govt for Covid-19 relief||The private school managements, staff and other stakeholders on Thursday launched a “telephonic campaign” demanding the resignation of MLCs elected from teachers and graduates constituencies and the education minister for not announcing any relief package for the pandemic-hit teaching and non-teaching staff of private unaided schools. The contact numbers of the MLCs and education minister were shared with all the stakeholders so that they could make a call, or send a message/voice message, demanding for resignation. The government on Wednesday had announced the Covid relief package to several sectors. “We have given clear instructions to all our member-schools and teaching and non-teaching staff to refrain from using unparliamentary words or making any personal attacks on the elected representatives. Our only intention was to make them realise the plight of the private unaided school staff,” said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. According to private schools, there are several options before the government to utilise the funds from the education department allocated to various schemes, which couldn’t be implemented due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The funds released for the schemes like free bicycle, free uniform, Ksheera Bhagya, shoes and socks were not used as schools remained shut during 2020-21 academic year and the same is the case for 2021-22 academic year. Our demand is to at least take measures to release financial packages for private school staff using that fund,” explained Shashi Kumar. According to the private schools body, there are over 2.25 lakh teaching and non-teaching staff working with private unaided schools in the state.  In wake of the campaign, Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has written to the chief minister requesting the latter to announce Covid relief package for the private schools staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pvt-school-staff-pressure-karnataka-govt-for-covid-19-relief-988096.html
20-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Black fungus' is notifiable disease, no hospital with capacity can deny treatment: Karnataka Minister||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said mucormycosis or 'black fungus' infection is now a notifiable disease and no hospital or medical centre having the capacity to provide treatment should deny admission to patients. He said an official government order towards this will be notified soon. Sudhakar, who is also in-charge of the Medical Education Department portfolio, in a series of tweets said the treatment of post-covid mucormycosis or 'black fungus' found in some cases requires multi-disciplinary approach involving ENT specialist, anaesthetist, ophthalmologist and maxillofacial surgeon. "Since all these specialist doctors are available in our district hospitals and government medical colleges, people can avail treatment for mucormycosis in these hospitals apart from Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru and other designated regional hospitals," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/black-fungus-is-notifiable-disease-no-hospital-with-capacity-can-deny-treatment-karnataka-minister-988125.html
20-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Gujarat govt to give Rs 4 lakh each to kin of dead||The Gujarat government on Wednesday approved a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the kin of those who have died due to various incidents related to cyclone Tauktae that ravaged coastal areas of the state. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who made the compensation announcement, said those injured in cyclone-triggered incidents will get Rs 50,000 each, said a state government release. This financial assistance is in addition to the central government's compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured persons, it said. According to the Gujarat government, 45 persons lost their lives in incidents related to the cyclone which hit the state on Monday night. Tauktae triggered heavy rains from Saurashtra coast to North Gujarat. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, more than 40,000 trees and over 70,000 electric poles uprooted, while 5,951 villages faced total power blackout, it said. In a video message, Rupani said his government's focus is on restoration of communication and electricity infrastructure and repair of damaged roads. Rupani thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who earlier in the day conducted an aerial survey of areas hit by the cyclone, for announcing a package of Rs 1,000 crore for the state to carry out "immediate relief activities". After hitting the coast on Monday night, cyclone Tauktae remained active on Gujarat's landmass for around 28 hours and passed from the Saurashtra coast till Banaskantha in the north, said Rupani. "Of the total 1,200 roads damaged and shut due to the extreme weather, we have repaired 1,100 till now and remaining roads will be opened by tomorrow (Thursday). "We have deployed 5,000 men for this work. Restoration is going on a war footing," said the chief minister. With the help of 15,000 personnel, 152 out of 219 power sub-stations, which were shut down due to the cyclone, were repaired and made operational, said the CM. "Electricity has been restored in a majority of the (affected) villages due to our efforts. Of the total 2,100 mobile towers damaged, around 1,500 were already repaired and made operational," he said. Though 295 Covid-19 hospitals experienced power cuts due to bad weather, patients were not affected as the hospitals were already instructed in advance to install power generator sets, said the CM. He said electricity has already been restored in 270 of these designated Covid-19 hospitals on a priority basis. The state government will start the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which was suspended due to the cyclone, from Thursday, said Rupani. He said the government would start the exercise of assessing the damage caused by the powerful storm, including crop loss, from Thursday and take a decision on compensation accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-gujarat-govt-to-give-rs-4-lakh-each-to-kin-of-dead-987820.html
20-05-2021||West||Former Rajasthan CM Jagannath Pahadia passed away due to Covid-19||Veteran Congress leader and former Rajasthan chief minister Jagannath Pahadia has died due to Covid-19 at the age of 89. The chief minister of Rajasthan in 1980-81 and also a former governor of Haryana and Bihar, Pahadia died on Wednesday. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said he was very shocked by the demise. "Pahadia left us because of COVID. I am very shocked by his demise. He had a lot of affection for me right from the beginning, Gehlot tweeted. He said Pahadia's death is a personal loss for him. The state government has announced a one-day mourning on Thursday during which government offices will be closed and the national flag will fly at half-mast. A cabinet meeting will also be held at 12 noon on Thursday to pay condolences to Pahadia, whose funeral will be held with state honour the same day. Saddened by the demise of former Rajasthan CM, Shri Jagannath Pahadia Ji. In his long political and administrative career, he made noteworthy contributions to further social empowerment. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-rajasthan-cm-jagannath-pahadia-passed-away-due-to-covid-19-987852.html
20-05-2021||West||38 from P-305 barge still missing; Death toll at 37||The death toll in the ONGC accommodation barge sinking tragedy has mounted to 37 with more bodies being found during the ongoing Search and Rescue (SAR) operations by the Indian Navy assisted by the Indian Coast Guard. While 22 bodies were brought on Wednesday morning by INS Kochi, 15 bodies were brought late Wednesday by INS Kolkata. A total of 261 persons were on board Papaa-305, of which 186 have been rescued. A majority of those who survived were brought by the two warships. Meanwhile, INS Kochi has left the Mumbai harbour again to join the SAR operations in the Mumbai High offshore development area, looking for survivors. INS Betwa, INS Beas and INS Teg are already there. Meanwhile, a P-8I is a long-range, multimission maritime patrol aircraft carrying out reconnaissance missions over the designated area even as ALH, SeaKing and Chetak helicopters carried out search operations. In the last four days, more than 600 crew and oil workers have been rescued by the Indian Navy assisted by Indian Coast Guard and ONGC platforms. Chances of finding more survivors are looking bleak, an official said. Mumbai police have announced they will conduct a probe as to why the ill-fated barge remained in the turbulent area despite warnings about cyclone Tauktae, an official said. They registered an accidental death report (ADR) on Wednesday in connection with the death of the personnel on the barge. "The Navy's Search and Rescue (SAR) operations entered the fourth day today. Naval ships and aircraft are presently undertaking SAR of the missing crew members of Accommodation Barge P-305, which sank on Monday 35 miles off Mumbai," a Navy spokesperson said. Navy ships INS Kochi, INS Kolkata, INS Beas, INS Betwa, INS Teg, P8I maritime surveillance aircraft, Chetak, ALH and Seaking helicopters are involved in the SAR operations, he said. Another Navy ship INS Talwar was the 'On Scene Coordinator' off Gujarat coast and assisted Support Station 3 (SS-3) and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which were being safely towed back to Mumbai by ONGC support vessels, he said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/38-from-p-305-barge-still-missing-death-toll-at-37-987867.html
20-05-2021||West||GI-certified Gholvad Chikoo from Maharashtra begins UK journey||In a major boost to exports of Geographical Indication (GI) certified products, a consignment of Dahanu Gholvad Sapota (chikoo) from Palghar district of Maharashtra was on Wednesday shipped to the United Kingdom. GI certification of Gholvad Sapota is held by Maharashtra Rajya Chikoo Utpadak Sangh and the fruit is known for its sweet and unique taste. It is believed that the unique taste is derived from calcium-rich soil of Gholvad village, located around 140 kms away from downtown Mumbai. Currently, in the Palghar district, around 5,000 hectares of land is under sapota plantation. Out of 5,000 farmers who grow Sapota, 147 farmers are authorised GI users. The Dahanu Gholvad Sapota, sourced from the authorised GI users, were sorted and graded from the APEDA assisted and registered packhouse facility at M/s Kay Bee Agro International Private Limited, Tapi, Gujarat and exported by M/s Kay Bee exports. At present, the demand in the importing countries is mainly from the ethnic population. In a statement, Dr M Angamuthu, Chairman, APEDA said that export can increase manifold if the mainstream buyers are also targeted as Sapota can be grown throughout the year unlike other fruits. APEDA has been thrust on promotion of exports of GI products, which with its uniqueness and intrinsic value have practically no competition from outsiders and offer good potential for export. Sapota is grown in many states- Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. Karnataka is known to be the highest grower of the fruit, followed by Maharashtra. It can be used in fruit salads, blended into milk or yogurt, as a smoothie or processed to make a jam out of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gi-certified-gholvad-chikoo-from-maharashtra-begins-uk-journey-987875.html
20-05-2021||West||CoviSelf: India's first self-use RAT kit gets ICMR approval||Testing of Covid-19 will now be possible sitting at home – in a matter of 15 minutes! Hours after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) gave its approval, the Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions is ready to roll out India’s first self-use Rapid test for Covid-19. The test is developed in India and is named as CoviSelf. Last year, Mylab gave India its first RT-PCR test. The detection kit is priced at Rs 250. The company will start shipping out tests within a few days. Mylab's current production capacity is 70 lakh tests per week and plans to increase its capacity to 1 crore tests per week within 14 days. Now, any citizen can test for Covid-19 themselves, isolate and seek treatment quickly. The self-use test can be used by symptomatic individuals and immediate contacts of confirmed cases as per ICMR guidelines. Users of this test will not need sample collection by a healthcare professional. This will ease pressure on already overburdened testing labs and reduce delays in testing, which is more than 72 hours in some parts of the country. With CoviSelf, Mylab aims to make testing reach the doorstep of every Indian to help them fight the second and any subsequent waves of pandemic. Early detection can help save thousands of lives and significantly reduce burden on hospitals. The test can be purchased without a prescription from local pharmacies and online channel partners. Hasmukh Rawal, Managing Director of Mylab Discovery Solutions said: “This is the biggest crisis our country has ever faced. Time and again, we have tried to observe carefully what our country needs and developed solutions with social benefit at the core. With CoviSelf, we are sharing the power of testing early with the citizens. It will save thousands of lives. For India, we will make millions of kits available at a fraction of the cost of such kits in the United States.“. Each kit will be provided with all testing materials, instructions to use (IFU) leaflet and a biohazard bag to safely dispose of after testing. The test is designed to be done using nasal swab (not the deep nasopharyngeal swab) to reduce the discomfort. CoviSelf will provide results in 15 min and people who test positive should immediately isolate so that they do not infect others and quickly contact a healthcare provider. Those who test negative and continue to experience Covid-like symptoms should seek follow up care from their healthcare provider.  Every pack has a unique QR code, which has to be entered along with test outcome to get a report on the App.    “Most western countries have allowed self-test for their citizens and consider it as a powerful tool to break the chain. This easy-to-use test combines with Myab’s AI-powered mobile app so that a user can know his/her positive status, submit the result to ICMR directly for traceability, and know what to do next in either case of result. We are sure this small step will be a big leap in mitigating the second and subsequent waves,” said Sujit Jain, Director at Mylab Discovery Solutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coviself-indias-first-self-use-rat-kit-gets-icmr-approval-987888.html
20-05-2021||West||Barge sinking: Yellow Gate police station registers ADR||The Mumbai Police has registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR) on the incident involving the sinking of ONGC’s accommodation barge Papaa-305 – in which 26 persons have died and 49 are still reported missing. The ADR was registered on Wednesday night in the Yellow Gate Police Station, which has jurisdiction over a large section of the Arabian Sea. As of now, the ADR involves the bodies of 22 crew and oil industry workers that were brought to the Mumbai harbour by warship INS Kochi. Four bodies are expected to be brought on Thursday. The police probe would cover various aspects of the case – and the Mumbai Police is expected to consult maritime agencies, including the Directorate General of Shipping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/barge-sinking-yellow-gate-police-station-registers-adr-987894.html
20-05-2021||West||Give cyclone relief aid to other states, too, say NCP, Sena||The NCP on Thursday claimed that six states, including Maharashtra and Goa, suffered losses due to Cyclone Tauktae, but the Centre announced financial assistance only for Gujarat. The Shiv Sena, which shares power in Maharashtra with the NCP and Congress, expressed hope that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would also announce a financial assistance for Maharashtra and Goa soon. However, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said Prime Minister Modi has clearly stated that the cyclone-affected states will get assistance from the Centre. Fadnavis alleged that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra was deliberately trying to rake up a controversy over the PM's visit to Gujarat. On Wednesday, Modi conducted an aerial survey of areas hit by the cyclone in Gujarat and approved an assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for "immediate relief activities" in the state. He also announced on ex-gratia compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the kin of those killed due to cyclone in all affected states. Maharashtra minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil in a tweet said, "Last year, Nisarga cyclone devastated Konkan but the financial assistance by Centre was meagre. Now, 6 other states have had losses due to Tauktae (Konkan in MH and Goa being badly hit) - yet no assistance to anyone but GJ!" Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said there was no need to be upset over the financial aid of Rs 1,000 crore to Gujarat. The state is a part of India and has suffered losses due to the cyclone, he said. "PM Modi is a large-hearted man. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis toured the affected areas of Maharashtra and will surely apprise the Centre of the extent of damage and losses," Raut told reporters here. The Rajya Sabha said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will also visit the affected regions on Friday. "A detail memorandum on what help is required will be compiled. I am sure the Centre will provide Rs 1,500 crore to Maharashtra and Rs 500 crore to Goa," he said. Maharashtra NCP's chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said the cyclone hit the state's Konkan region "the most" and citizens in the coastal belt suffered financial losses due to the calamity. But help was provided only to Gujarat, he alleged. "...the Modi government has meted out injustice to the people in Konkan. It was not expected that the prime minister of the country would discriminate among states. Maybe, it is the BJP's stand to provide assistance only to the states where it is in power," the NCP leader claimed. He said the MVA government in Maharashtra stands firmly with farmers and citizens from the Konkan region. However, Fadnavis said a press note issued by the Union government after the PM's visit to Gujarat clearly stated that the cyclone-affected states will get assistance from the Centre. "The MVA government in Maharashtra is deliberately trying to rake up a controversy over his visit to Gujarat," the former chief minister told reporters in Raigad. The cyclone made landfall in Gujarat, where several villages have been swept away, Fadnavis said, while noting that it caused damages in states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and two Union Territories. He said no other state reacted adversely after the press note issued by the Union government because they had read the statement, and the BJP is not even in power in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. "All the states will get help from the Centre, including Maharashtra," Fadnavis asserted. He said there is already a provision of the State Disaster Management Fund. "A state can draw funds from it and provide assistance to the affected people. Every state government is aware of such provision. Once the state uses that fund, the Centre, through the National Disaster Management Fund, provides further assistance to the state," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/give-cyclone-relief-aid-to-other-states-too-say-ncp-sena-987927.html
20-05-2021||West||Mumbai to import 1 crore Sputnik V doses, plans to vaccinate entire city in 60 days||Mumbai municipality is importing one crore Sputnik V doses and has set an ambitious plan of getting every citizen of the city vaccinated against Covid-19 in 60 days. It is the first city in India to independently import vaccines. "Once we get 15 million vaccine shots, I plan to vaccinate the entire city in the next 60 days and by doing so I am very sure we will be able to stop the third wave from coming," Mr Chahal told Bloomberg TV. The city has received three bids to import one crore Sputnik V vaccines from London-based Taliesin International Ltd. and two Indian authorised distributors of Sputnik V vaccines. It needs one crore shots of the Russian vaccine to vaccinate people in the age group of 18-45 and another 50 lakh shots for people above 45 years old. Chahal told The Hindu, “We got three proposals yesterday, but we still extended the date till May 25. Now we have three bids of one crore Sputnik each.” Apart from the Sputnik V vaccine, Mumbai’s municipal corporation is also trying to import Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-to-import-1-crore-sputnik-v-doses-plans-to-vaccinate-entire-city-in-60-days-987952.html
20-05-2021||West||Covid-19 active cases in Maharashtra dip below 4 lakh after nearly 2 months||After nearly two months, active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra dipped below the four-lakh mark on Thursday. The active Covid-19 cases now stand at 3,83,253. Nearly a month ago, active Covid-19 cases in the state had crossed six lakh. In the last 24 hours, the state recorded 29,911 cases and 738 deaths, taking the progressive total to 54,97,448 and 85,355, respectively.  During the day, 47,371 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 50,26,308, thus crossing the 50-lakh mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-active-cases-in-maharashtra-dip-below-4-lakh-after-nearly-2-months-988042.html
20-05-2021||West||Antigen test must for travellers arriving at Kalyan station||Travellers alighting at Kalyan railway station in Maharashtra from outstation trains will have to undergo antigen test as a precautionary measure against coronavirus, an official said on Thursday. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) in a release said the test is mandatory for people arriving from other states and those to do not undergo the same will have to face action, including fines. Municipal commissioner Dr Vijay Suryavanshi, area manager Dr Pramod Jadhav and officials of the Railways and Government Railway Police toured the station and took stock of the situation, the official said. The KDMC has noted that travellers coming from other states skip the antigen test and enter the city, endangering lives, he said. According to the statement issued by the civic body, large number of people from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, among other states, who had left Maharashtra at the start of the second wave of the pandemic, were returning to Kalyan by trains. Most of the returnees are not taking the mandatory tests, the KDMC stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antigen-test-must-for-travellers-arriving-at-kalyan-station-988106.html
20-05-2021||West||19 dead due to cyclone Tauktae in Maharashtra||Cyclone Tauktae claimed a total of 19 lives in Maharashtra while 37 persons were injured in cyclone-related incidents, the state disaster management authority said on Thursday evening. Deaths were reported from seven districts, it said in a report. Two people died in the coastal Ratnagiri district when an electric wire snapped and fell on them, while two died in tree fall incidents in Jalgaon district of north Maharashtra, it said. The cause of death in other cases was not specified. Raigad and Sindhudurg districts reported four deaths each, Thane and Palghar districts three each while Mumbai reported one death. All these are coastal districts. The cyclone, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, affected 10 districts in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/19-dead-due-to-cyclone-tauktae-in-maharashtra-988109.html
20-05-2021||West||Gujarat CM conducts aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas in Amreli and Gir-Somnath districts and later said compensation will be given after assessment of damage caused to crops and property. Rupani's aerial survey came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi undertook a similar exercise to assess the devastation caused by cyclone Tauktae in Gujarat and adjoining Union territory of Diu. The Gujarat CM had accompanied Modi during Wednesday's aerial survey. After the aerial survey, Rupani visited Garal village under Una taluka of Gir-Somnath district and interacted with local residents. He assured the villagers that his government is working on a war footing to restore normalcy in the entire coastal belt, ravaged by the powerful storm that hit the state three days ago. "Most of the kutcha houses in Una were destroyed. Standing crops as well as mango and coconut trees were also uprooted. "A survey to assess the loss has been initiated from today and compensation will be announced accordingly," Rupani told reporters after meeting villagers at Garal. Cyclone Tauktae had made a landfall in Una taluka on Monday night with a wind speed of over 150 kilometers per hour. As many as 53 people have lost their lives in incidents related to the cyclone, which triggered heavy rains, in different parts of Gujarat, officials said. The storm caused large-scale damage to communication and electricity infrastructure and also roads. "I have asked the administration to restore electricity, water supply and roads by Sunday. If needed, we will bring in more manpower to speed up the restoration work. "My government is committed to restore normalcy in the coastal belt at the earliest," said Rupani. The CM held a review meeting with local officials in Gir-Somnath district and took stock of the damage and ongoing relief work. He directed the officials to make use of generators to supply drinking water in areas where electricity has not been restored yet. The CM also reviewed ongoing relief and restoration work in Amreli district. He informed reporters in Amreli that vehicle-mounted power generator sets have been deployed at several places to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply in some of the affected villages. Rupani said mobile tower operators have been asked to restore communication network in the affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-conducts-aerial-survey-of-cyclone-hit-areas-988110.html
20-05-2021||West||Mumbai cop moves SC opposing Param Bir Singh's plea for transfer of inquiries||A Mumbai police officer has moved the Supreme Court on Thursday opposing a pending plea of former commissioner of police Param Bir Singh for transfer of all inquiries and investigations to any other state outside Maharashtra. An application has been filed by police official Bhimraj Rohidas Ghadge submitting that he is opposing the reliefs sought by former Mumbai police commissioner as they are “not only misconceived but also likely to cause a serious miscarriage of justice”. The application filed through advocate Vipin Nair said that the top court should disallow/reject the plea of Singh as “it is a pure abuse of the due process of law and deserves to be dismissed with costs”. Ghadge claimed that he has spent his entire career of 27 years, with the Mumbai Police/Home Department and alleged that he “has suffered enormous injustice and victimization at the hands of the present Petitioner (Param Bir Singh), since the applicant had not obliged him by favouring anti-social elements”. The plea further alleged, “The intervenor has enough reasons to submit that the Petitioner herein has done great disservice to his cadre and to his State all these years, and had defamed the police force, through corrupt practices during his entire service period”. He alleged that Singh has used “his position and uniform” to implicate him in several false and frivolous cases. Ghadge in his plea alleged several cases of victimisation by Singh including by-passing of his seniority and appointing of 11 police inspectors juniors to him as Senior Police Inspectors, who were made in-charge of their respective police stations in 2014. The cop said that he was then attached to Bazarpeth Police Station, Kalyan under the Police Commissionerate, Thane whereas Singh was working as Commissioner of Police, Thane at the relevant time in 2015 and he had made several representations but nothing happened. “As many as 39 police inspectors came to be transferred of which 11 were, therefore, once again preferred a representation on June 29, 2015, to the petitioner stating that he was subjected to injustice inasmuch as 11 police inspectors junior to him were appointed as senior police inspectors. Further, the applicant had a blemishless career with good confidential reports,” he said. Ghadge said that he had specifically made a grievance that he was denied appointment as senior police inspector merely because he belonged to “Mahar” Scheduled Caste. He said that he approached Maharashtra State SC-ST Commission which directed Singh to post him as Senior Police Inspector and submit the compliance report. “The petitioner was very much annoyed after seeing the order of the Chairman of SC-ST Commission in which some adverse remarks were also observed against him. The petitioner developed prejudice and bore a deep rooted grudge since then, against the Intervenor”, he said. Ghadge in his plea made several other allegations against Singh and said that in one corruption case he was to stop the ongoing investigation and ensure that the names of three Municipal Commissioners, 12 officials of Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation and 7 builders are dropped from the charge sheet. “Furthermore, since the Intervenor herein had refused to oblige the petitioner so as to remove the names of the accused persons from the FIRs, investigations of which were entrusted to him and not to file chargesheet against them, the petitioner hatched a conspiracy with his subordinates to place the intervenor under suspension and thereby, take away the investigations of such cases from his hands and instigated such disgruntled elements to lodge false and frivolous complaints against the intervenor”, he said. The applicant said that accordingly four offences came to be registered against him within a span of 10 days and was placed under suspension on the very day on which the first offence was registered on August 23, 2015, that too on the basis of the complaint lodged by one Madan Darade, who was an accused in an offence registered at Bazarpeth Police Station. “The most striking feature in registration of offences against the intervenor was that the complaints were lodged by no other than accused persons against whom offences were already registered and investigations were pending with the intervenor”, he said. On May 18, Supreme Court judge Justice B R Gavai had recused himself from hearing a plea filed by Singh. Singh, a 1988-batch IPS officer, was removed from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner on March 17 and was made the General Commander of Maharashtra State Home Guard after he levelled allegations of corruption and misconduct against then Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. The Bombay High Court had ordered a CBI probe into allegations of Singh against Deshmukh who had to resign as the minister. The senior police officer, in his fresh plea before the top court, has alleged that he has been made to face several inquiries by the state government and its instrumentalities and sought their transfer outside Maharashtra and a probe into them by an independent agency like the CBI. Singh has been facing inquiries, including the one under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in a case of 2015 and he has termed this as a witch-hunt by the state agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-cop-moves-sc-opposing-param-bir-singhs-plea-for-transfer-of-inquiries-988123.html
20-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Death toll in Gujarat goes up to 79||As many as 79 people have lost their lives in incidents related to cyclone Tauktae in different parts of Gujarat, officials said on Thursday as the authorities carried out restoration work in affected areas and launched damage assessment exercise. Amreli in the Saurashtra region was the worst affected district with 45 deaths so far, said an official of the Amreli District Emergency Operations Centre (DEOC). As per Gir-Somnath DEOC, as many as 11 people have been killed in different cyclone related incidents in the district. In Bhavnagar, nine persons have died, the district DEOC said. Amreli, Gir-Somnath, and Bhavnagar districts bore the maximum brunt of the powerful storm. Cyclone Tautkae made a landfall on Monday night near Una town in Gir-Somnath district and wreaked havoc for around 28 hours in the state before it weakened into a depression. As per figures of other districts shared by the State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC), five people were killed in Ahmedabad, two in Kheda and one each in Anand, Vadodara, Surat, Valsad, Rajkot, Navsari and Panchmahal districts. The cyclonic storm had triggered heavy rains, uprooted electricity poles, trees and damaged houses and roads. It also caused large-scale damage to communication and electricity infrastructure. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-affected districts of Gujarat and announced a package of Rs 1,000 crore to carry out "immediate relief activities". Later, the Gujarat government approved a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the kin of those killed in various incidents related to the cyclone. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had also announced a compensation of Rs 50,000 for those injured. The state's compensation was in addition to the central government's financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh for the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured, said a government release on Wednesday. Earlier on Thursday, Rupani conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas in Amreli and Gir-Somnath districts and later said compensation will be given after assessment of the damage caused to crops and property. After the aerial survey, Rupani visited Garal village under Una taluka of Gir-Somnath district and interacted with local residents. He assured the villagers that his government is working on a war footing to restore normalcy in the entire coastal belt, ravaged by the powerful storm that hit the state three days ago. "Most of the kutcha houses in Una were destroyed. Standing crops as well as mango and coconut trees were also uprooted. "A survey to assess the loss has been initiated from today and compensation will be announced accordingly," Rupani told reporters after meeting villagers at Garal. The chief minister said his government is committed to restoring normalcy in the coastal belt at the earliest. "I have asked the administration to restore electricity, water supply, and repair roads by Sunday. If needed, we will bring in more manpower to speed up the restoration work," said Rupani. The CM held a review meeting with local officials in the Gir-Somnath district and took stock of the damage and ongoing relief work. Rupani also reviewed ongoing relief and restoration work in the Amreli district. He informed reporters in Amreli that vehicle-mounted power generator sets have been deployed at several places to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply in some of the affected villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-death-toll-in-gujarat-goes-up-to-79-988132.html
20-05-2021||West||With over 1,100 cases in only five cities, mucormycosis declared an epidemic in Gujarat||Hours after the central government asked the states to declare it as an epidemic, the Vijay Rupani government in Gujarat on Thursday evening announced mucormycosis or black fungus as an epidemic under Epidemic Disease Act, 1857. A disease is declared epidemic by governments by notifying it under this act. A brief statement released by the state government announced the decision, stating that all hospitals- government as well as private- treating this disease will have to report to the government on all confirmed cases. According to various reports, Gujarat is said to be one of the worst affected states by the black fungus. As per estimates, five major cities- Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar-alone have reported over 1,100 cases. In Ahmedabad civil hospital special ward, there were 371 cases by Thursday evening. "As on today, we have 371 cases out of which surgery was performed on 156. On average, we are getting 25-26 fresh cases daily," medical superintendent J V Modi told DH.   Similarly, Rajkot is reported to have over 400 cases, followed by Surat and Vadodara each having nearly 150 cases and Jamnagar with nearly 100 cases. These cases are under treatment at eight government hospitals in these cities. However, there is no consolidated figure from the hospitals across the state including private ones. When contacted, state health minister Nitin Patel said that he was not well enough to comment. "I am resting after recovering from Covid-19," he said. Earlier in the day, he had virtually inaugurated an oxygen plant and addressed the gathering which was live telecast on Facebook. For the first time on May 8, the Rupani government acknowledged the large-scale prevalence of the disease and announced the setting up of special wards for treatment. Since then the cases of black fungal, which is largely affecting Covid-19 patients, has been increasing as well as the demand of antifungal drug Amphotericin-B. The life-saving drug is in acute shortage in the state. The fungal infection has left people losing their eyesights, teeth and jaws. Recently, the Gujarat high court, during the hearing on suo moto PIL on the Covid-19 situation, had taken note of the surging disease and sought details from the government. The government submitted that the state had placed orders for over 1.24 lakh vials of Amphotericin. On Thursday, the state also issued a circular which notified certain government hospitals to get the doses for which people will have to bring doctors' prescription, case details, Aadhar card copy, among other details. This "rationing" of the medicine is in the line of Remdesivir for which people had to wait in line for hours. Curbs eased in Gujarat Meanwhile, the Gujarat government on Thursday announced lifting of Covid-19 curbs on commercial establishments from 36 cities in view of declining daily positive cases. These establishments and street vendors have been permitted to do business from 9 AM to 3 PM from May 21.   The state government never imposed complete lockdown in the state in the second wave but brought restrictions such as night curfew, from 8 PM to 6 AM, and closure of commercial entities barring essential services including medicine stores, eateries and provisional stores. The night curfew will remain in place, said a statement released by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-over-1100-cases-in-only-five-cities-mucormycosis-declared-an-epidemic-in-gujarat-988140.html
