21-05-2021||First Edit||All politics, no science reason for failure||The resignation of senior virologist Dr Shahid Jameel as the head of the scientific advisory body set up by the government for study and surveillance of the Coronavirus in the country is not only a setback but also a pointer to the poor management of the pandemic situation. Dr Jameel resigned last week from the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortia (INSACOG), which works to detect genomic variants of the Coronavirus and reports to the government on its findings. It links many laboratories which are tracking the virus and its variants. Dr Jameel has not clearly spelt out the reason for his resignation but has given indications of it in some interviews and an article he wrote for The New York Times. In these, he has expressed his disappointment and frustration over the government’s refusal to act on the basis of scientific inputs provided by experts in the field.   Dr Jameel has put it on record that the scientists who advise the government are “finding stubborn resistance to evidence-based policymaking.” He was worried that the government’s policy was not driven by science. He also mentioned a letter written by over 800 Indian scientists on April 30, which appealed to the Prime Minister for access to the data that could help them further study, predict and help curb the virus. INSACOG had warned the government in March about the new variant of the virus which is thought to be active now and advised it that major restrictions would have to be imposed to contain its spread. Dr Jameel had also suggested increased testing and isolation of infected people before the second wave started. But the government did not pay heed to it and even claimed that the pandemic had been brought under control.  Even without Dr Jameel’s observations, it has been widely noted that the government’s response to the pandemic and its management has not been scientific and was not based on facts and data. In fact, correct and comprehensive data about different aspects of the pandemic, like caseloads, mortality rates, etc., are not available. The government has not been transparent and some of its policies and decisions have been considered as arbitrary and whimsical. It also did not curb political rallies and religious gatherings which spread the virus. The government should have been ready to accept inputs and suggestions from all quarters, especially doctors and scientists. It now turns out that it did not accept the views of its own bodies which were created to guide it. Some members of the government even promoted unscientific ideas and remedies. Dr Jameel’s resignation has helped to shed light on the government’s failings in important areas of Covid management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/all-politics-no-science-reason-for-failure-988208.html
21-05-2021||In Perspective||TRIPS waiver on Covid-19 vaccines need of the hour||The Covid pandemic will be spoken of in the future in the same breath as the two World Wars, the Great Depression and 9/11. In short, it is a watershed event. An event of this magnitude should have been dealt with a common strategy by the international community. With the advent of vaccines, everybody was hoping that there would be a swift end to the pandemic. On the contrary, the situation has worsened with many nations witnessing a second or third wave. We are failing to slay the virus because of a lack of common action. Nations have been, from the very outset, facing shortage of diagnostic kits, medical equipment, therapeutic drugs, and now of vaccines. The big businesses are following a business-as-usual approach, holding on to their Intellectual Property, giving only limited manufacturing licences, which are not sufficient to meet the current needs. Initiatives by the World Health Organisation, like the Covid-Technology Access Pool (C-TAP) and the Covax vaccine alliance are no doubt commendable. But the C-TAP has been a non-starter as the big businesses that can make vital contributions have stayed out, and Covax’s target of procuring two billion doses by the end of 2021 to cover at least 20% of the population of each participating country is not enough to take us out of the woods. The India-South Africa proposal for waiver of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) is a request for waiver from obligations arising out of Sections 1,4,5 & 7 (dealing with copyrights, industrial designs, patents and undisclosed information, respectively) of part II of the TRIPS agreement, for prevention, containment and treatment of Covid-19. It is only a temporary measure, to be availed of until the majority of the world population has developed immunity through a wider vaccination programme. The waiver proposal goes beyond patents in view of the fact that Covid-related products are covered by other forms of IP protection as well. The proposal has received tremendous support, not just from developing countries but also from lawmakers of developed countries, civil society groups and eminent individuals. Another welcome development is the US support for it, announced by President Joe Biden. But a handful of developed countries are opposing it. They are of the opinion that the inbuilt flexibilities of the TRIPS agreement like compulsory licensing (CL) would be enough to tide over the issue. The sponsors of the waiver aver that the inbuilt flexibilities will not be of much help in an unprecedented situation like this as they were not designed for it. The flexibilities involve a ‘case by case’ and ‘product by product’ approach that is complex and time-consuming. A single Covid-related product contains several components, each of which may be covered by a patent. Producing that product through the CL route will take time as licences have to be issued for each component. If the parts are to be manufactured in different countries, then each nation will have to issue a CL. Synchronising the manufacturing process will then become very difficult. Also, CLs have territorial restrictions, which means that through this process, products can be produced only for domestic markets. Countries that do not have the required manufacturing capacity to produce can issue a compulsory licence to a third party under Article 31 bis, but they come with a lot of stipulations. Compulsory Licences have very rarely been issued for copyrights or industrial designs and could throw up new challenges. All this will make much-needed international collaboration difficult, leading to loss of precious time. The waiver, on the other hand, would be an all-encompassing measure and would enable scaling up of manufacture of all Covid-related products without having to think about IP infringement, thereby ensuring equitable and faster access to Covid-related products and a swift end to the pandemic. The explosive situation in India has certainly set off alarms. International aid can help in bringing the situation under control, but it cannot end the pandemic. That can happen only through simultaneous vaccination drives in all parts of the world. As long as the virus has a free run, newer variants will continue to appear, threatening the gains in other parts of the world. Intellectual Property Rights are no doubt legitimate rights and incentivise innovation, but these are unprecedented times that require unprecedented measures. The opponents of the proposal need to look at the economic losses across several sectors due to the pandemic than just the loss of profits for ‘big pharma’. Loss of lives and livelihoods in any part of the world will have an impact on the global economy. Therefore, the waiver proposal assumes importance and urgency. The waiver is not a panacea or a substitute for prudent policies and their efficient implementation by governments, but it will make the task less onerous for them. (The writer is an independent researcher)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/trips-waiver-on-covid-19-vaccines-need-of-the-hour-988209.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar deaths: Victims’ kin to get Rs 2 lakh||The state government on Thursday informed the Karnataka High Court that Rs 2 lakh ex gratia will be given to families of 24 people who died due to lack of oxygen at a Chamarajanagar hospital in the first week of May. A special bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka accepted the submission by Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi and hoped that the assurance will be acted upon immediately. However, the bench also said that the issue as to whether only 24 patients died due to lack of oxygen will have to be gone into. The three-member committee of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) headed by retired high court judge Justice A N Venugopala Gowda had suspected that in fact the death of 36 patients, between May 4 and May 10, could be attributed to lack of oxygen. The hospital had declared the death of 62 persons in this period, of which at least 36 persons were shown to be in-patients as of May 2. The district hospital had recorded the death of 24 patients on the intervening night of May 2 and May 3 due to lack of oxygen. Meanwhile, the court directed the government to record the actual requirement of oxygen between May 17 and 24 (both days inclusive) and actual quantity of oxygen procured. The bench pointed out that the government’s statement indicated that on May 17 and 18, the procurement was well below 1,015 tonnes a day. The court also directed the government to indicate steps taken to implement the Supreme Court’s April 30 order for creating buffer stock of oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-deaths-victims-kin-to-get-rs-2-lakh-988194.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM B S Yediyurappa, ministers in favour of extending lockdown: K Sudhakar||Health Minister K Sudhakar stated that many ministers are in favour of extending the Covid-19 lockdown in Karnataka and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is also thinking along the same lines. Speaking to media persons, here on Friday, he said people of all age groups would be vaccinated against Covid-19 by December. "There is no dearth of oxygen in the state. Remdesivir drug is available in all the districts. Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda spoke to me and 10 lakh vials of Remdesivir had been sent to the state so far." Referring to Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, he said the number of cases is coming down in the state's capital and other districts which had witnessed a surge in cases earlier. The positivity rate has come down from 47 per cent to 23 per cent.  He said it is not clear whether the lockdown is responsible for the decline in cases or people are following norms. "This would become clear in some days," he said. He admitted that there is a shortage of medicine for 'black fungus' and Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda is leaving no stone unturned to address the issue. Gowda has promised to supply the required medicine to the state after holding talks with many companies. He said the government has appointed 2,150 doctors and 780 specialists and they would be given postings orders soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-ministers-in-favour-of-extending-lockdown-k-sudhakar-988550.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Photojournalist Netra Raju no more||Senior photojournalist S Nagendra, popularly known as Netra Raju, died of cardiac arrest at a hospital in the city on Friday. He was 62. Netra Raju served the media field for more than three decades and received several awards, including Karnataka Media Academy award. He is survived by wife and a daughter Nithya, two brothers and a sister. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan have condoled the death of Netra Raju. The final rites will be held on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/photojournalist-netra-raju-no-more-988485.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tanveer Sait slams closure of CCCs||Narasimharaja MLA Tanveer Sait took severe exception against the Health Department for closing 16 Covid Care Centres in the city. Sait said, "There is no clarity on why the centers were closed. As per the order issued by the District Health and Family Welfare, the permission to the centres have been withdrawn as per the recommendations of the District Covid Task Force." "If there were any lapses, the centres should have been given a warning to set right the issues. The matter should have been brought to the notices of the respective MLAs before closing it down. But, an MLA suddenly orders to close the CCCs, which has resulted in a confusion," he said. It is a fact that District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar had urged Ramadass to discuss about the lapses at CCC. Ramadass was appointed as an advisor to District Covid Task Force and the MLA should have submitted a report. He has no powers to give orders. Even the district in-charge minister is responsible and answerable. An officer, who wished to maintain anonymity said, "The task force members, including Ramadass inspected a few CCCs in the city and found them violating the norms. Thus, the committee directed Health and Family Welfare Department to cancel permission of all the 16 centres. However, alternate arrangements have been made to treat the patients."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tanveer-sait-slams-closure-of-cccs-988486.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest fire in B R Hill region||Forest fire has been reported at Vibhutigudda at Biligirirangana betta (B R Hill) region in Yalandur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Friday. Thick smoke billowing from the hillock could be seen even from a distance. It is alleged that it was the handiwork of miscreants, who entered the forest and set fire to dried vegetation. According to sources, the Forest department personnel have rushed to the spot and taken all measures to prevent the fire from spreading, till evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-fire-in-b-r-hill-region-988487.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Staff crunch: Good salary offer fails to attract doctors during Covid times||Experts have been warning that the next big challenge, in managing the Covid crisis, which would prolong beyond the second wave, would be availability of healthcare professionals. The problem is already evident in a few hospitals in Mysuru city. The Central Hospital for Beedi Workers on Mahadevapura Main Road in Mysuru, with a capacity of 150 beds, including 52 oxygenated beds, has ten doctors for treating Covid patients, but only three of them are Allopathy (MBBS) doctors. The remaining are Ayurveda doctors (Ayush, BAMS). The hospital is not getting doctors despite an offer of Rs 1 lakh, as monthly salary. Secretary of Mysuru Beedi Workers’ Association K C Showkath Pasha said that the hospital was designated as a Covid hospital, with the efforts of MLA Tanveer Sait, during the first wave of the pandemic. “Since the second wave started, the district administration and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) have been taking several steps, to make it fully functional. However, not more than 50 patients, including around 30 on oxygenated beds, are accommodated, so far. The reasons are lack of healthcare professionals and limited supply of oxygen,” he said. Pasha said that the intention to convert the Central Hospital for Beedi Workers into a Covid Hospital is to reduce the pressure on the hospitals in the central business district (CBD) of Mysuru. “If this becomes fully functional, people of Narasimharaja Assembly constituency can be treated in their own locality. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has offered to pay salaries up to Rs 1 lakh, to the doctors, mobilising funds from the MCC and Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA),” he said. Dr Syed Munavar, nodal officer of the hospital, said, “The hospital needs at least 15 doctors and 25 staff nurses, besides other paramedical staff, to function to full capacity. At present, out of 10 doctors, only three are Allopathy doctors. The MCC has taken steps to depute four more doctors. Shortly, we hope to make the hospital functional completely,” he said. Earlier, speaking to DH, District Health Officer Dr T Amarnath said that he posted over 20 doctors to the Central Hospital for Beedi Workers, since it was made a Covid hospital. “Not many MBBS doctors are appearing for the interview. Even the BAMS doctors, who have received the appointment orders, have not reported to work. However, still we are trying to get suitable doctors for the particular hospital,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/staff-crunch-good-salary-offer-fails-to-attract-doctors-during-covid-times-988488.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Private clinic closed for violation||The taluk health officer has ordered closure of a private clinic for violating Covid norms in Pandavapura town, Mandya district, on Friday. Acting on a few complaints, the officer Dr Arvind and team conducted a raid on Dr A G Asranna Clinic and found the patients suffering from Covid symptoms being treated, without advise for RT-PCR tests. The officer also advised the patients at the clinic, who complained of cough, cold and fever, not to neglect and get Covid test done, to prevent any serious complications later. He took the medical practitioner to task for treating the patients without suggesting Covid test, though the taluk administration has held a meeting with private doctors and sought their cooperation in controlling the pandemic.  It is alleged that a youth, who had symptoms of Covid was treated at the same clinic, a few days ago. Later, when his condition worsened, he was found positive. He was admitted to a private hospital in Mysuru, where he died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-clinic-closed-for-violation-988489.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Central team should asses Covid situation in state’||Alleging that the state government has failed miserably in Covid management, JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy said that the Governor should intervene and send a report to the Union government, on the actual situation of the state, in tackling Covid. Addressing media persons here, on Friday, Kumaraswamy alleged that the state government is concealing the facts on Covid positive cases and deaths due to Covid. “It is not providing the correct information on the Covid situation. Several persons are losing their lives without adequate oxygen in hospitals. There is a shortage of medicines, doctors and ventilators. Due to the second wave, even non-Covid patients are affected, as they are denied treatment at hospitals,” he said. A central team should visit the state immediately and report the actual situation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he opined. As the PM has lost confidence in the state government, in tackling the Covid situation, he has given total powers to the deputy commissioners. The state government should declare an one-month total lockdown, to prevent the pandemic from spreading, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/central-team-should-asses-covid-situation-in-state-988492.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hospitalisation denied, woman delivers in auto||A woman gave birth to a baby boy in an autorickshaw, as the government hospital in Shantigrama, Hassan taluk, refused to admit her for not furnishing a Covid test report. Hema of Halasinahalli in Hassan taluk, developed labour pain at 11.30 pm, on Thursday and was rushed to the hospital. But, the hospital staff refused to admit her, for not producing Covid negative report. The staff did not come to her help, even when the woman went into labour and cried for medical help. She gave birth to the baby, in the autorickshaw itself. The woman’s husband Raju and the locals vent their ire against the hospital employees, for their inhuman act. Only after that, the woman was provided primary treatment. Later, the family members shifted the woman in an ambulance to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. THO Dr Vijayakumar said that it is the duty of the doctors to save the mother and the baby. “They have been instructed to wear PPE kits, during emergency labour cases. There is no norm to produce a Covid report during admission. On prima facie, it looks like it is the fault of the employees. An inquiry will be conducted on Saturday and punished, if they are guilty,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hospitalisation-denied-woman-delivers-in-auto-988493.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fair price shopkeepers worried over use of biometrics||The biometric system, used for distributing ration at the fair price shops, has raised a fear of Covid spread among the rural areas in Chamarajanagar district. In all, 3,057 people from rural areas have tested positive in the last seven days in the district. There is a huge line to get ration, as the commodities are distributed only for a couple of days in the villages.  Though some request of giving Aadhaar OTP number to get ration, the shopkeepers insist on using biometric to distribute foodgrains. Speaking to DH, Food and Civil Supplies Deputy Director Yogananda said, “It has been mandatory to sanitise the biometric equipment after every use. The fair price shopkeepers have been instructed to distribute ration to Covid patients through Aadhaar OTP.” However, as the phone numbers in Aadhaar cards are not in use among many, it has become inevitable even for the Covid patients to stand in a queue, use biometric to get ration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fair-price-shopkeepers-worried-over-use-of-biometrics-988494.html
21-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||DC promotes community participation to check spread of Covid-19||In an effort to promote community participation, to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mysuru district administration has devised a plan to honour the best performing Covid Task Force committee, in both urban and rural areas. In order to encourage the task forces, constituted to manage the Covid situation, the district administration will present prizes to the top performers, in association with corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds from corporates and industries. The district administration has formed Task Force Committees at the ward-level and booth-level for Covid management under all grama panchayats, town panchayats, municipalities, and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, “The prizes have been constituted in three categories:-Covid-Free Gram Panchayat, Covid-Free Ward and Best Covid Mitra Kayaka award. The awards will be conferred on the committees, which manages Covid-19 effectively. Cash prize for the committees, awards and certificates will be issued to the members.” At present, door-to-door Covid survey is under progress across the district. Awards will be conferred on the committees, which will ensure zero cases for a period of 21 days, till June 25. The awards will be presented on July 1, on the occasion of National Doctors’ Day. Three best GPs in each taluk will be conferred with Covid-Free GP award. Similarly, three wards under each TP, CMC and TMC will be presented the ‘Covid Free Ward’ award. Likewise, three wards under the MCC will be awarded. In addition, three best Primary Health Care Centres in the city and in each taluk will be presented ‘Best Covid Mitra Kayaka’ award. While Rs 1 lakh each will be given to three wards under the MCC limits to take up development works, Rs 25,000 will be given to the best wards under GPs, TPs, municipalities and also to PHCs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-promotes-community-participation-to-check-spread-of-covid-19-988496.html
21-05-2021||Main Article||Have you no sense of decency, sir?||This anguished rebuke from Senator Joseph Nye Welch on June 9, 1954 during the Army-McCarthy Hearings in the Senate Sub-Committee on Investigations, watched by over 20 million Americans on live TV, put the lid on the career of that notorious witch-hunter of communists in America, Senator Joseph McCarthy. And with those words, the silent majority suddenly found a voice and an expression to put an end to that unedifying chapter in American history known as McCarthyism. Today, the term is used more broadly to denounce demagoguery, reckless and unsubstantiated accusations, as well as public attacks on the character or patriotism of political opponents or of minority communities. His supporters, however, chanted that “McCarthyism is Americanism with its sleeves rolled”, similar to our own version of “Hindutva is nationalism with its sleeves rolled.” McCarthy’s career evaporated as the print and TV media came down heavily on him and decided to put an end to the hate campaign unleashed by him. Senator Welch’s question became the rallying cry for a nation that had temporarily lost its moral fibre to stop the cruelties of petty hatemongers. It is necessary to recall that period and that remarkable exchange, because memory is often the strongest power against tyranny. Fast-forward to May 2021 and Bengaluru. On May 4, one of the young and ambitious MPs of the BJP made a dramatic revelation that a bed-allotment scam had been unearthed in the BBMP control room amidst a raging pandemic in the state. His point was simple. The crisis in Bengaluru over non-availability of beds was an artificial racket created by a bunch of operators who were booking beds in the names of asymptomatic or mildly affected patients and then selling them to critically ill and desperate patients at an exorbitant price. So, there was no shortage of beds, but critically ill patients were not getting it. In one fell swoop, he had put a fumbling government above blame and found the “real Public Enemy Number 1.” The very next day, the MP went to the BBMP office along with two BJP MLAs and read out the names of the supposed culprits. They were 17 out of 205 and, unsurprisingly in the current milieu, all of them were Muslims. The ever-obliging Bengaluru Police quickly detained those young men for two nights and interrogated them for hours on end. And then they were let off because there was not a shred of evidence against them in the alleged bed scam that the MP had so dramatically revealed. But the deed had been done. The MP had established his credentials at the highest levels in his party that he had what it takes to be a leader in that party. The hunting spirit. Hunting down Muslims and depriving them of their lives or livelihoods has been a popular sport in the country since 2014. It started with the ‘Gau Rakshaks’ lynching several Muslims seen with a cow in UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, even Karnataka. This appeared so well-orchestrated that there was a pattern and regularity to it that seemed to be either sanctioned or overlooked by the authorities. For none of the lynchers were brought to book for their crimes. When one such gang of lynchers was released on bail, one of the then Union ministers, educated at Harvard, went to receive and garland them outside the court in his home constituency in Jharkhand. Carrying on with this cruel sport amidst a devastating pandemic started in March 2020, when PM Modi first imposed the world’s harshest lockdown on a nation of 1.3 billion people with a four-hour notice. Some 1,000-odd Tablighi Jamaat were caught in this lightning strike of a national lockdown at Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah in Delhi who could neither go back home nor stay where they were. They became ‘Corona-bombs’ or ‘Corona-Jihadis’ for a partisan and supplicant media. Police ignored the fact that many of them were patients suffering from Covid-19 themselves and put them behind bars. Now, recalling Joseph Welch’s famous words, “Until this moment, Senator, I think I never really gauged your cruelty or your recklessness...” When McCarthy resumed his attack, Welch interrupted him: “Let us not assassinate this lad further, Senator. You’ve done enough. Have you no sense of decency, Sir, at long last? Have you no sense of decency left?” “It is, I regret to say, equally true that this young man shall bear the scar for the rest of his life, needlessly inflicted by you”, said Welch about his young lawyer Fred Fisher, who was accused of being a communist sympathiser by McCarthy. Think of those 17 young men, all belonging to one community, who shall bear the scar for the rest of their lives, needlessly inflicted by a young MP. Incredibly, an MLA standing next to the MP even asked, “Were they recruited for a Madrassa?” The question reveals more about the mindset of our legislators than about those young men working at the BBMP’s Covid control room. It is always easier for a handful of demagogues to create and take over a narrative than for the silent majority to assert its ethical worldview. And the ‘moralist’ demagogue seems to triumph over the ‘ethical’ citizen, even if it’s only in the short run or temporarily. By the time the ethical worldview prevails, i.e., by the time the moralist is told “enough of your shallow morals, let us get back to some basic decency in social life”, he would have damaged the social fabric. There comes a time in the life of every nation when the good men or the silent majority have to stand up and tell the rulers not to cross the line of decency. Let us get back to some simple virtues that have held us together for centuries. (The writer is a former Cabinet Secretariat official)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/have-you-no-sense-of-decency-sir-988210.html
21-05-2021||National||Ahead of Kharif season, ICAR issues advisory for farmers||Ahead of the sowing of Kharif crops, the government's premier agri-research body ICAR has suggested farmers to use best agricultural practices for enhancing farm production and income while ensuring optimum use of resources. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has come out with an advisory to help farmers overcome the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on farm production and their income. Kharif is a major agriculture season in India, which starts from June and lasts till October. "The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic is again posing a serious problem to the nation, halting economic activities in one way or the other and may impact agricultural production and consequently national food and nutrition security," it said in the 400-page advisory. However, concerted efforts with suitable technological options can show sustainable pathways under such circumstances, it added. Stating that the 2021 Kharif season is approaching in midst of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the ICAR advisory said, "Therefore, disruption in normal operations/logistics usually undertaken during the pre-Kharif period is likely." To cope with shortages in labour and timely availability of inputs at affordable prices, farmers need to enhance the use of on-farm inputs especially organic manures, adopt best practices for increasing resource use efficiency and reduce the cost of cultivation, it said. Therefore, promoting best agricultural practices for enhancing farm production and income, while ensuring optimum use of resources, is at the heart of ICAR's Kharif season agro-advisory, it added. The crop, livestock, and fisheries advisories mainly deal with best practices to be adopted by farmers during the ensuing summer period and Kharif season. The technical aspects covered in the advisories are related to seed, soil, water, nutrient, and health management in crops and livestock enterprises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-kharif-season-icar-issues-advisory-for-farmers-988164.html
21-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 21||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below 3 lakh for the fifth consecutive day with 2.59 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. With a total of 2,59,551 fresh cases, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,60,31,991.  Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,60,31,991 as of May 21, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,91,331  as of May 21, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged:  2,27,12,735  Total Vaccination:  19,18,79,503  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-21-988227.html
21-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Against Covid-19 vaccine tourism, India's 'moksha'||India reported that 4,529 people had died from Covid-19 on Tuesday alone. That’s the highest official daily death count for any country since the beginning of the pandemic, and the real toll is thought to be even higher. More than 25 million cases of infection have been recorded there to date. Given the scale of the crisis, it’s imperative that the Indian government vaccinate its people and stave off future waves of infection. But this unequivocal need also spells dire consequences for other countries that rely on vaccines produced in India. India's output of Covid-19 shots for August-December is likely to be lower than the government's public estimate, according to internal projections shared with Reuters by two sources. Lower-than-expected production could delay India's plans to vaccinate all its adults this year, amid fears the country will face another surge of coronavirus infections in the winter. India's ongoing second wave, the world's worst since the pandemic began, has overwhelmed its health system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-against-covid-19-vaccine-tourism-indias-moksha-988233.html
21-05-2021||National||Ready to strengthen dialogue, scale up technical collaboration with India during pandemic: IMF||The International Monetary Fund stands ready to strengthen its dialogue and scale-up its technical collaboration with India, spokesperson Gerry Rice has said, observing that the human tragedy is a stark reminder that the pandemic continues to be a grave threat globally. “Our great sympathies and support to the people of India, and what is happening there relative to the pandemic, to those who have lost their lives and are suffering as a result of the Covid-19 crisis,” Rice, who is the director of the communications department at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) told reporters during a news conference here on Thursday. “We are following the events in India very closely. And we hope that the number of new infections will continue to decline,” Rice added. India has been jolted by the second wave of coronavirus which has crippled its healthcare system. Till Thursday, India’s total of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,57,72,440 after reporting 2,76,110 new cases in the last 24 hours while the daily deaths were recorded below 4,000 after four days, taking the toll to 2,87,122, according to the Union Health Ministry data update. Responding to a question, Rice said that the IMF continues to engage closely with the Indian authorities. “We stand ready to strengthen our dialogue and scale-up our technical collaboration. The human tragedy in India is a stark reminder that the pandemic continues to be a grave threat globally. At the IMF we are redoubling our effort to foster global collaboration,” Rice said. The IMF welcomes the announcements by several countries to provide immediate support to India, he said reiterating that a multilateral response is critical to overcome the pandemic in India and globally. “On the economic impact, India is an important economy globally. We will be revisiting our growth forecast for India and for the global economy in July,” he said, adding that the IMF will update it in its July World Economic Outlook Update. “For India, on the economy, it will be critical to continue with a coordinated policy response to fight the pandemic including through accelerating the vaccination campaign, providing fiscal resources to the health sector, and social support to the most vulnerable. We see these as the immediate policy priorities,” Rice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-to-strengthen-dialogue-scale-up-technical-collaboration-with-india-during-pandemic-imf-988242.html
21-05-2021||National||Squadron Leader killed as IAF MiG-21 aircraft crashes in Punjab||An Indian Air Force pilot was killed after a MiG-21 Bison aircraft crashed in Punjab's Moga district, officials said on Friday. The aircraft was on a routine sortie from Suratgarh when it crashed near a village in Moga, they said. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident which took place late Thursday night.   “There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector,” the Indian Air Force (IAF) said in a tweet. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. “IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/squadron-leader-killed-as-iaf-mig-21-aircraft-crashes-in-punjab-988249.html
21-05-2021||National||India sees 4,209 more Covid deaths, 2.59L new infections||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below 3 lakh for the fifth consecutive day with 2.59 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. With a total of 2,59,551 fresh cases, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,60,31,991.  The death toll climbed to 2,91,331 with 4,209 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed.     The active cases further reduced to 30,27,925 comprising 11.63 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 87.25 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,27,12,735, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.12 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 32,44,17,870  samples have been tested up to May 20 with 20,61,683  samples being tested on Thursday. The 4,209 new fatalities include 984 from Maharashtra, 548 from Karnataka, 397 from Tamil Nadu, 236 from Uttar Pradesh,   233 from Delhi, 191 from Punjab, 162 from West Bengal, 159 from Uttarakhand, 129 from Haryana, 128 from Kerala, 127 from Rajasthan, 114 from Andhra Pradesh and 113 from Chhattisgarh.,  A total of 2,91,331 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 85,355 from Maharashtra, 23,854 from Karnataka, 22,579 from Delhi, 19,131 from Tamil Nadu, 18,588  from Uttar Pradesh, 13,895 from West Bengal, 12,716 from Punjab and 12,295 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-4209-more-covid-deaths-259l-new-infections-988251.html
21-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis | Explained: What is ‘white fungus’?||As the deadly black fungus that has accompanied the second Covid-19 wave in the country was elevated to epidemic status in some states, an even more lethal “white fungus” has reportedly surfaced in Bihar. What is 'white fungus'? Like the black fungus, white fungus is also more likely to afflict people with compromised immune systems, pre-existing medical conditions, AIDS, a recent kidney transplant or diabetes, experts say. The unsanitary use of oxygen cylinders or the overuse of steroids can also heighten the risk of infection. The new fungal infection has raised an alarm as it can appear on several parts of the body, including the skin, stomach, kidney, brain, genitals and mouth besides lungs. The exact mortality rate of the disease is still unknown, though it can be dangerous if the infection reaches the lungs. What are the symptoms? People infected with the white fungus reportedly experience symptoms similar to Covid if it reaches the lungs, despite testing negative for the virus. Experts have said CT scans or X-Rays can reveal the condition. Children and women are more at risk of contracting the fungal infection, according to doctors. Treatment of 'white fungus' Patients with the white fungus are currently being treated with known anti-fungal medication and all four cases were reportedly in stable condition, with no other states having reported cases of the disease yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-explained-what-is-white-fungus-988261.html
21-05-2021||National||Boosting cooperation on Covid-19 vaccines to be focus of Jaishankar's 5-day visit to US||Procurement of coronavirus vaccines and raw materials to boost domestic production is set to be a major focus area of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's five-day visit to the United States beginning Monday. Announcing the visit, the Ministry of External Affairs said Jaishankar will hold discussions with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and meet other senior officials of the Biden administration during his visit from May 24 to 28. It will be the first visit by a senior Indian minister to the US after President Joe Biden assumed office in January. It is learnt that Jaishankar is likely to press for further speeding up of the supply of raw materials from the US to boost vaccine production in India besides exploring the option of joint production. There is a view in India that the Defence Production Act (DPA) of the US has put some restrictions on the export of raw materials by American companies. In early February, the US government invoked the DPA to limit exports of the raw materials to expand domestic vaccine production. Hit by a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, India has been focusing on ramping up domestic production of Covid-19 vaccines as well their procurement from abroad. "In Washington DC, the External Affairs Minister will hold discussions with his counterpart Secretary of State Antony Blinken. He will also be meeting Cabinet members and Senior Officials of the Administration dealing with the bilateral relationship," the MEA said in a statement. It said he will have two interactions with business forums on economic and Covid-related cooperation between the two countries. Jaishankar had met Blinken earlier this month on the sidelines of a meeting of foreign ministers of G-7 countries in London. The MEA said Jaishankar will also meet UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in New York. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday that India is engaged with American entities for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines and their possible manufacturing in India subsequently. "We remain engaged with US entities on the prospect of procuring vaccines from the US and also perhaps manufacturing them in India subsequently," Bagchi said. The US announced earlier this week that it will share an additional 20 million coronavirus vaccine doses with other countries in addition to the 60 million it has already committed. The Biden administration has not yet announced the possible recipients of the vaccine doses. Recently, Charge D'Affaires of the US embassy Daniel B Smith said the US was looking at joint production of Johnson and Johnson's Covid-19 vaccines in India and ways to help manufacturers like the Serum Institute of India (SII) to boost production. As India was facing a rapid increase in coronavirus infections, the US sent six plane loads of life-saving supplies in support of the country's fight against the pandemic. Earlier this month, the US sent to India raw materials for vaccine production which it said would enable the manufacture of 20 million doses of the Covishield vaccines. Providing raw materials for the production of coronavirus vaccines was a major component of the Biden administration's announcement on medical aid to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boosting-cooperation-on-covid-19-vaccines-to-be-focus-of-jaishankars-5-day-visit-to-us-988272.html
21-05-2021||National||Not enough proof to say Covid-19 third wave will affect children: AIIMS director Randeep Guleria||While the country is witnessing a rapid increase in black fungus cases, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said it will go down when Covid-19 numbers decrease. While talking to News18, he also said there’s not enough evidence yet to say that the third wave of Covid-19 will affect children. Diabetic people are at high risk of contracting this deadly fungal infection. The dose duration of steroids, diabetic people and the fungal infection need to be closely monitored to prevent this from happening, he said. Guleria told the publication, “There are people who are at high risk, they need to be careful about sugar control. We have to be very careful about the use of steroids. Early use of steroids predisposes one to secondary infection, both bacterial and fungal.”   The use of steroids in India is not closely monitored, and people have access to it from general medicine stores. That’s not the case in other countries and unsupervised use of steroids is leading to mucormycosis in India, he said. Black fungus cases have been found in Covid-19 recovered people, who took steroids without medical supervision in India. On the predictions of children being at risk in the third wave of Covid-19, Guleria said, “There is not enough evidence to say the third wave is going to predominantly affect children. I think, even in the coming wave, they will be protected because of the very nature of the virus that it causes less infection in children." However, steps are being taken to ensure that kids are safe. He said trials to vaccinate those below 18 years have started and that should help in reducing the risk of them getting infected in the third wave. “Most vaccinologists think that the vaccine should be safe in children… Hopefully, in the next 3-4 months, we will have vaccines approved for kids," he said. “One factor is that the ace receptors to which the virus binds itself to the human cells are relatively less in children as compared to adults,” Guleria said, explaining the reason why children naturally may be at a lesser risk of contracting Covid-19 as compared to adults.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-enough-proof-to-say-covid-19-third-wave-will-affect-children-aiims-director-randeep-guleria-988275.html
21-05-2021||National||India should follow EU template in global vaccine procurement: SBI report||As India reels under a severe vaccine shortage, a report by State Bank of India says the country should ideally follow the European Union (EU) template in global vaccine procurement. “India should ideally follow the EU template in global vaccine procurement. Globally, the EU Commission jointly with a Joint Negotiation Team carries out the negotiations with vaccine suppliers. The members of the Joint Negotiation Team – representing seven Member States - are appointed by a Steering Committee. The Steering Committee discusses and reviews all aspects of the Advanced Purchase Agreement (APA) contracts before signature. All EU Member States are represented in this Committee,” the report states. All Member States have endorsed this approach, which is at the heart of the EU Vaccines Strategy, it says. India has so far given 18.70 crore doses but total vaccination/100 population is still at 13.8. The report prepared by SBI’s Economic Research Department is titled “Indian states & global vaccination market: The template for making state vaccine procurement a success” and is authored by Dr Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Adviser, SBI. “…if we consider the fact that EU had already entered into contracts for vaccine procurement well in advance, European countries have been able to vaccinate less than 50 per cent of their population, it seems that vaccination drive might pick up pace once the supply becomes streamlined from July and India needs to move quickly if it wants to vaccinate its adult population by the end of this year,” the report points out. The SBI Ecowrap report also pointed out that states and the Centre must chalk out a cold chain infrastructure system quickly while simultaneously targeting international vaccine manufacturers through advance purchase agreements. Meanwhile, improving the local supply of Covaxin and using other vaccine producing units for dedicated Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing is a sine qua non. “With states entering directly into contracts with global vaccine developers, it leads to increased competition among states. Poorer states with high population would not be able to vaccinate themselves quickly. Meanwhile richer states may have to pay a much steeper price given the global oligopolistic market. Our best hope remains that the vaccines in regulatory trials and phase II/III and III are successful and are authorized for emergency use and can be the best target for procurement by states,’ the report stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-follow-eu-template-in-global-vaccine-procurement-sbi-report-988277.html
21-05-2021||National||Explained: A 10-step guide on how to use CoviSelf, the Covid-19 home-testing kit||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has endorsed an at-home Covid-19 self-testing kit, developed by a Pune-based firm, to aid in detection and treatment of the viral infection that has swept through the country. The rapid antigen test (RAT) kit CoviSelf, manufactured by Mylab Discovery Solutions, will likely reach shelves in a week’s time and will cost Rs 250 apiece. The ICMR has recommended that only those exhibiting symptoms should use the kit, which requires a mobile app that contains instructions and will display the test result. The kit comes with a pre-filled extraction tube, a sterile nasal swab, a test device called a cassette, a biohazard bag and an instruction manual. Here’s a 10-point guide on how to use the kit: 1. Wash hands thoroughly and wait for them to dry before tearing the pouch open and readying the test 2. Open the Mylab CoviSelf app and enter credentials. Scan the QR code on the test device or cassette to link the code with the credentials filled in 3. Locate the pre-filled buffer tube and tap it vertically on a flat surface to ensure the extraction buffer solution settles at the bottom of the tube 4. Unscrew the cap and hold it straight carefully to prevent spillage 5. Take out the nasal swab and insert it into one nostril up to 2-4 cm until some resistance is met, roll it five times inside the nostril to make sure cells are collected, repeat the process in the other nostril with the same swab 6. Dip the nasal swab into the pre-filled extraction tube, pinch the bottom of the tube and swirl the swab 10 times before breaking the swab at its "break point" and covering the tube with its attached nozzle cap 7. Add two drops of extracted antigen buffer mixture into the “sample well” of the test device by pressing the tube and wait 10-15 minutes 8. The result will be available in up to 20 minutes; click a picture of the device with the phone app and wait for it to analyse the result 9. Dispose of all the materials used in the biohazard bag provided 10. Individuals who test positive should isolate themselves as per ICMR guidelines, while those with symptoms who test negative should immediately get themselves tested by RT-PCR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-a-10-step-guide-on-how-to-use-coviself-the-covid-19-home-testing-kit-988285.html
21-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: In major U-turn, Centre announces 40% cut in RT- PCR tests||The Centre has announced that RT-PCR tests for Covid-19, considered to be the most reliable method of detecting the infection, will be cut down to 40 per cent under the new test plan. Instead, the government will now depend on the rapid antigen test for the remaining 60 per cent of total Covid-19 tests. This announcement comes two months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi advised states to conduct 70 per cent of the tests through RT-PCR. Currently, the government has cut down the RT-PCR testing capacity to 13 lakh per day from 16 lakh last week. By June-end, 60 per cent of the tests will be antigen tests, which numbers around 27 lakh. Antigen tests have been a less-reliable test method for Covid-19 as it has shown false-negative results. However, experts believe that when the viral load is high, the accuracy of the antigen test increases. According to the Health Ministry news briefing, during mid-May, around 63 per cent of total Covid-19 tests were RT-PCR, which numbers to 12 lakh tests per day. However, under the new test plan, the total number of tests conducted per day will be increased from 19 lakh in mid-May to 45 lakh by June-end. Hence, the RT-PCR tests will comprise 40 per cent of the total tests, which come to around 18 lakh per day. RT-PCR has been now classified as "the standard test" by the government, which was previously "the gold standard test". The government said it aims at ‘rationalising’ the RT-PCR tests to increase the antigen test for making the process faster. It will help in early detection and faster treatment. This move is taken due to rise in cases in rural areas of the country. They also plan on having mobile testing vans to cover 10 villages daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-in-major-u-turn-centre-announces-40-cut-in-rt-pcr-tests-988290.html
21-05-2021||National||SC upholds Centre's notification permitting banks to proceed against personal guarantors under IBC||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the validity of the Centre's notification allowing banks to proceed against personal guarantors for recovery of loans given to a company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). A bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat held that approval of resolution plan under the IBC does not discharge personal guarantors of their liability towards the banks. "In the judgment, we have upheld the notification," Justice Bhat said while reading out the conclusion of the judgement which decided as many as 75 petitions pertaining to the validity of the notification. Petitioners had challenged the November 15, 2019 notification issued under the IBC and other provisions in as far as they relate to personal guarantors to corporate debtors. Upholding the validity of the notification, the top court ruled that initiation of an insolvency resolution plan for a company does not absolve corporate guarantees given by individuals from paying up the dues to financial institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-upholds-centres-notification-permitting-banks-to-proceed-against-personal-guarantors-under-ibc-988292.html
21-05-2021||National||My family had to deal with catastrophic fallout of false allegations: Tejpal after acquittal||Journalist Tarun Tejpal, who was acquitted of rape charges in a 2013 case by court in Goa on Friday, said the last seven-and-a-half years had been “traumatic” for his family as they dealt with the “catastrophic fallout of the false allegations” against him. The former Tehelka editor-in-chief also thanked the court for a “rigorous, impartial and fair trial” in the case. A sessions court acquitted Tejpal of sexually assaulting a woman, who was his colleague at that time, in an elevator of a five star resort in the state. Tejpal, who was present in the court when the verdict was given, later issued a statement that was read out to media persons by his daughter Tara outside the court building in Mapusa town near Panaji. In the statement, he said, “The past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these false allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives.” “We have felt the boot of the state, but through it all, we have co-operated fully with the Goa police and the legal system, through hundreds of court proceedings,” he said. Tejpal said he and his family have unwaveringly followed every mandate of due procedure and abided by every principle of law as laid down in the Constitution. “We have also endeavoured to uphold every norm of decency expected in a case like this,” he said. It is with profound respect that I thank this court for its rigorous, impartial and fair trial and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record, Tejpal added. His lawyer Rajiv Gomes, who defended his case in the court, succumbed to the Covid-19 infection last week. Remembering him, Tejpal said, “Seldom does a long fought for vindication arrives hand-in-hand with profound heartbreak. Last week, my trial lawyer Rajiv Gomes died of Covid.” “Dynamic and brilliant, at 47 he was on the brink of a scintillating career as a criminal lawyer at the national level,” he added. He also thanked a group of lawyers, including Pramod Dubey, Aamir Khan, Ankur Chawla, Amit Desai, Kapil Sibal, Salman Khurshid, Aman Lekhi, Sandeep Kapoor, Raian Karanjewala and Shrikant Shivade. The Goa police had registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013, following which he was arrested. The Goa crime branch had filed a charge sheet against Tejpal, who has been out on bail since May 2014. He faced the trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-family-had-to-deal-with-catastrophic-fallout-of-false-allegations-tejpal-after-acquittal-988296.html
21-05-2021||National||Here is a timeline of the Tarun Tejpal case||Here is a timeline of the Tarun Tejpal case: November 7, 2013: Tarun Tejpal, then the editor-in-chief of Tehelka, allegedly sexually assaults a female colleague inside the elevator of a five-star hotel in Goa. November 20, 2013: Tejpal steps down as the editor-in-chief of Tehelka in the wake of sexual assault allegations. November 21, 2013: Goa police launch an investigation into the alleged sexual assault by Tejpal. November 23, 2013: Goa police lodge an FIR against Tejpal in a case of rape and outrage of modesty after the colleague accuses him of sexually assaulting her while they were in Goa to attend a conference organised by the publication. November 30, 2013: A sessions court denies anticipatory bail to Tejpal, stating that his case lacked merit. He is subsequently arrested and lodged at the Sada sub-jail in Goa. February 17, 2014: Goa crime branch files charge sheet against Tejpal. The charge sheet reproduces Tejpal's formal apology e-mail to the woman and Tehelka's then managing editor Shoma Chaudhury. June 16, 2017: Sessions court accepts Tejpal's request for in-camera proceedings and bars media from covering it. July 1, 2014: Supreme Court grants bail to Tejpal. The apex court observes he spent six months in jail since his arrest on November 30, 2013, and there was no need for his continued incarceration after the filing of the charge sheet on February 17. September 26, 2017: Bombay High Court refuses to stay framing of charges against Tejpal. September 28, 2017: Tejpal formally charged with rape and wrongful confinement by the trial court in Goa. December 6, 2017: Supreme Court asks Goa court to begin trial in the case. December 7, 2017: Supreme Court tells HC's Goa bench to record evidence in the Tejpal case. December 12, 2017: Bombay High Court reserves order on Tejpal's plea seeking quashing of rape, other charges. April 27, 2021: Case listed for judgment but court defers it till May 12. May 12, 2021: Case listed for judgment but court defers it till May 19. May 19, 2021: Case listed for judgment but court defers it till May 21. May 21, 2021: Goa court acquits Tejpal of all charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-is-a-timeline-of-the-tarun-tejpal-case-988327.html
21-05-2021||National||MSN Laboratories launch Posaconazole to treat 'black fungus'||MSN Laboratories on Friday announced the launch of Posaconazole, a triazole antifungal agent indicated for treating Black Fungus (Mucormycosis) patients, in India. According to a press release issued by the company, MSN has launched the product under the brand name PosaOne as 100 mg Delayed Release tablets and 300 mg injections, respectively. "As an outcome of MSN's competence in research and manufacturing of anti-fungal infection drugs, it is now targeting to pro-actively reach patients across India by ensuring the access ofPosaOne, through its strong distribution network & field force," the city-based drug maker said. MSN has developed the active pharmaceutical ingredient and the formulation of PosaOne in its in-house Research and Development and manufacturing units. The drug is approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) and matches the International quality standards. As part of the Covid treatment range, MSN has already launched Favilow (Favipiravir) in the strengths of 200mg, 400mg & 800mg, OSELOW (Oseltamivir) as 75 mg capsules and also licensed Baridoz (Baricitinib) recently with Eli Lilly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msn-laboratories-launch-posaconazole-to-treat-black-fungus-988328.html
21-05-2021||National||Highest ever Covid-19 tests in a single day; still low, say experts||India conducted 20.61 lakh tests for Covid-19 in a single day, the highest ever in a span of 24-hours, which experts feel is woefully low given the spread of the second wave of the infectious disease. The Health Ministry said the daily positivity rate had declined to 12.59% on Friday morning from a high of 22% in the first week of May. “In the last 24 hours, India has conducted the highest ever 20,61,683 tests with the cumulative tests being over 3,30,00,000,” Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said He said daily recoveries continued to outnumber the daily new cases of Covid for the eighth consecutive day and 3,57,295 patients had recuperated in a span of 24 hours ending at 8:00 a.m. on Friday. However, health economist Rijo M John said the daily tests for Covid-19 were less compared to the number of infections reported during the second wave of the pandemic. “Our daily cases quadrupled compared to the peak of wave 1 whereas our daily testing increased only 60% resulting in high test positivity rate and missing out on a lot of cases leading to more spread,” John said. India also recorded less than three lakh new cases for five consecutive days. Ten states – Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Assam – reported 76.66% of the 2,59,551 new cases registered in a day, the ministry said. Tamil Nadu has reported the highest daily new cases at 35,579 followed by Kerala with 30,491 cases. On the other hand, India's Covid-19 active caseload decreased to 30,27,925, with a net decline of 1,01,953 cases being recorded in the total active caseload. The ministry said eight states – Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, cumulatively account for 69.47% of the country’s total active cases. The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 2,91,331 with 4,209 daily deaths. The 4,209 new fatalities include 984 from Maharashtra, 548 from Karnataka, 397 from Tamil Nadu, 236 from Uttar Pradesh, 233 from Delhi, 191 from Punjab, 162 from West Bengal, 159 from Uttarakhand, 129 from Haryana, 128 from Kerala, 127 from Rajasthan, 114 from Andhra Pradesh and 113 from Chhattisgarh., A total of 2,91,331 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 85,355 from Maharashtra, 23,854 from Karnataka, 22,579 from Delhi, 19,131 from Tamil Nadu, 18,588 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,895 from West Bengal, 12,716 from Punjab and 12,295 from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highest-ever-covid-19-tests-in-a-single-day-still-low-say-experts-988331.html
21-05-2021||National||20 people affected by 'black fungus' in Puducherry: Lt Governor||Puducherry Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday said 20 people including a couple of government staff were affected by mucormycosis or 'black fungus' in the union territory and were receiving treatment. The territorial administration would soon issue a notification to declare 'black fungus' a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, she told reporters here after receiving 50 oxygen concentrators from World Health Organization at Raj Nivas here. All hospitals should inform the health department as soon as they received patients with symptoms of the black fungus. She said 'black fungus' was spreading fast in Puducherry and those suffering the ailment should not take medicines on their own but approach hospitals for treatment. Condoling the death of a reporter, the Lt Governor said she had consulted Chief Minister N Rangasamy on the need to provide relief to the families of journalists who succumb to Covid-19. Tamilisai Soundararajan said those in the age group of 18 to 44 were coming forward enthusiastically for vaccination against Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-people-affected-by-black-fungus-in-puducherry-lt-governor-988335.html
21-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: List of states, UTs which have declared 'black fungus' an epidemic||After the Centre urged the states and Union Territories to declare mucormycosis or 'black fungus' a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 on Thursday, several states have followed the advisory already. Around 5,500 people across the country have been infected and 126 have died from the black fungus as of Wednesday. This move comes after seeing the rapid spread of this deadly fungal infection in Covid-19 infected people. A notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 requires every case of the said disease to be reported to the government authorities. This way, the government can monitor the disease and manage to get the early signs of an outbreak. Here’s a list of states and Union Territories that have declared mucormycosis an epidemic: Rajasthan Rajasthan was the first state to declare mucormycosis an epidemic in the state under the Rajasthan Epidemic Act 2020, according to a notification issued by Akhil Arora, the state's Principal Health Secretary. As of May 19, the state had around 100 patients with mucormycosis, according to state government data. Arora said this step was taken to have a coordinated treatment of 'black fungus' and Covid-19 patients in the state. Telangana After Rajasthan, Telangana declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, in the state. The order came in hours before the Centre's advisory. The Telangana government stated in the order that “all government and private health facilities shall follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of mucormycosis issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India and Indian Council of Medical Research.” Odisha After the Centre’s advisory came in, Odisha’s Health and Welfare Department declared 'black fungus' a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, on Thursday. Karnataka Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar announced mucormycosis an epidemic on Thursday. He also said no hospital with the capacity to treat the infection can deny patients. Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease under Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. The state has a 10-member committee, including the Director, Medical Education and medical experts to examine the situation. Gujarat Gujarat declared mucormycosis an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, on Thursday. "Government and private hospitals/medical colleges treating the disease will have to follow guidelines by the Union Health Ministry as well as ICMR for screening, diagnosis & treatment," said Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Union Territory of Chandigarh Chandigarh also declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 on Thursday. Until now, there are 23 cases of 'black fungus' reported in the Union Territory and they are undergoing treatment in two hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-list-of-states-uts-which-have-declared-black-fungus-an-epidemic-988342.html
21-05-2021||National||India, Pfizer at impasse over Covid-19 vaccine indemnity demand||Pfizer and the Indian government are seeking to resolve tensions over a demand by the U.S. drugmaker for legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its Covid-19 vaccine in one of the world's biggest markets, two sources told Reuters. India has not given any manufacturer of a Covid-19 vaccine indemnity against the costs of compensation for any severe side effects, which is a condition Pfizer has obtained in many countries where its shots have already been widely used, including Britain and the United States. But three other sources told Reuters that some form of legal protection is still on the table as India and Pfizer work to reach a vaccine deal. Reaching an agreement with Pfizer is critical for India's central government, which is struggling to secure needed Covid-19 vaccine doses as recorded daily cases exceed 250,000. Indian officials said this week that 98% of its population of about 1.3 billion remains susceptible to infection. India's foreign minister plans to visit the United States in the coming weeks in part to ease Pfizer's concerns, one of the sources said. He could offer Pfizer some form of protection from lawsuits in exchange for the company providing additional assistance with distributing its shots in India, two other sources said. The Indian foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. One of the sources added that the two parties discussed the indemnity issue as recently as late this week but have not yet reached a resolution. A Pfizer spokeswoman said that the company is still in talks with India on a deal and they have not reached an impasse, adding that Pfizer remains hopeful about reaching an agreement. Pfizer has been consistent in its position on indemnity and is not planning to change its approach for a deal with India, one of the sources said. All of the sources declined to be identified because they are not authorised to speak to the media. India's Health Ministry did not reply to Reuters requests for comment on Friday. India pledged last month to fast-track approvals for overseas vaccine makers including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. However, none have since sought permission from India's drug regulator to sell their vaccine there. One source said that another issue being discussed between Pfizer and New Delhi was the Indian government's insistence on a local trial for any vaccine approval. The source added that Pfizer could not finalise terms of a supply agreement, including indemnity, if the vaccine was not first authorised for use in India. Pfizer withdrew its application for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine developed with Germany's BioNTech in February after India insisted on such a trial. But three other shots on sale in India, developed by AstraZeneca, Russia's Sputnik V and Bharat Biotech in collaboration with state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, have completed the small-scale safety trials. Pfizer's chief executive Albert Bourla said on May 4 that he was hopeful that the government would change its policy of local trials and that a path to delivering the drugmaker's shots in India could be found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pfizer-at-impasse-over-covid-19-vaccine-indemnity-demand-988343.html
21-05-2021||National||Southwest Monsoon arrives over Andaman and Nicobar Islands||The Southwest Monsoon has arrived over Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday, an indication that it will soon reach the mainland. "The Southwest Monsoon has advanced into some parts of South Bay of Bengal, Nicobar Islands, entire south Andaman Sea and some parts of north Andaman Sea today, the 21st May, 2021," the IMD said. Last week, the IMD had said that the monsoon was likely to make an onset over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal schedule. The development also marks the start of the four-month rainfall season. The IMD has already predicted that the monsoon is expected to be normal this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/southwest-monsoon-arrives-over-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-988345.html
21-05-2021||National||SC to hear plea against exodus of people after post-poll violence in West Bengal||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to examine a plea for directions to the Centre and the West Bengal government to prevent alleged exodus of people due to “state-sponsored” violence after the Assembly elections results. Senior advocate Pinky Anand contended before a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai that more than one lakh has been displaced in West Bengal following the poll results on May 2. The plea asked the court to constitute an SIT and investigate and register cases in the incidents of political violence, targeted killings, rape, and vandalism in the state. “The exodus of the people in West Bengal due to state-sponsored violence has posed serious humanitarian issues related to their survival, where they are forced to live in deplorable conditions, in violation of their fundamental rights enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution,” it claimed. Anand contended before the bench that the matter requires urgent listing, as people have been forced out of their homes.  The bench agreed to hear next week the petition filed by social worker Arun Mukherjee and others. The plea contended the situation in West Bengal has become so volatile and politically charged, with severe consequences against the lives and liberty of individuals, that intervention by this court was urgently needed. It alleged that police and the state-sponsored goons were in cahoots because of which the police proved to be a mere spectator in the entire episode, discouraging and threatening victims from filing FIRs. The petitioners also sought the formation of commission for rehabilitation of displaced persons, compensation for loss of family members, property, livelihood, mental and emotional agony. They also asked the court to issue direction to the Centre to discharge its duty under Article 355 of the Constitution, including all measures under the law of the land, including executive orders, to ensure rule of law in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-against-exodus-of-people-after-post-poll-violence-in-west-bengal-988355.html
21-05-2021||National||IGST on import of oxygen concentrators unconstitutional: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Friday quashed the Union government's May 1 decision to impose 12% Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST) on import of oxygen concentrators for personal use, by terming it as “unconstitutional”.  A bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh said with the decision, the importers of oxygen concentrators would have to furnish a letter of undertaking to the concerned authority, declaring that device is for personal use, and not for commercial use.   The court passed the order on a plea by 85-year-old Covid-19 patient, whose nephew had sent an oxygen generator as a gift from the United States of America. Senior advocate Sudhir Nandrajog, representing the petitioner, had argued that the imposition of IGST by the Finance Ministry on devices meant for personal use violated Article 14 and also abridged the right to have oxygen, which was part of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.  The government counsel had argued that imposition of taxes could not be subject to judicial review, and IGST was imposed in the present matter to maintain parity with a commercial user and to avoid black marketing and profiteering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/igst-on-import-of-oxygen-concentrators-unconstitutional-delhi-high-court-988356.html
21-05-2021||National||IAS officer clarifies on 'fake video' of Gir lions||Additional Chief Secretary, Forest and Environment Department, Rajiv Kumar Gupta on Friday issued a 'clarification' on his Twitter account, saying that the video of a pride of Asiatic lions in Gir forest, which turned out to be fake, was shared with him by Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Wildlife, Shyamal Tikadar. Posting an apology letter, said to have been written by Tikadar, Gupta wrote on Twitter, "Tikadar has apologised for his lapse & indiscretion. Inconvenience & confusion caused is sincerely regretted with an assurance for double caution in future." On Thursday, Gupta, an IAS officer from 1986-batch, had posted a video on Twitter while claiming that "Lions are completely safe in Gir landscape in the aftermath of #Tauktecyclone. @GujForestDept Field staff has kept constant monitoring of lion movement. A rare video of a Pride in Akolvadi range Gir West crossing a water way safely, being shared." Gupta, who is also MD of Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam and overseeing Ahmedabad covid-19 preparedness, had also tagged Prime Minister and Gujarat Chief Minister's offices' accounts to claim that lions were completely safe in the aftermath of cyclone Tauktae. This was against a news report which claimed that several lions had gone missing. The video, which was shared by many including Union Minister for Forest and Environment Prakash Javadekar and hundreds of others, shows a group of lions crossing a waterway. Javadekar also reverted on the microblogging website to say, "Happy to know that #LionsAreSafe in Gir landscape post #Tauktecyclone. Kudos to the @GujForestDept  staff for constant monitoring." Later, the video turned out to have been shot in South Africa and the lions in it were not Asiatic ones. Gupta, facing criticism on Twitter, posted an update with an "apology" letter reportedly written by Tikadar in which the latter had admitted that he had forwarded the video clip to Gupta. The letter states, "The clip in question was sent by me as it was forwarded to me by an eminent wildlife enthusiast." It said that the authenticity of the clip couldn't be "ascertained" as staff was involved in "massive tracking and rescue operations." It goes on to say, "The confusion caused was purely unintentional without any mala-fide intention and I deeply regret it and am extremely sorry for the same. At the same time, I would like to reassure on behalf of the Wildlife wing of Gujarat forest department that most of the lions have been tracked after the cyclone and have been found to be safe."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ias-officer-clarifies-on-fake-video-of-gir-lions-988358.html
21-05-2021||National||Indian immunologicals to supply Covaxin ingredient from July: Reports||The vaccines would still need close to two months to be jab-ready as culturing the virus takes quite some time, Mint reported. Processing and laboratory testing will add another month. The Centre has also said talks with other manufacturers are still ongoing and has promised Rs 65 crore to Bharat Biotech for a new plant in Bengaluru, which is being repurposed to shore up vaccine production. As of last month, Bharat Biotech had the capacity to manufacture about 1.25 crore doses of Covaxin per month, while Serum Institute could produce 7-10 crore doses of Covishield.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-immunologicals-to-supply-covaxin-ingredient-from-july-reports-988367.html
21-05-2021||National||Light rains likely over next 3 days in parts of Rajasthan, says IMD||Light to moderate rainfall is likely in parts of Rajasthan over the next three days due to an active Western Disturbance, a meteorological department official said on Friday.  A Western Disturbance is a weather pattern forming an area of low pressure that brings sudden showers, snow and fog in north and northwest parts of India. "With a new Western Disturbance getting active, light to moderate rainfall is likely in parts of western and northern Rajasthan in the next three days," the official said. During this period, gusty winds flowing at speeds of 40-50 km per hour is likely in Jodhpur and Bikaner divisions from from Friday to Sunday. Similarly, light to moderate rain accompanied with wind flowing at 30-40 km per hour is likely in Jaipur and Bharatpur division during the period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/light-rains-likely-over-next-3-days-in-parts-of-rajasthan-says-imd-988368.html
21-05-2021||National||Anti-fungal drug shortage adds to India's Covid-19 woes||India said on Friday that it was working to alleviate a shortage of a medicine used to treat 'black fungus' hitting Covid-19 patients as its healthcare system reels under a massive wave of coronavirus infections. Cases of mucormycosis, or 'black fungus', a potentially serious complication which causes blurred or double vision, chest pain and breathing difficulties, have surged in the country, mostly among Covid-19 patients. At least 7,250 such cases have been found across the country as of May 19, according to media reports. "In this battle of ours, another new challenge of black fungus has also emerged these days," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday. India has the second-highest tally of Covid-19 cases in the world and has been reporting around 250,000 infections and 4,000 deaths daily. With mucormycosis cases rising, India's health ministry said it was looking to rope in more companies to produce the antifungal drug amphotericin B used to treat it and also increase imports. That would lead to a nearly 250 per cent increase in supply to around 570,000 vials in June, the ministry said on Friday. Maharashtra said they were running low on amphotericin B as black fungus cases spiked and had asked federal authorities to provide more doses. "One patient needs 60 to 100 injections (of amphotericin B) depending on severity of illness. With current case load, we need more than 150,000 injections," Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told reporters. The state has reported 1,500 cases of mucormycosis so far, and 850 patients are undergoing treatment. Rural testing Overall, India's Covid-19 infection tally stands at 260.30 lakhs, with a death toll of 291,331, health ministry data showed on Friday. The country conducted roughly 20 lakh tests on Thursday, but experts have said infections and deaths could be between five to 10 times higher than official estimates as the virus spreads to the vast hinterland. India aims to double its testing capacity to 45 lakhs per day by the end of June, of which 60 per cent would be through rapid antigen tests, according to the government. As part of the effort, the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) this week approved home testing for Covid-19, using rapid antigen tests. These tests, less accurate than the RT-PCR method, are advised only for symptomatic cases and immediate contacts of laboratory-confirmed positive cases, according to the state-run ICMR. "In rural areas or in field level areas, rapid antigen test is the backbone of testing and that should be encouraged," Balram Bhargava, head of ICMR, told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-fungal-drug-shortage-adds-to-indias-covid-19-woes-988369.html
21-05-2021||National||Supreme Court grants bail to rebel YSRCP MP Raghu Rama Krishna Raju in sedition case||The Supreme Court on Friday granted bail to YSR Congress MP Kanumuri Raghu Rama Krishnam Raju, prima facie finding that he was ill-treated and tortured after his arrest in a sedition case lodged for criticising his own party chief and Andhra Pradesh CM Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy.  A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai directed for release of the rebel MP on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and one surety of the same amount with the conditions that he would cooperate in the investigation. After going through the medical examination report of the petitioner by Army hospital, Secunderabad, the bench said, "We can form an opinion that he was tortured in police custody." "We deem it fit to enlarge the petitioner on bail," the bench said, taking note of the health condition of the petitioner including that he has undergone by-pass surgery. The court also told his counsel senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi to ensure that the lawmaker would not give any statement in media about the case or show his injuries allegedly sustained in custody to the press, saying it would be taken very seriously. Narsapuram MP, Raju was arrested by the Andhra Pradesh Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on May 14 for sedition, weeks after the rebel leader asked a CBI special court to cancel the bail granted to his party founder, Chief Minister Reddy, in a disproportionate assets case. Rohatgi contended that the MP was arrested in a bogus case and a CBI probe should be ordered to unravel the truth. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the state government opposed the plea for bail, saying the petitioner was causing communal disharmony, inciting violence, and trying to de-establise the state government with his statements. The court had on Monday ordered for giving medical care to Raju at an Army hospital in Secunderabad as he allegedly suffered custodial torture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-grants-bail-to-rebel-ysrcp-mp-raghu-rama-krishna-raju-in-sedition-case-988372.html
21-05-2021||National||HC raps police, Safdarjung Hospital over death of man who jumped from hospital roof||The Delhi High Court on Friday pulled up the police for its "shoddy probe" into the death of a 23-year old man who was detained at IGI Airport here on March 18 last year after he arrived from Australia and died the same day after allegedly jumping from the roof of Safdarjung Hospital minutes after being admitted there. Justice Rekha Palli also rapped the hospital for leaving the deceased unattended after he was taken to an isolation ward as he was suspected of being infected with Covid-19. "You (hospital) need to explain what happened, how did he get away? Just because it is a government hospital, you cannot leave people unattended. Why are you taking people in, if you are allowing them to go anywhere they want? "There has to be some care or do you leave people to go and jump from the building. Do you have no responsibility? I am not satisfied by your claim that there was no foul play," Justice Palli said. The court directed the Medical Superintendent of the hospital to personally file an affidavit giving the exact time when the young man -- Tanvir Singh -- was taken to the isolation ward, whether he was accompanied by any staff, whether any staff was present in the ward and whether there were any other patients there. The court directed that the report be filed in three weeks by the police and listed the matter for hearing on July 7. It said that for now it was not issuing any directions to the police and will wait for the hospital's report first. The court, however, said, "You (police) have done a shoddy job of it (probe)." It said the police did not try to find out who were the staff members on duty at that time, did not question the doctors and merely believed what the security guards told them. The directions came on the plea moved by a family member of the deceased alleging that the young man was detained and then taken to the hospital without communicating any reason to his mother who was also travelling with him. According to the plea, the deceased's mother was informed around 9.00 pm on March 18, 2020, that her son had been taken to the hospital and within a few minutes of his arrival there, he jumped from the roof of the building leading to his death. The court on the first date of hearing on February 25, 2021, had noted that the matter "is of a serious nature" as no reasons appeared to be communicated to the family or to the mother, who was a co-passenger, as to why the deceased was being taken to Safdarjung Hospital. "It is also not clear from the copy of the post-mortem report as to what the medical condition of the deceased was when he was admitted into the Safdarjung Hospital," the court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-raps-police-safdarjung-hospital-over-death-of-man-who-jumped-from-hospital-roof-988374.html
21-05-2021||National||Hindalco Industries Q4 PAT zooms about 3-folds to Rs 1,928 crore||Hindalco Industries, the Aditya Birla Group metals flagship company, on Friday reported nearly three-fold rise in its consolidated profit-after-tax (PAT) at Rs 1,928 crore for the quarter to March 2021, mainly on account of higher volumes and lower input costs. The company had posted a consolidated PAT of Rs 668 crore in the year-ago period, Hindalco India said in a filing to the BSE. Its consolidated revenue from operations in the January-March 2021 period increased to Rs 40,507 crore, over Rs 29,318 crore in the year-ago period. In a statement, Hindalco Industries said that the "company reported its best quarterly performance with consolidated PAT up 189 per cent at Rs 1,928 crore, a nearly three-fold increase YoY". The results were driven by a strong performance by Novelis and India Aluminium Business, supported by higher volumes and better product mix, lower input costs, stability in operations and cost saving actions, it said. "The copper business recorded a 33 per cent jump in EBITDA sequentially in Q4 FY21 versus Q3 FY21 on account of stable operations. Novelis reported an all-time high EBITDA, as a result of continued demand for innovative, sustainable aluminium solutions and outstanding operational performance across its expanded business," it said. Commenting on the results, Satish Pai, Managing Director, Hindalco Industries Ltd, said, this past year, with all its volatility and uncertainty, has underscored Hindalco’s resilience and ability to deal with challenges. "Our record Q4 results have strengthened our balance sheet even further, absorbing the Aleris acquisition and restoring consolidated net debt to EBITDA ratio to pre-acquisition levels. The Aleris business continues to positively impact the overall top line and EBITDA. Through Q4, our India business continued to rise with demand higher than pre-Covid levels. Across the entire Hindalco family, we acknowledge the commitment and resilience of our employees, our own Covid warriors. Looking ahead, although FY22 has started with a second Covid wave in India, Hindalco is confident that our inherent strengths and tenacity will support us through it,” he said. The company said that its gross debt declined by Rs 18,187 crore and net debt fell by Rs 14,883 crore as of March 31, 2021 from its peak on June 30, 2020. The company said that with the onset of the second wave of COVID-19 in India, Hindalco has strengthened efforts to protect employees across the ranks and to support the community. Hindalco is supplying oxygen from its plant at Dahej to hospitals in Gujarat daily, with 1,600 tonnes delivered already. Hindalco has helped revive the defunct Karahiya oxygen plant in Uttar Pradesh resulting in 300 oxygen cylinders being supplied daily to hospitals in eastern parts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindalco-industries-q4-pat-zooms-about-3-folds-to-rs-1928-crore-988377.html
21-05-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi slams Centre for ‘anti-people’ activities, ‘exploiting’ farmers||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of indulging in anti-people activities, playing with the future of farmers and acting against their interests by bringing new agriculture laws. She praised the Congress government in Chhattisgarh, saying that it was trying to bring about a change in the lives of common people, particularly farmers, by empowering them financially. Gandhi said this in a written message read out by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel at a function held at his official residence here to disburse cash benefits to farmers and cattle-rearers under two schemes of the state government on the occasion of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s death anniversary. In her message, she hailed the Bhupesh Baghel-led dispensation saying that these schemes are a tribute in a true sense to Rajiv Gandhi. “In the current situation, when the BJP government at the Centre is involved in anti-people activities, playing with the future of cultivators, taking every steps against interests of farmers by bringing laws (referring to new farms laws) and exploiting them, I am satisfied that Congress government in Chhattisgarh has been seriously fulfilling its poll promises,” Gandhi said in the message. The government led by Baghel has been continuously making efforts to bring happiness and change in lives of common people, particularly ‘annadata’ (food providers), by economically empowering them, she said. “Rajiv Gandhi ji always kept the interest of common people in his thoughts and resolution. He wanted to see farmers, workers, poor and backward people economically strong and happy. The step by Chhattisgarh government (to provide cash benefit to farmer and cattle rearers) on his death anniversary is a tribute in a true sense to him,” she added. Virtually speaking on the occasion, AICC’s Chhattisgarh in-charge P L Punia slammed the Centre saying that while the Central Vista project is the priority of the union government, the Chhattisgarh government’s priority is its farmers and cattle-rearers. Due to the coronavirus crisis, the state government has halted several of its major projects, including the new state assembly building, Governor house and CM house buildings, but overcoming the challenges, it provided cash benefits to farmers, which reflects its concern for them, he said. On the occasion, Baghel transferred a sum of Rs 1,500 crore into bank accounts of about 22 lakh farmers as the first instalment of agricultural input subsidy under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna (RGKNY) for the kharif crop season 2020-21 for paddy cultivation. Besides, Rs 7.17 crore were also transferred into the accounts of cattle-rearers as payment against the dung procurement between March 15 and May 15 under the Godhan Nyay Yojana. The RGKNY scheme was launched on May 21 last year with an aim to encourage crop production in the state. Under this scheme, the state government had given Rs 5,628 crore at the rate of Rs 10,000 per acre to about 19 lakh farmers in kharif season 2019-20 in four installments for paddy cultivation. In kharif season 2020-21, farmers will be provided an input subsidy of Rs 9,000 per acre for paddy cultivation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-slams-centre-for-anti-people-activities-exploiting-farmers-988378.html
21-05-2021||National||Floccinaucinihilipilification: Tharoor's latest tongue-twister in friendly banter with KTR||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, known for his penchant for rarely used, difficult-to-pronounce English words, on Friday threw in another head scratcher – floccinaucinihilipilification. The noun, which had Twitterati once again running for their dictionaries, came up as Tharoor engaged in friendly banter with TRS working president K T Rama Rao over Covid-19 medicine names. Oxford dictionary describes floccinaucinihilipilification as “the action or habit of estimating something as worthless”. It started with Rama Rao, or KTR as he is popularly called, wondering why medicine names are so tough to pronounce. "On a lighter note, any idea who comes up with these unpronounceable names for meds? - Posaconazole - Cresemba - Tocilzumab - Remdesivir - Liposomal Amphoterecin - Flavipiravir - Molnupiravir - Baricitinib. And the list goes on…," he said on Thursday night. On a lighter note, any idea who comes up with this unpronounceable names for meds? 😀 - Posaconazole- Cresemba- Tocilzumab- Remdesivir- Liposomal Amphoterecin- Flavipiravir- Molnupiravir- Baricitinib And the list goes on... He tagged the tweet and added in another post, tongue firmly in cheek, “I suspect @ShashiTharoor Ji Pakka has a role to play in this .” Tharoor responded to the Telangana Rashtra Samiti leader, popularly known as KTR, in the same spirit. "Not guilty! How can you indulge in such floccinaucinihilipilification, @KTRTRS?" "Left to me I'd happily call them "CoroNil", "CoroZero", & even "GoCoroNaGo!" But these pharmacists are more procrustean....," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram tweeted. The author-politician had slipped in another not-used-so-often word. But there was scarcely any attention on ‘procrustean’, an adjective defined by Oxford as “(especially of a framework or system) enforcing uniformity or conformity without regard to natural variation or individuality”. The focus was on the many-syllabled floccinaucinihilipilification -- 29 letters and three more than the English alphabet. According to the Cambridge dictionary, “The honour of being the longest non-technical word goes to floccinaucinihilipilification.” It also said it’s an 18th-century coinage that combines four Latin prefixes meaning "nothing". Several people responded to Tharoor's post, with many joking about how difficult it was to pronounce the word and many others sharing memes on it. Tharoor has been a man of many words earlier too. In the past, he has stumped people with rarely used English words such as "farrago" and "troglodyte". While farrago means a confused mixture, a troglodyte means a person regarded as being deliberately ignorant or old-fashioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/floccinaucinihilipilification-tharoors-latest-tongue-twister-in-friendly-banter-with-ktr-988383.html
21-05-2021||National||Remove 'manipulated media' tag on 'toolkit' tweet, Centre tells Twitter||The Centre on Friday objected to Twitter using the “Manipulated Media” tag for national spokesperson Sambit Patra's tweets on the 'toolkit' allegedly used by the Congress to defame the Modi government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology in its strongly worded communication asked Twitter to remove the ''Manipulated Media'' tag as the matter was pending before law enforcement agency. The IT Ministry said that the investigation would determine the veracity of the content, not Twitter. The government also asked Twitter not to interfere in the investigation process. "When the matter is pending before the law enforcement agency, Twitter unilaterally chose to go ahead and designate certain tweets as 'Manipulated', pending investigation. This action not only dilutes the credibility of Twitter but also puts a question mark on the status of Twitter as an “Intermediary”, the Government said in the communication. "The government also asked Twitter to remove the 'Manipulated Media' tags affixed prejudicially to certain tweets in recent days in the interests of fairness and equity," a senior official in the Ministry said. Twitter on Thursday labelled as ''Manipulated Media'' a tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on the alleged toolkit prepared by Congress to target the Modi government.  Alleging that documents used by Patra were fake, the Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter to remove tweets by BJP leaders. According to the policy of Twitter, content posted on its handle may be labelled as ‘manipulated media’ or removed if the company has a valid reason to believe that media, or the context in which media are presented, is “significantly and deceptively altered or manipulated”. Earlier, the government had issued notices to Twitter to remove several inflammatory tweets related to the government's handling of Covid-19, which the IT Ministry had flagged saying it was fake news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remove-manipulated-media-tag-on-toolkit-tweet-centre-tells-twitter-988386.html
21-05-2021||National||Govt exploring possibility of Covaxin production outside India||To address the shortage of Covid-19 jabs in the country, the government is exploring the possibility of boosting production of vaccines, including identifying manufacturing sites for indigenously developed Covaxin outside India, sources said. The government also intends to take up the matter with the World Health Organisation (WHO) to step up Covaxin production. It will also take up with Moderna, Johnson and Johnson and other vaccine makers the issue of granting voluntary licence to third-party manufacturers in India on transfer of technology basis. These issues were discussed in an inter-ministerial meeting on May 18 to deliberate upon the options, including voluntary licence, compulsory licence and government use authorisation under the Patents Act, 1970, available to increase the availability of drugs and vaccines used for treatment of Covid-19. The Ministry of External Affairs has also been asked to take up the matter with AstraZeneca, the maker of Covishield, to encourage them to grant more voluntary licences in India. The MEA and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) will also prepare a roadmap to address raw material supply constraints for Covishield and identify the sources of raw material, sources said. As for Pfizer vaccine, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) to take up the matter with MEA, Niti Aayog and Law Secretary to prepare a status report on issue of indemnity and liability agreement being proposed by vaccine manufacturer, they added. Many states have complained about the shortage of vaccines. To address the issue, the government has been taking measures to ramp up the production of Covaxin. Last week, V K Paul, Member (Health) in the Niti Aayog said Covaxin requires a Biosafety Laboratory-3, a facility which is not available with all. The DBT and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) have been asked to identify manufacturers having BSL-3 facility as well as those who can establish such a facility to increase manufacturing sites in India, sources said. "The MEA (has been asked) to take up the exercise of identification of Covaxin manufacturing sites globally in consultation with DBT. DoHFW (Department of Health and Family Welfare) may take up the matter with WHO to boost manufacturing of Covaxin," a source said. The DBT has been asked to inform about incentives including royalty being given to Bharat Biotech for grant of licence to manufacture Covaxin on transfer of technology basis. Last month, the DBT announced a plan to significantly ramp up the production of Covaxin. This included roping in three public sector companies -- Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Mumbai, a PSU under the Maharashtra government; Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL), Hyderabad, a facility under National Dairy; and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited (BIBCOL), Bulandshahr, a PSU under the DBT. Paul had said 7.5 crore doses are expected to be produced by August and 10 crore by September. The DBT last week also said Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre, Department of Science and Technology of the Gujarat government, along with Hester Biosciences and OmniBRx, has also firmed up its discussions with Bharat Biotech to scale up the Covaxin technology and to produce minimum 20 million doses per month. Technology transfer agreements have been finalised with all manufacturers. Separately, plans are on to manufacture the vaccine in Maharashtra and Karnataka.    Last week, the government estimated that by December, the country will have 216 crore vaccines, including 75 crore doses of Covishield and 55 crore doses of Covaxin. Further, Biological E is expected to produce 30 crore doses, Zydus Cadila 5 crore, Serum Institute of India 20 crore doses of Novavax, and Bharat Biotech 10 crore doses of its nasal vaccine, while Gennova will make available 6 crore doses and Sputnik V 15.6 crore doses, he said. The vaccine candidates of Biological E, Zydus Cadila, Gennova, Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine are in various stages of clinical trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-exploring-possibility-of-covaxin-production-outside-india-988394.html
21-05-2021||National||PM Modi urges to bring medical services closer to Covid-19 patients||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged bringing medical services closer to Covid-19 patients, coming up with a new mantra –- Jahan bimaar, wahin upchaar –- at a video conference with doctors where he choked up while speaking of lives lost to the virus. “Though the attack of the pandemic has been checked to an extent with the joint efforts of all, it is not the time to feel satisfied,” he told healthcare professionals and other frontline workers in his Varanasi constituency. “We have to fight a long battle,” he added. He said health services need to pay attention to the rural areas of Varanasi and Purvanchal and pitched his new ‘mantra’ of “treatment at the doorstep”. “We shouldn’t forget – Jahan bimaar, wahin upchaar” (treatment where the patient is located).” “If the treatment is taken to the sick, it will bring down the pressure on the health system,” Modi said. He talked about telemedicine and involving young and retired medical professionals in tackling the pandemic. He lauded the efforts of doctors, nurses, technicians, ward boys and ambulance drivers. “But this pandemic is so big that despite all the efforts we have not been able to save the lives of our family members,” he added. “This virus has snatched so many of our near ones,” Modi said, choking with emotion. There was a long pause, before the prime minister continued, “I pay my respects to all these people and offer condolences to their near and dear ones,” he said. Modi called for special efforts to save children from coronavirus. He also flagged mucormycosis or black fungus as a “new challenge”. He said the fight was on many fronts in the second wave of the pandemic. The infection rate was high, the patients had to be hospitalised for longer and there was “extreme pressure” on the health system. Stressing the importance of vaccination, he said frontline workers managed to serve without worry because of it. This “suraksha kavach” (shield) should reach everyone, he added. Just as the fight against coronavirus has been a joint effort, the vaccination should also be a collective responsibility and everyone should take the vaccine when their turn comes, he said. He said the work done in the health sector over the past seven years helped but under such extraordinary circumstances, the situation was brought under control because of the health workers who worked round the clock. He said yoga was criticised and a communal colour was initially given to it when the government made efforts to help it get global recognition. But today Yoga has helped in the fight against coronavirus. He said the battle is against an “unseen” and “changing” enemy. Modi said Varanasi benefited from the strategy of having micro-containment zones. He also mentioned “Kashi Kavach” – a telemedicine initiative involving doctors, laboratories and private companies. The PM said the arrangements made to deal with the second wave of coronavirus should be maintained even when the cases come down. He expressed satisfaction that people's representatives remained connected to the drive against the pandemic despite facing "naraazgi", an indirect reference to hostile comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-to-bring-medical-services-closer-to-covid-19-patients-988399.html
21-05-2021||National||Five pharma firms get licence to produce drugs for treatment of 'black fungus'||Faced with shortages of medicines for the treatment of black fungus, the Centre on Friday said it had granted licenses to five more pharma companies to manufacture the anti-fungal drug in the country. “Five more manufacturers – NATCO Pharmaceuticals, Alembic Pharmaceuticals, Gufic Biosciences, Emcure Pharmaceuticals and Lyka – have been given licenses to produce the anti-fungal drug within the country,” a health ministry statement said. It noted that the drug was being manufactured in the country by five companies – Bharat Serums and Vaccines, BDR Pharmaceuticals, Sun Pharma, Cipla, and Life Care Innovations. Mylan Labs was importing the medicine prescribed for treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus infection. As black fungus infections assume epidemic proportions, the government has placed orders for import of 3.63 lakh vials of the anti-fungal drug in May 2021 to augment the extremely limited domestic production. The existing manufacturers of the drug together could produce 1,63,752 vials of the drug in May, which would be further ramped up in June to 2,55,114 vials. The government will import 3.15 lakh vials in June. The newly licensed pharma companies will be able to produce 1.11 lakh vials of Amphotericin-B from July. India reported fewer than 20 black fungus cases every year, but the number has grown to a few thousands during the second wave of Covid-19. At least two states – Telangana and Rajasthan – have declared the black fungus outbreak as an epidemic and opened special wards for its treatment. The Centre has also asked states to declare black fungus as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Act to ensure mandatory surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-pharma-firms-get-licence-to-produce-drugs-for-treatment-of-black-fungus-988404.html
21-05-2021||National||RBI to transfer Rs 99,122 crore as dividend to govt||The Reserve Bank on Friday decided to transfer Rs 99,122 crore as surplus to the exchequer, a move that will help the government to channelise more resources to combat the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision to transfer the surplus amount for the accounting period of nine months ended March 31, 2021, was taken at a meeting of the central board of the RBI, held through video conferencing, under the chairmanship of Governor Shaktikanta Das. The surplus is commonly called 'dividend'. The accounting year of RBI is truncated as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has aligned its July-June accounting year with the government's April-March fiscal year. The RBI has followed a July-June financial year since 1940 when it moved away from a January-December financial year. The RBI also decided to maintain a Contingency Risk Buffer at 5.50 per cent in line with recommendations of the Bimal Jalan Committee report. The panel had prescribed a Contingency Risk Buffer range of 6.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent for the RBI. The RBI Board, according to a release, also reviewed the current economic situation, global and domestic challenges and recent policy measures taken by the Reserve Bank to mitigate the adverse impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on the economy. With the change in the Reserve Bank's accounting year to April-March (earlier July-June), the Board discussed the working of the RBI during the transition period of nine months (July 2020-March 2021). During the meeting, the board "approved the Annual Report and accounts of the Reserve Bank for the transition period. "The Board also approved the transfer of Rs 99,122 crore as surplus to the central government for the accounting period of nine months ended March 31, 2021 (July 2020-March 2021), while deciding to maintain the Contingency Risk Buffer at 5.50 per cent." The RBI had transferred Rs 57,128 crore as surplus to the central government for the accounting year 2019-20. A year before that (2018-19), the RBI had transferred Rs 1.76 lakh crore which included Rs 1.23 lakh crore as dividend and Rs 52,637 crore excess provisions identified as per the revised Economic Capital Framework (ECF). In the Budget 2021-22, the government had pegged the dividend/ surplus of the Reserve Bank of India, nationalised banks and financial institutions at Rs 53,510.61 crore. For the fiscal year 2020-21, it was revised downwards to Rs 61,826.29 crore, from the earlier estimate of Rs 89,648.51 crore. The 589th meeting of the Central Board was attended by Deputy governors Mahesh Kumar Jain, Michael Debabrata Patra, M Rajeshwar Rao and T Rabi Sankar. Other directors of the Central Board, N Chandrasekaran, Satish K Marathe, S Gurumurthy, Revathy Iyer and Sachin Chaturvedi also attended the meeting. Debasish Panda Secretary, Department of Financial Services and Ajay Seth, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs too attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-to-transfer-rs-99122-crore-as-dividend-to-govt-988405.html
21-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: SBI reports 80% surge in standalone net profit ||In your evening news brief, SBI reports 80 per cent surge in standalone net profit; Sunderlal Bahuguna succumbs to Covid-19 and Goa government to challenge in the high court Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in a 2013 rape case.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 21, 2021: Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the state government will challenge in the high court journalist Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in a 2013 rape case by a district court. A sessions court at Mapusa on Friday acquitted Tejpal of sexually assaulting his former female colleague in an elevator of a five star resort in Goa. Talking to reporters, Sawant said, “We will not tolerate any injustice to be meted out to the women in Goa. We will challenge the district court's order before the high court soon in this case."   The country's largest lender SBI on Friday reported an 80 per cent surge in standalone net profit at Rs 6.450.75 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021, aided by decline in bad loans. State Bank of India (SBI) had registered a profit of Rs 3,580.81 crore during January-March period of 2019-20, the lender said in a regulatory filing. Total income of the bank during the March quarter of the last financial year rose to Rs 81,326.96 crore, from Rs 76,027.51 crore in the same period of 2019-20.   Sunderlal Bahuguna, veteran environmentalist and pioneer of the Chipko movement, breathed his last on Friday at the AIIMS in Rishikesh after battling Covid-19. He was 94. Bahuguna, who led protests against the felling of trees in the Garhwal Himalayas and opposed the construction of the Tehri Dam, was admitted to AIIMS in Rishikesh on May 8 for treatment of Covid-19. His condition deteriorated on Thursday night and he succumbed to the deadly virus at 12:05 pm on Friday. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh among others condoled the death of Bahuguna. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sbi-reports-80-surge-in-standalone-net-profit-988420.html
21-05-2021||National||Explained | Government's advisory on coronavirus' airborne transmission||The Centre released new guidelines on Covid-19 transmissibility and precautions on Thursday, taking into consideration the growing scientific consensus that the virus spreads through the air. The advisory covered a range of issues from transmission, masking and ventilation to other precautions. Here is a breakdown of the advisory: Transmission The virus spreads mainly through aerosols and droplets. Larger droplets can stick to surfaces while smaller particles hang in the air and travel greater distances and are far more concentrated in indoor spaces with little ventilation. The virus can also spread through contaminated surfaces and can survive on glass, plastic and stainless steel for a “fairly long time”. Masking A double layer homemade cotton mask can still provide some protection but N95 masks are the safest to wear. Masks should fit snugly, leaving no air pockets and cloth masks should be washed and sun-dried every day. Wearing masks at home is also recommended. Double masking is strongly advised, with a tight-fitting cloth mask over a surgical one. Though surgical masks should ideally be worn only once, the advisory suggests they can be used up to five times by leaving them in a dry place for seven days after one use with some exposure to the sun. Surgical masks should not be washed. Ventilation Proper ventilation can reduce the risk of transmission significantly and reduce the potential virus load. The advisory recommends opening windows for increased airflow, installing exhaust fans, cross-ventilation through simple air outlets, installing filters in centralized air management systems and using air conditioners with the windows open. Windows should also be kept open in buses and trains when possible and health centres must ensure that vaccinations are carried out in well-ventilated settings. Testing and other precautions Rapid antigen tests should be conducted on people entering rural or semi-urban areas. Health workers should be equipped with N95 masks even if they are vaccinated and should be provided with oximeters to monitor infected people. The advisory insists that every person who tests positive should be given a certified N95 mask or at least a surgical mask and isolated. Besides these, the advisory reminds citizens to maintain physical distancing, wash hands with soap often and disinfect surfaces regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-governments-advisory-on-coronavirus-airborne-transmission-988421.html
21-05-2021||National||Kerala extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 30, explores vaccine production within state||The Kerala government on Friday announced a one-week extension of the state-wide lockdown till May 30 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Thrissur districts would be withdrawn from Saturday as the TPR of these districts came down, it would continue in the Malappuram district. The state has been under lockdown since May 8 after weekend restrictions and lockdown-like curbs imposed earlier failed to create any desired impact in terms of the daily caseload of the infected persons. On May 16, the lockdown was extended to May 23. Vaccine production in the state The Kerala government is also exploring the option of Covid-19 vaccine production in the state to overcome the shortage of supply of vaccines. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government was holding talks with experts exploring the scope of Covid-19 vaccine production in Kerala by setting up branches of the vaccine production firms in Kerala. A webinar of experts form various institutions would be held to take a final call on the matter, he said.   Two persons died of black fungus infection in Kerala so far, while around 15 are still under treatment. The Chief Minister said that sufficient medicine for black fungus treatment was ensured in the state He said that even as the Covid-19 surge in Kerala was witnessing a decline, the chances of more deaths in the coming days was high, especially among those who got the infection when the Covid-19 surge was at its peak last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-30-explores-vaccine-production-within-state-988431.html
21-05-2021||National||SC stays Allahabad HC order terming health infra in Uttar Pradesh as 'Ram bharose'||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the High Courts dealing with Covid management cases should refrain from passing orders which had trans-national ramifications. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai stayed the Allahabad High Court's multiple directions issued on May 17 for augmenting health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh, including on procurement and manufacturing of vaccines. The High Court had then, "the entire medical system of the state pertaining to the smaller cities and villages can only be taken to be like a famous Hindi saying ‘Ram Bharose’ (at the hands of God). The bench said the High Courts must ponder over practicality aspect and refrain from passing orders which were impossible to implement. "High Courts should normally consider the possibility of execution. If such directions cannot be implemented, then such orders may not be passed. The doctrine of impossibility is equally applicable to courts," the bench said. Acting on a special leave petition filed by the Yogi Adityanath government, the bench said the High Court should avoid taking up issues which had national impact, more so in the light of the fact that the top court was already dealing with the pan-India issues. The top court, however, refused to allow a plea by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, that only a bench led by Chief Justice should consider the matter related to Covid-19 management in different High Courts. Holding that it was the prerogative of the Chief Justice of the High Court to set up a bench, the top court said it cannot pass sweeping directions and demoralise the High Courts. The court suspended the HC order to the state government to provide two ambulances with ICU facilities to each of 97,000 villages within one month. The HC had directed for all nursing homes to have an oxygen facility on every bed and must have at least 40 beds with ICU facilities. It had also directed for enhancing five medical colleges with facilities equal to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute within a period of four months. The High Court had then also wondered, "one cannot understand as to why the Government of ours which is a welfare state is not trying to manufacture the vaccine itself on a large scale." The top court appointed senior advocate Nidhesh Gupta as amicus curiae and put the matter for further consideration on July 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-allahabad-hc-order-terming-health-infra-in-uttar-pradesh-as-ram-bharose-988445.html
21-05-2021||National||HC restrains WhatsApp, Telegram, individuals from illegally sharing e-papers of ToI, NBT||The Delhi High Court Friday passed an interim order restraining social networking platforms WhatsApp and Telegram and certain individuals from allegedly illegally circulating e-papers of Bennett, Coleman and Company Ltd on their respective platforms. Justice Jayant Nath said prima facie the act of illegally circulating the e-papers of plaintiff on the defendants’ platforms is violative of its copyright and ad-interim injunction is granted in the favour of Bennett, Coleman and Company Ltd. The court also issued notices to WhatsApp and Telegram, which are instant messaging platforms on which photos, documents and videos are also shared, and certain individuals, who are administrators of various groups on the platforms. The court asked them to respond to the suit and comply with the order. The court, which listed the matter for further hearing on August 18, also issued notice to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for its response on the suit. The counsel for the media house contended that e-papers of Times of India and Nav Bharat Times are being circulated on various WhatsApp groups and Telegram without any authority and this amounts to infringement of its copyright. He said the issue cropped up since lockdown was imposed in 2020 to contain the spread of Covid-19 and individuals started downloading the e-papers and circulated it on other groups, which was not permissible. The counsel said in June 2020, the media house came to know about illegal usage of its copyright on WhatsApp which was providing free usage of its e-papers and notice was issued to the platform but to no avail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-restrains-whatsapp-telegram-individuals-from-illegally-sharing-e-papers-of-toi-nbt-988449.html
21-05-2021||National||80% Indian firms faced data breach in past 1 year: Study||Most Indian companies (81 per cent) in a survey acknowledged to have faced data breach in the past one year, with zero-day vulnerabilities and security loopholes in web application being common reasons across several organisations, cybersecurity firm Barracuda Networks on Friday said. This global survey was conducted by independent market researcher Vanson Bourne on behalf of Barracuda. It included responses from 100 application security decision makers in India responsible for their organisation's application development and security. "Eighty-one per cent of organisations were successfully breached in the past 12 months as a direct result of an application vulnerability," Barracuda Networks Country Manager (India) Murali Urs said in a statement. Respondents in India identified their top application security challenges as software supply chain attacks (59 per cent), security slows application development time (48 per cent), bad bots (45 per cent), securing APIs (44 per cent), and vulnerability detection (38 per cent). "Fifty-two per cent of respondents say web application vulnerability/ zero-day vulnerability contributed to a successful security breach that exploited vulnerabilities in the organisation's applications in the past 12 months," the statement said. Barracuda claims to have included organisations with 500 or more employees in the survey. "Applications have been steadily rising as one of the top attack vectors across the India corporate vista in recent years, and the rapid shift to remote work in 2020 only intensified this," Urs said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-indian-firms-faced-data-breach-in-past-1-year-study-988453.html
21-05-2021||National||Opposition parties did everything to derail vaccination programme, alleges J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Friday hit back at opposition parties for their criticism of the Modi government's vaccination programme against Covid-19, saying they left no stone unturned to derail the exercise with comments questioning the safety of two Indian jabs. He also asserted that everyone will be vaccinated in time and noted the falling Covid positivity rate and increasing number of recoveries to say that India is on way to defeating the disease. Speaking at the inauguration of Covid help desks established across the country by the party's Kisan Morcha, Nadda claimed that India has been able to keep the infection rate low compared to other countries due to the Modi government's alacrity and people's awareness. Attacking opposition parties, he said they did everything for one year to "blunt and stop" the vaccination programme and to "break India's morale". "Congress leaders did everything to derail the vaccination drive. And now they are singing a new tune: vaccination, vaccination, vaccination. You are now carrying on with the subject of vaccination after you tried to mess it up by every means. Remember it, every person will get the jab in time under the prime minister's leadership," he said, addressing party members through a virtual programme. Referring to the government's approval of two vaccines, he said health ministers of opposition-ruled states had then alleged that this would endanger people's lives and that they were given the nod without third phase of trial. All BJP-led NDA state governments have made the vaccination free for people to help the poor, he said, asserting that this is a reflection of the party's motto of "sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas". Those who write letters should ask their chief ministers to do the same, he said in an apparent swipe at the Congress. The Centre has so provided 18.70 crore free vaccination dosages, Nadda said and also praised the welfare exercise undertaken by BJP members across the country to help people during the pandemic. On the occasion, the BJP president also cited the government's decision to hike subsidy on DAP fertiliser by 140 per cent to ensure that farmers pay the old price despite a hike in its international market rate and called it historic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-parties-did-everything-to-derail-vaccination-programme-alleges-j-p-nadda-988454.html
21-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: PM Modi terms 'black fungus' as new challenge||As yet another week draws to a close, India continues its upward battle against the ravaging second wave of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-pm-modi-terms-black-fungus-as-new-challenge-988456.html
21-05-2021||National||BJP in meeting spree after 'missing in action' charge from Opposition||With concerns raised in various quarters on the spread of disease in rural areas and as BJP is perceived to have lagged behind in reaching people on the ground, its chief J P Nadda on Friday inaugurated 800 nationwide Covid-19 Help Centres of BJP Kisan Morcha. Inaugurating the help centres that will function at community centres in rural parts, Nadda hailed the Morcha head Raj Kumar Saha for putting up Covid help desks to carry out relief works in rural areas under the party's 'Seva Hi Sangathan' and 'Mera booth Corona Mukt' campaigns. Expressing the confidence that this will help the poor in the village in a big way in fighting Corona, Nadda chose the occasion to highlight the Modi government's achievements on the Covid-19 front, from vaccination to ensure making the country independent in production of PPE kits, face masks and sanitizer and ensure uninterrupted supply of medical equipments. Nadda hit out at Congress for raising questions on the vaccine first and now raising a campaign for it. Opposition parties have repeatedly targeted the BJP for its alleged absence from the ground during the pandemic. Congress, which seems to have taken a visible early lead as an organisation in taking to people the relief work, has launched a campaign of "missing" governance, which the BJP has in the last one fortnight tried to counter aggressively. "Our help desk has begun functioning at 658 centres and our Kisan Morcha workers are doing all to provide them treatment, oxygen and medicines," Nadda said, asking the Morcha to take up such programmes in future as well. In the last one week, the BJP chief held over half a dozen meetings on Corona relief with over a dozen states. On May 22, Nadda talked to state Presidents and MPs of Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat, Daman and Diu underlining the need to reach help to the needy through collective efforts. On May 21, he held deliberations with CMs and office bearers of Assam, Tripura, Arunachal and Manpur and asked them to spread awareness about the disease and reach all possible help. On May 20, he held deliberations with CMs and party office bearers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. On May 19, he had a meeting with the general secretary in -harge and state chief of Odisha, Delhi and Rajasthan in which he appealed to the BJP workers to provide food, ration and medicine to the needy. The same day he reviewed and discussed the Seva Sangathan campaign through video conferencing with Telangana, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh's BJP MP's, state presidents, in-charges and co-incharges. On May 18, Nadda spoke to CMs and leaders from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand and on May 16, he chaired a meeting with national office bearers where he asked them for reaching service to people with maintaining health protocol. The same day he also flagged off Covid relief material for Himachal Pradesh. He particularly highlighted that all BJP-led NDA state governments have made the vaccination free for people to help the poor and attacked Sonia Gandhi without naming her saying "those who write letters should ask their chief ministers to do the same."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-in-meeting-spree-after-missing-in-action-charge-from-opposition-988457.html
21-05-2021||National||ED finds Kalra, aides dealt in 7,000 oxygen concentrators||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday recovered 151 liquor bottles after it raided multiple premises linked to businessman Navneet Kalra and his associates in Delhi-NCR as part of a money laundering probe linked to a recent case of alleged hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators, officials said. The central probe agency, according to official sources, has widened the ambit of the investigation being conducted against Kalra by the Delhi Police Crime Branch, as it suspects that 7,000 oxygen concentrators were transacted by the restaurateur and his aides as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. The concentrators are in short supply as they are being anxiously scoured by those gasping for breath due to the high rate of infection of coronavirus. The sources said the searches were conducted on at least 14-15 premises in the national capital region under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). At one location linked to Kalra, they said, 151 scotch whiskey bottles were recovered. The raids, including at the premises of Kalra's family members and the Matrix group, are continuing and are aimed to gather additional evidence, they said. The ED had recently booked Kalra and others under the anti-money laundering law, taking cognisance of a Delhi Police FIR filed on May 5 after policemen raided some restaurants and premises owned and linked to Kalra. The police had recovered more than 524 of these life-saving machines from these premises and it was alleged that they were being hoarded and sold in the black market. ED sources said Kalra and his associates dealt in 7,000 oxygen concentrators over a period of just one month (March-April) and the investigation is ongoing to ascertain how many were bought and sold. Kalra had denied any wrongdoing and claimed that the consignment was kept for regular sale. He was sent to 14 days judicial custody by a local court here on Thursday. The agency, officials had earlier told PTI, will probe if the oxygen concentrators were illegally hoarded and sold to the family members or caregivers of coronavirus-infected patients at exorbitant prices, thereby leading to generation of "proceeds of crime" as defined under the PMLA. The ED is empowered to question and record the statements of the accused and it can even attach their properties during the course of investigation, following which it files a charge sheet before a special PMLA court seeking their prosecution under the anti-money laundering law. Kalra was nabbed by Delhi Police Crime Branch sleuths from Gurgaon on Sunday night and was formally arrested the next day.  He was on the run for over a week since the seizure of the 524 oxygen concentrators from his restaurants like Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nega & Ju. Police have said the concentrators seized from Kalra's restaurants were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs 50,000-Rs 70,000 each as against a cost of Rs 16,000-Rs 22,000 each. An oxygen concentrator is a vital medical equipment used to provide oxygen to Covid-19 patients and they are in high demand amid the second wave of the pandemic being witnessed by the country at present. The police have pressed charges under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act against Kalra and others. Four employees of Matrix Cellular company, including its CEO and vice president, were also arrested in this case by the police. They were, however, granted bail by the court. Kalra is alleged to have purchased the concentrators from Matrix Cellular, which had imported them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-finds-kalra-aides-dealt-in-7000-oxygen-concentrators-988462.html
21-05-2021||National||High Courts should refrain from passing orders that cannot be implemented: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said that High Courts should refrain themselves from passing directions that cannot be implemented. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai stayed the Allahabad High Court's multiple directions issued on May 17 for augmenting health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh, including on procurement and manufacturing of vaccines. The High Court had then, "the entire medical system of the state pertaining to the smaller cities and villages can only be taken to be like a famous Hindi saying ‘Ram Bharose’ (at the hands of God). The bench said the High Courts must ponder over practicality aspect and refrain from passing orders which were impossible to implement. "High Courts should normally consider the possibility of execution. If such directions cannot be implemented, then such orders may not be passed. The doctrine of impossibility is equally applicable to courts," the bench said. Acting on a special leave petition filed by the Yogi Adityanath government, the bench said the High Court should avoid taking up issues which had national impact, more so in the light of the fact that the top court was already dealing with the pan-India issues. The top court, however, refused to allow a plea by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, that only a bench led by Chief Justice should consider the matter related to Covid-19 management in different High Courts. Holding that it was the prerogative of the Chief Justice of the High Court to set up a bench, the top court said it cannot pass sweeping directions and demoralise the High Courts. The court suspended the HC order to the state government to provide two ambulances with ICU facilities to each of 97,000 villages within one month. The HC had directed for all nursing homes to have an oxygen facility on every bed and must have at least 40 beds with ICU facilities. It had also directed for enhancing five medical colleges with facilities equal to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute within a period of four months. The High Court had then also wondered, "one cannot understand as to why the Government of ours which is a welfare state is not trying to manufacture the vaccine itself on a large scale." The top court appointed senior advocate Nidhesh Gupta as amicus curiae and put the matter for further consideration on July 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-courts-should-refrain-from-passing-orders-that-cannot-be-implemented-supreme-court-988463.html
21-05-2021||National||PM Modi presiding over unprecedented human extermination: Yechury||Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over slow pace of vaccination against Covid-19, the CPI(M) on Friday accused him of "presiding over unprecedented human extermination" and demanded that the government begin a free universal mass inoculation drive. "Criminal. Vaccinations drop by a whopping 67% in 6 weeks! What is PM Modi up to? Presiding over unprecedented human extermination. Begin a free universal mass vaccination drive NOW," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. In another tweet, the CPI(M) leader put forth several demands related to the pandemic. Quoting a tweet on PM Modi choking with emotion while thanking doctors, frontline workers during a video conference with them, Yechury said, "Now save lives: Free universal mass vaccination drive; Compensate each family that lost their beloved to Covid; Direct cash transfers & free food grains to all in need; Stop Central Vista; Release PMCares fund; Spend budgeted Rs 35K for vaccines." The CPI(M) has been asking the government to shelve its plans on the Central Vista project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure during the Covid-19 pandemic to save people's lives. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat, the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The CPI(M) leader further alleged that "PM Modi is abdicating all responsibility for this health holocaust he created. Passing the buck on to state governments to procure vaccines. Money in his private trust fund & central resources are to further his personal & political agenda at the cost of people's lives."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-presiding-over-unprecedented-human-extermination-yechury-988466.html
21-05-2021||National||Natco initiates phase-3 clinical trials of Molnupiravir capsules for Covid-19 treatment||Natco Pharma on Friday said it has initiated phase-III clinical trials of Molnupiravir capsules to evaluate its efficacy in treating patients with mild Covid-19. The Hyderabad-based firm said the first dose under the phase-III trials was given to a patient in the city-based Yashoda Hospitals. "Phase-III clinical trial is initiated to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Molnupiravir capsules in mild Covid-19 patients," Natco Pharma said in a regulatory filing. The clinical trial is planned in 32 hospitals across the country. Pre-clinical data has shown that Molnupiravir has broad anti-influenza activity, including highly potent inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 replication, the drug firm noted. Patients treated with Molnupiravir achieved response within five days of therapy, indicating that the duration of treatment with the drug is short, with the additional advantage of it being an oral therapy, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/natco-initiates-phase-3-clinical-trials-of-molnupiravir-capsules-for-covid-19-treatment-988472.html
21-05-2021||National||40,000 victims in Bengal violence: BJP's B L Santhosh||More than 40,000 people have become victims of violence post the West Bengal election, BJP national general secretary (organization) BL Santhosh said Friday, as he urged his party cadre to work towards getting all of them justice. Santhosh was speaking on 'Bengal after elections', a talk organized by Samvada, a platform associated with the RSS. Santosh claimed that a total of 7,322 incidents of violence were reported in the aftermath of the West Bengal election "even though the police have filed less than 100 FIRs." Seeking financial assistance from people to aid the affected through the Sangh and BJP, he said that all those responsible for the violence will be brought to book. He accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of extending her tenure by resorting to violence. "There is criminalisation of politics and politicisation of administration in Bengal," Santhosh said. He claimed that many TMC leaders at the local-level were illegal immigrants from Bangladesh and most of the foot soldiers behind the post-poll violence were Muslim immigrants. "The BJP went from 3 seats to 75 seats (after two MLAs resigned). We are pained not only that we didn't win many seats, but also that West Bengal has gone back to a system based on violence," Santhosh said. "We're also happy, as paradoxical as it is, that the BJP won in the Matigara-Naxalbari constituency, a place where the violent Naxal movement took birth. In fact, of all the seats we won, the highest victory margin was here," he said.  The BJP leader said that the saffon party was determined to provide justice to Hindu refugees from Bengal while acting against illegal immigrants by implementing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40000-victims-in-bengal-violence-bjps-b-l-santhosh-988474.html
21-05-2021||National||Hire Benkal, Kanchipuram temples in UNESCO tentative list for World Heritage Site||Hire Benkal megalithic site near Koppal, a series of forts built by the Maratha kings in Maharashtra and the temples of Kanchipuram are part of the six sites submitted by India to the tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Bhedaghat-Lametaghat, often described as the Grand Canyon of India, the Satupura Tiger Reserve and the riverfront on the Ganga at Varanasi are the other nominations to the tentative list, which is considered as the first step for nomination as a World Heritage Site. "The Archaeological Survey of India had sent nine sites for inclusion in the tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Site of which six have been accepted," Culture Minister Pralhad Singh Patel said. As per the UNESCO guidelines, it is mandatory to put a monument or a site on a Tentative List of the World Heritage Monument before it is considered for the final nomination dossier. The six new sites were added on April 14, taking the number of monuments on India’s Tentative List to 48. The Monuments and Forts of the Deccan Sultanate, Sacred Ensembles of Hoysala and Monuments of Srirangapatana Island Town were named to the Tentative List on April 15, 2014. The Evolution of Temple Architecture – Aihole-Badami-Pattadakal was named to the tentative list in 2015. The earliest entries on the Tentative List of 48 monuments/sites date back to 1998 when India had Mattanchery Palace, Ernakulam and Group of Monuments at Mandu, Madhya Pradesh for consideration as World Heritage Sites. Usually, these sites remain on the tentative list for a year before the government decides which one to push for the final dossier with UNESCO. According to the justification for including Hire Benkal in the tentative list, the government has said the site is world renowned for the existence of hundreds of megaliths which have been standing on a mound for more than 2500 years. The site of Hire Benkal provides an exceptional insight into the funerary and ritual practices of the Iron Age – Megalithic Culture of Indian Protohistory. The centre has also highlighted the unique prehistoric rock paintings at Hire Benkal with motifs such as – long row of human figures, horse rider holding battle-axe, row of deers, bull with long horns, peacock. “The depictions in rock art from Hire Benkal provides clue about subsistence strategies (hunting), weapons used (spears, axes comparable to the one reported from megalithic excavated sites), fauna etc. of the Iron Age – megalithic period,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hire-benkal-kanchipuram-temples-in-unesco-tentative-list-for-world-heritage-site-988479.html
21-05-2021||National||Jaypee insolvency case: NBCC may move Supreme Court against decision to reject its bid||State-owned NBCC might approach the Supreme Court against the creditors' panel decision to declare its offer to acquire Jaypee Infratech as non-compliant with certain provisions of the insolvency law. According to sources, NBCC is considering the legal option as it feels the decision was biased. The public sector firm is likely to write to Interim Resolution Professional (IRP) Anuj Jain and the Committee of Creditors (CoC), raising its objections against the decision. Interestingly, NBCC's plan was approved by the CoC and the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in the third round of bidding process held in late-2019 and early-last year. On Wednesday, NBCC and the Suraksha group had submitted their final resolution plans to acquire Jaypee Infratech Ltd (JIL) in the fourth round of the insolvency process. The CoC on Thursday decided to start voting process on Suraksha group's bid from next week, while rejecting the resolution plan of NBCC terming it as non-compliant, sources had said last night. The committee decided not to put NBCC's bid on voting as it found the offer of the public sector non-compliant to provisions of insolvency law related to the treatment of assenting and dissenting financial creditors, the sources had said. In a regulatory filing, JIL said the CoC, during its meeting on May 20, decided to put to vote the final resolution plan of Suraksha Realty Ltd along with Lakshdeep Investments and Finance Pvt Ltd. The e-voting will commence on May 24 and close on May 27, the filing added. On Friday, the sources said NBCC might challenge the CoC's decision before the Supreme Court. The IRP had submitted its report in the CoC meet, stating that the NBCC plan was non-compliant with certain provisions of the insolvency law. Some banks were of the view that the NBCC's plan should also be put on vote but the CoC did not agree to it, the sources had said. It is estimated that around Rs 6,000 crore will be required to complete all stalled projects, comprising around 20,000 units. The receivables from customers against sales are estimated at around Rs 3,500 crore, the sources had said. This is the fourth round of the bidding process in the matter of the JIL bankruptcy case. In March this year, the Supreme Court ordered to call bids only from NBCC and Suraksha group. The apex court had also directed to complete the resolution process in 45 days, which already lapsed on May 8, and an application has been filed to extend the timeline for finding the buyer of JIL. JIL went into the insolvency process in August 2017 after the NCLT admitted an application by an IDBI Bank-led consortium. In the first round of the insolvency proceeding, the Rs 7,350-crore bid of Lakshadweep, part of the Suraksha group, was rejected by lenders. The CoC had rejected the bids of Suraksha Realty and NBCC in the second round held in May-June 2019. The matter reached the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) and then the apex court. On November 6, 2019, the Supreme Court directed the completion of JIL's insolvency process within 90 days and ordered that the revised resolution plan to be invited only from NBCC and Suraksha Realty. In December 2019, the CoC comprising 13 banks and around 21,000 homebuyers approved the resolution plan of NBCC with a 97.36 per cent vote in favour in the third round of the bidding process. Then, in March 2020, NBCC had got an approval from the NCLT to acquire Jaypee Infratech. Homebuyers' claims amounting to Rs 13,364 crore and lenders' claims worth Rs 9,783 crore were admitted last year. The order was, however, challenged in the appellate tribunal NCLAT and later in the Supreme Court, which in March 2020 ordered to call fresh bids from the same two contenders -- NBCC and Suraksha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaypee-insolvency-case-nbcc-may-move-supreme-court-against-decision-to-reject-its-bid-988482.html
21-05-2021||National||PM Modi turning emotional shows his pain: Harsh Vardhan||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi turning emotional on Friday while remembering people who lost their lives to Covid-19, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said this shows how pained he is at people losing their loved ones in the pandemic. In a tweet, Vardhan said Modi who takes tough decisions and has strong willpower is very emotional in a few aspects. "The way he turned emotional while remembering those who lost their lives to Covid-19 as he spoke to doctors, shows that how much pain he carries in his heart for this loss of loved ones," he said. Modi is a leader who has not only developed political relationship with the masses but also established emotional connect with them, Vardhan claimed. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal also noted that the prime minister turned emotional at the pain of many families for losing their members. Speaking to healthcare professionals and other frontline workers in his Varanasi constituency through a virtual programme, Modi choked with emotions briefly as he noted that the virus has snatched so many of our near ones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-turning-emotional-shows-his-pain-harsh-vardhan-988490.html
21-05-2021||National||Labour ministry hikes variable dearness allowance for workers in central sphere||Labour ministry hikes variable dearness allowance for workers in central sphere The Ministry of Labour & Employment on Friday announced a hike in variable dearness allowance for more than 1.5 crore workers in the central sphere by Rs 105 to Rs 210 per month. The hike, which will be effective from April 1, 2021, will also result in an increase in rate of minimum wages for central sphere employees and workers. It will be for scheduled employment in central sphere and applicable to the establishments under the authority of central government, railway administration, mines, oil fields, major ports or any corporation established by the central government. These rates are equally applicable to contract and casual employees/workers. Talking to PTI, Chief Labour Commissioner Central (CLC) D P S Negi said, "the dearness hike ranges from Rs 105 to Rs 210 per month for workers in the central sphere". In a statement, the labour ministry said it has notified and revised the rate of Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) with effect from April 1, 2021. This will be a major relief to different category of workers engaged in various scheduled employments in the central sphere at a time when the country is struggling with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, it added. The VDA is revised on the basis of average Consumer Price Index for Industrial Workers (CPI-IW), a price index compiled by the Labour Bureau. The average CPI-IW for of July to December 2020 was used for undertaking the latest VDA revision. Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said the revision will benefit about 1.50 crore workers engaged in various scheduled employments in the central sphere across the country. "This hike in VDA will support these workers particularly in the current pandemic times". The enforcement of Minimum Wages Act in the central sphere is ensured through the Inspecting Officers of Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) across the country for employees engaged in the scheduled employment in the central sphere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministry-hikes-variable-dearness-allowance-for-workers-in-central-sphere-988495.html
21-05-2021||National||NGT notice to Centre on plea to set up permanent body to protect Western Ghats||The National Green Tribunal has issued notice to the Centre on a petition to preserve the Western and Eastern Ghats by constituting a permanent body on the basis of the recommendations made by the Madhav Gadgil and Kasturi Rangan Committees and to implement and execute the same in their true spirit. The application has been filed by Advocate and political activist K S Radha Krishnan in the Principal Bench of the NGT. The Principal Bench headed by its chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel has issued the notice to the Centre and other concerned state governments. The petitioner prayed the Green Bench to direct the concerned authorities to take effective measures to prevent huge encroachment in the water bodies coupled with destroying of forest wealth. Though both committees have made several recommendations and NGT also passed an order, authorities concerned failed to take steps to protect the biodiversity of Western Ghats. The petitioner submitted that rampant encroachments of forests, water bodies and illegal sand mining posed a great threat to the Eastern Ghats. Taking advantage of existing laws, a large number of tree felling is occurring which has resulted in hills of the Eastern Ghats becoming barren, its streams running dry and the biodiversity disappearing gradually. An aromatic and valuable tree like sandalwood trees are removed illegally and such uncontrolled removal has resulted in the ecological imbalance faced in these regions. “Only if the people realise the importance of a clean environment and cooperation with local administration, the natural resources can be protected,” the application reads. Despite the NGT giving its order, the Centre and states including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Goa and Kerala are not taking any steps to protect the Western Ghats, the petitioner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-notice-to-centre-on-plea-to-set-up-permanent-body-to-protect-western-ghats-988530.html
21-05-2021||National||Cases declining, but deaths still above 4,000; indicative of lack of medical facility: Chidambaram||The daily Covid-19 death figure remains above 4,000 despite a declining case positivity, indicating a lack of medical care, Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said Friday, inviting a prompt reply from Health Minister Harsh Vardhan who accused him of raising "unnecessary doubts" out of political compulsions. Vardhan also said that each death was unfortunate and the government was making every effort to fight the pandemic. He said as cases were declining, recoveries have started rising and mortalities would decline soon too. "The number tested is also around 20 lakh per day. If the positivity rate is coming down, why is the number of deaths above 4000 per day? Is it because of lack of proper medical care because of shortage of oxygen, medicines, ventilators, hospital beds etc," Chidambaram asked on Twitter. "The Medical experts who are giving numerous interviews should answer the following questions: When the number of daily fresh infections has come down from 4 lakh+ to 2.5 lakh+, why is the number of deaths still above 4000 per day," the Congress leader also asked. The number tested is also around 20 lakh per day. If the positivity rate is coming down, why is the number of deaths above 4000 per day? Is it because of lack of proper medical care because of shortage of oxygen, medicines, ventilators, hospital beds etc.? Vardhan replied to him on Twitter, saying, "Such a travesty! Political compulsions forcing Sh P Chidambaram Ji to raise such questions." "By order of toolkit party I am sure… Certainly he's privy to general knowledge that time duration between contracting COVID19 and recovery/mortality mostly exceeds a few weeks," he said. “Why raise unnecessary doubts? As cases have been declining, recoveries have started reflecting an upward trajectory, and the mortalities shall show a decline too," he said. "Each death is most unfortunate, GoI is moving heaven and earth to fight this pandemic," Vardhan said. India has seen over 4,000 deaths for the past few days even as the number of fresh Covid cases has come down to 2,59,551 from over 4 lakh a few days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cases-declining-but-deaths-still-above-4000-indicative-of-lack-of-medical-facility-chidambaram-988535.html
21-05-2021||National||India will be in a position to vaccinate its adult population by end of 2021: Harsh Vardhan||India will be in a position to vaccinate at least all of its adult population by the end of 2021, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. At a meeting to review the pandemic situation in nine states and union territories, the minister said, "Between August and December 2021, India will have procured 216 crore vaccine doses, while by July this year, 51 crore doses will be procured." Vardhan touched upon the speculation that the virus might mutate in future and endanger children, and said that the health facilities are being upgraded to deal with any such exigency, according to a health ministry statement. Vardhan also cautioned against the emerging trend in the country. He highlighted that now the smaller states are showing an upward trend and there is a dire need to be extremely cautious, the statement said. He asked the states to follow the basic principles of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour along with testing, tracking, tracing, treating and now vaccinating to fight against the pandemic.  He emphasised the need to step up vaccination and reiterated the need to dedicate 70 per cent of vaccines provided by the central government for the second dose. He also requested the states and UTs to be vigilant against wastage of jabs, the statement said. The minister who reviewed public health response to Covid-19 and progress of vaccination in Chhattisgarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Ladakh, and Lakshadweep informed that all the states and UTs have been asked to notify black fungus (Mucormycosis) as an epidemic and ensure that all cases are duly reported. He assured that all the necessary information and guidelines regarding diabetes control and restricted use of steroids have been provided to states, the statement stated.  He highlighted that daily recoveries have outnumbered the daily new Covid cases for the last 8 days consistently, the statement. Underscoring the critical importance of vaccination drive, the minister highlighted that India has administered a total of 19,18,89,503 vaccine doses to its citizens.  He stated that the government is in the process of supporting the manufacturer of vaccines for ramping up vaccine availability in the country. He expressed hope that in the subsequent months, there will be an exponential rise in production of vaccines in the country, the statement said. "Between August and December 2021, India will have procured 216 crore vaccine doses, while by July this year, 51 crore doses will be procured," he was quoted as saying in the statement. The Union Health Minister also said that by the end of the year, the country will be in a position to vaccinate at least all of its adult population, the statement said. Vardhan presented a snapshot on the Covid situation in all the states and UTs.  In Chhattisgarh, intense transmission has been observed since March 2021. The state was observing a near positivity rate of 30 per cent at the start of May. In Himachal Pradesh, there are more than 35,000 active cases, while the fatality rate (1.44 per cent) is much higher than national average, the statement said. Vardhan underlined the issues like complacency, marriages, super spreader events etc., for the steep rise in cases in Himachal Pradesh, the statement stated. He informed that Goa is witnessing a rising trend with 22,000 active cases. Daman and Diu has 366 active cases and a declining trend is being observed. Similarly Ladakh is also showing a declining trend with 1,500 active cases at present, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-be-in-a-position-to-vaccinate-its-adult-population-by-end-of-2021-harsh-vardhan-988544.html
21-05-2021||National||TCS setting up over 100 Covid-19 vaccination centres across India||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is setting up over 100 Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) across the country and tying up with hospitals and health care providers to procure doses for inoculating its associates and their families. The Mumbai-based company said it has started vaccination camps in a few cities, and the drive will be done on a larger scale across the country between the third and fourth week of May.   "At TCS, we have been supporting vaccination for associates and their families... We are tying up with hospitals and health care providers for this exercise (vaccination programme) and aim to procure doses via suppliers. Multiple modes of procurement are being explored to ensure all our associates in India and their families are covered," TCS said in a statement. A core team will work with hospitals for procuring and administering vaccines across cities in India, communicate the process to our associates, ensure infrastructure and process readiness to ensure a smooth experience, it added. The company said it has started vaccination camps in a few cities that drive will be scaled further, and registrations have already begun for this. "To enhance the accessibility; given the base of our associates, a systematic multi-vendor and multi-location mechanism has been charted and applied pan-India...TCS is setting up over 100 CVCs across India; this includes CVC's across TCS offices in 21 cities and CVCs launched with our primary medical partner across 33 cities," it added. For associates that do not have access to CVCs, TCS is enabling access to vaccination centers via a national network of more than 650 hospitals. "We have set up a complete framework for Covid care that takes care of all anticipated aspects. The process for the vaccination drive will be digitally enabled and technology will be leveraged for end-to-end process management including registration and scheduling via our internal application," TCS noted. The IT major - which has over 4.88 lakh employees in India and overseas - has also launched an internal campaign to stress on the importance of getting vaccinated and ensure that associates have the necessary information and are assisted through the entire process. The deadly second wave of coronavirus infections had seen several states facing a shortage of medical oxygen, beds and other resources. Efforts to ramp up vaccination are also underway. India has so far administered over 18 crore jabs to eligible beneficiaries. IT major Wipro had recently said it expects to have access to about one lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V) for its employees and their families, beginning early June. Tech Mahindra has also rolled out a vaccination drive for its associates and dependent family members above the age of 18 years at its campuses in Delhi-NCR and Bengaluru. The vaccination drive includes the company's support staff and contract staff workers as well. Tech Mahindra will cover the cost of vaccination and has partnered with Fortis Healthcare in Delhi-NCR and Kauvery Hospital in Bengaluru to initiate the first phase of vaccination drive. The company said it is taking proactive measures and collaborating with leading hospitals to organise vaccination drives to ensure 100 per cent employee vaccination. Tech Mahindra has also collaborated with leading hospitals to convert campuses in Noida, Pune, Bengaluru and Chennai to Covid Care Units with round-the-clock medical observation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tcs-setting-up-over-100-covid-19-vaccination-centres-across-india-988551.html
21-05-2021||National||Olympian boxer Sakti Mazumdar dies of heart attack||Former India boxer Sakti Mazumdar, who had represented India at the 1952 Helsinki Olympics, died on Friday after suffering a heart attack. He was 89. "With profound grief, we regret to inform you that Mr Shakti Mazumdar passed away at Ballygunge, West Bengal today," Asit Banerjee, President of Bengal Amateur Boxing Federation (BABF), said in a release. Mazumdar was suffering from age-related issues and had a heart attack on Friday morning. He had won the first round in men's flyweight event at the 1952 Olympics after getting a walkover from Nguyen Van Cua of Vietnam and was defeated by Han Soo-ann of South Korea in the next round.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/olympian-boxer-sakti-mazumdar-dies-of-heart-attack-988554.html
21-05-2021||National||60 dead, 15 still missing from barge P-305; Navy continues search in waters off Mumbai||The death toll on barge P-305 that sank in the Arabian Sea five days ago rose to 60 on Friday with the recovery of 11 more bodies even as the Navy and the Coast Guard continued the search for the 15 personnel missing from the barge and 11 from anchor boat Varaprada. Hopes of finding more survivors of the Cyclone Tauktae fury have receded, an official said. Of the 261 personnel who were on barge P-305 that sank on Monday, 186 have been recovered so far. Of the 13 persons on Varaprada, two have been rescued while the search for the remaining 11 is on. While all the 440 persons on barges Gal Constructor and Support Station 3 (SS-3) and drillship Sagar Bhushan were brought to safety, Naval and Coast Guard vessels and aircraft scoured the waters off the Mumbai coast as the search and rescue operations entered the fifth day on Friday. Mumbai police have announced they will conduct a probe as to why the ill-fated barge remained in the turbulent area despite warnings about cyclone Tauktae, an official said. The police have also registered accidental death reports in connection with the death of the personnel on the barge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/60-dead-15-still-missing-from-barge-p-305-navy-continues-search-in-waters-off-mumbai-988555.html
21-05-2021||National Politics||Toolkit case: Congress writes to Twitter seeking suspension accounts of JP Nadda, Smriti Irani||Two days after filing a police complaint in the 'Covid-19 toolkit' case, Congress Thursday wrote to Twitter asking it to permanently suspend the accounts of BJP leaders including party chief JP Nadda and Union minister Smriti Irani for allegedly "spreading misinformation and unrest in the society". The Congress had Wednesday lodged a police complaint seeking registration of cases against Nadda and Irani, besides BJP general secretary B L Santosh and spokesperson Sambit Patra over the alleged forgery of documents. The Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter seeking permanent suspension of the Twitter handles of the four BJP leaders and other party functionaries who had shared the "forged" document. "We've formally written to Twitter seeking suspension of Twitter accounts of BJP leaders who are indulging in spreading forged documents attributing to Congress," said Congress' social media department head Rohan Gupta. "While an FIR has already been lodged, the independent fact-checkers too have blown the lid off BJP's propaganda," he also said on Twitter. The complaint lodged by Gupta and Congress research department head Rajeev Gowda said as Twitter's own policy and rules seek to discourage deceptive/synthetic/manipulated media that are likely to cause harm, "We humbly request you to immediately remove the tweets, or any other such material on Twitter platform". The Congress leaders also asked Twitter to carry out a detailed probe on the subject and "permanently suspend the Twitter accounts of the individuals, as the said persons are habitual of manufacturing forged content and misusing the Twitter platform for disseminating the same". Their complaint alleged that the "gross misuse" of the Twitter platform by the senior functionaries of the ruling party has led to large-scale dissemination of "false information and has the potential to cause social unrest in the country", amidst the current pandemic. "The said BJP leaders in a pre-planned criminal conspiracy, prepared a forged & fabricated the letterhead of the INC Research Department and thereafter printed certain mischievous, false and fabricated content on the same, for the purpose of vide dissemination through their official Twitter handles, with the clear intent to cause social unrest, communal disharmony in order to fuel hate and escalate violence in various parts of India," they party has alleged in the complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/toolkit-case-congress-writes-to-twitter-seeking-suspension-accounts-of-jp-nadda-smriti-irani-988219.html
21-05-2021||National Politics||Twitter labels Patra's tweet on Congress 'toolkit' as 'manipulated media'||“Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of “Friendly Journalists” & “Influencers” than a soulful endeavour,” Patra Tweeted on May 18. Several BJP leaders retweeted it. Alleging that documents used by Patra were fake, the Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter to remove tweets by BJP leaders. According to the policy of  Twitter’s,  content posted on its handle may be labelled as ‘manipulated media’ or  removed if the company has a valid reason to believe that media, or the context in which media are presented, are “significantly and deceptively altered or manipulated”. According to the BJP, the Congress prepared a toolkit document to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/twitter-labels-patras-tweet-on-congress-toolkit-as-manipulated-media-988264.html
21-05-2021||National Politics||Many lives could have been saved had PM, UP CM not focused on 'fake' praise: Akhilesh||Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the lives of people could have been saved had both focused on arranging essentials for Covid patients instead of indulging in each other’s “fake” praise. According to a statement, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also accused the PM of awarding a “appreciation medal” to himself through the "jahan bimar, waha upchar" slogan, which he had given at a video conference with doctors on Friday. "People of the state and the country are facing hardships due to the exchange of praises between heads of the country and the state. Had the time spent on fake praises been spent on arranging vaccine, beds and oxygen, lives of many people could have been saved. Condemnable!,” Akhilesh said in a Hindi tweet. "The CM is bound to nod in favour (of whatever PM says). Even after ruining health services from district to villages, the exchange of praises is going on. This is a per pre-planned tactic of the BJP to create confusion among people and hide deaths taking place without treatment," he alleged. If the CM is to be believed, coronavirus spread and 'black fungus' are being controlled in the state, Akhilesh said, pointing out that even the Union Health Ministry has “accepted” that UP is far behind in Covid vaccination when compared with Maharashtra and Rajasthan. He alleged that the BJP has made a “mockery” of the vaccination drive due to non-availability of vaccines. Akhilesh said the government should consider suggestions of opposition parties and adopt a positive attitude towards them. Due to the policy of hiding lies, lives of many in the state are in danger, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/many-lives-could-have-been-saved-had-pm-up-cm-not-focused-on-fake-praise-akhilesh-988447.html
21-05-2021||National Politics||'BJP spent over Rs 24 crore on star campaigners' chartered flights in Bihar polls'||The BJP spent nearly Rs 26.7 crore from its central headquarters accounts for the 2020 Bihar assembly elections, including Rs 24.07 crore towards chartered aircraft travel expenses of its star campaigners such as J P Nadda, Rajnath Singh and Yogi Adityanath. In addition to it, the gross expenses made by the BJP's Bihar unit during the election period stood at nearly Rs 28 crore, while a total of Rs 16.5 crore was given to the party candidates as financial assistance with most of them getting Rs 15 lakh each, shows the expenditure statement filed by it with the Election Commission. The gross expenses made by the party, including by the central headquarters and the state unit between the announcement and completion of the elections, stood at nearly Rs 71.73 crore, while the gross receipts during this period were to the tune of Rs 35.83 crore. While the cumulative opening balance for the party's central headquarters and state unit stood at Rs 2,367.90 crore before the announcement of polls, the post-poll closing balance fell to Rs 2,279.96 crore, showed the statement filed by the party in March and made public by the EC on Friday. Of this, the cash-in-hand component rose from Rs 2.79 crore to Rs 5.71 crore during this period. While the central headquarter recorded a gross receipt of Rs 31.88 crore, the same for the state unit was Rs 3.9 crore. The state unit incurred total expenses of Rs 1.5 crore towards travel expenditure of star campaigners, including for helicopter and taxi used by leaders like Rajnath Singh, Sushil Modi, Devendra Fadnavis and Shahnawaz Hussain. It spent nearly Rs 45.6 lakh on travel expenditure of other leaders, including by taxi and train. The Bihar unit of the party spent more than Rs 16 crore on media advertisements, which included Rs 1.59 crore to Google India. One candidate can spend a maximum of Rs 30.8 lakh in assembly elections to a state like Bihar, as per ceilings imposed by the poll panel. However, there is no such ceiling for campaigning expenditure by a political party. Of the gross expenditure of Rs 71.73 crore by the party's central headquarter and state unit for the Bihar polls, Rs 54.7 crore was spent on 'general party propoganda', nearly Rs 17 crore was spent on candidates including Rs 43.84 lakh for mandatory "publicity of criminal antecedents". The National Democratic Alliance of the BJP, JDU and other parties won the elections held in October-November 2020. The statement further showed that the BJP's central headquarter transferred Rs 44.4 crore to its Bihar unit for election expenses. The opening balance of the party funds at the central headquarter level stood at Rs 2,350 crore (including Rs 2.42 crore in cash) before the Bihar polls, which declined to Rs 2,253 crore post-polls (including Rs 2.8 crore in cash). The expenditure by the central headquarter also included Rs 2.14 crore towards 'call centre' and Rs 12.05 lakh on 'media audit'. Besides party president Nadda, Defence Minister Singh and UP Chief Minister Adityanath, other star campaigners for whom travel expenditure was borne by the central headquarter included R P Singh, Raghubar Das, Rajeev Pratap Rudy, Bhupendra Yadav, Ashwani Choubey, Samrat Choudhary and Mangal Pandey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-spent-over-rs-24-crore-on-star-campaigners-chartered-flights-in-bihar-polls-988516.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||AIIMS doctor asks diabetic patients to control sugar as 'black fungus' infection rises in Delhi||As 'black fungus' infection has crossed the three-digit mark in Delhi and cases are rapidly increasing, Prof MV Padma Srivastava, head of the neurology department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) advised diabetic people to strictly control their blood sugar level and use steroids rationally. "The number of Black fungus cases is increasing rapidly. We've crossed the 3-digit mark. We've made mucor wards separately at AIIMS Trauma centre and AIIMS Jhajjar. We're getting over 20 cases of Black fungus daily," Prof MV Padma Srivastava told ANI. People with uncontrolled sugar level, low immunity, and those who consume excessive steroid, can easily contract the 'black fungus' infection, she said. "The index of suspicion of contracting 'black fungus' is very high because of low immunity. If Covid happens to diabetic people, sugar should be strictly controlled and there should be rational use of steroids," she said. Dr Padma added, “In Delhi's AIIMS, there are more than 20 cases of mucormycosis reported in emergency today. Mucormycosis was always there in those who are immunocompromised, diabetic, with high steroid dose, but it was never in this number." In the past, AIIMS Delhi used to get 12-15 mucormycosis patients in a year. Pain and redness around the eyes and/or nose, fever, headache, coughing, shortness of breath, blood in vomit, and altered mental status are the symptoms of mucormycosis listed by the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-doctor-asks-diabetic-patients-to-control-sugar-as-black-fungus-infection-rises-in-delhi-988181.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Chipko movement leader Sunderlal Bahuguna dies of Covid-19||Sunderlal Bahuguna, veteran environmentalist and pioneer of the Chipko movement, breathed his last on Friday at the AIIMS in Rishikesh after battling Covid-19. He was 94. Bahuguna, who led protests against the felling of trees in the Garhwal Himalayas and opposed the construction of the Tehri Dam, was admitted to AIIMS in Rishikesh on May 8 for treatment of Covid-19. His condition deteriorated on Thursday night and he succumbed to the deadly virus at 12:05 pm on Friday. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh among others condoled the death of Bahuguna. “He manifested our centuries-old ethos of living in harmony with nature. His simplicity and spirit of compassion will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers,” Modi said. Passing away of Shri Sunderlal Bahuguna Ji is a monumental loss for our nation. He manifested our centuries old ethos of living in harmony with nature. His simplicity and spirit of compassion will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers. Om Shanti. Born in an affluent family in Maroda in Tehri on January 9, 1927, Bahuguna was influenced by freedom fighter Sridev Suman, a prominent figure in the Garhwal region. Suman introduced young Sunderlal to the Gandhian way of peace and non-violence and spearheaded the anti-liquor movement in the region. But it was the Chiko movement – a spontaneous reaction of local women in the Chamoli district of embracing trees to prevent them from felling to facilitate development works in the fragile Garhwal Himalayas. The spark that was lit in Reni village in Chamoli in 1973, soon spread across the Himalayan districts of the then Uttar Pradesh under Bahuguna’s patronage. Bahuguna took out a trans-Himalayan foot march traversing 5,000 km before meeting the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi who imposed a 15-year ban on felling trees in the region in 1980. He also led the movement against the Tehri Dam – which ranks among the highest large dams in the world – and went on long fasts demanding an independent review of the dam. Bahuguna called off the fast after 45 days on assurance from the then Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao of appointing an independent committee. When the promise was not kept, he went on another fast for 74 days which was called off after a personal undertaking from the then Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on a review of the project on Bahuguna’s terms. “I have good memories of interacting with him and convincing him to give up his fast against the Tehri Dam in 1996, when I was the Prime Minister. He was gentle, warm but firm about his principles, which I respected,” Deve Gowda said remembering Bahuguna. Bahuguna was awarded the Padma Shri in 1981, which he refused to accept. In 1987, he was awarded the Right Livelihood Award and the Padma Vibhushan in 2009 for his work in the conservation of the environment. Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat condoled his death describing it as a big loss not just for Uttarakhand and India but for the entire world. "It was he who made the Chipko movement a movement of the masses," Rawat said. The void created by his passing away in the field of environment conservation can never be filled, the chief minister said. He prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family to bear the loss. Expressing his condolence at Bahuguna's death, another noted environmentalist Chandi Prasad Bhatt described him as a "brilliant social worker". "His demise is painful for all of us," Bhatt said. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday condoled the demise of Bahuguna, saying his efforts to preserve the ecosystem will always be remembered. "Pained to know that Shri Sunderlal Bahuguna ji has passed away. As a prominent environmentalist and a leader of the Chipko movement, his untiring efforts for the preservation of the Himalayan ecosystem earned him global recognition and will long be remembered," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu. Bahuguna's efforts have spawned a generation of environmentalists and will inspire many more to come, the vice president in another tweet. "Our tribute to him is to strive and live by his idea- 'ecology is our permanent economy'. My deepest condolences to his family and followers. Om Shanti," he added. Shri Bahuguna ji's efforts have spawned a generation of environmentalists and will inspire many more to come. Our tribute to him is to strive and live by his idea- "ecology is our permanent economy". My deepest condolences to his family and followers. Om Shanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chipko-movement-leader-sunderlal-bahuguna-dies-of-covid-19-988279.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Review existing facilities for vulnerable groups: MHA to states||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked states to review the existing facilities for vulnerable groups in the wake of a second wave of Covid-19 to meet "new challenges" like children who have been orphaned due to the pandemic, elderly population who requires timely assistance and Dalits and tribals who need guidance to access facilities. An advisory was issued to the states on Wednesday that acknowledged how several states and union territories are taking steps and strengthening their machinery to support vulnerable sections, which also includes women. It said there have been several success stories and best practices of providing emergency services to vulnerable groups affected by the pandemic. "However, in order to meet the new challenges arising out of the recent wave of Covid-19 affliction, it is requested to undertake an immediate review of existing facilities for vulnerable groups inter-alia on the lines of the measures given in the various advisories issued by the MHA...," it said. It highlighted that the review should be conducted keeping in mind children who have been orphaned, senior citizens who may require timely assistance and support (medical as well as safety and security), and members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes who may need guidance to access government support facilities.  "The review may include steps taken for sensitisation of police personnel, coordination with agencies/departments concerned as also communities and civil society organisations," the advisory said. The MHA advisory comes against the backdrop of reports of several children losing both the parents or the earning parent, senior citizens, and under-privileged people finding it difficult to access vaccination and other health facilities. With the pandemic giving an opportunity to human traffickers, the MHA is also asking the states to put in place a robust institutional mechanism for preventing and countering human trafficking. It also wanted the states to effectively deploy the Women Help Desk in Police Stations and Anti-Human Trafficking Units in districts. The NCRB has released several tools to States/Union Territories to facilitate this activity. It includes the Crime Multi Centre Agency (Cri-MAC) for police to share inter-state information and online National Alert Service for police on missing and found persons using the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) among others. The MHA also asked the states and union territories to create greater awareness on the central citizen service for missing persons that is available online. The advisory has also referred to the recent SOPs issued for the safety of transgenders during Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/review-existing-facilities-for-vulnerable-groups-mha-to-states-988304.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Local youth joining militancy serious concern: J&K Police||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday said that local boys joining militancy was a serious concern and there was a need for more hard work and efforts to keep local youths away from the violence. “Our motive is not just to kill a militant but to end militancy as well to secure the environment for the people of Kashmir,” Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told reporters on the sidelines of the National Anti-Terrorism Day function here. “A series of steps have already been taken to prevent locals from joining militancy. We delay encounters by two to three hours only to allow local boys (militants) to surrender.  There is a need for more hard work and efforts to keep boys away from the militancy,” the Kashmir Police chief said, adding that a vast network of overground workers (OGWs) has already been busted, and “motivators are being tracked down.” The police categorise “anybody who supports the militants” as an OGW. A person providing a safe house, passage, information or acting as a messenger for suspected militants automatically comes under the radar of the police as an OGW. Kumar said they condemn all forms of violence, militancy, and its related activities. He also renewed a pledge to fight militancy with more zeal. “I will go to the field and meet policemen who are performing their duties to raise their morale. I will be going with a message that our men on the ground must continue their great work and continue their contribution towards making the atmosphere more peaceful in the time ahead,” the IGP said. Due to the prevailing second wave of Covid-19, he said that many steps taken by police to bring youth into the mainstream are on a halt. “We had taken measures that included sports activities, cultural events, and other programs to bring youth into the mainstream. Let the Covid-19 settle down, we will restart these activities,” the Kashmir Police chief added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/local-youth-joining-militancy-serious-concern-jk-police-988310.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||My father was killed for expressing ideas: Sajjad Lone||Separatist-turned-mainstream politician, Sajjad Lone on Friday said that his father Abdul Gani Lone was killed “for speaking the truth and expressing his ideas.” Senior Lone, who was a senior leader of Hurriyat Conference, was killed by Hizbul Mujahideen militants on May 21, 2002, in Srinagar for opposing a growing gun culture in the Valley. He was considered an advocate of finding a lasting solution to Kashmir through peaceful means. In a series of tweets, his son Sajjad Lone said those who opposed his father and created a false narrative that ended up in his killing saw what his father was mercifully spared from seeing. “But what gives me some solace is that those who opposed him and created that false narrative that culminated in my father being killed- that crowd, some of them still alive, were better dead than alive. They saw what my father was mercifully spared from seeing,” Sajjad, chairman of Peoples Conference (PC), tweeted. He said the worse oppressors are those who oppress under the garb of fighting oppression. “As long as we do not stop collectively lying especially on who killed whom we as people will continue to be in the state that we are. People deserve to know-oppressors have many forms. And the worse form of oppressors are those who oppress under the fig leaf of fighting oppression," Sajjad, who was a cabinet minister on BJP quota during the PDP-BJP alliance in J&K from 2015 to 2018, said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-father-was-killed-for-expressing-ideas-sajjad-lone-988313.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Parsi body moves Gujarat HC for permission of traditional burial of Covid victims||A Parsi body in Surat has filed a petition in the Gujarat High Court seeking permission to perform last rites of community members who lost their lives due to Covid-19, in accordance with their religious practice of "Dokhmenashini", a practice where dead are kept at the tower of silence or dakhma, exposed to scavenger birds and the sun. The single bench of justice Nirzar Desai issued notices to the state and central government to respond by next Thursday. The petitioners — the Surat Parsi Panchayat Board, Surat and Dr Homi D Doodhwala, have moved the court through lawyer Manan Bhatt. The petition states that in Surat, 20 members of the community succumbed to Covid-19 but none of them was "permitted to follow their religious dictates so far as last rites are concerned". "The Surat Parsi Panchayat has filed a petition praying that they may be allowed to perform Dokhmenashini religious practice of putting the dead body of Parsi Covid-19 patient in the tower of silence and they cannot be forced to opt for burial or cremation. There is no law or notification prohibiting Dokhmenashini. Moreover, there is no scientific proof available that a dead body can transmit Covid-19. On the contrary, research shows that it is transmitted through living beings only. The court has issued notice in the matter making returnable next Thursday," said advocate Asim Pandya who argued the matter in the court. The petition reveals that a Parsi man, who lost his father due to Covid-19 and was denied last rites as per his religious practice, forged a high court order to get the permission. Following this, the Parsi Panchayat filed a police complaint against the person and also informed the court. The petitioners have stated that the man forged the order "to see that no such sentiments were hurt of other members of the community". It says that 'Dokhmenashini' is an integral part of the religious practices of the Parsi community. Authorities "in the pretext of guidelines are not allowing the community to perform last rites as per their religion", the petition said. It said that no guideline prohibits such customary practices but "it is the interpretation of the local authorities that is causing problems and results in violation of fundamental rights of the Parsi community". The other reason, the petition argues, is that the community has not been given any alternative for performing the last rites as per the Covid-19 protocol. It says, "No burial ground has been allocated to the Parsi community.... the other communities such as Muslims and Christians do not allow others to bury in their burial ground. Over and above the practice of burial is not in accordance with the Parsi religious tenets." Arguing that it doesn't want to put anyone's life at risk, the petition claims, "there is no evidence of coronavirus being spread through the dead body. Therefore, there is no reason to deny the decent funeral to petitioners' members."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parsi-body-moves-gujarat-hc-for-permission-of-traditional-burial-of-covid-victims-988324.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees 3,009 new Covid cases over 24 hours, positivity rate declines to 4.76%||Delhi recorded 3,009 Covid-19 cases and 252 fatalities on Friday, with the city's positivity rate slipping to 4.76 per cent, data shared by the health department showed. As per the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the Covid-19 death toll in the national capital to 22,831. This is the third consecutive day when Delhi's count of daily new cases has remained below 4,000. The positivity rate in the city stood at 5.5 per cent on Thursday. Medical experts have held the lockdown as the main factor behind the dip in the daily cases amid the second wave of the pandemic. On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 3,846 cases of the infection and 235 deaths.    More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-3009-new-covid-cases-over-24-hours-positivity-rate-declines-to-476-988330.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir reports first case of 'black fungus'||Jammu and Kashmir reported its first mucormycosis, popularly known as 'black fungus' case on Friday with a 40-year-old man who recently recovered from Covid-19 being kept under observation. Principal Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu, Dr Shashi Sudan said the infection has been confirmed and the man is now suffering from “uncontrolled diabetes” and the sugar level of the patient is 900. The Union health ministry last week said the disease is being detected among patients who are recovering or have recovered from Covid-19. The disease is caused by a set of micro-organisms known as mucormycetes, which are present naturally in the environment seen mostly in soil and in decaying organic matter like leaves, compost and piles. Cases of black fungus have been found in different parts of the country amid the second wave of Covid-19. Thousands of people have been confirmed to have mucormycosis across the country with authorities in several states now sounding the alarm on the rare life-threatening disease that is rapidly popping up across India as a Covid-19 complication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-reports-first-case-of-black-fungus-988360.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Modi turns emotional, asks health workers to focus on villages in Covid fight||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Friday turned emotional while virtually interacting with doctors and health workers of his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi as he paid tribute to those who had lost their lives while battling Covid 19. ''This virus has snatched many of our near and dear ones...I pay my tribute to all of them,'' Modi said. Terming the 'Black fungus' as the new challenge, Modi said that the government was battling on several fronts at the same time in the second wave of coronavirus. ''This time the infection rate is many times more than the previous one...the patients required longer hospitalisation and as a result there is pressure on the health system,'' the prime minister said. ''Improvement in the health infrastructure in the past seven years was able to withstand the pressure to some extent but the situation was extraordinary,'' he added. Lauding the success achieved in controlling the Covid 19 infections in Varanasi, Modi asked the health workers and doctors to now focus on the villages in the eastern UP region. He stressed the need to follow the mantra 'jahan bimar, wahin upchar' (treating the sick on the spot) even as he asked the health workers to take every step to keep the children safe. Doctors from different hospitals and around one hundred health workers took part in the virtual interaction with the prime minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-turns-emotional-asks-health-workers-to-focus-on-villages-in-covid-fight-988363.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir designates two pediatric units as Covid-19 wards for children||With health experts warning that children are likely to be more affected in the third wave of Covid-19, Jammu and Kashmir government has designated two pediatric wards as Covid wards for children. Dr Dara Singh, Medical Superintendent at SMGS hospital in Jammu said that as of now two wards have been designated as Covid wards for children in which there are over 100 beds and among them 20 will be intensive care unit (ICU) beds. He said as the third wave of Covid-19 may come and affect children they have started preparations in advance. “We have prepared a DPR and submitted requisition before concerned higher ups to get high flow oxygen supply to all 400 beds at the hospital,” Dr Singa said. Of late, children are testing positive for different variants of Covid in some parts of the country and this has led to rising infection rate in the age group of 0 to 15. “As the children stay with their parents, their exposure to viruses is inevitable. However, only mild symptoms have been reported in children,” said a pediatrician. He said the government has started preparations in anticipation which is a good thing. “We need more pediatric beds and ICUs in the future. But, parents need not panic because of this,” the doctor added. There are still no Covid-19 vaccines approved for children yet. The Pfizer vaccine is approved for people as young as 16, and Moderna and Johnson & Johnson are for those 18 and older.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-designates-two-pediatric-units-as-covid-19-wards-for-children-988379.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||At least 26 teachers, who were on poll duty in Madhya Pradesh, die of Covid-19||At least 26 teachers, on duty for the Madhya Pradesh bypoll election, have died after contracting Covid-19, according to state president of the Madhya Pradesh Government Teachers Association (GTA). According to Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 bulletin, only 20 deaths in April and only three deaths until May 17 were reported in Damoh. Congress’ Damoh district chief, Manu Mishra, was hospitalised with his wife and son during the election campaign due to Covid-19. He has questioned the official numbers and is working on compiling the list of Congress workers who died during the bypoll elections. He said, “At least 17 party workers have died in one block. We will get the complete list in a few days.” Meanwhile, the government is paying compensation to election workers who died due to Covid-19 in that period. District Collector Krishna Chaitanya told the publication, “We have so far received applications of 24 teachers who have prima facie succumbed to Covid after being put on election duty. Of these, six were actively involved while others were engaged in affiliated work. So far, we have recognised 17 teachers to have succumbed to the virus. We are verifying the other applications to be sent to the Election Commission for compensation.” The lockdown curbs were imposed in Damoh only on April 19, two days after voting, while the entire state shut down from April 7. In the heated election campaigning, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state Congress chief Nath, and several leaders like Jyotraditya Scindia, Digvijaya Singh, Uma Bharti and Union MoS Prahlad Singh Patel held roadshows, public gatherings and rallies. Damoh district reported 11 new cases and 116 active cases with total of 3,100 cases and 93 deaths. The total cases reported from the district rose to 3,774 on April 16. And as of May 19, Damoh has 1,375 active cases and a total of 7,465 cases and 130 deaths untill now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-26-teachers-who-were-on-poll-duty-in-madhya-pradesh-die-of-covid-19-988385.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||J&K reports first death due to 'black fungus'||Jammu and Kashmir reported its first 'black fungus' case death on Friday with the demise of a 40-year-old man who had recently recovered from Covid-19. Principal Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu, Dr Shashi Sudan said the person, who was suffering from 'black fungus', lost the battle this afternoon. “The patient was admitted on May 19 and mucormycosis in him was detected on Thursday. He had recovered from Covid-19 recently and was now suffering from uncontrolled diabetes,” she said. Dr Sudan added that patient had contracted the disease due to the long-term use of steroid drugs. The Union health ministry last week said the disease is being detected among patients who are recovering or have recovered from Covid-19. The disease is caused by a set of micro-organisms known as mucormycetes, which are present naturally in the environment seen mostly in soil and in decaying organic matter like leaves, compost and piles. It is a rare and deadly disease that has a mortality rate of 50 to 80%. Cases of 'black fungus' have been found in different parts of the country amid the second wave of Covid-19. Thousands of people have been confirmed to have mucormycosis across the country with authorities in several states now sounding the alarm on the rare life-threatening disease that is rapidly popping up across India as a Covid-19 complication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-reports-first-death-due-to-black-fungus-988443.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||At least five trapped as under-construction tunnel collapses in Himachal's Kullu||At least five labourers were trapped after an under-construction tunnel collapsed in Himachal Pradesh's Kullu district on Friday, police said. The incident took place at Pancha Nullah near Garsa Bhuntar after which rescue teams were rushed there, Kullu Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said. Two ambulances have also been sent to the spot and further details are awaited, said the SP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-five-trapped-as-under-construction-tunnel-collapses-in-himachals-kullu-988464.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||S N Shrivastava given complete charge of Delhi Police||Senior IPS officer S N Shrivastava was appointed as full-fledged Commissioner of Delhi Police on Thursday, according to an official order. A 1985-batch IPS officer who is scheduled to retire next month, Shrivastava was holding the post of Delhi Police Commissioner as an additional charge. The order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs stated that Shrivastava has been cleared for holding the post of Commissioner of Delhi Police until further orders. His name was cleared by the competent authority, the order said. He was given additional charge of Delhi Police Commissioner in February last year. Prior to that he was brought in from the CRPF and posted as Special Commissioner (Law and Order) of the Delhi Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/s-n-shrivastava-given-complete-charge-of-delhi-police-988471.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 fatalities show slight decline in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded a decline in Covid-19 deaths and cases on Friday compared to previous days with 43 fatalities and 3,848 positive cases reported in the last 24-hours. It was for the first time in the last 10-days that the daily death count came down below 50. From May 12 to May 20 over 570 deaths were recorded in J&K. The daily positive case also came down from 4,169 on Thursday to 3,848 on Friday. As per a daily media bulletin, on Friday out of 43 deaths reported, 28 patients succumbed in Jammu and 15 in Kashmir. The total number of active cases in J&K came down below 50,000-mark for the first time since May 11. As of Friday, there are 49,893 active cases in the Union Territory (UT). With 3,848 more recoveries on Friday, the tally of total recoveries in the UT has reached 21,0547 which is nearly 80% of the total cases. As per the details shared by the health department, 5,512 hospital beds have been designated for Covid-19 patients, of which 3,230 are occupied by patients admitted in various hospitals across J&K. 2,678 Covid patients are on oxygen support and 142 on ventilator support. Meanwhile, normal life continued to remain affected across J&K in view of the Corona Curfew that entered into the 23rd straight day on Friday even as many people were booked for violating the lockdown. Till now nearly 7,000 persons have been fined and over 1,200 arrested for Covid violations in Kashmir valley. On April 29, the J&K administration imposed curfew in 11 districts to curtail the spread of Covid-19, which was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-fatalities-show-slight-decline-in-jk-988476.html
21-05-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt postpones payment date of water bills for two months||Amid the prevailing Covid-19 crisis, the Rajasthan government has extended the date of payment of the current water bills by people by two months. They will have to pay the current two-month bills along with those for the forthcoming months. The government has decided to postpone the payment of water bills for April and May, an official statement said on Friday. The government has also decided the water connection of a consumer will not be disconnected the months of April, May and June 2021, if the bills are not paid in time, it added. The order was issued by Additional Chief Secretary Sudhansh Pant. The order said the payment against the consumption of non-domestic and industrial consumers against water consumption in April and May 2021 will be included in the bills of July 2021. The bill amount of all domestic consumers will be included in July and August 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-postpones-payment-date-of-water-bills-for-two-months-988510.html
21-05-2021||Oasis||Dejection unlocks paths to spirituality||The prevailing globally anxious and uncertain, sad and scary pandemic atmosphere seems to have dumped all of us into a state of dejection, depression, discouragement and despondency. But a thorough introspection into the precursors and antecedents that preceded this event reveals that it need not be so and we can all jump the dump like a phoenix. The present gloomy atmosphere has some silver linings too, which manifest for those who can think positively and view things with hope, confidence and faith. Because god is omnipotent and in charge of everything that goes on in the world, this pandemic also must be part of his divine plan. However grave the night is, it must yield to the dawn. God is benevolent and loving and whatever is happening must be for the ultimate benefit of humanity. The current mood of despondency meshes well with that of Arjuna in the battlefield of Mahabharat, viscerally equated. He also was reluctant to fight, but circumstances compelled him to participate; he also felt helpless and wanted to flee from the scene of conflict; he also visualised the doomsday of total destruction of his kith and kin, near and dear ones. But, the divine plan activated itself to shake him up from his delusion and wake him up to the reality of who he essentially was, what was his role in the then prevailing situation and how god was acting through him to destroy evil in the world and pave the way for spiritual upliftment of humanity. Similar is the current gloomy situation. Many positives are surfacing during this frightening atmosphere. Firstly, a sense of universal brotherhood and cooperation is initiated, as demonstrated by the sharing of knowledge, technology and resources amongst all the countries, despite their conflicting and diverse ideologies and material advancements, to fight and evict the pandemic leading humanity to safety, security and well-being. Secondly, many have realised the futility of wealth and power. They are being humbled to embrace simplicity – no rave parties, no luxurious tours and travels, no grandiose hobbies, no display of wealth and so on. Thirdly, man has realised that in the eyes of god all are one – Covid respects no status, no wealth disparity, no religion, no demographics or any such differentials. Lastly, people are looking beyond the earthly pleasures and into the realm of spirituality to realise how helpless man is in front of all intelligent and powerful divine plans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/dejection-unlocks-paths-to-spirituality-988214.html
21-05-2021||Opinion||Why are tech companies pretending to be governments?||Philadelphia spent almost half a million dollars wooing Amazon’s HQ2 campus in a 2018 competition that the company billed as merit-based. So city leaders probably weren’t thrilled to read in a new book that one of the company’s top executives frowned on its bid because he couldn’t abide the Eagles, the city’s football team. Andy Jassy, since tapped to succeed Jeff Bezos as Amazon’s chief executive, “opined that he disliked the city, which was the bitter rival of his favorite football team, the New York Giants,” according to “Amazon Unbound,” by a longtime company chronicler, the journalist Brad Stone. Amazon picked New York and Arlington, Va., instead. The HQ2 process was an example of an increasingly common feature of American life: big tech companies putting on shows of government-style decision-making about government-scale issues. Recent examples include Facebook’s reliance on an ersatz judiciary to decide whether Donald Trump may resume posting and Uber’s efforts to create different labor standards for that special group of workers known as Uber drivers. Public outrage tends to focus on the poor quality of these pantomimes. The real injustice runs deeper. In a representative democracy, the process confers legitimacy on the result. A piece of legislation or a court ruling commands compliance because the decision is made by duly empowered representatives acting under the law. Corporations behave like governments because they want to invest their decisions with that sense of procedural legitimacy. But they do it for the purpose of warding off the government. The show is a sham, a mockery of democracy. Corporations may be people, but they’re not polities. Their executives are not our representatives. The rules they choose to follow are not laws. And legitimacy cannot be borrowed to justify decisions contrary to the public interest. Amazon’s national bake-off showcased the company wielding its economic power in an apparently responsible fashion that actually served as a mechanism to subvert the public interest by squeezing local governments for incentives. In the end, after abandoning New York for insufficient enthusiasm, Amazon is building in Arlington, on a site directly across the Potomac River from the heart of the actual government. The company is also a national leader in the use of mandatory arbitration — contractual clauses that shift dispute resolution from the judicial system to private courts. Amazon requires the roughly 2.5 million third-party sellers on its website to accept arbitration of any disputes with the company, and it prohibits them from joining forces. The system “functions as a way for Amazon to keep disputes within its control, with the scales tipped heavily in its favor,” the House Judiciary Committee concluded last year. Facebook is deeply invested in writing its own rules, too. Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s founder, decided in 2018 to create an oversight board he described as “almost like a Supreme Court” to adjudicate the boundaries of acceptable speech in the private company’s public squares. The federal government has exempted online publishers from some of the legal responsibility assumed by those who print on paper and allows them to make their own rules. Mr. Zuckerberg observed in The New Yorker this year that “maybe there are some calls that just aren’t good for the company to make by itself.” He’s right. Other examples abound of technology companies engaging in regulation in the style of government. Bitcoin is an alternative system of monetary regulation — one whose popularity rests in part on facilitating illegal activity. Uber’s stock price reflects its disdain for municipal taxicab laws and its success in arguing that it is creating a better set of rules. YouTube has long maintained its business might not survive if it had to prevent contributors from violating copyrights; its success rests on obtaining government support for an alternative standard under which websites are required only to play Whac-A-Mole. The government’s permissive attitude toward technology companies reflects the special place that frontiers have long held in American life and imagination. New places were embraced as the solution to old ailments. As Greg Grandin writes in his acute 2019 book, “The End of the Myth,” the western frontier “allowed the United States to avoid a true reckoning with its social problems, such as economic inequality, racism, crime and punishment, and violence.” The sense of limitless possibility — and the absence of hierarchy — was an argument against the reallocation of existing resources. The frontier, however, was also a place where people could take liberties. There’s no need to pick up the fish and slap you across the face with it. The parallels with the electronic frontier are clear enough. Tech companies present themselves as pioneers empowering people to build communities, to obtain goods and services, to earn a living. But they also are in the business of taking liberties at public expense. When companies are allowed to strike the balance, there may be some congruence with the public interest, but not enough. Corporations are participants in a system, not the system administrators. Regulating the nature and pace of change is one of the most important roles of government. It’s a job the government needs to take more seriously. As for Philadelphia Eagles fans, who have famously booed Santa Claus and pelted him with snowballs, they now can aim their jeers at a different delivery service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-are-tech-companies-pretending-to-be-governments-988211.html
21-05-2021||Opinion||Is Covid-19 Modi’s Bofors moment?||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh had told columnist Sheela Bhatt that whenever Narendra Modi’s downfall comes, it will be sudden and steep. The question is: Can the Covid-19 catastrophe unsettle Modi in a way Ramesh had predicted? This is something only time, rather the outcome of the Assembly polls of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat before the 2024 Lok Sabha election, can indicate. At the core of Modi’s strength is the massive mandate he won in 2019. In 2014, for the first time after 1984 and much like Rajiv Gandhi, Modi mustered a single-party majority in the Lok Sabha. But Modi’s similarity with Rajiv does not end in winning a huge mandate and cultivating the image of charismatic leadership. Modi, like him, has become a leitmotif of an agenda of change. A cursory look at Rajiv’s tenure as prime minister (1984-89) confirms Ramesh’s formulation that even with a colossal mandate, popularity notwithstanding, the downfall can be sudden and steep. Rajiv’s 1984 electoral victory, days after the tragic assassination of his mother Indira Gandhi, was spectacular and unprecedented (much more than Modi’s 2014 or 2019 performances). Under him, the Congress had won 49.2 per cent of total votes and 52 per cent of the votes cast in 485 seats it had contested on its own. The Congress had captured 79 per cent of seats in the Lok Sabha. As author SS Gill wrote in his book, “The Dynasty –A Political Biography of the Premier Ruling Family of Modern India (1996),” Rajiv had the advantage of viewing the Indian political system as an outsider. He conveyed an impression of being an open-minded, fair and receptive person who was eager to deliver results. The initial perception was that Rajiv could do no wrong. However, by 1987, nothing seemed to be going right for the prime minister. Scandals exploded, shattering his image of “Mr Clean” to smithereens. Fairfax, Bofors and HWD Submarine deal, unlocking Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid and Shah Bano flip-flop exposed Rajiv’s political naivety and his proclivity to shoot himself in the foot.   On April 16, 1987, Swedish Radio made a startling disclosure broadcasting details of bribes it alleged had been paid to Indian politicians to clinch the $600 million Bofors gun deal. Suddenly, Rajiv’s government was under scrutiny. In each deal that the Rajiv government signed, an Italian connection was probed. When Rajiv dropped Arun Singh as defence minister, gossip mills began working overtime. The two Doon school buddies reportedly fell out over Bofors as Singh favoured cancellation of the deal once the charges of a kickback gained credence, but Rajiv overruled him saying this would lower the country’s image among international arms manufacturers. When Rajiv was in power, his lifestyle came under scrutiny. His love for designer shoes, fast cars and expensive items became hot subjects of discussion and debate. In New Delhi, for the first time, the prime minister was seen driving himself, and in a swanky Mercedes-Benz gifted by Jordan’s King Hussein. Mani Shankar Aiyar, a foreign service bureaucrat-turned-politician, had another explanation for why people, particularly mediapersons, considered Rajiv a yuppie. “Perhaps they do not like to see a man born with a silver spoon in his mouth turn it into gold,” he said. Rajiv also drew criticism for his cherished annual holidays, when he used to pursue his interest in photography and wildlife. Much before he entered politics, Rajiv and Sonia used to regularly vacation in Italy and India. During Christmas and New Year, the entire family, including Sonia’s mother, her sisters and their husbands, used to get together. The practice continued when Rajiv became Prime Minister. Sonia’s mother and sisters went to Kanha National Park in Madhya Pradesh in 1985 with Rajiv, Sonia, Priyanka and Rahul. Next year, it was Ranthambore, where reigning film actress Sridevi performed before a select audience. The media lapped up the event. In a poor country, the chief executive was not expected to have a good time. The Bofors scandal also impacted Rajiv’s friendship with megastar Amitabh Bachchan. Bachchan had joined politics and won from Allahabad in 1984, defeating Hemwati Nandan Bahugana, a political heavyweight. According to ML Fotedar, Bachchan used to wield a great deal of clout during his stint as a Member of Parliament. In his memoirs, Fotedar said, “I was also getting reports about Amitabh’s interference in the appointment and transfer of officers in the ministries.” He added how many senior Congress party leaders had complained about the actor’s “interference in administrative matters.” “Allahabad is a place of academicians, intellectuals, judges and lawyers. However, Amitabh gave charge of his constituency to a person who people did not take seriously,” wrote Fotedar.   Fotedar wrote that he “never reported to Rajivji about Amitabh’s functioning,” although the actor, it seems, persisted in interfering not only in the governance of Uttar Pradesh (a Congress-ruled state at the time) , but even in that of other states like “Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra.” When the superstar’s name was dragged in the Bofors scandal, Bachchan resigned from Parliament in a huff, miffed at being accused of acting like a middleman. Bachchan fought for his honour and won a protracted legal battle to clear his name. However, his parting with Rajiv singularly contributed to his downfall. The Allahabad Lok Sabha by-elections in 1987 gave the fragmented opposition a sense that together they could humble the Congress which held 413 MPs in the 542-member Lok Sabha. Rajiv’s life came to an abrupt end barely three months after he and Sonia celebrated their twenty-third wedding anniversary on February 25, 1991. The couple had a quiet dinner in a restaurant in Tehran. A week before that, Sonia was in Amethi when Rajiv decided to launch a diplomatic initiative to end the Gulf War. Rajiv was extremely keen to take Sonia along. A special aircraft was sent to fetch her. “He was extremely edgy as there was some delay in Sonia’s arrival. She got only a few hours to pack her bags but managed to accompany Rajiv,” a Rajiv associate had recalled then. Incidentally, Rajiv visited Amethi for the last time in April 1991, and Sonia was with him. Rajiv told his constituents, “It may not be possible for me to come (again). But Sonia will be there to look after you.” Returning to the political question raised by Ramesh about the possibility of the steep decline of Modi, political observers feel Rahul Gandhi, Congress and the combined opposition would need to create an opportunity the way VP Singh had during the Allahabad Lok Sabha by-polls.   In 2017, the Congress under Rahul’s leadership had a chance to create an opening. The occasion was the Assembly polls in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state Gujarat. Rahul and the Congress fought a valiant battle, putting up a credible performance; the absence of an outright victory in Gujarat Assembly polls denied Rahul a chance to emerge as a national alternative to Narendra Modi.   Amid the Covid-19 crisis and the Modi government’s inept handling of medicine, oxygen, ICU beds availability, large-scale deaths in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, the opposition again has a chance to take on Modi in 2022 Assembly polls of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. (Rasheed Kidwai is a journalist and author. He is a visiting fellow with the Observer Research Foundation.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-covid-19-modi-s-bofors-moment-988322.html
21-05-2021||Opinion||Was Mother Teresa a cult leader?||During the Trump years, there was a small boom in documentaries about cults. At least two TV series and a podcast were made about Nxivm, an organization that was half multilevel marketing scheme, half sex abuse cabal. “Wild Wild Country,” a six-part series about Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh’s compound in Oregon, was released on Netflix. Heaven’s Gate was the subject of a four-part series on HBO Max and a 10-part podcast. Indeed, there have been so many recent podcasts about cults that sites like Oprah Daily have published listicles about the best ones. In many ways the compelling new podcast “The Turning,” which debuted on Tuesday, unfolds like one of these shows. It opens with a woman, Mary Johnson, hoping to escape the religious order in which she lives. “We always went out two by two. We were never allowed just to walk out and do something,” she explains. “So I wouldn’t have been able to go, you know, more than five or six paces before somebody ran up to me and said, ‘Where are you going?’” Johnson sees an opportunity in escorting another woman to the hospital, where there’s a room full of old clothes that patients have left behind. She makes a plan to shed her religious uniform for civilian garb and flee, though she doesn’t go through with it. It is what she wants to flee that makes “The Turning” so fascinating. Johnson spent 20 years in Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity before leaving through official channels in 1997. “The Turning” portrays the order of the sainted nun — Mother Teresa was canonized in 2016 — as a hive of psychological abuse and coercion. It raises the question of whether the difference between a strict monastic community and a cult lies simply in the social acceptability of the operative faith. “The Missionaries of Charity, very much, in so many ways, carried the characteristics of those groups that we easily recognize as cults,” Johnson told me. “But because it comes out of the Catholic Church and is so strongly identified with the Catholic Church, which on the whole is a religion and not a cult, people tend immediately to assume that ‘cult’ doesn’t apply here.” “The Turning” is far from the first work of journalism to question Mother Teresa’s hallowed reputation. Christopher Hitchens excoriated her as “a demagogue, an obscurantist and a servant of earthly powers,” in his 1995 book “The Missionary Position.” (Along with the writer and filmmaker Tariq Ali, Hitchens collaborated on a short documentary about Mother Teresa titled “Hell’s Angel.”) A Calcutta-born physician named Aroup Chatterjee made a second career lambasting the cruelty and filth in the homes for the poor that Mother Teresa ran in his city. They and other critics argued that Mother Teresa fetishized suffering rather than sought to alleviate it. Chatterjee described children tied to beds in a Missionaries of Charity orphanage and patients in its Home for the Dying given nothing but aspirin for their pain. “He and others said that Mother Teresa took her adherence to frugality and simplicity in her work to extremes, allowing practices like the reuse of hypodermic needles and tolerating primitive facilities that required patients to defecate in front of one another,” The New York Times reported. (Hygiene practices reportedly improved after Mother Teresa’s death, and Chatterjee told The Times that the reuse of needles was eliminated.) What makes “The Turning” unique is its focus on the internal life of the Missionaries of Charity. The former sisters describe an obsession with chastity so intense that any physical human contact or friendship was prohibited; according to Johnson, Mother Teresa even told them not to touch the babies they cared for more than necessary. They were expected to flog themselves regularly — a practice called “the discipline” — and were allowed to leave to visit their families only once every 10 years. A former Missionaries of Charity nun named Colette Livermore recalled being denied permission to visit her brother in the hospital, even though he was thought to be dying. “I wanted to go home, but you see, I had no money, and my hair was completely shaved — not that that would have stopped me. I didn’t have any regular clothes,” she said. “It’s just strange how completely cut off you are from your family.” Speaking of her experience, she used the term “brainwashing.” “I didn’t bring up the word ‘cult,’” Erika Lantz, the podcast’s host, told me. “Some of the former sisters did.” This doesn’t mean their views of Mother Teresa or the Missionaries of the Charity are universally negative. Their feelings about the woman they once glorified and the movement they gave years of their lives to are complex, and the podcast is more melancholy than bitter. “I still have a great deal of affection for the women who are there, as well as the women who have left, some obviously more than others,” Johnson told me. “But the group as a whole, it just makes me really, really, really sad to see how far they’ve strayed from Mother Teresa’s initial impulse.” Mother Teresa famously used to say, “Let’s do something beautiful for God.” That, said Johnson, “was kind of the spirit of the initial thing. And it got so twisted over the years.” Not all these stories are new; Johnson and Livermore have written memoirs. But we have a new context for them. There is the surge of interest in cults, likely driven by the fact that for four years America was run by a sociopathic con man with a dark magnetism who enveloped a huge part of the country in a dangerous alternative reality. And there’s a broader drive in American culture to expose iniquitous power relations and reevaluate revered historical figures. Viewed through a contemporary, secular lens, a community built around a charismatic founder and dedicated to the lionization of suffering and the annihilation of female selfhood doesn’t seem blessed and ethereal. It seems sinister. One sister quotes Mother Teresa saying, “Love, to be real, has to hurt.” If you heard the same words from any other guru, you’d know where the story was going.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/was-mother-teresa-a-cult-leader-988418.html
21-05-2021||Panorama||What happens when the vaccine factory of the world can’t deliver?||India reported that 4,529 people had died from Covid-19 on Tuesday alone. That’s the highest official daily death count for any country since the beginning of the pandemic, and the real toll is thought to be even higher. More than 25 million cases of infection have been recorded there to date. Given the scale of the crisis, it’s imperative that the Indian government vaccinate its people and stave off future waves of infection. But this unequivocal need also spells dire consequences for other countries that rely on vaccines produced in India. According to my calculations, based on data from the Global Commission for Post-Pandemic Policy, more than 65% of all doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine produced globally by April had been manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine producer. The Serum Institute was expected to supply about 1 billion of the 2 billion doses earmarked this year for Covax, the global vaccine-sharing initiative overseen by the public-private partnership Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. By mid-April, India had manufactured nearly 17% of all Covid-19 vaccine doses globally: It was the world’s fourth-largest producer, after China (about 36%), the United States (about 22%) and the European Union (more than 17%), according to data from the Global Commission for Post-Pandemic Policy. But India’s role is outsize when it comes to supplying lower-income countries. By my tally, more than 55% of the vaccines delivered to Covax through the end of April came from India. But that was then. India stopped exporting Covid-19 vaccines in mid-April, leaving Covax and the 92 low-income and lower-middle-income countries that depend on the program in the lurch. The shortfall is estimated to be at 190 million doses by the end of June. Afghanistan, Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nigeria, Pakistan and Uganda were to receive the largest allocations of Indian-made Covax vaccines during the first half of 2021. Who knows now when vaccines will come to those countries. The African Union has been able to negotiate for its member countries alternative arrangements with Johnson & Johnson and for the Sputnik V vaccine from Russia, but those vaccines aren’t expected to be delivered until the third quarter of 2021. India’s production capacity — approximately 80 million doses in April, for Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech combined — cannot meet the needs of India’s vaccination program, much less the country’s global commitments. Just 3% of India’s population of 1.36 billion has been fully vaccinated. And yet all adults are now eligible for shots. The United States has announced that it would send a total of 80 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to countries facing surges in cases. Presumably some will go to India — when they might have gone to other countries that also desperately need them. Some state governments in India have floated purchase tenders to buy vaccines internationally. In just a few weeks, India went from being a major exporter of Covid-19 vaccines to becoming a net importer. The risks of such a turn were known, or should have been; it has been obvious for years. For example, since 2010, vaccine manufacturers in India — the Serum Institute, Biological E. and Panacea Biotech — have manufactured and exported, at very affordable prices, up to 70% of the pentavalent vaccines against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Hib and hepatitis B that are distributed to poor countries through Gavi or UNICEF, the U.N. agency for children. Why has the production of vaccines become so heavily concentrated in India? Two reasons, historically: the country’s technical capacity and comparatively low overhead manufacturing costs. But those advantages have now been overtaken by starker realities. The world’s vaccine supply chain needs to be rethought. First, we need to develop a way to map global vaccine-manufacturing capacity rigorously, routinely and transparently. Doing this is not as straightforward as it may seem. It requires understanding the type of equipment available at a manufacturing site, adapting it to the steps required to produce a specific vaccine, calibrating it for dosing and expected yield. Some of that information might be commercially sensitive, and vaccine manufacturers may be reluctant to share it publicly. This obstacle can be overcome, however. Safeguards can be put in place to protect proprietary information, for example by sharing only aggregate data about manufacturing capacity, without revealing the specific configuration of the equipment or sources of supplies. Second, production sites must be multiplied and diversified. As the current moment illustrates, the world is vulnerable for relying so much on vaccines manufactured in India because India itself may have a great need for the vaccines it produces. To minimize the risk that domestic demand will scuttle exports and global distribution, vaccine production hubs should be set up in countries with small populations. Prospective hub countries will also need to be well-connected, to ensure both the arrival of raw materials and the speedy export of vaccines. They should have reliable infrastructure and a competent work force skilled in manufacturing biologics (complex proteins made from living cells). Based on these criteria, Singapore, Luxembourg, Belgium, Panama, Senegal and Rwanda are candidates worth exploring. Building up vaccine-manufacturing capacity in new locations, and creating a more decentralized and more transparent network worldwide, will be expensive, of course. And that, in turn, is likely to raise the price of vaccines. But the cost of developing resilience is a small burden to bear compared to the losses that India and other countries short of vaccines are suffering today. (The author is a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development and an affiliate professor of technology and operations management at INSEAD)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-happens-when-the-vaccine-factory-of-the-world-can-t-deliver-988212.html
21-05-2021||Panorama||A geneticist’s view of Covid-19 pandemic||SARS-CoV-2 is one of the six Coronaviruses that are known to infect humans. Covid-19 is an enveloped virus of about ~50-200 nanometer in diameter. It has a single-stranded, positive-sense RNA genome of ~30,000 nucleotides. The genome encodes 16 non-structural proteins, six accessory proteins, and four structural proteins that make the virus’s outer envelope. Covid-19 has a wide range of hosts such as birds, mammals, and humans, and they frequently jump species barriers. The virus infects humans by interacting with human Angeotensin Covering Enzyme-2 (hACE-2) receptors. Receptor binding domain of Covid-19 spike proteins interact with the human receptor. The mean generation time of Covid-19 is about 3-5 days. Geneticists around the world are trying to understand many questions about the virus; like how is the virus mutating, how are these mutations affecting its spread and evolution, and many more questions. The term mutation usually scares people with an image of a dangerous virus with an increased ability to infect more and more people. A mutation means a change in a letter in the genetic material (DNA/RNA). Mutations are also the source of all the genetic variations in all living organisms. Mutations are random, accidental, undirected, rare, and chance events. Mutations happen spontaneously during replicating DNA with the frequency of ~1 in 1 to 10 million base pairs. Mutations can also be induced by chemicals, radiations, and enzymes in any organism. Mutations can occur in any cell and any region of the genome of an organism. When they occur, mutations can be neutral, not affecting the organism, beneficial or harmful to an organism.  SARS-CoV-2 mutates relatively slowly compared to other viruses such as Influenza. SARS-CoV-2 acquires 2-3 mutations over a month, six times slower than the Influenza virus. When a mutation occurs, natural selection acts on the mutation. It passes it to the next generation depending on whether the mutation is neutral, beneficial, or harmful to the organism. For example, when a mutation occurs in the genome of SARS-CoV-2, it will only spread in the population rapidly, only if it has an advantage over the unmutated virus. So far, more than 15,000 mutations have been identified across all the genomes of SARS-CoV-2 sequenced. However, when two viral genomes from two patients are compared, there will be a maximum of only ten mutations. The vast majority of these mutations have no impact on the virus’s ability in transmission or virulence.  Considering the action of the mutation and selection together as a powerful evolutionary force, it is possible that new adaptive mutations could arise and be advantageous to the virus. As we know, the mutations in the receptor-binding domain of bat SARS virus spike protein have favoured the interaction with human ACE2 facilitating jumping between the hosts. Thus, it is likely that a mutation can enable the virus to escape from immune response and acquire a selective advantage in transmission. Similarly, in this course of time, the variants increase in numbers and spread with selective advantages.  Suppose the present situation is continued with the closer contact of the infected and the rest of the human population. In that case, we cannot escape from future outbreaks of the Covid pandemic. Thus, as rightly said by Nobel Laureate Joshua Lederberg, “the single biggest threat to man’s continued dominance on the planet is the virus” has been proved true again today. As of today, we are yet to discover a specific drug to treat the covid infection completely. At present, the available vaccines can help us to develop immunity against Covid-19 infection by developing an immune response. One has to remember that the immune responses will not develop equally in all individuals but vary from person to person. It depends on the genetic and epigenetic make-up of individuals.    The only way to reduce the Covid transmission and infection is by preventing ourselves from the possibility of coming in contact with the virus. That is possible only by maintaining social distance, using sanitiser, and protecting with masks. If not, we will have the increased infections with many waves of Covid outbreaks with many new variants of the Coronavirus. (The author is from the Department of Studies in Genetics and Genomics, Manasagangotri, University of Mysore, Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-geneticist-s-view-of-covid-19-pandemic-988213.html
21-05-2021||Right in the Middle||A Russian adventure||I was part of the Indian delegation to Russia at an International Labour Organisation conference. The Aeroflot flight was very late. It was loaded strangely with half of the sitting area filled with all sorts of cargo. When food was served, one of the Indian travellers demanded more and more vodka and misbehaved. In the end he caught hold of the burly air hostess. She withdrew a couple of feet and lurched forward to give him a good thrashing which kept him quiet throughout the trip — an instance of instant Russian justice. We were received royally at Moscow airport. The USSR took it as a matter of prestige and recognition of glasnost that an ILO meeting was being held for first time in Russia. We were put up in the best hotels. The conference and the connected meetings were all longwinded and never reached decisions. However, the receptions and parties were fabulous. Russians are heavy eaters and drinkers. Mountains of fish and meat and gallons of the best of drinks were the feature of all parties, especially the dinners which lasted in the wee hours. The next day we got finished with dinner by about 02:30 AM. Soon after I went to bed, there was a firm knock on my door. I was quite upset as it was rumoured that Russian police and the KGB would enter the rooms of important foreign visitors and try extracting information required by the Soviet state using questionable methods. The knocks persisted. I opened the door and promptly entered two enchanting beauties. They went to my bed and sat there repeating in broken English, “two misses, ten dollars.” Though it was a very strange offer early in the morning, it was also an offer very difficult to refuse, considering the beauty of the girls and the cost mentioned. But sanity returned to me and I told them to leave the room instead of troubling me. But they refused and sat firm. I finally told them I would summon the KGB, as we were all given an emergency number in case of any trouble. The moment I mentioned KGB, they left without uttering a word. I was naturally relieved, but there remained in some corner of my heart a lingering sense of loss of a golden opportunity. My friends laughed at the nocturnal adventure, saying I myself might have arranged the visit earlier in the day but backed out due to fear. However, after a couple days, the same beauties entered our leader’s room. He was a venerable old Communist, more than 75 years old. He reported the matter, and the trouble ended. To this day, I cannot reckon if KGB planted those girls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-russian-adventure-988215.html
21-05-2021||Second Edit||Centre, states must emulate Tamil Nadu example||Till recently, Tamil Nadu politics was dominated by two stalwarts, J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi, whose animosity towards each other was legendary, but this atmosphere of hostility seems set to change with M K Stalin, the new Chief Minister, treading a conciliatory, rather than confrontationist, path. In fact, Stalin had laid the foundation in 2016 when, in a move that caught political circles by surprise, he had attended the swearing-in ceremony of Jayalalithaa who, in turn, thanked him for the gesture. Now, in another departure from the acrimonious past, Stalin has set up an all-party committee to guide his government on handling the pandemic. Headed by the Chief Minister himself, the 13-member panel has only one member from the DMK and includes C Vijayabaskar, who was health minister in the previous AIADMK government. While some may argue that Stalin’s lack of administrative experience might have necessitated this move, it does require a great deal of political sagacity to reach out to a party with which the DMK has been in a bitter rivalry for decades, in the larger interest of the state. Under Vijayabaskar, Tamil Nadu was well prepared to handle the second wave and the government will greatly benefit from his experience and lessons learnt. Unfortunately, such statesmanship has not been displayed either by chief ministers of other states or by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. At the Centre, far from actively consulting the opposition, even well-meaning suggestions made by them have been treated with scorn. When former prime minister Manmohan Singh wrote to Modi, his letter received a contemptuous reply from Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Courtesy, if not protocol, demanded a response from the Prime Minister himself. When West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee sought to draw Modi’s attention to various issues, she received a response from Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman through a microblogging site. Almost every opposition leader who sought to engage with the Centre, with the exception of former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, met with similar humiliation. Whatever experts and bureaucrats may suggest, the final decision is taken by the political leadership, which in a national crisis needs to act in unison. The Centre and states should take a leaf out of Tamil Nadu and set up multi-party panels to offer counsel to the government. Both the stubborn unilateralism of the Centre and the deep cracks within our political class have severely blunted India’s fight against the pandemic. Unless the political class as a whole unites, at least on the limited question of fighting the pandemic, getting the country back on track will be a difficult task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/centre-states-must-emulate-tamil-nadu-example-988207.html
21-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt slashes RT-PCR test rates in pvt labs to Rs 900||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday issued an order reducing the price of RT-PCR test conducted in private laboratories in the state to Rs 900 from Rs 1,200. According to the GO issued by the health department, RT-PCR tests conducted at government laboratories under the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme have been revised to Rs 550 from the existing Rs 800, and for pooled samples, it has been fixed at Rs 400 from the current Rs 600. For private laboratories taking up RT-PCR testing, the revised rate is Rs 900, it said. Tamil Nadu has conducted over 2.50 crore RT-PCR samples since the onset of the pandemic last year. On Thursday, the testing of samples reached an all-time high of 1,71,094.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-slashes-rt-pcr-test-rates-in-pvt-labs-to-rs-900-988203.html
21-05-2021||South||Kerala Cabinet: Veena George gets Health portfolio; see who got what portfolio||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will retain key portfolios including Home in the succesive LDF government in the state while his son-in- law PA Mohamed Riyas and Veena George, both first time ministers, will handle PWD and Health, respectively. George, a former journalist and Aranmula MLA, will succeed the popular KK Shailaja, who played a leading role in the state's fight against Covid-19, and whose omission in the new cabinet had created a flutter. Vijayan will retain Home, Vigilance and IT portfolios among others while his confidant and first-time legislator K N Balagopal will helm the Finance Department, replacing the high-profile T M Thomas Isaac as the portfolios of the new ministers were announced here on Friday. Besides health and family affairs, George is also entrusted with the women and child welfare department. After taking oath for the second time as CM on Thursday, Vijayan handed over the portfolios of respective ministers to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and the government order in this connection was issued late last night. It was released to the media on Friday. The 21-member-strong CPI(M)-led ministry was sworn in at the central stadium here on Thursday evening in a low-key ceremony in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Barring Vijayan, all 11 CPI(M) ministers are new faces. It was almost certain that Balagopal, a former Rajya Sabha MP and a CPI(M) state committee member, would be entrusted with the all important finance portfolio and the tough task of infusing fresh energy to Kerala's cash-strapped exchequer. He also has the responsibility of continuing the state's development programmes under the aegis of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Board (KIIFB), a brainchild of Isaac, also a known economist. Riyas, another fresh entrant to the state assembly, has been allotted the key Public Works (PWD) and Tourism, held by seniors G Sudhakaran and Kadakampally Surendran, respectively, in the previous cabinet. While former Rajya Sabha member P Rajeeve will handle Law and Industries, V Sivankutty, who is basking in the glory of closing the BJP account in the state by wresting its lone Nemom seat, was rewarded with the General Education and Labour departments. A recipient of the Sansad Ratna Award for the best Parliamentarian, Rajeeve is also a CPI(M) state committee member. Health and education were among the well-performing departments in the previous Vijayan government. Kannur strongman M V Govindan, the lone central committee member of the Marxist party after Vijayan in the cabinet, was given the charge of local self government and excise. He is a third term legislator. In a significant move, fifth-time MLA and former speaker, K Radhakrishnan, the Dalit face of the new cabinet, is shouldered with the responsibility of Devaswom, the administration and management of temple affairs. Known for his clean image and a down-to-earth personality, he will have the responsibility of managing the affairs of hundreds of temples under the state-run boards including the famed Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa Temple. Besides Veena George, two other women legislators also found a place in the Vijayan cabinet, the highest in recent times. R Bindhu, wife of CPI(M) acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan, would hold the Higher Education and Social Justice portfolios while J Chinchurani, the first ever woman minister of CPI, got Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development. The portfolios of other ministers are as follows: K Rajan (Revenue), G R Anil (Food and Civil Supplies), Roshi Augustin (Irrigation), Saji Cheriyan (Fisheries and Cultural Affairs), V N Vasavan (Co-operation and Registration), V Abdurahman (Sports), P Prasad (Agriculture), K Krishnankutty (Electricity), A K Saseendran (Forest), Antony Raju (Transport) and Ahammed Devarkovil (Port, Museums and Archaeology). The CPI(M) has 12 members in the new Left Democratic Front cabinet and CPI four while Kerala Congress (M), Janata Dal (S) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have one nominee each. As there are restrictions to accommodate more than 21 members in the cabinet, the LDF had decided to share the ministerial berths to four of its allies, having single MLA, on a term basis||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cabinet-veena-george-gets-health-portfolio-see-who-got-what-portfolio-988294.html
21-05-2021||South||Kerala woman who sold goats to donate to relief fund gets VVIP pass for swearing-in ceremony||A Keralite woman, who had hit headlines for selling her goats to find money to donate to Chief Minister's relief fund, was a special invitee of the Left government for its swearing-in ceremony at the Central Stadium here on Thursday. Subaida, a 61-year old homemaker hailing from Kollam, was shocked and surprised when she received an envelope carrying the VVIP pass to attend the ceremony recently. The woman had sold her goats and contributed Rs 5,000 to the CMDRF last year in the backdrop of the Covid-19. The elated woman said she got a call from the district authorities three days back asking her to get ready to become one among the limited guests invited for the historic swearing-in of the second Pinarayi Vijayan government. The oath-taking was conducted as a low-key affair this time with participation of nearly 400 people completely in adherence with the health department guidelines in view of the pandemic. Subaida, who runs a wayside tea stall in her home district, seemed happy and proud while attending the programme wearing a mask andgloves. She latersaid she could see Chief Minister Vijayan but could not talk to him amidst the ceremony. "I could not talk to the Chief Minister as it was not the right time. I wish the new government could function as per the expectations of everyone," Subaida told reporters outside the venue. She also said she would donate money in future also if she could manage to find any such amount. Though the government had also invited one Janardhanan, a Kannur-based beedi worker who had contributed almost his entire savings of Rs two lakh to the CMDRF, he did not attend the event due to the Covid situation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-who-sold-goats-to-donate-to-relief-fund-gets-vvip-pass-for-swearing-in-ceremony-988299.html
21-05-2021||South||Elgar case: Stan Swamy tells HC his health deteriorated steadily while in Taloja prison||Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists Links case, told the Bombay High Court on Friday that his health deteriorated steadily over the last eight months spent in custody in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai. Swamy, 84, was produced before a bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade via video-conferencing from the Taloja prison, where he is lodged as an undertrial. The prison authorities also submitted a medical report from Mumbai's J J Hospital, where Swamy had been examined earlier this week in compliance with the high court's order. The bench read out the report, which stated that Swamy suffers from extreme hearing loss in both ears, that his upper limbs were sluggish and suffered tremors. It also said that he required physical assistance in the form of a walking stick or a wheelchair. However, his overall condition, his pulse rate etc.,were stable and Swamy was "responsive" and "cooperative," the report said. Swamy told the court that he had suffered much while in prison. "I was brought here eight months ago. When I came to Taloja, my whole system, my body was still very functional. But during these eight months, I have gone through a steady regression of all bodily functions," Swamy said. "The main issue is that eight months ago I could take a bath by myself; I could take a walk; I could do some writing by myself. But all of these are disappearing one after another. So, Taloja jail brought me to a situation where I can neither write nor go for a walk by myself. I can't eat. Somebody has to feed me through a spoon," he said. The bench then asked if Swamy wished to be admitted to the state-run J J Hospital for "general treatment to improve his overall health." Swamy, however, said that he had been admitted to that hospital on two previous occasions and he did not think that admission there could help him. "What medicines will the J J Hospital give me? I have been there twice. I know the set-up. I don't want to go there," Swamy said. "I would rather suffer and possibly die. I would rather be in Ranchi with my friends," Swamy's said, insisting that he be granted interim bail instead. The bench, however, said that the court was hearing arguments on the point of hospital admission only and not on interim bail. It further said that Swamy's health problems seemed to be general in nature and were probably just "age-related." Swamy's advocate, senior counsel Mihir Desai, urged the court to adjourn the hearing for a week to permit him to speak with Swamy and to convince him to get admitted to a hospital. "Since he is a priest, he feels 'forgive them, for they do not know what that do'... This is the approach he has taken," Desai said. The high court granted him the liberty to approach HC again if Swamy changed his mind about hospital admission. The bench said, "Someone must have told him, or he himself is an intelligent man. He knows his problems are only age related. That's why he is pressing only for interim bail says won't take hospital admission." The HC directed the Taloja prison to follow all the recommendations made by J J Hospital on providing health facilities and treatment to Swamy while in prison. Swamy approached the HC through advocate Desai earlier this year challenging a special court's decision from March this year. In the order, the special court had rejected his bail sought on medical grounds as well as on merits. As per his counsel, Swamy suffers from Parkinson's disease and several other health ailments||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elgar-case-stan-swamy-tells-hc-his-health-deteriorated-steadily-while-in-taloja-prison-988317.html
21-05-2021||South||Temple for 'Corona Devi' comes up in Tamil Nadu||As the severe second wave of Covid-19 sweeps across the country, not sparing this district too, a Coronadevi temple has come up on the outskirts of the city, thanks to a mutt, seeking divine intervention to put an end to the raging pandemic. This is in line with a 'Plague Mariamman Temple', dedicated by the faithful to the deity Amman seeking her protection earlier when plague wreaked havoc about 150 years ago. The Kamatchipuri Adheenam has built a temple near Irugur on the outskirts and consecrated an idol, naming it as Goddess Corona Devi. The 1.5 foot tall black stone idol of was consecrated at the temple in the Mutt premises recently and daily prayers will be held seeking divine intervention to save the people from the deadly disease, for 48 days, sources in the Adheenam said. It was not for the first time such a temple has come up, as when plague spread across the district taking a heavy toll more than a century ago, an idol of Mariamman was installed and people started offering prayers. The place turned into a temple and came to be known as "Plague Mariamman Temple". Only priests and mutt officials will be allowed inside the Corona Devi temple in view of the pandemic and to maintain social distancing norms and the place will be strictly out of bounds for the public, they said. A Mahayagam, with special poojas, will be organised on the concluding day of prayers, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temple-for-corona-devi-comes-up-in-tamil-nadu-988393.html
21-05-2021||South||Kasargod laments lack of representation in Pinarayi Vijayan's new Cabinet||Kasargod, the northernmost district of Kerala with a sizeable Kannadiga population, is lamenting the lack of representation in the new Cabinet of Pinarayi Vijayan. Kasargod and Wayanad are the only districts that lacked representation in the new Cabinet of Pinarayi Vijayan. In the previous Cabinet, there was one minister from the district - Revenue Minster E Chandrasekharan of the CPI. The district assumes much significance for the Communist parties since the chief minister of the first democratically elected Communist government in 1957, E M S Namboothiripad, was elected from Thrikaripur in the district, which was then part of Kannur district. The district has been already aggrieved over its backwardness in many key sectors like health which got highlighted when the district struggled to manage a surge in Covid cases. The majority of the people of district still depends of health facilities in nearby Mangalore. It was only after the crisis caused by Covid that the long pending medical college project of the district was made operational at least partially. Tata group provided a Covid hospital for the district. However, the hundreds of endosulfan victims of the district are still lamenting that the district lacked specialist treatment facilities for the scores of persons with mental and physical deformities. Ambalathara Kunhikrishnan, who has been working for endosulfan victims, said that even though the district had a minister in the last cabinet many of the long pending issues like including more endosulfan victims in the list of beneficiaries and setting up AIIMS in the district did not happen. The district was having high hopes that Udma MLA C H Kunhambu of CPM may make it to the cabinet this time. CPI denied second term to Chandrsekharan, who represents Kanhangad, as part of its all new face policy. Chandrasekharan said that representation of all districts could not be expected in all cabinets. Even in many of the earlier cabinets also the district did not have representation in the cabinet, he justified. Kerala Tulu Academy Chairman Umesh M Salian said that during the last five years the district witnessed many developments and the issues of the district listed out by a government appointed commission were being addressed, but gradually only. If there is a member from the district in the cabinet, the pressing issues of the district could have been taken up to the attention of the Chief Minister more effectively. Now it depends on how the MLAs would be effectively taking up the issues with the government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-laments-lack-of-representation-in-pinarayi-vijayans-new-cabinet-988436.html
21-05-2021||National||Thousands in Andhra Pradesh seek Ayurvedic medicine touted as miracle cure for Covid-19||Amid a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and high-end medicines like Remdesivir and the fleecing by private hospitals, thousands in Andhra Pradesh are seeking an alternative, folk medicine remedy for the deadly coronavirus. Krishnapatnam village near Nellore, which is otherwise known for its sea-port, is nowadays thronged by many, especially from the neighbouring regions and some reportedly from Telangana and other states, for a spoonful of a “miracle Covid-19 medicine,” being distributed for free. The concoction made by a local “Ayurveda” practitioner Borigi Anandaiah, from some herbs and regular household ingredients like black pepper, cumin, honey, turmeric, neem, camphor is said to be preventing Covid-19, and also curing the infection in patients providing better relief than the allopathy treatment. Anandaiah, who previously served as the village sarpanch, says he has been offering the Covid-19 cure for about a month now and that the stream of seekers has gone up from a trickle to thousands now. The melee over the past few days for free sachets of the medicine has prompted the AP Lokayukta to initiate a probe. A committee formed by the Nellore district collector comprising revenue, health officials and Ayurveda experts, visited the village earlier this week and found that Anandaiah, with help of aides, was preparing four different pastes with varied ingredients for consumption by Covid-19 positive, negative individuals and both and also eye-drops meant for those with low oxygen levels. Meat consumption is prohibited for the users, who have to take the medicine for two-three days. Anandaiah says that his medicine is not meant for pregnant and menstruating women. In their report, the committee noted that Anandaiah is not a qualified Ayurveda professional, who gained the folk medicine knowledge from his gurus, and that his formula is not confirming with standard recipes. Preparation methods, dosages prescribed are stated as sub-standard. “We opine that the formulation is not suitable for Covid-19 treatment. It is harmless but also useless,” Dr Ganta Gangadharam, Nellore district Ayurveda Medical Officer and committee member told DH. The samples were sent to the Ayurveda labs in Vijayawada to scientifically test for any Covid-19 curative properties. However, the Krishnapatnam medicine has drawn a lot of attention in the two Telugu states, especially on social media with several posts supportive of Anandaiah's “philanthropic” preparation. In one such video post, a retired headmaster said that he came to Krishnapatnam, after being admitted to a hospital for a week, made to pay hefty bills and then told to go to a better facility. “Here, they have put some drops in my eyes and within two minutes I was feeling alright.” The man said he needed oxygen support before. While admitting that no one has complained of any adverse effect, the probe committee stated that they too interacted with a patient whose O2 levels went up from 83 to 95 after he was administered the eye drops. Doctors are of opinion that the relief felt by the patients could be psychological, a placebo effect. The committee said that the ingredients in the eye drops could be harmful to eyesight in the long run. Ayurveda experts on the committee, however, opined that the medicine might be allowed for a fair clinical trial in Covid-19 quarantines, care centres for 2-3 weeks, without other forms of medicines given at the same time. Regardless of the scientific basis, the Krishnapatnam medicine is receiving public endorsement and political support including that of TDP, Left leaders. “At a time when the Covid-19 treatment methods are being constantly revised by WHO, ICMR, what is the harm in trying a formulation made of ordinary herbs. About 70,000 people took the medicine till now and are all fine,” said Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy, a former TDP minister from Nellore. Though officials are sceptical about allowing the large public gathering, worried about the medicine dispersion becoming a super spreader event, the distribution, suspended following the collector orders, resumed for a few hours on Friday under the monitoring of the local YSRCP MLA Kakani Govardhan Reddy. Meanwhile, CMO officials told DH that Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed health officials to gather scientific evidence about the Krishnapatnam cure in coordination with Ayush, ICMR etc central government bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thousands-in-andhra-pradesh-seek-ayurvedic-medicine-touted-as-miracle-cure-for-covid-19-988451.html
21-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu cancels Covid-19 testing permission to a private lab||Tamil Nadu government on Friday cancelled Covid-19 testing permission to a popular laboratory for severe discrepancies in reporting Covid-19 test results, including certifying around 4,000 samples that tested negative as positive cases in the ICMR portal. Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (DPH) Dr T S Selvavinayagam issued a show-cause notice to Medall Healthcare asking the management to respond to the notice within three working days. He said permission to test RT-PCR samples for SARS CoV-2 (Covid-19) to the laboratory noted in despatch entry stands cancelled with immediate effect. In the order, Selvavinayagam said the laboratory uploaded 4,000 samples received from Kolkata as those received from Kallakurichi in Tamil Nadu and registered as positive 4,000 samples that tested negative for Covid-19 on May 19, and May 20. Accusing the laboratory of functioning with “vested interest and negligent attitude”, the DPH said the act by Medall has created an unfavourable environment in the efforts against Covid-19. “The uploading of positive results of samples received from outside Tamil Nadu in Tamil Nadu's account has led to undue increase in case load and positivity of Tamil Nadu. This has spoiled the sincere efforts taken by the state in dealing with Covid-19,” Selvavinayagam said in the order. He also said the government suspects “presence of due nexus” between the laboratory and hospitals. “The wrong reports may be used to invite patients to the hospitals and subsequently medical bills can be earned by the hospital,” the order said. Dr Selvavinayagam said permission to the laboratory for testing RT-PCR samples will be decided after inspection by a Public Health team. Medall Healthcare's response In a statement, the laboratory said an encryption error that occurred while uploading to ICMR database was the reason for the discrepancy. “Having said that, it must be brought to the attention that the RT-PCR testing process of Medall is not in question. It must be clarified and placed on record that the report generated and shared with the customers who took the test is accurate. So the issue is not with the testing process or its quality or its accuracy,” a statement from Medall Healthcare said. The issue has been an encryption error (technical) that occurred while uploading the data to the ICMR server, the statement said, adding that the company will extend “unstinted co-operation” to the government team being sent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cancels-covid-19-testing-permission-to-a-private-lab-988469.html
21-05-2021||South||K Lakshminarayanan appointed Puducherry's pro-tem Speaker||K Lakshminarayanan (AINRC), elected to the territorial Assembly from Raj Nivas segment in the April 6 polls, was appointed the pro-tem Speaker of the Assembly on Friday. Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajanappointed the pro-tem Speaker of the 15th Assembly of the Union Territory on the recommendation of the Chief Minister and AINRC founder N R Rangasamy, said a press release from Secretary to the Assembly R Mounisamy Lakshminarayanan has been holding the Raj Nivas constituency since 2001. He quit the Congress on February 21 and joined the AINRC. A law graduate, he successfully contested the April 6 polls on the AINRC ticket, defeating DMK candidate S P Sivakumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-lakshminarayanan-appointed-puducherrys-pro-tem-speaker-988519.html
21-05-2021||South||TNCC not in favour of release of Rajiv Gandhi's assassins||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) on Friday reiterated it was not in favour of releasing all seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, saying the issue should be left to courts. The reaction from the TNCC comes a day after Chief Minister M K Stalin wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding remission of a life sentence and immediate release of the convicts. Speaking to reporters on the occasion of Rajiv Gandhi's 30th death anniversary here, TNCC President K S Alagiri said the party is clear that “political pressure” should have no role in the release of the seven convicts. Congress and its ally DMK differ on the issue of the release of the convicts who have been languishing in jail for the past three decades. “We are not in agreement with the stand taken by the Chief Minister. Releasing convicts is a decision that should be taken by courts. There are 100s of Tamils who are languishing in jails in Tamil Nadu for the past 25 to 30 years and why there is no campaign to release them. Why is that only these seven people get attention?” Alagiri asked. Alagiri said the Congress accepted the decision of the courts to acquit 19 persons who were added as accused in the case and did not question the wisdom of the judiciary. “We are not opposed to anyone's release. We are only opposed to releasing people on the grounds of religion, caste, or language. Let the courts take the decision (to release them),” he added. In a two-page letter to Kovind – written on May 19 and delivered in person by DMK MP T R Baalu to President's Secretariat on May 20 – Stalin reminded the President of a resolution passed by the then Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet recommending the release of the seven persons. The cabinet had on September 9, 2018, recommended to Governor Banwarilal Purohit to release Murugan, Santhan, Nalini, Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, and Ravichandran. However, the Governor sat on the file for over two years and passed the buck by saying the President was the competent authority to decide on their release. “These persons have already suffered hardship and agony in the past three decades and have paid a heavy price. There has already been an inordinate delay in the consideration of their pleas for remission. In the present circumstance of Covid-19 pandemic, Courts are also recognising the need to decongest prisons,” Stalin wrote in the letter. The issue of seven convicts is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with almost all political parties – barring Congress and BJP – endorsing the decision to release them from jail. The AIADMK government had in 2018 passed the resolution and sent it to the Governor, who told the Supreme Court after two years that he cannot take a call on it. Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated by an LTTE suicide bomber at Sriperumbudur on May 21, 1991, before he was to address an election rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tncc-not-in-favour-of-release-of-rajiv-gandhis-assassins-988543.html
21-05-2021||South||Indecision over new Opposition leader in Kerala||Indecision over the new opposition leader in Kerala is continuing in the Congress reportedly due to the groupism in the party. While a section of senior leaders was batting for retaining Ramesh Chennithala as the opposition leader, another section is batting for V D Satheesan citing the need for a generation change. A couple of senior leaders have demanded that they should be made the opposition leader. As the indecision by the Congress high command continues, resentment is also brewing in the party over the matter. Many leaders are openly condemning the groupism. Senior leaders like Oommen Chandy were pushing for retaining Chennithala. Chandy camp may be expecting counter support from Chennithala camp for any of Chandy loyalists to Kerala PCC president post replacing Mullappally Ramachandran. But a large section in the party, mainly youngsters, were demanding a generation shift by bringing in 57-year-old V D Satheesan, who is a five-time legislator from Paravur in Ernakulam. Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and V Vaithilingam, who were deputed by the high command, had already collected opinion of all the 21 elected members of the Congress as well as other party leaders on the next opposition leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indecision-over-new-opposition-leader-in-kerala-988549.html
21-05-2021||South||Retaining minority welfare portfolio seems like another political strategy of Pinarayi Vijayan||The decision of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take over the minority welfare portfolio is widely considered as a political strategy to strengthen his rapport with the minority communities.  Generally the minority welfare portfolio used to be with ministers from Muslim community and this time also the initial reports were that the portfolio would be given to V Abdurahman who is from the Muslim dominated Malappuram district. In the previous Cabinet the portfolio was held by K T Jaleel, who is also from Malappuram district. While the Congress-led UDF used to be in power in Kerala, the Indian Union Muslim League used to hold the portfolio. The present decision of Vijayan to keep the portfolio with him is also considered to be in view of the concerns expressed by a section of Christian forums that the minority affairs department had been more focused on the welfare of the Muslim community. Vijayan however said that the decision to retain the minority welfare portfolio with him was not taken as per the demand or wish of the Christian forums, but as part of a general consensus. All minority communities should be welcoming the decision that the minority welfare portfolio would be handled by the Chief Minister himself. He also said that there was no reason for concerns that the department was so far focused on the welfare of any particular section only. It may be recalled that Vijayan had been making efforts to make inroads into the minority vote banks, both Muslim and Christian. During the last five years of governance, he also developed a good rapport with the representatives of the minority sections. Indian Union Muslim League leader P K Kunhalikutty said that taking back a portfolio that was being handled by members of a particular community over the years amounted to insult to the community. Meanwhile, as reported earlier Veena George will be holding the health portfolio in place of K K Shailaja who had earned much popularity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/retaining-minority-welfare-portfolio-seems-like-another-political-strategy-of-pinarayi-vijayan-988552.html
21-05-2021||State||Kumaraswamy accuses Karnataka govt of laziness in managing epidemics||Accusing the Karnataka government of showing laziness towards managing epidemic diseases, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Friday urged it to immediately declare 'black fungus' as an epidemic. The former Chief Minister in a series of tweets warned that there is a danger of Karnataka witnessing higher number of 'black fungus' infections as according to experts those recovered from Covid are getting infected by the disease, and the state has a big number of coronavirus cases. "Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Odisha, Gujarat and Chandighad have declared 'black fungus' (mucormycosis) as an epidemic. The Centre has also asked the states to declare an epidemic. The state should also declare it as an epidemic immediately," Kumaraswamy tweeted. Stating that it was necessary to declare it as an epidemic to take immediate measures to control this disease and frontline workers working for it, he said there are increased chances of death with 'black fungus' infections and this deadly disease needs to be controlled. As cases of 'black fungus' among Covid-19 patients in the country are witnessing a rise, the Centre on Thursday urged all states and union territories to declare it as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act to ensure mandatory surveillance to tackle the "new challenge". Following this, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar has said 'black fungus' infection is now a notifiable disease and no hospital or medical establishment having the capacity to provide treatment should deny admission of patients. He also said an official government order towards this will be notified soon. Alleging that the state government was repeatedly showing laziness towards the management of epidemic diseases, which is not good, Kumaraswamy said, it can also be seen that it is stumbling block in handling 'black fungus' infections with inadequate medicine stock or in procuring them. "The government should immediately procure medicines for 'black fungus' treatment in adequate numbers and should keep ENT specialists, ophthalmologists, general surgeons, neurologists and dentists on alert," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kumaraswamy-accuses-karnataka-govt-of-laziness-in-managing-epidemics-988303.html
21-05-2021||State||Congress responsible for spike in Covid cases: Nalin Kumar Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Friday reiterated that the nasty politics of Congress is responsible for a spike in Covid cases in the country.  Speaking to media persons at Kalaburagi Airport here, he alleged that the Congress leaders spread a canard that the Covid vaccine is ineffective and will reduce masculinity. Because of which people hesitated to receive the jab. resulting in the upward trajectory of the infections and deaths.  Concurring former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy's statement that Congress took up a malicious campaign against the vaccine, Kateel alleged that the grand-old party has systematically misled people as for as vaccine is concerned. Prime Minister Narendra Modi encouraged the people by receiving the jab in February. But, the people did not come forward to receive the jab till May. Congress leaders are now shedding tears that the vaccine is out of stock, he said Legislative Assembly Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah will do the same what the party high-command will do. The people will not tolerate such an attitude just for power. Because of this reason, the Siddaramaiah lost Varuna Assembly Constituency. The people of the Badami segment will give a befitting reply if he fails to rectify his behavior, Kateel told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-responsible-for-spike-in-covid-cases-nalin-kumar-kateel-988340.html
21-05-2021||State||Former Karnataka Assembly Speaker Krishna passes away||Former speaker of Karnataka Legislative Assembly Krishna, popularly known as K R Pete Krishna died of health issues in Mangaluru on Friday. He was 80. Krishna was suffering from cancer and was being treated in Chennai. He died at his residence in Kuvempunagar in Mysuru. He was born in Kothamaranahally village in Krishnarajpet taluk, Mandya district, on July 1, 1941. Krishna served as a member of K R Pet Taluk Board from 1978 to 1983. He was general secretary of the Janata Party for Mandya district between 1980 and 1985. Krishna was elected to Karnataka Legislative Assembly in 1985 and became minister of sericulture and animal husbandry in 1988. He was re-elected in 1994 from K R Pet on the Janata Dal ticket and resigned from the post after being elected as MP from Mandya constituency. He was elected as Speaker in 2004.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-karnataka-assembly-speaker-krishna-passes-away-988370.html
21-05-2021||State||Jio adds 15 MHz spectrum in Karnataka to enhance subscriber experience||Jio has implemented additional 15 MHz spectrum across Karnataka to enhance subscriber experience, Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd (RJIL) said on Friday. The total bandwidth available for usage in 850 MHz would be doubled and 2300 MHz enhanced by 25 per cent in the State, where it claims a subscriber base of 2.1 crore. Owing to the increasing demand for more 4G towers, Jio Karnataka is expanding its 4G network by 28 per cent in 2021, an RJIL statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jio-adds-15-mhz-spectrum-in-karnataka-to-enhance-subscriber-experience-988415.html
21-05-2021||State||Covid relief based on last year's data||The beneficiaries of the Rs 1,250-crore package announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will not have to apply for the financial assistance as the government will release funds directly into their bank accounts from its database. According to Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, the government has data of all registered construction labourers and those in the unorganised sector. “We are facing some problem identifying cobblers, which will be addressed in day or two,” he told DH. Other departments, too, will dig into existing database of beneficiaries and transfer benefits directly to bank accounts. The government has compiled details of those who had applied for financial assistance when the government announced a special package during the lockdown last year. “The same beneficiaries will be compensated with funds announced in the package,” Hebbar said. The much-delayed announcement of the financial package was followed by confusion on the means to apply for benefits as the government had not clarified on the same. Meanwhile, BJP MLC N Ravikumar has written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa urging him to extend the relief package benefits to teachers, fishermen and weavers. “Many guest lecturers are forced to work as daily wage labourers, vegetable and flower vendors during the lockdown. Many educational institutions are not in a situation to pay wages,” he said. Though the package covered all sections of society, these groups does not feature in the list, Ravikumar said, urging to ensure them relief. Also, Karnataka State Policy and Planning Commission Deputy Chairperson B J Puttaswamy has recommended the state government to procure fruits and vegetables at the gram panchayat level to reduce losses suffered by farmers. Local officials should be deployed to procure the produce and transport it to urban areas, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-relief-based-on-last-years-data-988504.html
21-05-2021||State||Farmer leader Babagouda Patil no more||Former Union minister and farmer leader Babagouda Patil (76) passed away after a prolonged illness, at a private hospital here on Friday. He is survived by his wife, two sons and as many daughters. Hailing from Chikkabagewadi in Bailhongal taluk, Babagouda Patil had emerged as prominent farmer leader in north Karnataka in 1980s. Contesting as Raitha Sangha candidate, Patil won both Kittur and Dharwad Rural Assembly seats in 1989 elections. He, however, retained Kittur and made sure another tall farmer leader Prof M D Nanjundaswamy win from Dharwad Rural in the ensuing byelection. Babagouda parted ways with Raitha Sangha over the differences with Prof Nanjundaswamy and joined the BJP. He got elected from Belgaum Lok Sabha seat in 1998 and became Minister of State for Rural Development in Atal Bihari Vajpayee's Cabinet. Patil was lauded for his works, including laying village roads during his tenure as Union minister. Patil later joined the JD(S) before quitting it to coin a new party Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha. He was in the forefront of the farmers' agitation against the new farm laws. He had played a vital role in organising Kisan Mahapanchayats in the state. In the recently held bypoll to Belgaum Parliamentary seat, Patil had campaigned for Congress candidate Satish Jarkiholi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmer-leader-babagouda-patil-no-more-988505.html
21-05-2021||State||Karnataka govt not ready for tussle with private hospitals: K Sudhakar||Health Minister K Sudhakar has said that he is disappointed about private hospitals not reserving beds for Covid patients as per the norms of the government.  He was speaking at a meeting with officials of the Health Department here on Friday.  He said SS Hospital has provided only 54 beds against the actual capacity of 857 beds. Bapuji Teaching Hospital has given only 37 beds against the capacity of 850 beds. So it is evident that private hospital and private college did not reserve 50% and 75% beds respectively as per the norms of the government. The Minister said the government is not ready for a tussle with the management of hospitals as the country is in a medical emergency. It is the duty of private hospitals to follow the guidelines of the government to save the lives of people. He also made it clear that the government would bear the expenses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-not-ready-for-tussle-with-private-hospitals-k-sudhakar-988557.html
21-05-2021||State||Prisoners among 8 lakh frontline workers to be vaccinated for Covid||Some eight lakh people falling into an expanded definition of frontline workers are due to be vaccinated starting from tomorrow, but questions have arisen after prisoners were also included in the list. As per officials, the state government has procured some 5.5 lakh doses of Covishield directly from the manufacturer for the special vaccination drive which covers people between the age of 18 to 44 falling into 22 expanded categories of frontline workers. A further 2.2 lakh doses are expected to arrive on Saturday. Among those eligible for vaccination are employees and volunteers working in crematoriums and cemeteries, health officials and their immediate families, teachers appointed for Covid-19 duties, government transport employees, auto and cab drivers, electricity and water distribution employees, postal workers, street vendors, office security and housekeeping staff, judiciary officials, attendees of senior citizens or critically ill patients, child rights activists and members of the women and child welfare department, members of the press corps, staff belonging to hospital goods and freight supplies, oil industry and gas distribution personnel (including petrol station personnel), employees of the drug manufacturing industry and deliverers of oxygen, medicine and hospital equipment, people without ID cards such as orphans and people in old age homes, APMC staff and employees of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department. Prisoners are a vulnerable population Dr Arundathi Chandrashekar, Director, National Health Mission, said that the prisoners were included due to a long-standing demand from the judiciary over concerns that an outbreak would happen in prisons. “The frontline workers list is actually a misnomer. It has since been changed to ‘frontline workers and vulnerable people’,” she said, adding that the updated list also includes also added handicapped people and caretakers. “The number of prisoners due to be vaccinated is small compared to other groups. There are only about 10,000 prisoners earmarked to receive the jab, most of whom are at Parappana Agrahara Prison in Bengaluru,” Dr Arundathi explained.  In Shivamogga district, health officials said they would only vaccinate prisoners and others such as auto drivers after receiving 5,000 additional doses on Sunday. In contrast, Dr Arundathi noted that two lakh street vendors would be vaccinated statewide, followed by smaller numbers in other categories, including some 20 to 30,000 people involved in transport services. First Day to be Slow In Bengaluru, the municipal Chief Commissioner, Gaurav Gupta, said the drive will be taken up in a symbolic manner in consultation with organizations such as crematoriums workers association, after which a strategy will be worked out. “Every category of worker will require a different strategy and different camps,” he said, but could not say how long it would take to vaccinate everyone.  “There are a lot of logistics involved. Microplans have to be chalked out,” he said. While officials hope to vaccinate one lakh people in these special categories tomorrow, they said that the first day would likely be difficult. “We expect confusion and eligibility certificates may take some time,” Dr Arundathi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prisoners-among-8-lakh-frontline-workers-to-be-vaccinated-for-covid-988560.html
21-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccination for 18-44 age group from May 22||The state government will commence vaccination for 18-44 age group from Saturday. To begin with, frontline workers and priority group workers will be vaccinated in all the districts. In a communication issued by Dr Arundhati Chandrasekhar, Director, National Health Mission (Karnataka) to the BBMP chief commissioner and to all deputy commissioners of the districts, officials have been directed to identify the Covid frontline workers and priority groups as announced by the state government and take up vaccination.  As per the communication, the state government intends to start vaccination to these priority groups from May 22. “While the Covid front-line workers in this age group will be vaccinated first, subsequently the priority groups will be inoculated,” the communication read. The district officials have been told to keep the list of beneficiaries ready and every beneficiary must submit an eligibility certificate issued by the nodal officer.  Ruling out any confusion while administering the vaccine to these priority groups, districts have been told to allot slots for vaccination depending on the availability of vaccine besides intimating the beneficiaries well in advance about the place and time of vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-from-may-22-988166.html
21-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 positivity rate decreasing in Karnataka as testing drops||Although the daily coronavirus cases in Karnataka have been witnessing a decline over the past few days, the high positivity rate was a major concern until last week. In the list of states with the highest positivity rates, Karnataka (32%) had the second-highest positivity rate in India after Goa (43%) between May 7 and May 14. Experts say a high positivity rate indicates that the state is testing only the ones with symptoms and needs to ramp up its efforts in tracking the infected population and isolating them. During the last two days, Karnataka has reported over 30,000 fresh cases, which was around 40,000 last week. The state had reported 50,112 fresh infections on May 5, the number dropped to 35,297 on May 13 raising questions on the low number of testing. However, Health Minister K Sudhakar has said the positivity rate in the state was decreasing and described it as a good sign, as he ruled out any correlation between the decline in the number of testing and the positivity rate coming down. "Despite doing symptomatic tests if the positivity rate is decreasing, it is a good sign," he told reporters. The state registered 28,869 new infections, which was outnumbered by recoveries with 52,257 discharges. However, the number of fatalities continued to remain high at 548, the health department said on Thursday. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 23.91 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.89 per cent. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-positivity-rate-decreasing-in-karnataka-as-testing-drops-988195.html
21-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to resume vaccination of 18-44 age group from Saturday||The state government will commence vaccination for 18-44 age group from Saturday. To begin with, frontline workers and priority group workers will be vaccinated in all the districts. In a communication issued by Dr Arundhati Chandrasekhar, Director, National Health Mission (Karnataka) to the BBMP chief commissioner and to all deputy commissioners of the districts, officials have been directed to identify the Covid frontline workers and priority groups as announced by the state government and take up vaccination. According to the communication, the state government intends to start vaccination to these priority groups from May 22. “While the Covid frontline workers in this age group will be vaccinated first, subsequently the priority groups will be inoculated,” the communication read. The district officials have been told to keep the list of beneficiaries ready and every beneficiary must submit an eligibility certificate issued by the nodal officer. The decision came eight days after the government ordered the suspension of the vaccination drive for this group in the absence of adequate supply of vaccines. "Vaccination for 18-44 years age group is being resumed from May 22 and state procured vaccines will be utilised to vaccinate the eligible beneficiaries," the order stated. The state has identified corona frontline warriors who will be receiving the vaccines initially, it said. According to the order, deputy commissioners and the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will be in charge of the vaccination of this group in Bengaluru. Nodal officers for each category will be nominated by the deputy commissioners in districts and chief commissioner of BBMP to facilitate Covid-19 vaccine Covishield. They will also issue eligibility certificates of the category under which the beneficiaries will be vaccinated, the order stated. According to the order, the mode of implementation will be workplace vaccination. For those willing to get vaccinated should produce eligibility certificates for registration on Co-WIN portal. The certificate can be any valid identity card approved by the Government of India, the order said. “The number of vaccination sites and vaccinations per day will be decided by the district authorities based on the availability of vaccines,” it said. The state government also clarified that other priority groups will be vaccinated as per the list. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had started the vaccination drive for people from 18 years to 45 years on May 1 symbolically, but suspended the drive on May 12. Health Minister K Sudhakar said the state has so far received 1,22,20,510 vaccines and vaccinated 1,13,61,234 people. Karnataka has placed an order for two crore Covishield and one crore Covaxin vaccines. It has also decided to float a global tender for two crore vaccines. The state has set a target to vaccinate the eligible population by the year-end. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-resume-vaccination-of-18-44-age-group-from-saturday-988257.html
21-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah to move breach of privilege against Karnataka govt||Karnataka's Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said he would move a breach of privilege motion against the BJP government in the next session of the legislature for blocking his attempt to gain information from Deputy Commissioners on the Covid-19 situation.  “I wanted to hold a video conference with DCs to get information on oxygen, beds, and ventilators, the lack of which is affecting the treatment of Covid-19 patients. It’s not a review meeting. Still, permission was denied,” he said, speaking on the sidelines of an event to observe the death anniversary of former PM Rajiv Gandhi.  On May 19, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar wrote to Siddaramaiah saying permission cannot be granted to him for holding a meeting with Deputy Commissioners, citing a 2009 circular. This circular was reiterated in 2016 when Siddaramaiah was the chief minister. The circular was again refreshed in April 2019 when the Congress-JD(S) coalition was in power.  “Leader of the Opposition is a constitutional position. Denying information will amount to a breach of privilege,” Siddaramaiah said, adding that he was the shadow chief minister. “The BJP had adopted similar tactics in 2009 as well. They are afraid that their mismanagement will be exposed if data is presented.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-to-move-breach-of-privilege-against-karnataka-govt-988398.html
21-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 7||Karnataka will remain locked down till June 7 to contain the spread of Covid-19, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Friday.  The announcement came three days before the current lockdown is scheduled to end on May 24.  “Till 6 am on June 7, the stringent measures currently in force will continue,” Yediyurappa said after chairing a meeting with ministers and officials. He said the decision to extend the lockdown by two more weeks was based on experts’ advice.  “These decisions are taken keeping the interest of citizens in mind. I request people to cooperate. The Covid-19 is spreading to villages and deaths are going up,” Yediyurappa said.  According to him, the existing lockdown had yielded results, prompting the government to extend it by two more weeks. “Stringent measures were imposed across the state till May 24 and because people cooperated with the government, cases are coming under control with each passing day,” he said.  There will not be any changes to the guidelines, Yediyurappa said. Citizens will be allowed to step out between 6 am and 10 am to buy essentials, including alcohol.  “We have seen in Bengaluru and other cities, people coming out even at 10 am. This is causing a lot of problems. The police have been asked to check this. People should get back home at 9.45 am,” Yediyurappa said.  Free treatment for black fungus Expressing concern over mucormycosis or the 'black fungus' infection, the government has decided to provide free treatment for this at state-run district hospitals. “This is to help people who can’t afford treatment,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-7-988426.html
21-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's vaccination software will be launched on June 1: DCM||Rolling out vaccination for the front-line workers belonging to 18 to 44 years age group from today across Karnataka, the state government on Friday said that the new software developed by the state government for tracking vaccination programme will be launched on June 1st. Deputy Chief Minister and Chairperson of Karnataka Covid Task Force Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana while addressing media persons along with Union minister DV Sadananda Gowda in Bengaluru said that they (Government) have been working on a separate software to track the vaccination programme. “The software will be launched on 1st June and it will be linked to the Cowin portal,” he said. Giving details of the vaccine requirement DCM said, “Currently we have to vaccinate 1.90 lakh people with the second dose of Covaxin. But as of today, we have 1.70 lakh doses of Covaxin and we have already begun administering the vaccine. We also have the required stock of Covishield doses. The number of Covid front-line workers will be increased gradually to add momentum to the vaccination drive and all of them will be provided with vaccines on priority.” He expressed that by December 2021, all citizens will be vaccinated in Karnataka. Alternate medicines to black fungus Stating that despite several other drug options to treat Mycormucosis (Black Fungus) available in the market, DCM Ashwatha Narayana said that people have been demanding liposomal amphotericin drug. “There are several alternative drugs to treat the black fungus and it is available in all the Chemists shops. We have already placed orders for the drug with the centre and in a few days the required quantity will reach us,” he clarified. Karnataka has surplus oxygen per bed Pointing to the oxygen scenario in Karnataka, DCM said, “Each oxygen bed require 20,000 litres of oxygen. If you consider this requirement, we (Karnataka) have surplus oxygen in stock to cope with the emergency. Keeping in mind the possible surge in the third wave, we have been taking additional steps to contain the pandemic.” Besides, he also said that 400 to 500 oxygen generators will be set up at every primary health care centre and taluk hospitals and open up ICU at these facilities. “We have been supplying oxygen cylinders to registered and unregistered private medical firms already. A PHC in remote hamlet is also supplied with cylinders beside augmenting the logistics network for quick transport of oxygen via road, rail network,” Ashwatha Narayana said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-vaccination-software-will-be-launched-on-june-1-dcm-988497.html
21-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, govt goes big on farm ponds||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Karnataka is making quiet strides in constructing ponds on agricultural lands that help farmers, especially those involved in dry-land cultivation, conserve rainwater and recharge groundwater.  In 2020, Karnataka funded the construction of more farm ponds than it did in three preceding years put together, according to government data.  Now, the government has set a target of taking up 1 lakh farm ponds this year.   According to an estimate, a farm pond on an acre of land can hold one lakh litres of water from a good spellof rain.  “The farm ponds are taken up on eligible farmers’ lands. A farm pond costs about Rs 60,000-80,000 depending on size,” Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) principal secretary L K Atheeq said. “The purpose is to conserve rainwater and use (ponds) for protective irrigation for short-duration crops. Also, they serve as an infiltration well helping in groundwater recharge,” he explained.  The huge numbers are a result of farm ponds being constructed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), whose works involving less than 40 workers have been exempted from the Covid-19 lockdown.  Earlier, farm ponds were taken up under the Krishi Bhagya scheme. “Under Krishi Bhagya, Rs 1 lakh was given to the farmer. The farmer would bring a backhoe and dig the pond,” Atheeq said. Now, however, labourers are engaged. “Also, we follow a different design. The pond under Krishi Bhagya was rectangular with no steps. Now, the ponds have steps so that workers can go in,” he said.  Apparently, farm ponds funded under the Krishi Bhagya scheme were used mostly by farmers who had borewells. “They would pump water out when power was available and store it in the pond. The farmers also used tarpaulin to avoid percolation. Ponds under MGNREGA are percolation ponds with some protective irrigation to vegetables and fruit trees like sapota, guava, coconut etc,” Atheeq said.  In 2020, Tumakuru got the highest number of farm ponds at 11,639 followed  by Chitradurga (7,273), Mandya (5,851), Vijayapura (5,061) and Chikkaballapur (3,923).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-covid-19-pandemic-govt-goes-big-on-farm-ponds-988507.html
21-05-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||CID begins probe into 4.9-kg missing gold case||A Criminal Investigation Department (CID) team, headed by SP Raghavendra Hegde, has begun its probe into the case of 4.9 kg gold worth Rs 2.5 crore, which went missing from a Sangli-bound car that was seized in January last. Suspecting the involvement of some senior police officers, the district police handed the missing gold case to the CID. According to the sources privy to the developments, IGP (Northern Range) Raghavendra Suhas had informed Gokak DySP Javed Inamdar, on the intervening night of January 9 and 10, about the gold being smuggled in a car. But on checking the car at a check-post near Yamakanamaradi on Pune-Bengaluru highway, the police didn’t find the gold. They, however, seized the car belonging to a person from Mangaluru. As the car was modified without permission from the Transport department, a case was booked against its owner under KP Act. The car was parked in Yamakanamaradi police station till the court ordered its release on April 16. The owner of the car soon found that the gold was missing. Wasting no time, he lodged a gold theft complaint. The district police, suspecting the involvement of the officials of the department, handed over the case to CID, sources added. IGP, 3 other cops transferred In an interesting development, IGP (North) Raghavendra Suhas has been transferred and posted as IGP (Internal Security, Bengaluru). Three other officers from the district have also been transferred. Gokak DySP Javid Inamdar was transferred to ISD while DCB inspector Rameshwar Kalyanshetti was transferred to Hubballi-Dharwad Police Training School. Yamakanamaradi SI Ramesh Patil was transferred to Hubballi-Dharwad CEN police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/cid-begins-probe-into-49-kg-missing-gold-case-988503.html
21-05-2021||West||A village that sets example of how to break Covid-19 chain||Bhosi, a village of 6,000 people in the Bhokar tehsil of Nanded, has set an example of how to break the Covid-19 chain. Two months ago, after a wedding ceremony, a girl from the village was found infected with coronavirus. Later, five more patients were found to be positive the following week, which led to a commotion in the whole village. At this time, a Zilla Parishad member Prakash Deshmukh Bhosikar took the initiative to organise a health camp in the village in coordination with the Gram Panchayat and the Health Department to conduct Covid tests.  Rapid Antigen Test and RT-PCR tests that followed revealed that 119 people were Covid-19 positive. “It was decided to isolate the patients to break the chain of Covid-19 spreading to others.  Accordingly, all the infected people were persuaded to go and live on their fields for a period of 15-17 days, as mandated by the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for people with mild infections. Farm labourers and others who did not own farms, were accommodated in a makeshift 40x 60 shed on Bhosikar’s own farm,” Bhosikar said.   Ashatai, the village health worker and Anganwadi sevika, would visit the fields everyday and interact with the patients.  Food and medicines were also provided on the spot. After 15 to 20 days of isolation, the villagers returned home as Covid-19 negative persons only after a health check-up. “Separation is the only way to save the villagers from getting infected,” says Lakshmibai Akkemwad, who spent a fortnight in quarantine on the fields. In a press statement issued by PIB, Nanded Zilla Parishad CEO Varsha Thakur Ghuge said that the Bhosi pattern is a good example of joint coordination between the villagers, people's representatives and the administration, worthy of implementation in other villages of the district and elsewhere. "A month and a half has passed since then and no new patient has been found in the village. Covid can be fought effectively by adopting the age-old path of isolation - as was being done during the days of plague - even in villages without adequate health facilities," added Bhosikar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/a-village-that-sets-example-of-how-to-break-covid-19-chain-988161.html
21-05-2021||West||13 Naxalites killed in encounter with security forces in Gadchiroli||Thirteen outlawed Naxalites were killed in a pre-dawn encounter with police and security forces in the Maoist-infested Gadchiroli district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra on Thursday. Six men and seven women cadres were killed in the encounter. Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil congratulated the Gadchiroli police for the success. The operation by the C-60 commando force was carried out based on a specific intelligence input. The forces reached the designated area based on information that some 60-70 Naxalites had assembled to carry out a strike. However, the Naxalites fired at the police and security forces after which the C-60 team retaliated. The encounter continued between 6 to 7.30 am. The 13 dead bodies are yet to be identified. The police seized seven AK-47 assault rifles, SLRs, carbines, 303 rifles, 12-bore rifles and a huge cache of ammunition. Deputy Inspector General of Naxal Range Sandip Patil and Gadchiroli Superintendent of Police Ankit Goyal oversaw the operations. Walse-Patil along with Additional Director General of Police (Special Operations) Sanjay Saxena congratulated the team of officers and personnel involved in the operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/13-naxalites-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-gadchiroli-988246.html
21-05-2021||West||Mumbai Police lodges case of culpable homicide into barge tragedy||Amid growing outrage, the Mumbai Police has registered a case of culpable homicide and negligence into the sinking of an accommodation barge Papaa-305 in the Arabian Sea along the Maharashtra coast as Tauktae cyclone barreled through leading a trail of destruction. The barge, along with its marine crew was owned and operated by Durmast Enterprises Ltd, which was chartered by Afcons Infrastructure Ltd, which along with its consortium partner Halani-Tes-Nauvata, has been working with ONGC for the revamp of its unmanned offshore platforms in the Arabian Sea. When the devastating cyclone hit the Mumbai High offshore development area, the barge, which had 261 persons, had sunk. An anchor-handling boat too was affected.  So far Indian Navy, which is leading the Search and Rescue (SAR) operations, have rescued 186 persons and recovered 51 bodies while 24 are still reported missing. The Yellow Gate police station in Mumbai, which has jurisdiction in the Arabian Sea along India’s western seaboard, converted its ADR into an FIR and began investigations. “An FIR has been registered under Sections 304 (II) and 338 of the Indian Penal Code and further investigations are on,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) Chaitanya S. The FIR has named the barge’s Captain Rakesh Ballav. However, it may be recalled that the barge’s Chief Engineer had earlier named Captain Balwandir Singh and accused him of ignoring warnings and not heeding requests to move out. Meanwhile, the ONGC management has decided to extend an immediate relief of Rs. 1 lakh to the survivors and Rs. 2 lakh to the families of the victims and the missing people.  Afcons too is working out a package ranging between Rs 35 to Rs 75 lakh per family. “It was our moral duty to support not only the families of the deceased persons on its direct rolls, but also families of all deceased persons who were employed with its subcontractors,” Afcons said in a statement. Afcons stated that it would ensure that the families of the deceased would receive a total compensation equivalent to a balance period of service up to 10 years' salaries through a combination of ex gratia pay-outs and insurance compensation.  While the modalities of the payments are being worked out, it is estimated that total compensation would range from Rs 35 lakhs up to Rs 75 lakhs per family. The company added that it would also be setting up a Trust to support the educational needs of the children of the deceased through scholarships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-lodges-case-of-culpable-homicide-into-barge-tragedy-988256.html
21-05-2021||West||Tarun Tejpal acquitted in 2013 sexual harassment case||A fast track court in Goa on Friday acquitted former Tehelka editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal, who was charge-sheeted for allegedly raping a junior colleague in the elevator of a five star hotel in Goa in 2013. A shocked Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that the verdict was surprising and said that his government would appeal against the verdict in the Bombay High Court, while describing Tejpal's acquittal as an injustice to the victim. Speaking to reporters, a visibly relieved Tejpal, however, said that he was grateful to receive justice stating that "justice is not always a given thing in this country". Earlier on Friday, additional district and sessions judge Kshama Joshi, who chairs the fast track course in Mapusa town, where the case was being heard since 2019, ruled that the editor and novelist stood acquitted from all charges framed against him, including rape. Tejpal was charge-sheeted under sections 376 (rape), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement) 354A (sexual harassment) and 354B (criminal assault), of the Indian Penal Code, after a junior colleague accused him of raping her in 2013. Tejpal in a written statement said that the last seven-and-a-half years had been traumatic for him and were spent dealing with the "catastrophic fallout" of the "false allegations" which were levelled against him and has thanked the Court for its order. "It is with profound respect that I thank this court for its rigorous, impartial and fair trial and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record. I wish to make no further statement at this time and request my family's privacy be respected as we try to reclaim our broken lives. I will make a comprehensive statement at an appropriate time in the future," the former Tehelka boss said. "It has been a very long nightmare for my family. I am relieved that it is finally over.  And I am very grateful to have received justice, because justice is not always a given thing in this country," Tejpal also told reporters. The former editor also expressed thanks to his lead trial lawyer late Rajeev Gomes, who died of Covid on May 13 this year. According to the charge sheet filed against Tejpal, the incident allegedly occurred on November 7, during a conference organised by the Tehelka media group in 2013. Tejpal stepped down as editor of Tehelka on November 20, three days before the Goa Police filed a First Information Report against him accusing him of rape. Tejpal was arrested on November 30, after the North Goa District and Sessions Court rejected his anticipatory bail application, after which the journalist spent nearly eight months in police and judicial custody. He was subsequently released on bail by the Supreme Court, months after a 2,846-page charge sheet by the Crime Branch of the Goa Police. Charges against Tejpal were later framed by the trial court in Goa in 2017, paving way for the trial. Reacting to the development Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that the government would be immediately filing an appeal against the trial court's order.   "The acquittal of Tarun Tejpal amounts to injustice against the (victim). The state government will not tolerate this. To give her justice, the government will file an appeal against the judgement in High Court," Sawant said. The Chief Minister also said that the government will continue to fight the case, until justice is done. "We are with the victim. It is surprising that such a judgement was pronounced despite the amount of evidence which the investigating officer and PP (public prosecutor) had collected," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tarun-tejpal-acquitted-in-2013-sexual-harassment-case-988262.html
21-05-2021||West||Goa extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 31||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday announced the extension of the Covid-19 curfew till May 31. The decision was taken at a state cabinet meeting. Stores catering to essential needs such as groceries will be allowed to stay open from 7 am to 1 pm. Pharmacies and kitchens at restaurants will function from 7 am to 7 pm; only takeaways and deliveries are allowed. Prohibition on gatherings including those for social, political and religious purposes will continue throughout the period. Gatherings of five or more people have been banned during the lockdown. Goa's coronavirus caseload went up by 1,625 and reached 1,43,192 on Friday, while the day also saw 30 deaths and 3,075 people getting discharged, an official said. The toll in the state stands at 2,302 and the recovery count is 1,21,562, leaving it with 19,328 active cases, he said. With 5,063 samples being examined in the last 24 hours, the number of tests in Goa went up to 7,78,828. Goa's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,43,192, new cases 1625, death toll 2302, discharged 121562, active cases 19328, samples tested till date 7,78,828. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-31-988287.html
21-05-2021||West||Goa pegs losses due to cyclone Tauktae at Rs 146 crore||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the state suffered losses to the tune of Rs 146 crore due to cyclone Tauktae. Due to the impact of the cyclonic winds, power supply at various places in the state got snapped from Saturday night. As per the government record, scores of houses suffered major damages and thousands of trees were uprooted. Two persons had died in the cyclone-related incidents in the state. Talking to reporters, Sawant said the state government has considered all kind of losses in its assessment, including those faced by the fishing community as its members could not venture into the sea due to cyclonic winds for three days. Sawant said disaster management teams were on the field to tackle the situation arising out of the cyclonic winds. “The figure of Rs 146 crore has been worked out, which includes losses due to ban on fishing for three days, destruction to various assets of electricity department, damages to buildings of education department and destruction of private properties,” he said. Damage to agricultural crops has also been included in this figure, Sawant added. “The state faced such a cyclone for the firsts time since 1994,” he said. He apologised to the people of the state for inconvenience caused due to disruption of power and drinking water supply for a few days certain parts of the state as a result of the cyclone. The work of restoring the power supply took time due to scarcity of manpower in the state. “We had to hire manpower from outside the state to restore the supply,” he added. The chief minister said that after this experience, the state government has decided to ramp up its disaster response and purchase some necessary equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-pegs-losses-due-to-cyclone-tauktae-at-rs-146-crore-988305.html
21-05-2021||West||Goa to move High Court against Tarun Tejpal's acquittal||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the state government will challenge in the high court journalist Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in a 2013 rape case by a district court here. A sessions court at Mapusa on Friday acquitted Tejpal of sexually assaulting his former female colleague in an elevator of a five star resort in Goa. Talking to reporters, Sawant said, “We will not tolerate any injustice to be meted out to the women in Goa. We will challenge the district court's order before the high court soon in this case." He said he has personally discussed the issue with the public prosecutor and the investigating officer in the case about challenging the verdict in the high court. Sawant claimed that there was enough evidence against the accused. The Goa police had registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013, following which he was arrested. The Goa crime branch had filed a charge sheet against Tejpal, who has been out on bail since May 2014. He faced the trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-move-high-court-against-tarun-tejpals-acquittal-988311.html
21-05-2021||West||Shivaji-era forts in UNESCO’s tentative heritage list||The ensemble of forts of the era of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj has made it to the tentative list of UNESCO’s world heritage site along with five other important sites. The submissions were made by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The Directorate of Archaeology and Museums of the Maharashtra government was corresponding with the ASI. The proposal on military architecture involves Raigad, Rajgad, Torna, Shivneri, Pratapgad, Simhagad, Lohagad, Panhala/Rangna, Sindhudurg, Vijaydurg, Padmadurg, and Kulaba forts. While Shivneri is the birthplace of Shivaji Maharaj, Rajgad was the capital of the Maratha empire for 26 years. In Raigad, Shivaji Maharaj was coronated and he laid the foundation of the Maratha empire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shivaji-era-forts-in-unesco-s-tentative-heritage-list-988432.html
21-05-2021||West||Stalin orders withdrawal of most cases filed against anti-Sterlite protesters||On the eve of the third anniversary of the police firing that killed 13 civilians, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday ordered the withdrawal of most cases filed against anti-Sterlite protesters and announced monetary compensation to people picked up by police during the protests. In a statement, Stalin said the government will issue No Objection Certificates (NOC) to those arrested during the 2018 protests to apply for jobs or continue their education. The government made the announcement based on recommendations made in the interim report filed by retired judge Aruna Jagadeesan, who was appointed by the previous AIADMK government to go into the police firing on May 22, 2018. At least 13 people were killed and several others injured in the police firing on protesters who had gathered at the Collectorate in Thoothukudi. They were demanding that the government shut down the Sterlite Copper plant and revoke permission given for its expansion. Stalin said all cases except those handed over to the CBI and those relating to damages to public property will be withdrawn, while all cases filed against protesters before May 22, 2018, except those pending before the Supreme Court and few others will be withdrawn. The police firing is being probed by the SC. “94 persons were arrested by police, and the commission recommended monetary assistance for them. Accepting the recommendation, it has been decided to provide Rs 1 lakh each as compensation to 93 persons against whom cases were filed and arrested,” Stalin said. One person died in jail, and his mother will be given a compensation of Rs 2 lakh, the Chief Minister added. He also said the government will ensure No Objection Certificates (NOC) are issued for those who were arrested to apply for jobs or pursue higher education. The announcement came as relatives of those killed and anti-Sterlite protesters gear up to observe the third anniversary of the police firing on Saturday. Kin of Sterlite police firing get government jobs The Chief Minister on Friday handed over orders providing government jobs based on their educational qualification to kin of 13 people who died in the police firing. DH had in August reported that kin of victims of the police firing are demanding “better jobs” that suit their education qualification. Heeding their demand, the DMK Government allotted jobs like junior assistant in various government departments to many of the beneficiaries. “My sister Seetha has now been appointed as junior revenue inspector in the government. This job suits her educational qualification. Though we will not get our brother Selvasekar back, we are at least relieved that the new government has addressed our concern,” Jayakumar, who lost his brother, told DH. The family members had in August last year submitted a representation to a retired judge appointed to probe into the police firing demanding a change of jobs based on the educational qualification of the candidates. In their representation, the kin of the victims pointed out that a family member of P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix, who died after being tortured by police during custody in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district, being awarded with a government job in the rank of junior assistant. At least 13 persons were killed when the 100-day long protests against expansion of the Sterlite Copper plant turned violent resulting in police firing. After the incident, the copper smelter was closed down by the Tamil Nadu government citing violations by the Vedanta-owned group, which appealed against the decision in the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Though the NGT allowed reopening of the plant, the Supreme Court struck down the order on the grounds of maintainability after which the company approached the Madras High Court. The court had on August 18 upheld the Tamil Nadu government’s order closing down the plant. Sterlite Copper has now approached the Supreme Court against the Madras High Court order. The plant has now been reopened for production of oxygen to be supplied to Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stalin-orders-withdrawal-of-most-cases-filed-against-anti-sterlite-protesters-988438.html
21-05-2021||West||'Faster than the virus': Mumbai gears up for a third Covid-19 wave||Mumbai won plaudits this year for tackling the second wave of the pandemic better than any other metropolis in the country - and it is gearing up to get ahead of a potential third wave that experts fear could affect children. Mumbai is building four mammoth centres across the city with units for children infected with Covid-19 and it is working closely with a special task force that includes some of India's top paediatricians, the city's civic chief said. "If a 2-year-old child becomes highly symptomatic, how can you deposit the child in hospital without the mother?" Mumbai's Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told Reuters. "We have already started preparing for that. ... One should be faster than the virus." With more than 250 lakh infections, India has the world's second-largest caseload after the United States and many states have been grappling with a lack of hospital beds and inadequate oxygen and medical supplies. Mumbai struggled initially with one of the highest caseloads in the country but reined in the virus with strict lockdowns, widespread testing and a decentralised Covid management system. Chahal, widely credited for successfully managing the surge there, said the four Covid care centres with paediatric units, as good as hospitals, will be able to house more than a thousand children along with a parent. The facilities, which will also have intensive-care units (ICUs), will be ready by next month, well before experts predict the third wave will hit, said Chahal, adding that there is ample funding from the state, companies and even Bollywood celebrities. The city is spending huge amounts to build the paediatric units and is already procuring ventilators, monitors and other medical equipment, Chahal said. Apart from these units, the government is also in talks with hospitals to increase the number of paediatric beds and ICUs. The paediatric task force, led by Dr Suhas Prabhu, plans to train about 660 paediatricians on how to handle children affected by Covid-19, and then broaden the training to more staff. The third wave might not end up affecting children greatly, but cities like Mumbai cannot afford to be caught off guard, Prabhu said. The Mumbai model Chahal was handpicked by Maharashtra Chief Minister Udhhav Thackeray in May last year to lead the city's response when the virus hit. Chahal, the son of an army officer, set up local Covid "war rooms" in 24 zones in the city to decentralise the pressure and hasten the response. Even as other cities in Maharashtra continue to report high numbers, Mumbai's cases have plunged, says Prince Surana, a doctor who runs three hospitals in the city. But Chahal says Mumbai is not out of the woods. Like the rest of India, Mumbai is still grappling with an acute shortage of vaccines. The city has floated a global tender to acquire 10 million doses from private companies, Chahal said. "If we get the vaccines, in 60 days we can fully vaccinate Mumbai and negate the threat of a third wave," he said. "That's my biggest challenge and we are on it now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/faster-than-the-virus-mumbai-gears-up-for-a-third-covid-19-wave-988446.html
21-05-2021||West||Gujarat announces merit-based progression for college students||In light of the Covid-19 situation, the Gujarat government has decided not to conduct examinations and instead give merit-based progression to undergraduate students of intermediate semesters, an official said on Friday. State Education Minister Bhupenderasinh Chudasama said the government had taken the decision in the larger interest of students as majority of them are yet to be vaccinated against Covid-19. According to an official release, the merit-based progression system will be applicable to all undergraduates, except medical and paramedical students, studying in intermediate semesters, such as semesters 2, 4 and 6. This system will be applicable to government and private universities, and their affiliated colleges, it was stated. Around 9.5 lakh college students will be covered under this alternative system of evaluation and promotion, the official said. Instead of giving exams, undergraduate students will be graded based on their performance in the previous semester and internal exam marks, with each component carrying 50 per cent weightage, the release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-announces-merit-based-progression-for-college-students-988542.html
