22-05-2021||First Edit||Deaths at sea: Probe, fix responsibility||Even as the dead are being counted and the destruction and damage wrought by Cyclone Tauktae are being assessed, the disaster that struck ONGC’s western offshore platform near Mumbai testifies to a serious lack of vigil and caution and the irresponsible conduct of the authorities that brought it about. About 50 people have been confirmed dead and over 25 others are still missing after a barge and a tug vessel sank in the cyclone fury. The P-305 barge which sank had 261 personnel on board. The Navy and the Coast Guard did well to rescue many. But even so many deaths as happened are too many, especially because they were avoidable if warnings had been heeded, and precautions taken, to avert the disaster. Large assets have perished and there is an irreplaceable human cost.  There is a blame game on now and the responsibility is conveniently being shifted to the captain of the barge who is still missing and who, it is claimed, decided to stay put at sea. There are multiple entities involved, like Afcons Infrastructure Ltd., which was revamping the platform and had chartered the barge; Durmast Enterprises, which owned the barge; and agents and contractors and, ultimately, ONGC, where the buck should finally stop. It is claimed that the captain decided it was safe to remain at sea in view of the earlier information about the trajectory and severity of the cyclone, but that the situation deteriorated later when it was too late to move away. But this explains only how it happened and does not trace the chain of responsibility that stretches to other authorities who should have ensured that so many lives were not put in danger.   When an unprecedented natural calamity occurred that threatened its assets, ONGC itself should have paid heed and taken steps to protect and save lives and assets rather than remain an onlooker. An ONGC official said, “We are not mariners, but oil and gas experts”, but that is a wrong and insensitive way of escaping responsibility. ONGC must take responsibility. It is also reported that ONGC did not inform the shipping ministry’s information centre in Mumbai in time for the launch of rescue operations. It also made the claim that the cyclone changed its path, but the IMD has denied the claim. Even within ONGC, it is not known where the responsibility lies as the CEO is holding charge of the CMD for many weeks. It is shocking that there is no statement from the cabinet minister concerned -- Dharmendra Pradhan -- on the tragedy. There is a need for an independent investigation into the matter to fix responsibility for the criminal negligence and lapse that cost so many lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/deaths-at-sea-probe-fix-responsibility-988607.html
22-05-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||'Tap water in humidifiers causing black fungus growth'||Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said an expert committee, comprising five microbiologists, observed in its initial report that tap water being used in humidifiers used for oxygen supply for patients is the source of contamination with regard to mucormycosis (black fungus). "Tap water is being used in humidifiers, instead of distilled water, at some hospitals. The fungus is growing there, and is also spreading through cannulas and other equipment. Steps would be taken to prevent such contamination," he said. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-which-states-in-india-have-reported-the-highest-number-of-mucormycosis-cases-988666.html Those with high diabetes due to excess use of steroids or reduced immunity suffer a lot due to 'black fungus'. As per official information, the number of black fungus cases in the state is 250. The Union government has been urged to supply Amphotericin-B required to treat them, Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda has responded positively, and immediate supply is expected, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/tap-water-in-humidifiers-causing-black-fungus-growth-988689.html
22-05-2021||In Perspective||Remember Rajiv? Modi should||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh once told columnist Sheela Bhatt that whenever Narendra Modi’s downfall comes, it will be sudden and steep. The question is: Will the Covid-19 catastrophe unsettle Modi in the way Ramesh predicted? This is something only time, rather the outcome of the Assembly polls of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat before the 2024 Lok Sabha election, can indicate. At the core of Modi’s strength is the massive mandate he won in 2019. In 2014, for the first time after 1984 and much like Rajiv Gandhi, Modi mustered a single-party majority in the Lok Sabha. But Modi’s similarity with Rajiv does not end in winning a huge mandate and cultivating the image of charismatic leadership. Modi, like Rajiv, has become a leitmotif for an agenda of change. A cursory look at Rajiv’s tenure as prime minister (1984-89) confirms Ramesh’s formulation that even with a colossal mandate, popularity notwithstanding, the downfall can be sudden and steep. Rajiv’s 1984 electoral victory, days after the tragic assassination of his mother Indira Gandhi, was spectacular (much more so than Modi’s 2014 or 2019 performances). Under him, the Congress had won 49.2% of total votes and 52% of the votes cast in the 485 seats it had contested on its own. The Congress had captured 79% of the seats in the Lok Sabha. As author SS Gill wrote later in his book, Rajiv had had the advantage of viewing the Indian political system as an outsider. He conveyed an impression of being an open-minded, fair and receptive person who was eager to deliver results. The initial perception was that Rajiv could do no wrong. However, by 1987, nothing seemed to be going right for the prime minister. Scandals exploded, shattering his “Mr Clean” image. Fairfax, Bofors and HDW Submarine deals, the unlocking of the gates of Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid and the Shah Bano episode exposed Rajiv’s political naivety and his proclivity to shoot himself in the foot.   On April 16, 1987, Swedish Radio made a startling disclosure, broadcasting details of bribes it alleged had been paid to Indian politicians to clinch the $600 million Bofors gun deal. Suddenly, Rajiv’s government was under scrutiny. In each deal that the Rajiv government signed, an Italian connection was probed. Rajiv’s lifestyle also came under scrutiny. His love for designer shoes, fast cars, and expensive items became hot subjects of discussion and debate. In New Delhi, for the first time, the prime minister was seen driving himself, in a swanky Mercedes-Benz gifted by Jordan’s King Hussein. Rajiv also drew criticism for his cherished annual holidays, when he used to pursue his interest in photography and wildlife. Much before he entered politics, Rajiv and Sonia used to regularly vacation in Italy and India. During Christmas and New Year, the entire family, including Sonia’s mother, her sisters and their husbands, used to get together. In a poor country, the chief executive was not expected to have a good time. The Bofors scandal also impacted Rajiv’s friendship with megastar Amitabh Bachchan. Bachchan had joined politics and won from Allahabad in 1984. According to ML Fotedar, Bachchan used to wield a great deal of clout during his stint as a Member of Parliament. In his memoirs, Fotedar wrote, “I was also getting reports about Amitabh’s interference in the appointment and transfer of officers in the ministries.” When the superstar’s name was dragged into the Bofors scandal, Bachchan resigned from Parliament in a huff, miffed at being accused of acting as a middleman. Bachchan fought for his honour and won a protracted legal battle to clear his name. However, his parting with Rajiv singularly contributed to the latter’s downfall. The Allahabad Lok Sabha by-election in 1987 gave the fragmented opposition a sense that together, they could humble the Congress. Rajiv’s life came to an abrupt end barely three months after he and Sonia celebrated their twenty-third wedding anniversary on February 25, 1991 with a quiet dinner at a restaurant in Tehran. Returning to the political question raised by Ramesh about the possibility of a steep fall for Modi, political observers feel that Rahul Gandhi, the Congress party and the combined opposition would need to create an opportunity the way VP Singh had during the Allahabad Lok Sabha by-poll.   In 2017, the Congress under Rahul’s leadership had a chance to create such an opening. The occasion was the Assembly polls in Modi’s home state, Gujarat. Rahul and the Congress fought a valiant battle, putting up a credible performance; the absence of an outright victory in Gujarat Assembly polls denied Rahul a chance to emerge as a national alternative to Modi.   Amidst the Covid-19 crisis and the Modi government’s inept handling of all aspects of it, from medicines and oxygen to vaccine and ICU bed availability, large-scale deaths in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, the opposition again has a chance to take on Modi in the 2022 Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. (Rasheed Kidwai is a journalist and author. He is a visiting fellow with the Observer Research Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/remember-rajiv-modi-should-988609.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress wants to keep Covid-19 alive till next Karnataka Assembly polls: K S Eshwarappa||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa on Saturday said that the entire society has come together in battle against Covid-19, but Congress leaders in the state have continued to blame the government for political gains. Speaking to media persons here, he said all MLAs, MLCs, MPs, deputy commissioners, officials of various departments in the state are leaving no stone unturned to reduce cases and deaths. "We have not neglected in this regard. Instead of giving constructive suggestions to the government, Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah and KPCC President D K Shivakumar are blaming the government. They want to keep Covid-19 alive till the next Assembly polls," he alleged. He said many pharmaceutical companies in Shivamogga district have come forward to purchase oxygen concentrators from their friends in the sector. They have given money to district administration in this regard. But Congress leaders have continued to blame the government. Referring to Siddaramaiah's objection to the denial of permission for him to conduct video conference meeting with deputy commissioners to gather information on Covid-19, he said the Siddaramaiah-led government had denied permission for him to hold the same meeting to gather information on drought during his tenure as leader of opposition in the legislative council. "I had written a letter to the chief minister then. But there was no response from him. So, is there a different Constitution for Congress and BJP?," he questioned and said all deputy commissioners had told that "the government denied permission for me to hold the meeting as I am leader of opposition." On the package announced by the government, he said many workers in the unorganised sector are demanding the government to provide financial aid to them as they lost income due to the lockdown. The issue would be discussed in state cabinet meeting slated to be held on May 27. He promised that the government is leaving no stone unturned to lend a helping hand to people who are affected by the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-wants-to-keep-covid-19-alive-till-next-karnataka-assembly-polls-k-s-eshwarappa-988691.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown violation: Mangaluru Police Commissioner warns of strict action||City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar has appealed to the people to adhere to the lockdown regulations of the state government to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19. Speaking to mediapersons during a visit to various checkpoints on Saturday, he said about 99% of the people in Mangaluru Commissionerate jurisdiction are adhering to the guidelines. It is the one per cent of the people who are violating the law and are engaged in moving around unnecessarily during the lockdown. The police personnel have been directed to initiate strict action against the violators. Already, over 9,000 cases pertaining to violation of mandatory wearing of masks in public places, 270 cases under the Epidemic Diseases Act and over 170 cases under the National Disaster Management Authority Act have been booked so far in Mangaluru Police Commissionerate jurisdiction.  In addition, over 2,000 vehicles have been seized for violating the lockdown guidelines. It will take atleast two to three months to get the seized vehicles released from the court. The vehicle owners will have to spend thousands of rupees after getting the vehicles released for repair as the vehicles remain locked for two to three months. People should realise that the state government takes a tough decision only after consulting experts to check the spread of the Covid-19. People should be aware of the seriousness of Covid-19, the Police Commissioner said. 'Understand seriousness' ASI Dombaiah Devadiga, attached to Kadri Station who is set to retire in the next six months, said, “I have been urging youth not to roam around freely without adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines. I lost my brother’s son who was just 32 years old to Covid-19 recently. Youngsters tend to take Covid-19 lightly. We realise the gravity of the situation only when we lose our own family members to it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-violation-mangaluru-police-commissioner-warns-of-strict-action-988692.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three leopards found dead near Mysuru taluk's Belavadi||The carcasses of three leopards were found near Belavadi in Mysuru taluk, on Saturday. According to Forest Department officials, the leopards had hunted a domestic dog and consumed it. All three jungle cats were found dead in the same area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-leopards-found-dead-near-mysuru-taluks-belavadi-988731.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLAs, MPs pay homage to Mangaluru air crash victims on 11th anniversary||Dakshina Kannada (DK) district administration observed the 11th anniversary of the Mangaluru air crash, which had claimed the lives of 158 people, by placing wreaths at the memorial site in Kuloor-Thannirubhavi on Saturday. District -in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, DK MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mangaluru Mayor Premananda Shetty, MLA Vedavyasa Kamath, among others, paid floral tributes at the spot. On May 22, 2010, Air India Express flight IX 812 from Dubai overshot the table-top runway and plunged into a gorge before bursting into flames. Only eight passengers survived the crash. Twelve bodies could not be identified. After DNA tests failed, the 12 bodies were buried at the site near Kuloor bridge, adjacent to River Phalguni.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlas-mps-pay-homage-to-mangaluru-air-crash-victims-on-11th-anniversary-988740.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister stresses study of two villages that reported no Covid cases||District In-charge Minister S T SomasheKar said that Kaatanuru village in Nanjangud taluk is a model with no Covid positive cases so far. After meeting the officials concerned here, on Saturday, Somashekar said, “No cases have been reported in two villages of Nanjangud taluk. The measures taken in these villages will be studied and adopted at other places.” Though Covid cases were reported in large numbers in Nanjangud taluk, more patients are recovering. The minister said, “The MLA and the DC have taken measures to establish an oxygen unit at Nanjangud PHC. Kottanaiahana Hundi and Tagadur PHCs lack oxygen and staff.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-stresses-study-of-two-villages-that-reported-no-covid-cases-988829.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman ends life as husband dies of Covid||A woman killed self as her husband died of Covid-19, at Bommenahalli in the taluk on Saturday. Pooja killed self as her husband Kiran died of Covid. The couple got married 11-month back and was residing in Bengaluru. Kiran died at a hospital in Bengaluru on Saturday and his final rites was held at his native village in Bommenahalli. Following the final rites, Pooja killed self by hanging.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-ends-life-as-husband-dies-of-covid-988831.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rs 10 cr, 50 ventilators for HIMS: Ashwath Narayan||Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Saturday, said that the government will release Rs 10 crore under State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) to Hassan district and provide 50 ventilators to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) as per the proposal of the deputy commissioner for Covid management. The minister, who inspected the Covid situation, said, "In Hassan district, three lakh plus people have been vaccinated with the first dose and 75,000 plus have been administered the second shot. The second shot will be administered for all those who are eligible within a stipulated time." He said, "Steps will be taken to link more private hospitals, which have been left out of the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) portal." The DyCM, also state Covid head, said, “Home isolation of corona infected is not allowed and the district administration is directed to ensure admission of the infected at Covid Care Centers (CCCs). In order to make villages Covid-free, doorstep survey will be done and testing will be increased to identify the infected.” To face the probable third wave of the pandemic, besides containing the second wave, oxygenated beds, ICU beds, oxygen generators, and oxygen concentrators will be provided at PHCs, Community Health Centers, taluk hospitals, medical college hospitals, and district hospitals, he explained. District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah and MLAs Preetham J Gowda, H D Revanna and  Shivalingegowda were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rs-10-cr-50-ventilators-for-hims-ashwath-narayan-988832.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||20 plus black fungus cases in Mysuru, says MP||Mysuru district is reporting more cases of mucormycosis or ‘black fungus’ among Covid patients, said MP Pratap Simha. Speaking to reporters here, on Saturday, the MP said, “The district has more than 20 black fungus cases. The patients are undergoing treatment at KR Hospital and some private hospitals. However, the state government is taking measures to control the fungus.” The MP criticised the district administration and district-level officers, and urged them to do field work. “The Covid Care Centers and taluk hospitals are not providing treatment as per Covid protocol. Thus, the death rate has increased. Each taluk reports at least 50 deaths per day,” he claimed. “The officers must not limit themselves to video conference. The DC, district health officer and ZP Chief Executive Officer (CEO) should visit Covid Care Centers and hospitals in rural areas to understand the situation there,” he said. As the cases are increasing District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar visited the facilities in Nanjangud, T Narasipur and Varuna. “He will tour KR Nagar and Hunsur on Sunday. We, politicians, are doing our work. But, the officials must visit the field to control the situation,” he said. The MP appreciated the officials of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), led by Commissioner Shilpa Nag. “The MCC has taken up certain initiatives to control the spread of Covid. MLAs L Nagendra, S A Ramadass and Tanveer Sait are doing good work in their respective Assembly segments to combat Covid. Bed management, treatment and others have been streamlined in the city,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/20-plus-black-fungus-cases-in-mysuru-says-mp-988833.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Krishna laid to rest||Former Speaker KR Pet Krishna, who passed away on Friday, was laid to rest with full state honours and 21 gun salute at his native Kothamaranahalli in KR Pet taluk, on Saturday. District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda, Deputy Commissioner S Ashwathi and Superintendent of Police Ashwini were present. The body, which was brought from Mysuru, was taken out in a procession from Hemmanahalli gate. Hundreds of people paid their last respects at KR Pet town. Krishna's wife Indiramma, daughter Manjula and son-in-law Sridhar performed the final rites. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah paid his last respects in Mysuru and said that Krishna was role model and the state lost a humble, committed leader.  Recalling his relationship with Krishna, Siddaramaiah said that he and Krishna maintained a good rapport since many years. "We both practiced law together and I became MLA in 1983, while Krishna entered the Assembly in 1985," Siddaramaiah said. "Krishna had great concern for the poor and oppressed class and, strive to change the system," Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krishna-laid-to-rest-988834.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Total lockdown in Mandya for four days||With an intention to break the Covid chain, Mandya district administration has announced complete lockdown for four days, from May 25. Hassan and Chamarajanagar have already implemented a similar lockdown in the Mysuru region. Deputy Commissioner S Ashwathi informed that the district will be totally closed for four days from May 25 to 29. No stalls, including vegetable, fruits, meat stalls, will be allowed to open during this period. Milk parlours will be open from 6 am to 6 pm, but medical shops and  hospitals will remain open as normal. The people will be allowed to procure essential items from 6 am and 10 am from May 27. The DC said that complete lockdown is announced to ensure safety of the people. She urged the residents to cooperate and follow Covid guidelines while moving in public places. The DC said, “Wedding ceremonies scheduled between May 25 and 29 can be performed with 30 members. However, no new permission will be given for marriages.” Agriculture related shops are allowed to perform business between 6 am and 10 am during complete lockdown. However, there will be no restriction on movement of goods vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/total-lockdown-in-mandya-for-four-days-988835.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Top companies lend a helping hand in managing Covid crisis||An expert in management, with specialisation in the automobile and pharmaceutical sectors, N Muthukumar, president and executive director of Meritor Heavy Vehicle Systems India, is well-known in Mysuru, for his concern for society. promotion of cleanliness and environment conservation. His services as chairman of Mysuru and Karnataka chapters of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) are noteworthy. Muthukumar was involved in the conception, planning and execution of a few useful projects for Mysuru, under corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of his company and also of other CII members. ‘Mysuru as water positive’ and support to Mysuru district administration to make Mysuru a cleanest city were appreciated. Having done a MSc in Applied Sciences from the College of Engineering, Guindy, Anna University, Chennai in 1987, Muthukumar did his MBA in International Marketing in 1992. He went on to do a PhD degree in Operations Management from Annamalai University in 2014. Immediately after his post-graduation in 1987, he joined TVS Srichakra Tyres as a management trainee and became head of the Manufacturing Systems by 1994. In 1998, he headed the Business Process Re-engineering in TVS Group and became head operations for Sundaram Industries. He moved to TTK Group, running their international business for six years, before joining Automotive Axles in 2008 as general manager operations. Later, he became president and whole-time director of Automotive Axles. Currently, Muthukumar is chairman of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME)-CII Southern Region and director of Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI). Muthukumar has been responsible for constructing and operating eco-friendly restrooms atop the Chamundi Hill (first Green Building certified in public restroom category) and Mysuru Palace. Similar toilets are ready on the premises of Rangacharlu Town Hall and Nanjangud temple by other corporates. He was responsible for rejuvenating Thippayana Lake near Ring Road in Lalithadripura. Under ‘Mysuru as water positive’ initiative of CII, a few Mysuru corporates have rejuvenated more than nine lakes. Recently, Kalyani-Meritor collaborated with the Mysuru district administration for a public-private partnership (PPP) model for a 86-bed intensive care unit (ICU) bed management. Kalyani-Meritor Goup, with other partners and CII members, supplied ICU beds, bipap machines and monitors to Rajkumari Krishnajammanni Super Speciality Hospital, on the premises of Princess Krishnarajamani Tuberculosis (PKTB) Sanatorium on KRS Road in Mysuru. In an interview with DH, Muthukumar explains about the initiatives of his own company and members of CII, to help the government in managing the Covid situation. DH: What prompted you to donate ICU beds to Rajkumari Krishnajammanni Super Speciality Hospital in Mysuru? Muthukumar: When the second wave struck and we comprehended the impact in North India, we, along with CII, started working with the district administration. The management of Meritor Kalyani Group has given a free hand to do the best for the society. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials gave a clear picture of the requirement on how we can develop and use Rajkumari Krishnajammanni Super Specialty Hospital, which did not have medical infrastructure. K S Gururaja of Asha Kirana Trust and Dr H V Santhrupth of Gopala Gowda Shanthaveri Memorial Hospital extended the support of medical staff. With their support, we setup the facility in just 28 days, from concept to completion. What are the other steps taken by Kalyani-Meritor to help those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic? Meritor Kalyani believes in prevention and has been supporting the society by creating awareness and health screening by Dr Vijayakumar, along with the district administration. Dr Vijayakumar has created awareness to more than 10,000 people, along with our employees union members. Our team, along with employees, donated food packets and groceries to the affected people during the first wave of Covid. We have volunteers, who helped people in distress, by supporting not only financially, but also psychologically. Our managing director Thimmaiah Napanda is personally monitoring the CSR activities. We have given two ‘Labs on wheels’ to the government for early detection of the infection. This idea is his brain child. Now, many companies are following the concept. How are other industries and corporates in Mysuru offering to help the government, to manage the Covid pandemic? CII has been anchoring the initiatives of the companies. I am honoured to be coordinating Covid-related welfare activities on behalf of CII-Mysuru. All corporates have come forward to generously donate right from oxygen generators to oxygen concentrators, ambulances to oxygen cylinders, medical kits to medicines. CII Chairman Pavan Ranga formed a sourcing team, to procure medical equipment. The team did an excellent job, in sourcing equipment in a short notice for Rajkumari Krishnajammanni Super Speciality Hospital. We are thankful to MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag, for her coordination and support. Is the government receptive to the offers made by the corporates to contribute to the society, to manage the Covid situation? Mysuru is always gifted with good DCs and MCC commissioners. Government support is available round the clock. DC Rohini Sindhuri personally visited the Super Speciality Hospital a couple of times, when it was getting ready and shared strategic inputs. This is the first such initiative in Karnataka. It happened in just 28 days, only because of her passion and involvement. What are the future plans of Kalyani-Meritor and other corporates to help the society, to manage the pandemic and its effects? CII, along with member companies, has decided to convert Rajkumari Krishnajammanni Super Speciality Hospital into a full-fledged medical care facility for the post pandemic season. We need to build not only physical health of people, but also mental and psychological health. Meritor-Kalyani and other corporates will do everything possible for the society. We will always join the district administration, in all its initiatives, to make Mysuru and Karnataka proud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/top-companies-lend-a-helping-hand-in-managing-covid-crisis-988837.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Daughters refuse to cremate woman, MCC takes up responsibility||Neither children nor relatives were willing to perform the last rites of a woman, who died of Covid-like symptoms at Mahadeshwara Layout in Mysuru on Friday morning. Thus, a Health Inspector of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), Namratha, took up the responsibility and completed the cremation, with the help of the corporator and the MCC employees. Even after five hours of the 55-year-old woman, who was residing alone in a rented house, succumbing, nobody from her family turned up. They did not respond properly to phone calls also. Corporator K V Sridhar, sanitary supervisor Mohan and ward mestri Kannan extended support for the cremation. The woman has two daughters, both married and residing near the Ring Road. As the woman was suffering from fever, on Thursday, the house owner had informed the MCC officials. “We had visited her house, as part of our door-to-door campaign, to check the health of the residents on Thursday. We had given her a kit of medicines for the symptoms. On our second visit, to enquire about her health on Friday at 7 am, we found that she was dead. Then, we called her daughters and informed about the tragedy. We waited for them for nearly five hours. On our second call, at 12 noon, the phone of one daughter was switched off, while the other asked us to do the cremation. Thus, we got a MCC vehicle and cremated her at Vijayanagar Fourth Stage crematorium,” said Namratha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/daughters-refuse-to-cremate-woman-mcc-takes-up-responsibility-988840.html
22-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fearing Covid-19, KPCL employee ends life||A retired employee of Karnataka Power Corporation Limited has reportedly ended life by jumping into the Mahatma Gandhi power channel after he tested positive for Covid-19 at Kargal in Sagar taluk on Saturday. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Linge Gowa (66). He had tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago. Fearing the virus, he took the extreme step. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter-in law. The Jog police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fearing-covid-19-kpcl-employee-ends-life-988863.html
22-05-2021||Main Article||Indian prisoners of war in Pakistan: Bring back our soldiers||In 2003, I was detailed to attend a course at Lucknow. Called the Medical Officers Junior Command Course, it was a refresher course for doctors of the Armed Forces. I remember, there were a few classes on the geopolitics of the region and, in particular, the unreliable behaviour of our western neighbour. During one of the lectures, the instructor half-jokingly remarked, “Ensure that you never cross the boundary and wander into Pakistan, even by mistake. I know of an officer and his buddy who inadvertently crossed over into Pakistan whilst undertaking an operational reconnaissance at the International Border at Bhuj in Gujarat. They were captured by the Pakistani security forces on April 14, 1997, and to date, no one knows about their whereabouts.” I had forgotten all about that lecture, until I happened to read a small column in the newspaper recently that mentioned that a certain Kamla Bhattacharjee, mother of Captain Sanjit Bhattacharjee, was appealing to the government to get her son back. The news story also mentioned that the Indian Army had investigated the case and found that Capt Bhattacharjee was handed over by Pakistani fishermen to one Major Khiyani of the Pakistan Army between border posts (BP) 1162 and 1165. Captain Umar of Umarkot post joined him on April 28 as “two missing persons of Indian Army were taken to the interrogation centre on the outskirts of Hyderabad (in Sindh, Pakistan).”  Strangely, in February 2005, Capt Bhattacharjee’s father had received a letter from the then defence minister regretting “untimely demise of your son, who was earlier declared missing”. In May 2010, the President’s Secretariat wrote to Kamla Bhattacharjee to say that her son’s name had been added to an existing missing POWs (prisoners of war) list, known as “Missing 54”, and had been taken it up with Pakistani authorities at the highest level. The Indian government has been strangely indifferent to its PoWs. After the 1971 war, some 93,000 Pakistani soldiers surrendered to the Indian Armed Forces and were taken as POWs. These 93,000 PoWs were repatriated to Pakistan over a period of time; the last prisoner to be repatriated was the Commander of the Pakistani Forces in East Pakistan, Lt Gen A A K Niazi. It is interesting to note that General Niazi’s alma mater was the Officer Training School in Bengaluru. The story does not end there. There were several Indian POWs in Pakistan, too; many of them were returned to India, but 54 of them never made that journey back to their country. Several of these missing men were pilots who were captured after their aircraft crashed in Pakistan. The “Missing 54.” That is what they have been called over the years. There is ample evidence to believe that they survived the war. A photograph of Major A K Ghosh was published in ‘Time’ magazine on December 27, 1971. This was well after the war was over. Ft. Lt. V V Tambay was captured alive on December 5, 1971. This fact was acknowledged in Pakistani newspapers and radio. However, he was not repatriated after the war ended. Years later in 1989, Ft. Lt. Tambay’s uncle, Jayant Jathar, went to Pakistan and happened to meet Gen. Tikka Khan, the ‘Butcher of East Bengal’. Gen. Khan took Jathar to Faisalabad jail. There, he saw a man dressed in a kurta-pyjama sitting on the floor and reading a newspaper. He instantly recognised his nephew. Unfortunately, he was not allowed to speak to him. In 1979, the BBC journalist Victoria Schofield brought out a book on the trial and execution of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. In her book, she says that “Bhutto was subjected to a peculiar kind of harassment, which he thought was especially for his benefit. His cell, separated from a barrack area by a 10-foot-high wall, did not prevent him from hearing horrific shrieks and screams at night from the other side of the wall. One of Mr Bhutto's lawyers made enquiries among the jail staff and ascertained that they were in fact Indian prisoners-of-war who had been rendered delinquent and mental during the course of the 1971 war.” Bhutto complained to the jail authorities and wrote that “Fifty-odd lunatics were lodged in the ward next to mine. Their screams and shrieks in the dead of night are something I will not forget.” Bhutto’s daughter Benazir was fully aware of the presence of Indian PoW’s being illegally detained in Pakistani jails. She had assured the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi that she would “seriously look into their release.” Three decades have passed, the status quo continues to be maintained. James Maclaren, a London-based writer, author and commentator, has given a completely unbiased account about the status of the Indian PoWs in Pakistan (The Diplomat, December 14, 2018: The Last Secret of the 1971 India-Pakistan War). He says that “as late as 2003, a Canadian human rights representative visiting Lahore Jail was called out to by prisoners claiming to be held from the 1971 conflict but was denied contact with them by his minders.” He also reports that in 2012, an Indian carpenter called Sukhdev Singh, who was working in Oman, was approached by a fellow Sikh who claimed to be Sepoy Jaspal Singh. Jaspal Singh was in Purana Jail in Masirah, Oman. Jaspal Singh who was about 70 years old described his regiment, his village and his family, all the details which were later confirmed when Sukhdev Singh returned to India. Unfortunately, the government of Oman denied that there were Indian prisoners being held captive in its jails. It is a pity that successive Indian governments have displayed an entirely lackadaisical attitude when it comes to repatriation of the PoWs. I wonder if a little effort by the current government would secure the release of Capt. Sanjit Bhattacharjee and bring a smile to his octogenarian mother’s face. (We regret to inform our readers that Dr (Col) Nikhil Moorchung, a regular contributor to Deccan Herald, passed away on May 3, succumbing to Covid-19. The above is the last piece he sent us.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/indian-prisoners-of-war-in-pakistan-bring-back-our-soldiers-988608.html
22-05-2021||National||Low-speed zones, a new guide to safe walking and cycling||Faced with an increased urgency to make roads safer for walking and cycling in the pandemic era, a push for ‘low-speed zones’ has just got a design boost with resource inputs from Bengaluru.  Anchored by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Bank, the guide sets standards to plan, design, implement and evaluate such zones.  The rationale behind the guide, articulated by Claudia Adriazola-Steil of the WRI Ross Centre for Sustainable Cities, is this: “Walking and cycling are among the most sustainable ways to get around cities – but not if they are extremely dangerous.”  Road accidents due to high vehicular speed remain a leading cause of deaths worldwide. “Low-speed zones are a key solution for effective speed management,” says Nikita Luke, Senior Project Associate for Health and Road Safety at the WRI Centre.  “A low-speed zone is a defined area – such as a school zone, neighbourhood or commercial district – that aims to improve the safety of vulnerable users through traffic-calming measures.” By supporting safe active travel, these zones could also boost air quality and broader sustainability, she notes.  High-density streets On ‘high-density, mixed-use streets’, the design guide prefers prioritising the comfort and safety of vulnerable road-users over motorists. “These streets must provide adequate and clear separation between transport modes to ensure safety for the most vulnerable, like pedestrians and cyclists, while allowing smooth traffic flow. Speeds on these streets should be lowered to 20-30 kmph". “It’s important to provide both visual and physical cues to encourage drivers to slow down. Examples include elements that narrow lanes and slow vehicles at key points, such as centre medians and curb radii less than 4.5 metres,” Nikita and Urban Mobility Associate Siba El-Samra explains in a blog.  Besides, the visibility of pedestrians and cyclists should be increased through high-visibility crossings, and pavement markings that extend through intersections and at midblock crossings, where needed.  Residential streets Residential streets, the guide stresses, should provide safe, accessible spaces for social interaction and frequent travel by all types of users. “These streets should focus less on traffic flow and more on providing a safe environment for families walking around the neighbourhood or children playing on the roadside.”  To visually and physically narrow the roadway for drivers to encourage slower speeds, a strategy suggested is to accommodate on-street parking. “It helps ‘perceptive’ narrowing of streets and creates a buffer zone between bike lanes or sidewalks and vehicular traffic.”  School zones An estimated 10 million children are injured/disabled due to road accidents in school zones worldwide. “Children are more vulnerable to collisions than adults due to their size, limited impulse control and slower reaction time,” says Nikita. “Children are often obscured by parked cars, tall landscaping and other street elements, so sightlines are also important to consider.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-speed-zones-a-new-guide-to-safe-walking-and-cycling-988604.html
22-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Cow urine used as unproven treatment for Covid-19||As Covid-19 cases rise, so do myths about coronavirus cure. From onion to rock salt and tea to cow dung, Indians are mouthing suggestions on a daily basis to cure the disease, which is claiming over 4,000 lives and infecting a little less than three lakh cases daily. BJP MP Pragya Thakur has again kicked up a row by presenting herself as the evidence of how cow urine can fight Covid-19, a remark that led to severe criticism on social media. Rajya Sabha MP from BSP Danish Ali slammed the "unscientific and illogical" statement from the BJP MP which said that drinking cow urine saved her from Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-cow-urine-used-as-unproven-treatment-for-covid-19-988617.html
22-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 22||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below 3 lakh for the sixth consecutive day with 2,57,299 new cases recorded in a single day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,62,89,290. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,62,89,290 as of May 22, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,95,525 as of May 22, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 2,30,70,365  Total Vaccination: 19,33,72,819 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-22-988638.html
22-05-2021||National||Govt asks social media firms to remove contents referring to ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus||The Centre has asked all social media platforms to remove content that refers to the ‘Indian variant’ of the coronavirus, triggering a war of words with the Opposition Congress. In a letter to social media platforms, the ministry of electronics and information technology said that a “false statement” was being circulated online about an ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus spreading across countries. “WHO has not associated the term ‘Indian variant’ with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports,” the letter said and asked social media platforms to remove “all the content that names, refers to, or implies ‘Indian variant’ of the coronavirus immediately.” Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he was “afraid of this Covid variant”. “It started with Chinese corona. Now, it’s the Indian variant of coronavirus. Today, India’s President and Prime Minister Modi are afraid of this Covid variant. What toolkit is this? Our scientists are calling it the Indian variant. Only BJP advisers are not accepting it,” Kamal Nath said. He said India was now identified with the new variant of the coronavirus, prompting foreign countries such as Britain to suspend flights. Senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar hit out at Nath, saying the Congress was not only insulting the country but also weakening the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. “Such statements by Congress leaders are creating fear and confusion among the people. This is not the role of constructive opposition. Congress is now resorting to negative politics. Sonia Gandhi should explain, why is the Congress resorting to negative politics?” Javadekar said. BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya said the term ‘Indian variant’ existed only in the Congress toolkit and nowhere else.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-social-media-firms-to-remove-contents-referring-to-indian-variant-of-coronavirus-988647.html
22-05-2021||National||India reports 4,194 Covid-19 deaths, 2.57 lakh new cases||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below the 3 lakh-mark for the sixth consecutive day, with 2.57 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,62,89,290. The death toll due to the disease rose to 2,95,525 with 4,194 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further reduced to 29,23,400 comprising 11.12 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 87.76 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease in the country surged to 2,30,70,365, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.12 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7 last, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 32,64,84,155 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to May 21 with 20,66,285 samples tested on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-4194-covid-19-deaths-257-lakh-new-cases-988650.html
22-05-2021||National||Explained: How IMD’s colour-coded warning system works||With a second possible cyclone named Yaas likely to hit Indian shores this month, states and authorities involved in disaster management will keep a close eye on the Indian Meteorology Department’s (IMD) forecasts and warnings. The top weather body in India is tasked with identifying and issuing warnings for adverse weather events, relying on a system of colour-coded weather warnings to do so. The Met department has four colour-coded warnings that it flashes depending on how intense or violent a weather system is at a given point in time. The four colours are green, yellow, orange and red. The point of the exercise is to give authorities and people likely to be impacted enough forewarning to be prepared to meet harsh or hazardous weather that has the potential to wreak severe damage, disrupt daily life or cause loss of life. The warnings are updated daily. The IMD’s four colour codes are: Green: This code means that “all is well” and there is no likelihood of any adverse weather-related and there are no advisories issued. Yellow: The colour yellow signals authorities to “be aware” or on their guard, with the likelihood of severely bad weather that could last several days at a stretch, while also suggesting that the weather could take a turn for the worse and upset daily activities. Orange: Meaning “Be prepared”, the IMD issues the orange alert as a warning for extremely bad weather, electricity blackouts and the possibility of communication disruptions, including road and rail closures. Red: The IMD issues the highest level of warning—indicating authorities should “take action”—only when it is guaranteed that bad weather is going to upend travel and power and pose a significant risk to life. These alerts are universal and are not used exclusively for cyclones but for a range of natural calamities including floods, heavy rainfall, snowstorms and other dangerous weather events.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-imd-s-colour-coded-warning-system-works-988657.html
22-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Jaishankar's main agenda behind US visit — vaccines for India and its neighbours||Sources told the publication that Jaishankar's primary objective is to "persuade the US to send as many vaccines as possible to India and its neighbours". Nepal, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Bangladesh have sought assistance from Jaishankar in acquiring more vaccines from the US. His visit comes days after US President Joe Biden announced that the US will ship as many as 20 million doses of Pfizer-BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson Covid vaccines to countries in need by June-end, along with 60 million doses of AstraZeneca. Biden's statement does not provide details about how much of this will go to India. Jaishankar will also meet Antony Blinken, whom he met earlier this month on the sidelines of the G-7 summit when the two leaders discussed India's Covid situation, Indo-Pacific relations and climate issues. India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Sandhu, has been pushing the Biden administration to provide assistance to India. Sandhu recently held meetings with top US officials, including Dr Anthony Faucii and US State Department Coordinator for Global Covid Response and Health Security Gayle Smith. Not just that, the ambassador met with top officials of vaccine manufacturers, including Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla and J&J Chairman Alex Gorsky.  Recently, Charge D'Affaires of the US embassy, Daniel B Smith, said the US was looking at joint production of Johnson and Johnson's Covid-19 vaccines in India and ways to help manufacturers like the Serum Institute of India (SII) to boost production. As India was facing a rapid increase in coronavirus infections, the US sent six plane-loads of life-saving supplies in support of the country's fight against the pandemic. Earlier this month, the US sent to India raw materials for vaccine production which it said would enable the manufacture of 20 million doses of the Covishield vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-jaishankars-main-agenda-behind-us-visit-vaccines-for-india-and-its-neighbours-988659.html
22-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis in India a warning of possible events in other low and middle-income countries: IMF||Observing that the ongoing "catastrophic" second wave of Covid-19 in India is a sign that the worst may be yet to come, the IMF has said that the situation in the country is a warning of the possible events in low and middle-income nations that have seemingly escaped the pandemic till now. A report co-authored by International Monetary Fund (IMF) economist Ruchir Agarwal and its Chief Economist Gita Gopinath on Friday also said that under the business-as-usual scenario, the vaccine coverage in India is expected to remain under 35 per cent of the population by the end of 2021. “The ongoing catastrophic second wave in India, following a terrible wave in Brazil, is a sign the worst may be yet to come in the developing world,” it said. While India’s health system held up fairly well in the first wave, this time its health system is so overwhelmed that many people are dying because of a lack of medical supplies like oxygen, hospital beds, and medical care, the report said.  "India is a warning of possible events in other low and middle-income countries (LMICs) that so far have seemingly escaped the pandemic, including in Africa,” it said. For India, the report said, current bilateral purchases of vaccine plus coverage from COVAX will cover about 25 per cent of its population by the first half of 2022. To get to 60 per cent coverage, India will need to immediately place sufficient vaccine orders of about 1 billion doses through contracts that incentivise investment in additional capacity and augmentation of the supply chain. “In this context, the authorities’ recently announced financing of about $600 million to the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to boost production capacity in the near term is a welcome step,” the report said, adding that authorities estimate that two billion doses will be available by the end of 2021.  Efforts should be made to ensure that the projected production capacity will materialise without delay, including through securing the supply chain for raw materials—supported by international efforts to eliminate export restrictions on all critical inputs, it added. In its report, the IMF said that an urgent focus should be to eliminate constraints on cross-border exports of critical raw materials and finished vaccines. Free cross-border flow of vaccine inputs and supplies is essential for the world to achieve its vaccination targets without delay. Governments are taking steps to relax such constraints on raw materials, it said, citing the recent pledge by the US to facilitate greater access of critical raw material to Indian manufacturers after severe shortages emerged.  However, there is scope for greater multilateral action on this front, as significant constraints remain, it said. The IMF report said India continues to face production bottlenecks, including due to ongoing shortages of critical raw materials, suggesting the need for further relaxation of de facto export restrictions under the US Defence Production Act. Despite such near-term constraints, as of mid-May 2021, the authorities estimate that over two billion doses will be available by the end of the year based on company-level supply projections publicly shared by officials.  “Therefore, while current pre-purchases of vaccines plus coverage from the COVAX AMC remains around 25 per cent, the authorities intend to meet the residual needs through the additional production,” it said. To reach a coverage of 60 per cent of the population, India will need to order roughly one billion doses of additional vaccines. "Given the authorities are expected to comfortably use domestic resources for meeting these residual needs and are not seeking external financing for these purposes, we do not allocate additional funds for India in our budgeting exercise," the IMF said. Indian authorities are currently pursuing a strategy of procuring vaccines for those above 45 years of age by the central government while enabling states to procure vaccines for those aged 18-44. Given the current vaccine pricing offered by domestic suppliers, and the estimated size of the younger population in India, the additional funding needs for the centre for covering the 18-44 population is approximately 0.25 per cent of the GDP, suggesting that there is scope for the government to handle the entire procurement centrally, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-in-india-a-warning-of-possible-events-in-other-low-and-middle-income-countries-imf-988661.html
22-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: All you need to know about DRDO’s new antibody testing kit||A laboratory of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has recently launched a homegrown Covid-19 antibody detection kit called “Dipcovan”, which promises to detect the Covid-19 virus quickly and more efficiently. Dipcovan was jointly created by the Defence Institute of Physiology and Allied Sciences and New Delhi-based diagnostics developer Vanguard Diagnostics as India. The kit can be used to identify the coronavirus’ spike and nucleocapsid (S&N) proteins. Antibody tests are employed to figure out whether the body’s immune system has responded to the virus and gives health experts a better idea of how quickly a virus is spreading in a community, even if there are a number of asymptomatic cases. Here’s all there is to know about the new antibody kit: How much does it cost? The kit is expected to be available in the market for an expected price of Rs 75, with 100 kits or 1,000 tests at the time of rollout. Production capacity is likely to be 500 kits per month after the launch. When and where will it be available? Vanguard Diagnostics will introduce the product commercially in the first week of June. Customers will probably be able to pick one up at pharmacies or medical centres. How effective is the kit? The developers claim the test can detect S&N proteins of the Covid-19 virus with a high sensitivity of 97% and specificity of 99%. How much quicker is the test? The test offers a much faster turnaround time of 75 minutes, while current tests take anything between one and three weeks. How long can the kits be stored? The kits come with a shelf life of 18 months How was the kit tested and who approved it? The kit was approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research after testing it on 1,000 patient samples at several Covid-designated hospitals in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-all-you-need-to-know-about-drdo-s-new-antibody-testing-kit-988662.html
22-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Which states in India have reported the highest number of mucormycosis cases?||India is battling a second wave of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. To make matters worse, cometh Covid-19, cometh mucormycosis.  Mucormycosis is an infection caused by a group of fungi called mucormycetes. It's also called 'black fungus' infection because it's characterised by black nasal discharges and black patches of skin around the nose in the initial stages.  Transmission generally occurs through inhalation, inoculation or ingestion of the fungal spores. It can also spread through bandages, linen, unsterilised water, poor air filtration, non-sterile instruments and open wounds.   What does the infection do? Who is at risk?  The infection most commonly affects the sinuses and lungs. It enters the nasal cavity, thrives there in the mucus and then spreads into the eyes and finally the brain. Diabetic and immuno-compromised patients are the most at risk. Rhinocerebral Mucormycosis is an infection in the sinuses that can spread to the brain if the patient has uncontrolled diabetes and undergone a kidney transplant.  On May 20, the Union Health Ministry urged states and Union Territories to make 'black fungus' or mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, stating that the infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality amongst Covid-19 patients. Rajasthan, Telangana, Odisha, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Union Territory of Chandigarh and Gujarat have already declared black fungus as an epidemic.   Here are the states who have reported the highest number of black fungus cases:  Maharashtra: The state worst-hit by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. To date, Maharashtra has reported 55,27,092 Covid-19 cases and 86,618 deaths. The state has also reported the highest number of 'black fungus' cases with 1,500 cases and 90 deaths.  Gujarat: The BJP-ruled state has been badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. It has reported 7,80,471 Covid-19 cases and 9,469 deaths so far. In terms of 'black fungus' cases, Gujarat is behind only Maharashtra with 1,163 cases and 61 deaths.   Madhya Pradesh: The state has seen a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths during the second wave, with tragic pictures of packed crematoriums surfacing from Indore. It has 7,394 Covid-19 deaths so far and the tally stands at 7,57,119. The state has so far detected 575 cases of 'black fungus' and 31 deaths because of it.  Haryana: The state reported 112 Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 7,317. The state has seen a decline in active cases and the tally of positive Covid-19 cases stands at 7,28,607. Haryana has also reported 268 'black fungus' cases and eight deaths due to it.  Delhi: After being ravaged by the second wave of the pandemic, Delhi has seen a fall in daily cases recently. The national capital is no longer acutely suffering from a shortage of hospital beds and oxygen supply. In all,  Delhi's Covid-19 case tally stands at 14,12,959 and the toll is at 22,831. The Union Territory has also reported 203 cases of mucormycosis and one died because of it.   Uttar Pradesh: The Yogi Adityanath-led states has been at the centre of the Covid-related controversy regarding the number of cases reported and the health infrastructure in rural UP. Bodies have found floating in the Ganga river that passes through the state, causing a great uproar.  The state has reported 1,65,9212 Covid-19 cases since the outbreak of the pandemic last year and 18,760 deaths. UP has also reported cases of 'black fungus', and the total number of cases currently at 169, while eight people have lost their lives.   Bihar: The state has reported 6,81,199 Covid-19 cases so far, and 4,241 deaths. 'Black fungus' cases have also been detected in Bihar. So far, the Nitish Kumar-led state has reported 103 such cases and two deaths from it.   Chhattisgarh: While Chhattisgarh has reported a whopping 9,41,366 Covid-19 cases so far, instances of patients getting infected by 'black fungus' has also been on the rise in that state with the tally at 101 as of now. One person has died in the state due to mucormycosis.  Karnataka: The state has seen several deaths caused by mucormycosis. A total of 97 people have been infected by it so far. Karnataka has also seen a surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, propelling the tally to 23,67,742. While the state has reported 24,207 Covid-19 deaths so far, nobody has died because of 'black fungus'.  Telangana: The state has so far reported 90 cases of mucormycosis and 10 deaths. The Covid-19 tally of Telangana is at 5,47,727 while the toll is at 3,085.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-which-states-in-india-have-reported-the-highest-number-of-mucormycosis-cases-988666.html
22-05-2021||National||Govt agrees to priority vaccination demand for drivers operating oxygen tankers, says AIMTC||Apex transporters' body All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) on Saturday said the central government has agreed to its demand of priority vaccination for drivers operating tankers with liquid medical oxygen amid the pandemic. The AIMTC had earlier this month during a meeting with senior officials of the Commerce and Industry Ministry had sought vaccination of drivers of oxygen tankers on a priority basis, it said. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has considered the AIMTC demand and urged all state transport secretaries to carry out "special vaccination drive" for liquid oxygen tanker drivers," AIMTC Core Committee Chairman Bal Malkit Singh said in a statement on Saturday. The ministry has also asked the states to give priority in admission and treatment to such drivers in hospitals, if they get infected with Covid-19, the statement said. The demand for incentives for drivers of oxygen tankers is also under consideration, it said, adding "the govt is contemplating a proposal to give a financial incentive of around Rs 15,000 to each oxygen tanker driver for their service". "But no decision has been taken yet (on the issue)," the AIMTC said. The transporters' body has also suggested to the government to give priority to drivers of commercial vehicles engaged in the transportation of essential supplies, including pharmaceuticals, medical aids and other necessary items to ensure there is no shortage of these items in the market, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-agrees-to-priority-vaccination-demand-for-drivers-operating-oxygen-tankers-says-aimtc-988670.html
22-05-2021||National||Provide free treatment for 'black fungus', Sonia Gandhi writes to PM Modi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to ensure adequate supply of essential medicines and free care for the treatment of mucormycosis. Gandhi told the Prime Minister that the black fungus illness is not covered under Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance plans and sought immediate action on the issue. “I understand that Liposomal Amphotericin-B is absolutely essential for the treatment of Mucormycosis. However, there are reports of its acute scarcity in the market,” she said in the letter. Senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar said the government has already stepped up imports of the anti-fungal drug and also granted licenses to five domestic pharma companies to step up production. Recently, the government had asked states to declare mucormycosis an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act. “This would mean that there must be adequate production and assured supply of essential medicines to treat it, and cost-free patient care for those in need of treatment,” she added. India has reported several thousands of Covid-19 patients contracting the black fungus infection, which experts blame on excessive use of steroids for treatment of coronavirus. As black fungus infections assume epidemic proportions, the government has placed orders for import of 3.63 lakh vials of the anti-fungal drug in May 2021 to augment the extremely limited domestic production. The existing manufacturers of the drug together could produce 1,63,752 vials of the drug in May, which would be further ramped up in June to 2,55,114 vials. The government will import 3.15 lakh vials in June. The newly licensed pharma companies will be able to produce 1.11 lakh vials of Amphotericin-B from July||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-free-treatment-for-black-fungus-sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-modi-988671.html
22-05-2021||National||Mucormycosis can spread through air: AIIMS doctor||Mucormycosis, or the 'black fungus' infection, which is found to be developing in Covid-19 patients across India, can spread through air, according to Dr Nikhil Tandon of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).  "Mucormycosis can spread through air. It won’t cause any problem if the person is healthy. Mucormycosis may enter into the lungs but chances are very low. Our body is capable to fight it if one's immunity is strong," he told ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mucormycosis-can-spread-through-air-aiims-doctor-988674.html
22-05-2021||National||States, UTs still have over 1.6 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses: Health ministry||More than 1.60 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories, and over 2.67 lakh doses will be supplied to them in the next three day, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. In a statement, the ministry said more than 21 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories (UTs).  "Of this, the total consumption, calculated based on average up to May 21, 2021, including wastage, is 19,73,61,311 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," it said. "More than 1.60 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses (1,60,13,409) are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," the statement said. It said that 2,67,110 vaccine doses "are in the pipeline and will be received by the states/UTs within the next three days".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-uts-still-have-over-16-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-health-ministry-988677.html
22-05-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Narendra Modi afraid of 'Indian variant' of Covid-19: Kamal Nath||A day after the government asked social media companies to immediately remove any content from their platform that uses or refers to the term ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus, Congress leader Kamal Nath took a dig at President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Nath alleged that the President and Prime Minister are afraid of the 'Indian variant' of Covid-19.  "It started with Chinese corona. Now it’s Indian variant corona. Today, India’s President and PM are afraid of the Indian variant of Covid-19. What toolkit is this? Our scientists are calling it the Indian variant. Only BJP advisers are not accepting it," Kamal Nath said.    There is a growing chorus to refrain from referring to the so-called “double mutant” strain of Covid-19, officially known as the B.1.167 variant, as the “Indian variant”, highlighting the potential of social stigmatisation as a result of the usage. Calls for a crackdown on the use of the phrase “Indian variant” have been building on social media as well, with Twitter users drawing parallels to the racist undertones that many critics had identified in using the term “Wuhan virus” in the early days of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-pm-narendra-modi-afraid-of-indian-variant-of-covid-19-kamal-nath-988678.html
22-05-2021||National||NSA invoked against man arrested for black marketing of Remdesivir||The stringent National Security Act (NSA) has been invoked against a man who was arrested last month for alleged black marketing of Remdesivir injections, police said on Saturday. The accused, Sachin Kumar of Haryana, was arrested along with two medical representatives, Kanpur Police Commissioner Asim Arun said. Remdesivir injections seized from Kumar during his arrest were later found to be spurious, he said. "As per the procedure, we have slapped the NSA against Kumar for selling fake Remdesivir injections," he said. Under the provisions of the NSA, one can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that the person is a threat to national security or law and order. The trio were arrested by the UP Special Task Force and the Babupurva Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nsa-invoked-against-man-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-988681.html
22-05-2021||National||'Black fungus' more likely to affect men: Study||Given the recent increase in cases of mucormycosis in patients who have Covid-19 or are recovering from the infection, the study had a relatively small sample size of 101. India accounted for a bulk of cases at 82, while only 19 were reported from the rest of the world. The study also found that almost 80% patients reported with the fungal infection were male. The analysis also gave credence to the two big hypothetical reasons being suggested for the rapid increase in the otherwise rare fungal infection — pre-existing diabetes and the overuse of steroids to treat Covid-19. Pre-existing diabetes mellitus was found to be present in 80% of cases, while 76.3% had been treated for the coronavirus with corticosteroids. The mortality rate of the fungal infection in Covid-19 patients so far stood at a shade over 30%, but is still lower than the overall mortality rate of 54%, according to data from the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. This may be because almost 90% of the cases of post-Covid mucormycosis so far, according to the study, have affected the sinuses, which is less likely to lead to death than if it affects the lungs or enters the bloodstream. “An unholy trinity of diabetes, rampant use of corticosteroid in a background of COVID-19 appears to increase mucormycosis,” the study’s authors write, “All efforts should be made to maintain optimal glucose and only judicious use of corticosteroids in patients with COVID-19.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/black-fungus-more-likely-to-affect-men-study-988686.html
22-05-2021||National||Court turns down plea for police interrogation of 'Khan Chacha' owner for second time||A Delhi court on Saturday rejected a plea by Delhi police for further police remand of high profile 'Khan Chacha' restaurant owner Navneet Kalra in oxygen concentrator black marketing case. Kalra, for his part, claimed he sold some of the equipment to police personnel and saved many lives with timely intervention. He choked after personally appearing through video conferencing before the court and claimed himself to be innocent. Metropolitan Magistrate Vasundhara Azad declined a plea by the police to grant further custodial interrogation of the accused for confronting him with those customers who bought the machines of sub-standard quality and having not of worth to Covid-19 patients. The prosecutor wanted permission to further interrogate Kalra also in connection with his mobile phone and diary entries. The court put an application filed for bail by Kalra for consideration on Tuesday. Kalra’s lawyer Vineet Malhotra claimed the oxygen concentrators sold by him were of the same quality which were bought Bollywood actor Salman Khan. "I have never made any representations about the concentrators being of German origin,” he said. “In my considered opinion, police custody remand is not warranted. Application is dismissed," the judge said. This is the second time the court junked an application for the police remand of the accused. Earlier, a similar application was rejected by a different judge on May 20.  Kalra was sent to 14-day judicial custody. Earlier, the restaurateur was remanded to three days in police custody following his arrest Gurugram on May 16 night. During a raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra -- Khan Chacha, Nega Ju and Town Hall.  After lodging of an FIR on May 5, co-accused Gaurav Suri, Satish Sethi, Hitesh Kumar and Vikrant were arrested in the case related to selling of poor quality China-made oxygen concentrators at exorbitant prices with fraudulent representation that those were of premium class, manufactured with German collaboration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-turns-down-plea-for-police-interrogation-of-khan-chacha-owner-for-second-time-988688.html
22-05-2021||National||Delhi police registers case against Sharjeel Usmani over derogatory tweets||The Delhi Police has registered a case against former Aligarh Muslim University student leader Sharjeel Usmani over his alleged objectionable tweets, officials said on Saturday. A senior police officer said the case was filed under IPC section 505 based on a complaint by a BJP leader. On May 20, police in Maharashtra’s Jalna district had registered an FIR against the former student leader for allegedly posting some objectionable content on social media. The complainant, Ambadas Ambhore, who hails from Ambad in Jalna and works with the Hindu Jagran Manch, had alleged that Usmani used disrespectful words for Lord Ram in some of his recent posts on Twitter and hurt religious sentiments. Earlier this year, the Pune police had also registered a case against Usmani under IPC section 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion, etc) over his speech made during the Elgar Parishad conclave held there on January 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-registers-case-against-sharjeel-usmani-over-derogatory-tweets-988696.html
22-05-2021||National||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal calls meeting on pending Class 12 board exams||The Ministry of Education has called a crucial meeting on Sunday to discuss the issue of pending Class 12 board exams, which were postponed in view of the second wave of Covid-19, Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said. The meeting will be chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar will be in attendance. "I recently held a meeting with the state education secretaries in this regard. The consultative process will be further strengthened through a high-level meeting to be chaired by Hon’ble Defence Minister Shri @rajnathsingh Ji," Nishank tweeted on Saturday. "All the state government education ministers and secretaries have been requested to attend this meeting and to share their valuable views with regards to upcoming examinations. This virtual meeting will take place at 11.30 am on 23rd May, 2021," he added. In a letter to states and union territories, the Union education minister has stated that the Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of Education, and the CBSE are exploring options regarding the conduct of examinations, keeping in mind the safety and security of the students and the teachers. "The Department of Higher Education is also deliberating upon the finalization of the dates of examinations for institutions of higher learning. COVID-19 pandemic has affected various areas including the Education sector, particularly the board exams and entrance exams," the letter noted. "In view of the prevailing situation, almost all the State Education Boards, CBSE and ICSE have postponed their Class XII examinations, 2021. Similarly, the National Testing Agency (NTA) and other national exam conducting institutions have also postponed the entrance exams for admissions to professional courses," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-education-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-calls-meeting-on-pending-class-12-board-exams-988698.html
22-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm on May 26; may hit WB, Odisha, Bangladesh: IMD||Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a “very severe cyclonic storm”, the Regional Meteorological Department said on Saturday. It also said that the potential cyclonic storm will move towards West Bengal, northern parts of Odisha and coastal Bangladesh. A low-pressure area formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal and the adjoining north Andaman Sea on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, the director of the Regional Meteorological Department, G K Das, said it was likely that the potential cyclone would cross the coasts of West Bengal and Odisha and then move into neighbouring Bangladesh on the evening of May 26. “Wind speed is expected to reach 90 to 100 kilometres per hour and gusting up to 110 kilometres per hour on May 26 off the coasts of West Bengal, North Odisha and Bangladesh which will intensify further till evening,” said Das. He also said that several places in Gangetic West Bengal will witness light to moderate rainfall while in isolated places, and heavy rainfall is expected to begin in coastal districts from May 25, which will subsequently intensify significantly. It may also cause light to moderate rainfall in most places and heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on May 26. In a bid to ensure that quick assistance and search and rescue operations can be executed in affected areas, the Indian Navy has kept ships and aircraft on standby. Four ships of the Indian Navy have been kept on standby with disaster relief material and medical teams. Eight flood relief teams and four diving teams have been deployed in the coastal areas of West Bengal and Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-likely-to-intensify-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-on-may-26-may-hit-wb-odisha-bangladesh-imd-988706.html
22-05-2021||National||Centre allocates additional 23,680 vials of Amphotericin-B to states, UTs to combat black fungus||With cases of mucormycosis or black fungus increasing, the government has allocated 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to various states and union territories (UTs), Union Minister Sadananda Gowda said on Saturday. The allocation has been made based on the total number of patients which is around 8,848 across the country, he noted. "After a detailed review of rising no. of cases of #Mucormycosis in various states, a total of 23,680 additional vials of #Amphotericin- B have been allocated to all States/UTs today," Gowda, who is Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers, tweeted. States like Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and telangana have been allotted 75 per cent of the additional vials, he noted. Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, damages the nose, eyes, sinuses, and sometimes even the brain. It is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. The doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. They believe that mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allocates-additional-23680-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-states-uts-to-combat-black-fungus-988712.html
22-05-2021||National||Record 20.66 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in a day in India: MoHFW||Over 20.66 lakh tests for detection of Covid-19 were conducted in a span of 24 hours in the country, the highest-ever done in a single day, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. In a statement, the ministry said it is also the fourth successive day that the number of tests has been more than 20 lakh. "With more than 20.66 lakh tests conducted in the last 24 hours, India has again set a new record of highest tests conducted in a day," it said. Over 19.33 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country under the inoculation drive against Covid-19, the statement said. It said 19,33,72,819 vaccine doses have been administered through 27,76,936 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Saturday. These include 97,38,148 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken their first dose and 66,91,350 HCWs who have taken their second dose. The ministry said that 1,48,70,081 frontline workers (FLWs) have taken their first dose and 83,06,020 FLWs their second dose; and 92,97,532 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group have taken their first dose. It said in the 45-60 years age group 6,02,11,957 have got their first dose and 96,84,295 their second dose, while in the over 60 years category, 5,63,83,760 have received their first dose and 1,81,89,676 their second dose. India's active cases decreased to 29,23,400 on Saturday, a net decline of 1,04,525 in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. The daily recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases for the ninth consecutive day, it said. The ministry said that about 3,57,630 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours and India's cumulative recoveries reached 2,30,70,365 on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-2066-lakh-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-a-day-in-india-mohfw-988713.html
22-05-2021||National||Three months after second serosurvey, Karnataka government yet to release findings||Three months after the Karnataka government did the second serosurvey in January and analysed the results in February, it is yet to release the findings. The State health department has been sitting on the report, though sources say it was submitted to the health minister's office in February and the findings were briefed to top health department officials in the same month. Done across 30 districts, with a sample size of 35,000 odd people as against the first serosurvey where a mere 16,565 were surveyed, sources told DH, the survey found that 17 per cent of those surveyed had developed antibodies and 12 per cent of those surveyed had an active infection. The seropositivity was higher in metropolitan cities like Bengaluru with 19 per cent to 20 per cent compared to other districts. An expert told DH, "The study found that 29 per cent of the population were either currently infected or had already been exposed to the infection in the past, as of January this year which is 2.05 crore people." This is a marginal increase from the first serosurvey's estimate. Out of 7.07 crore estimated population in Karnataka, the first serosurvey estimated that 1.93 crore (27.3 per cent) of the people are either currently infected or already had the infection in the past, as of September 16, 2020. Experts said they were surprised by the second survey's results as they were expecting a higher level of exposure. In the first serosurvey, 16.4 per cent of those surveyed had developed antibodies and 12.7 per cent had an active infection. These figures have only marginally changed in the second survey. Sources said the cost of RT-PCR tests done in the second survey were significant but absorbed by the state's testing system. "Rapid antigen tests were not done in the second serological survey. But IgG tests (antibody tests) cost Rs 300 per sample in the second serological survey, kits for which were already available with the State Surveillance Unit from the first survey. Cost of human resources, logistics (transportation), IT infrastructure, syringes, Viral Transport Medium vials, vacutainers were significant," a source said. Considering that 17 per cent of those surveyed (35,000), had antibodies, this works out to 5,950 people. Antibody tests for these people alone work out to Rs 17.85 lakh not counting the cost of human resources, logistics and other consumables. "The study was done five months back and there is not much difference between the kind of exposure we found in the first serosurvey and the second. It was submitted to the health minister as he wanted to release it just like he released the first serosurvey findings. We don't know why the health department is sitting on it," said the expert. When DH contacted Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar's office for a response, it yielded no response. Waning antibodies? The state has already undertaken another substudy to understand how long the antibodies in a person persist and now those results are being analysed. "We have to check the IgG levels repeatedly to know how long antibodies persist in the body. The samples have been taken. The lab has to check the level of antibodies in the samples now," said a source.   For the substudy, the number of samples being tested varies between 600 and 900. "One IgG test costs Rs 600 per sample as new kits are being used," said another source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-months-after-second-serosurvey-karnataka-government-yet-to-release-findings-988716.html
22-05-2021||National||Centre must take action against Ramdev for making unscientific statements against allopathy: IMA||Yoga Guru Ramdev has kicked up a huge row with his purported comments against Allopathic doctors, prompting a sharp reaction from Indian Medical Association, which demanded Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to "either accept accusation and dissolve modern medical facilities or prosecute him under the Epidemic Diseases Act. "The daughter should feel safe in the lap of her father, so much so the modern medicine in the headship of a modern medicine doctor. If he remains a mute spectator to this whole vandalism, who is going to bell the cat," the IMA said and threatened to" knock the doors of the judiciary" to get justice if the health minister does not take suo motu action. Bringing to the Health Minister's notice a video circulating in social media in which the Yoga Guru is saying "Allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalia science hai (Allopathy is such a stupid ineffective science", IMA went hammer and tongs saying it has become a passion for people with "malicious opportunistic attitude" to hit from the back, the medical warriors with their "selfish malevolent to boost up their unscrupulous, unprincipled, deceitful and unpatriotic business fortunes." Reactions also poured in from other medical bodies and Associations. Maharashtra Covid-19 task force member and senior doctor Shashank Joshi called Ramdev's comments on allopathy as wrong and irresponsible. IMA, Safdarjung Hospital's Resident Doctors association said the statement of Ramdev on Allopathy doctors will bring down the morale of healthcare workers on the frontline. It asked for declaring Ramdev's statement as "hate speech" and demanded an unconditional public apology from him saying his statement has the potential to incite hatred and mistrust against Allopathy and its practitioners. Some doctors felt "they have let these gurus run free for too long". A group IMA-Junior Doctors Network went to the extent of demanding "arrest" of Ramdev under Epidemic Disease Act for his "baseless derogatory remarks against modern medicine docs and for spreading misinformation" and requested all RDAs & modern medicine docs to join twitter Storm today at 5 PM. The IMA said both the Yoga Guru and his associate Balkrishna have been taking modern medical allopathy treatment as and when they get into illness but "to mislead public at large he (Ramdev) is making all false and baseless accusations so that he can sell his illegal and unapproved drugs." "In his address, he had further claimed that Remade Sivir, Faviflu and all other approved drugs by DCGI have failed and states lakhs of people have died due to consuming Allopathy drugs, challenging the wisdom and integrity of DCGI and the head of all such institutions, the health minister," the IMA said. The medical body asked Harsh Vardhan, who himself is a practicing modern medicine allopathic postgraduate, to "either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medical facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances." Alleging that Ramdev is trying to take advantage of the situation and create a sense of fear and frustration among the people at large, the IMA said he deserves to be prosecuted for disobeying and causing danger to the life of many by making them believe not to take the advice of allopathy” doctors. Going hammer and tongs, IMA termed his quote about Favipiravir as medicine against fever/antipyretic as "laughable and childish" "Taking people for ransom and winning business by defaming scientific medicine are unpardonable offenses, the IMA said, calling his "untutored and unlearned" statements threat to society. "Enough is enough. With the pain and agony of 1200 modern medicine doctors and amidst limited infrastructure or manpower, amidst limited infrastructure, the majority of modern medicine doctors are working," the IMA said Facing all-round attack, Ramdev's Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust denied IMA's allegations and said the Yoga Guru has utmost regards for doctors and support staff, who have been working day and night during such a challenging time of the pandemic. Regarding the allegation about his remarks on Allopathy made in the video, the statement claimed Ramdev was reading out a forwarded Whatsapp message received by him and various other members, who were participating in the event. The statement, signed by Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust General Secretary Acharya Balakrishna said, "Swami jee has no ill will against the modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine. What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-must-take-action-against-ramdev-for-making-unscientific-statements-against-allopathy-ima-988725.html
22-05-2021||National||British Airways flight carrying 18 tonnes of medical aid lands in Delhi||A British Airways cargo flight carrying 18 tonnes of medical aid mainly comprising oxygen concentrators landed at the Delhi airport on Saturday morning, a statement said. The cargo flight from London landed in Delhi at 5.45 am on Saturday. "The total weight of the medical aid was 18 tonnes, made up of five thousand pieces. Among the medical equipment were hundreds of oxygen concentrators from charities, including Oxfam, Khalsa Aid, Christian Aid and LPSUK," the British Airways said. This is the airline's second relief flight to India in the last two weeks, it mentioned. India has been badly hit by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of vaccines, oxygen, drugs and equipment. The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below the 3 lakh-mark for the sixth consecutive day, with 2.57 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,62,89,290. The death toll due to the disease rose to 2,95,525 with 4,194 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/british-airways-flight-carrying-18-tonnes-of-medical-aid-lands-in-delhi-988728.html
22-05-2021||National||Covid-19 situation stabilising with positivity rate, daily cases, active cases reducing: Centre||With test positivity rate and daily new cases steadily on a decline, the government on Saturday said it had picked up signs of the Covid-19 outbreak stabilising in some parts of the country. However, the government warned against any let-up in Covid-19 appropriate behaviour saying the battle against the infectious disease would be a long-drawn affair. “From 17.13 per cent reported on May 3, the active cases are now 11.12 per cent of the country’s total infections. The recovery rate which was 81.7 per cent on May 3 has increased to 87.76 per cent now,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, told reporters here. He also pointed out that despite an increase in testing, the daily positivity rate had declined from 24.83 per cent on May 10 to 12.45 per cent on May 22. “Also, a slow but relatively better trend in terms of management is being noted in deaths and most fatalities have been noted in six states – Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab, Delhi,” Agarwal said. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said these were positive signs of Covid cases stabilising in some areas of the country. “However, there is increase seen in other states so this is a mixed picture but overall there has been a decrease in the case burden. We have a long way to go to handle this wave. We have to ensure there is no laxity in the steps we take,” he said. Breastfeeding Paul dismissed reports that lactating mothers should stop breastfeeding children after getting vaccinated for Covid-19. “Breastfeeding should not be stopped. It should be continued, there is no reason why it should stop after vaccination,” he said. Paul said it was important to protect children from getting infection to ensure that they do not become part of the transmission chain. He said children were equally susceptible to getting infected by Covid-19 as those in the age group of 30-40 years. However, he said most children display mild symptoms of Covid-19 or are asymptomatic with very less chances of mortality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-situation-stabilising-with-positivity-rate-daily-cases-active-cases-reducing-centre-988763.html
22-05-2021||National||Narendra Modi's instruction is to provide full support to athletes, says Kiren Rijiju||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has instructed to provide full support to India's Tokyo Olympic-bound athletes as well as junior athletes. The Tokyo Games are scheduled to be held from July 23 to August 8 this year after getting postponed in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "Our athletes are happy and getting ready for Tokyo Olympics. Despite pandemic Govt is doing everything possible to support our athletes to make India proud. Hon'ble PM @narendramodi ji has given clear direction to provide full support to our elite as well as junior athletes," Rijiju tweeted. Along with his tweet, Rijiju also posted a video in which top shuttler PV Sindhu, champion wrestler Bajrang Punia and Bhavani Devi, who created history by becoming the first Indian fencer to qualify for the Olympic Games, thanked the government for its Target Olympic Podium Scheme and the Sports Authority of India (SAI) for its support. As many as 148 athletes across all sports, including those who have qualified for the upcoming Tokyo Games, have already received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccination, according to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA). Out of these 148 athletes, 17 have got both the doses and 131 have received their first shot, IOA president Narinder Batra has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modis-instruction-is-to-provide-full-support-to-athletes-says-kiren-rijiju-988765.html
22-05-2021||National||Rajnath Singh to chair meet on CBSE class 12, entrance exams on Sunday||The Centre has convened a high-level meeting on Sunday to take a final call on conducting the CBSE Class 12 and entrance exams to various professional courses against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will chair the meeting on Sunday, which will be attended by Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani, I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar and education ministers from all state governments. Nishank said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had desired that any decision affecting the careers of students should be taken after wide consultations with state governments and all stakeholders. Earlier this week, the Education Minister held a meeting with state education secretaries to discuss the exam process. In a letter to the states and UTs, Nishank said the Department of School Education and the CBSE were exploring options on conducting the examinations, keeping in mind the safety and security of both students and teachers. "The Department of Higher Education is also deliberating upon the finalisation of the dates of examinations for institutions of higher learning. Covid-19 pandemic has affected various areas including the education sector, particularly the board exams and entrance exams,” the letter noted. The CBSE had on April 14 announced cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. The CBSE had announced that a decision on the Class 12 board exams will be taken after a review of the prevailing Covid-19 situation on June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-to-chair-meet-on-cbse-class-12-entrance-exams-on-sunday-988766.html
22-05-2021||National||BJP slams Arvind Kejriwal, says he should 'stop making excuses'||The BJP on Saturday accused Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of "constantly doing politics" in the name of the national capital and asked him to stop making excuses, hours after the AAP leader said Covid-19 vaccination centres for people in the 18-44 years age group are being closed due to lack of doses. Kejriwal has also appealed to the Centre to provide more vaccines. Union minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar said it is the central government which has provided around 50 lakh doses to Delhi and will continue to make them available in the future too. In a statement, he said Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has already shared the plan about how the country's entire adult population can be vaccinated by December this year. "Delhi Chief Minister constantly does politics in the name of Delhi... Even during the time of oxygen (crisis), he kept saying oxygen, oxygen and then later said Delhi has surplus oxygen. Kejriwal should stop making excuses," Javadekar said. Kejriwal had earlier said that from Sunday, all vaccination centres for youths in Delhi will be closed as stocks have run out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-slams-arvind-kejriwal-says-he-should-stop-making-excuses-988770.html
22-05-2021||National||Small intestine infected by black fungus found in patients at Delhi, doctors term it 'rare'||Two patients at a leading private facility here, both of whom had tested positive for Covid-19, were diagnosed with Mucormycosis in the small intestine, which the doctors termed as "rare" cases. Mucormycosis or black fungus, most commonly involves rhino-orbital-cerebral system or the lungs. Intestinal or GI mucormycosis is very "rare disease", and most commonly involves stomach or large intestine, according to doctors at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here. A 56-year-old Delhi resident, who had lost three of his family members including his wife to Covid, had barely completed the last rites of his wife when he experienced pain in his abdomen. He had tested positive for coronavirus along with his wife and had been experiencing mild symptoms initially, the hospital said in a statement. His abdominal pain was considered gastritis or stress-related and self-medication for acidity was done, which delayed proper treatment by three days, it said. He was finally evaluated in the Covid emergency of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital by Dr Ushast Dhir, senior consultant in the department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplantation, it said. The CT scan revealed that the first part of his small intestine or jejunum had perforated. His Covid ailment also had worsened by now requiring ventilator support. The patient was admitted and taken up urgently for surgery, hospital authorities said. "Ulceration of jejunum in the patient raised my suspicion of fungal disease, and the patient was immediately started on anti-fungal treatment. We sent the portion of removed intestine for biopsy," the doctor said. In another case, a 68-year-old man, who was happy to know that his father had recovered from Covid-19, started having mild abdominal pain. He was a diabetic and had received steroids for treatment of Covid. The patient had no associated fever and pain was very mild. His clinical examination also did not show any signs of intestinal perforation, the statement said. But, high index of suspicion lead Dr Piyush Ranjan, senior consultant of medical gastroenterology at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, to get an urgent CT scan of the patient. The CT scan revealed small intestinal perforation similar to the first one, it added. "The biopsy confirmed our worst fear of mucormycosis of small intestine in both patients. Both these patients had Covid and had diabetes, but only one of them had received steroids," the hospital said in the statement. Both these patients were operated by Dhir, who revealed that these patient had "similar intra-operative findings" where jejunum had out-pouchings called diverticula and these diverticula had perforated along with surrounding ulceration, it said. "These patients, in majority, are immune-compromised. Majority of gastro-intestinal mucormycosis is seen in organ transplant recipients. The cases treated at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital were unique as they had Covid and small intestine (instead of stomach/colon) was involved in both cases," the statement said. GI mucormycosis is rare and the patient presents with vague abdominal symptoms. In recent times, history of Covid-19 exposure along with treatment with steroids should warrant an early CT scan of abdomen, doctors said. Over 60 cases of black fungus have been reported at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital till date, amid the second wave of the pandemic, a senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/small-intestine-infected-by-black-fungus-found-in-patients-at-delhi-doctors-term-it-rare-988801.html
22-05-2021||National||Nadda asks BJP CMs to launch scheme for welfare of children orphaned by Covid||BJP president J P Nadda has asked party-ruled states to prepare a programme for the welfare of children orphaned by the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it should be launched on May 30 when the Modi government completes seven years in power. In a letter to chief ministers of the party-ruled states, Nadda also said that no celebratory event will be held to mark the anniversary due to the circumstances caused by the pandemic and added that various welfare programmes will be instead held. Noting that the Covid pandemic has caused deep wounds on the nation and society with many children losing both parents to the disease, he told the chief ministers that it is now our responsibility to care for their future and take solid steps in this regard. Nadda asked them to prepare a scheme keeping in mind the needs and situation of their states and added that they will also be soon shared directives to help such children and their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-asks-bjp-cms-to-launch-scheme-for-welfare-of-children-orphaned-by-covid-988804.html
22-05-2021||National||Bharat Parenterals gets DCGI nod for favipiravir oral suspension for Covid-19 patients||Drug firm Bharat Parenterals on Saturday said it has received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for favipiravir oral suspension, to be used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The company has received licence and authorisation from DCGI to manufacture and market favipiravir oral suspension l00mg/ml, Bharat Parenterals said in a regulatory filing. Favipiravir, an antiviral drug, was approved in Japan in 2014 for the treatment of novel or re-emerging influenza virus infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-parenterals-gets-dcgi-nod-for-favipiravir-oral-suspension-for-covid-19-patients-988809.html
22-05-2021||National||No consensus yet on Covid vaccine passport issue at WHO level: Centre||The WHO is yet to reach a consensus on the vaccine passport issue for allowing international travel to those fully vaccinated against the coronavirus infection, the government said on Saturday and noted that discussions are still on. So far there's no consensus at the level of WHO over this, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said. "Discussion is still being done if vaccinated people will be allowed. As of now, as per WHO guidelines and guidelines by other countries, people with negative Covid test report is being allowed," he said. "When we will be able to reach a consensus at the world and WHO level (on vaccine passport issue), then we will take necessary steps,” he said responding to a question on reports claiming that people who took Covaxin jabs may not be allowed to travel internationally as the WHO hasn't included it in its list of vaccines. The Health Ministry also dismissed similar reports on its Twitter handle as "misleading and speculative". Talking about vaccine wastage, Agarwal said Covishield vaccine wastage reduced from 8 percent on March 1 to one percent now while Covaxin wastage decreased from 17 percent to 4 percent in the same period. NITI Aayog member (Health) VK Paul clarified that lactating women can get vaccinated. "There were reports that after vaccination mothers should not breastfeed their child for a couple of days but I want to clarify that breastfeeding should not be stopped and should be continued. "In no situation, there is any reason in that context to halt or discontinue breastfeeding even for an hour," he said. On Covid-19 prevalence among children, Paul said seropositivity rate between 10-17 years is roughly the same as between 30-40 and children can also spread the infection "Whenever children contracted the infection then almost always symptoms are minimal, very mild disease or they are asymptomatic and because it is mild the mortality is very very less in them," he said. "We have a protocol of Covid disease among children. Protecting children from infection is equally important so that they do not become part of the transmission chain," he said. On mucormycosis or black fungus, Paul said the availability of medicines is being increased. Conditions such as diabetes, weakening of the immune system due to use of steroids, prolonged hospital stay and co-morbidities in Covid-19 may increase mucormycosis infection. "Steroids are life-saving. It is a wonder drug but its irrational use can lead to mucormycosis. So this outbreak does not progress and further harm is not caused, that is our responsibility," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-consensus-yet-on-covid-vaccine-passport-issue-at-who-level-centre-988814.html
22-05-2021||National||Ramdev was reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message: Patanjali Yogpeeth on his remark over allopathy||Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust on Saturday denied allegations by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) that yoga guru Ramdev has misled people by making "unlearned" statements against allopathy and defamed scientific medicine. Citing a video circulating on social media, the IMA had earlier on Saturday said Ramdev is seen saying that "allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalilya science hai... (allopathy is such a stupid science)" Ramdev has "utmost regards" for doctors and support staff who have been working day and night during such a challenging time of the pandemic, said a statement issued by the Haridwar-based Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust. He was "reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message received by him and various other members who were participating in the event", it added. "Swami jee has no ill-will against the modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine. What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory," said the statement signed by Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust General Secretary Acharya Balakrishna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramdev-was-reading-out-a-forwarded-whatsapp-message-patanjali-yogpeeth-on-his-remark-over-allopathy-988815.html
22-05-2021||National||Centre says states given 19 oxygen plants; over 16,500 concentrators received as foreign aid||Nineteen oxygen generation plants, 16,530 oxygen concentrators, 15,901 oxygen cylinders and about 6.6 lakh Remdesivir vials received as global aid have been delivered or dispatched to states and union territories since April 27, the Centre said on Saturday. The Central government has been receiving international cooperation in the form of Covid-19 medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries and organisations. Through a streamlined and systematic mechanism, various ministries and departments have seamlessly collaborated under the 'whole of government' approach for expeditiously delivering incoming global aid to states and union territories, the Union Health Ministry said. Cumulatively, 16,530 oxygen concentrators; 15,901 oxygen cylinders; 19 oxygen generation plants; 11,416 ventilators/ BiPAP; 6.6 lakh Remdesivir vials have either been delivered or dispatched through road and air to states and union territories from April 27 to May 21, it said. Effective and immediate allocation, and streamlined delivery to the recipient states/UTs and institutions is an ongoing exercise, the ministry said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-states-given-19-oxygen-plants-over-16500-concentrators-received-as-foreign-aid-988825.html
22-05-2021||National||Indian villagers turn to unlicensed clinics as Covid-19 spreads to the countryside||A former Indian hospital worker with no medical education is running a small unlicensed clinic, tending to patients with breathing difficulties and checking their oxygen levels as they lie on cots on the mud floor. India has been hard hit by a second wave of coronavirus infections which has overwhelmed its health system, even in big cities. In the countryside, medical facilities are dilapidated and doctors and nurses are few on the ground, meaning many clinics are run by people who don’t have training. The poor health infrastructure and lack of testing means many patients do not know if they are infected with Covid-19 or just have a cold. In Parsaul village, about 60 km (40 miles) from the capital New Delhi, villager Ashok said people in his area were afraid to step out of their houses. He suspects that coronavirus had killed around 15 people nearby in recent days. Ashok has come with a patient who had fever to the clinic run by a 52-year-old former hospital assistant who moves from one cot to another to check IV levels. Empty intravenous drips lie piled up under a brick-walled staircase. "Patients with fever and breathing problems have increased in the last two months," said the former assistant, who said he had been helping patients at his clinic since 1993 but did not wish to be identified as he feared a backlash from authorities. "The people from nearby six or seven villages know me personally and trust me." Some patients wore face masks lying on cots, while others had their faces covered with clothing. Bubli, 30, visited the clinic to get treatment for fever. "No, she doesn't have Covid, it's just a fever," Bubli's husband told Reuters. "...We are scared of Covid, but going out to a big hospital is more dangerous." Total infections in the country stood at 2.63 crore on Saturday, the second highest in the world after the United States, while the country's total death toll was 2,95,525.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-villagers-turn-to-unlicensed-clinics-as-covid-19-spreads-to-the-countryside-988827.html
22-05-2021||National||Education Ministry calls crucial meet on May 23 over class 12 boards, entrance exams||The Ministry of Education (MOE) has called a crucial meeting on Sunday to decide on pending Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed due to the second wave of Covid-19, Union Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said. The high-level meeting will be chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani as well as Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar will be among those present. Education ministers and secretaries of all states and union territories have been asked to attend the meeting. Pokhriyal also sought inputs from all the stakeholders – students, parents, teachers and others – through social media on Saturday. "A high-level virtual meeting will be convened tomorrow (Sunday) with all states and union territories' education ministers, education secretaries and chairpersons of state examination boards and stakeholders to discuss the proposals for the conduct of exams for Class 12 and entrance examinations for professional courses," he said. "I recently held a meeting with the state education secretaries in this regard. The consultative process will be further strengthened through the high-level meeting. This virtual meeting will take place at 11.30 am," he added. In a letter to the states and UTs, the education minister has said that his ministry's Department of School Education and the CBSE were exploring options regarding the conduct of the examinations, keeping in mind the safety and security of both students and teachers. "The Department of Higher Education is also deliberating upon the finalisation of the dates of examinations for institutions of higher learning. Covid-19 pandemic has affected various areas including the education sector, particularly the board exams and entrance exams," the letter noted. In view of the prevailing situation, almost all state education boards, the CBSE and the ICSE have postponed their Class 12 examinations. Similarly, the National Testing Agency (NTA) and other national exam conducting institutions have also postponed entrance exams for admissions to professional courses. "As the conduct of Class 12 examinations impacts upon state board exams and other entrance exams across the country, and to reduce uncertainty among students, it is desirable that a considered decision based on inputs of different state governments and UT administrations is taken about Class 12 examinations in the interest of all the students across the country," the letter said. According to CBSE sources, the possible options that can be explored are --conducting pen and paper mode exams for only major subjects, conducting all exams in two phases planned as per the Covid-19 situation in different states or districts, or cancelling the exams and announcing results as per an alternative assessment scheme. A senior board official, however, said, "nothing has been finalised yet. A final call will only be taken by the Education Ministry after considering suggestions from all stakeholders". The CBSE had on April 14 announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The April and May edition of the engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains were also postponed. The board exams, which are usually conducted in February-March every year, were scheduled to be held from May 4. The CBSE had announced that a decision on the Class 12 board exams will be taken on or after June 1. A section of students and parents have been demanding that the Class 12 exams be cancelled in the wake of the pandemic situation. The CBSE had earlier this month announced the marking policy for Class 10 board exams. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated based on the students’ performance in various tests or exams throughout the year. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of Covid-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes were again suspended because of the rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled, and results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/education-ministry-calls-crucial-meet-on-may-23-over-class-12-boards-entrance-exams-988836.html
22-05-2021||National||Family of employees can get Covid vaccine at workplace: Centre||The government has tweaked the guidelines for vaccination at workplaces to also allow family members of employees to get the jab at the same vaccination centres. “The family members and dependents of the workers, as defined by the respective employers, can also be covered with Covid-19 vaccination at the Industrial CVCs and Workplace CVCs.” Vikas Sheel, Additional Secretary, Health Ministry, said in a communication to state governments and UTs. Vaccine doses for such vaccination drives will have to be procured by private hospitals with whom the respective employer made arrangements for the vaccination drive. At government offices, those above 45 years of age may be covered through the vaccine doses provided by the central government, while those in the age group of 18-44 can be inoculated using vaccines procured by the state governments. Workplace vaccination was a key feature of the liberalised vaccination policy that came into force from May 1. However, exclusion of family members of employees from the vaccination drive at the workplace had led to confusion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/family-of-employees-can-get-covid-vaccine-at-workplace-centre-988838.html
22-05-2021||National||Congress, BJP vie with each other on child welfare amid talk of bigger Covid threat||Two days after Congress President Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra urging him to provide free education to the children whose parents have died of Covid-19, BJP chief J P Nadda on Saturday asked party-ruled states to prepare a programme for the welfare of children orphaned by the Covid-19 pandemic, which will be launched on May 30 when the Modi government completes seven years in power. Sonia's letter had come on May 20, a day before the 30th death anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi, who was assassinated on May 21, 1991.   BJP's plan, however, differed and it does not entertain Gandhi's suggestion of providing education to such children at the Navodaya Vidyalayas, whose creation across the country she had recalled in her letter, as her husband and late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s legacy. BJP president J P Nadda has categorically said in the letter that the ruling party will not hold any celebratory events to mark Modi government's seventh anniversary but will celebrate the occasion by organising various welfare events, a decision that comes amid sombre mood in the nation in wake of the devastating second phase of Covid-19 that has claimed many lives and is recording more than 10 percent positivity rate in 382 districts even after a month since it started. Nadda, in his letter to Chief Ministers of 12 party-ruled states, asked them to prepare a programme for the welfare of children orphaned by the Covid-19 pandemic instead. The BJP chief's letter talks about the circumstances caused by the pandemic, which he said has caused deep wounds to the nation and society with many children losing both parents to the disease. Telling the BJP chief ministers that it is now their responsibility to care for their future and take solid steps in this direction, Nadda told them that directives about a larger scheme to help such children and their families will be shared with them but they should on their own prepare a draft for the same keeping in mind the needs, situation and tradition of their states. "Standing by children who have lost both parents and providing them every support for their safe future is also our social responsibility... The idea is that all BJP-ruled states launch the programme together when the BJP-led government at the Centre completes seven years," he said. Earlier Gandhi, in her letter to Modi, had said that children who have lost one or both parents to the pandemic are left with the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future. Both the Congress and BJP have latched on the issue of kids care in the middle of the second wave of Corona, which was found to have been affecting younger persons more than the first wave and apprehensions have also been expressed that the third wave of the pandemic would be more dangerous for the kids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-bjp-vie-with-each-other-on-child-welfare-amid-talk-of-bigger-covid-threat-988869.html
22-05-2021||National||DST-funded startups develops electrochemical ELISA test for Covid antibody concentration||A Bengaluru-based start-up has developed a novel, point-of-care electrochemical ELISA test that enables fast and accurate estimation of total antibody concentration of Covid-19 in clinical samples, the Department of Science and Technology (DST) said on Saturday. PathShodh Healthcare, the start-up incubated at the Society for Innovation and Development (SID), Indian Institute of Science (IISc), has made a very significant breakthrough to develop the first-of-its-kind, semi-quantitative electrochemical ELISA test for Covid-19 IgM and IgG antibodies. While qualitative analysis detects constituent elements in the sample, semi-quantitative analysis gives an approximate estimation of their concentrations. PathShodh has received the licence to manufacture for sale from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) after validation at Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, the DST said. This novel technology and product was supported by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) under its initiative on Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH). The effort was coordinated through SINE at IIT Bombay and IKP Knowledge Park, Hyderabad. The test kit comes in two parts. One is the hand-held analyser which reads the blood sample and gives a detailed report. The other is a test strip where a drop of blood from one's fingertip is inserted into the device. The hand-held device provides the results within five minutes, the results of which can be downloaded on your mobile phone. It has been developed, leveraging PathShodh's Lab-on-Palm platform “anuPathTM”, which interfaces with disposable test strips functionalized with immunoreceptors specific to Covid-19 antibodies, it added. As the results are automatically displayed by the hand-held reader, there are no subjective errors due to the manual readout of test results. The other unique features of this technology include onboard memory to store more than 1 lakh real-time test results, touch screen display, rechargeable battery, Bluetooth connectivity to smart phone and cloud storage, capabilities to map the patient data to Aadhaar number, and the possibility of connecting test data through APIs to Aarogya Setu, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dst-funded-startups-develops-electrochemical-elisa-test-for-covid-antibody-concentration-988874.html
22-05-2021||National||Air India pilots' union seeks suitable compensation for families for Covid deaths||Air India wide-body pilots union IPG has urged the airline management to "immediately" provide suitable compensation to the families of pilots who have lost their lives due to Covid-19. In a letter to the Air India chairman and managing director on Saturday, the Indian Pilots Guild(IPG) also questioned the company's HR policies, alleging that the national carrier is the "only PSU" that is "relatively complacent" in terms of compensation in case of death of an employee. Citing the case of a pilot who died recently due to Covid-19, the IPG said that staff notice informed of "an ad-hoc payment to the family/ legal heir of employees, who die during the period of Covid-19." "We were surprised to learn that a domestic private airline runs a benevolent scheme with its employees where it covers a deceased pilot to the sum of Rs 5 crore in case of death. Why can't the flag carrier create and provide something similar?" the IPG said in the letter.            It also claimed that "a total of three active Air India pilots lost their lives due to Covid-19 under similar circumstances within a span of five days between 9- 14 April, 2021." Stating that the said pilot operated from San Francisco and landed in Bengaluru on April 15, the IPG said "he travelled as staff on duty to Mumbai and immediately started complaining of Covid-like symptoms." "On 20th April, he did a Covid test which came back positive. He was shifted to a hospital. Gradually his condition worsened and on May 9  he passed away due to Covid," the IPG said in the letter. "Sadly, this (an ad-hoc payment...) is the only measure taken by Air India to compensate the next of kin of an active employee who lost their life due to contracting Covid-19 in the line of duty," said the letter.          Noting that while PSUs have policies in place for such tragedies with ex-gratia payment and compassionate employment being the most common, the IPG sought to know "why is Air India the only PSU that is relatively complacent towards compensation in the case of the death of an employee?" It also sought to know the steps being taken by the management to ensure proper care of the aircrew/employees in case of coronavirus infection. "More importantly, in the unfortunate event of the demise of an employee, how will the next of kin be compensated/looked after?" it asked. "The need of the hour is to immediately provide a befitting compensation to our colleagues who have already paid the ultimate price. "Simultaneously, we request you to immediately attend to and mend this dismaying gap in the company's HR policy so that we may know that our loved ones will be looked after by our company should the worst happen to one of us," the IPG said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-pilots-union-seeks-suitable-compensation-for-families-for-covid-deaths-988881.html
22-05-2021||National Politics||Covid-19: Time for PM Modi to act instead of giving speeches, advice, says Congress||The Congress on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been missing in action all through the Covid-19 pandemic and it is time for him to act instead of giving speeches and advice. The party said India needs compassion and healing instead of "tears of guilt" and a strong resolve to defeat Covid-19 through good governance. Earlier in the day, Modi had turned emotional while paying condolences to those who lost their lives due to coronavirus during a virtual interaction with doctors, paramedical staff and frontline health workers in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at the prime minister saying he should provide people vaccines instead of procrastinating. "Mr Modi, Vaccinate! Don't Procrastinate," he said on Twitter and shared a media report claiming that 70 per cent of districts have received less than 20 doses per 100 population. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "India doesn't need 'tears of guilt', India needs compassion and healing, India needs resolve to defeat Covid, India needs governance and delivery." Congress general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal said instead of giving speeches and advice, it is time the prime minister acted as he has been missing during the pandemic. "I think, instead of speeches, instead of advice, the prime minister has to act at least now… action from the central government, action from the prime minister has been totally missing during this entire pandemic period,” he told reporters at a virtual press conference. "Now, the country is asking again and again what action you have taken. Instead of speeches, instead of advice, we need actions from the central government," he added. Venugopal said Rahul Gandhi had cautioned the prime minister about the Covid-19 “tsunami” last year, but everybody took it very lightly and instead mocked the Congress leader. Recalling Modi’s remark in March last year that the Mahabharata war was won in 18 days but the war against coronavirus will take 21 days -- referring to the 21 day nation-wide lockdown announced by him back then -- Venugopal said the prime minister is now realising that it is a long battle. But, for fighting this long war, how much precaution has been taken by the central government, the country is now asking, he said. Venugopal asked how the central government was compensating the poor people who have lost their livelihoods as most states are under a lockdown. "What is the government going to do? There is no answer," Venugopal said. He also sought to know the government's plan to tackle the shortage of oxygen and medicines even as the threat posed by increasing cases of 'black fungus' is looming large. Meanwhile, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera wondered if the prime minister shedding tears will console those who have lost their dear ones to Covid. "Will their pain be reduced? Someone who has lost a mother, father, brother, husband, wife, children, will their pain be compensated," he said. "This country is far greater than the prime minister. What is more important than the prime minister's tears are the tears of every Indian that could have been stopped and lives saved had the mistakes not been done in the last one year," he said. Attacking the prime minister for centralising everything, he said, "You have all authority centralised and when you fail, you try and decentralize responsibility; it does not work this way." Meanwhile, Venugopal demanded that the government should procure vaccines soon and inoculate all Indians to save them from the virus. Earlier, he spelt out a host of measures undertaken to help those affected from Covid on Rajiv Gandhi's 30th death anniversary on Friday. He said Rajiv Gandhi's compassion and resolve to boldly take the road less travelled and implement out of the box initiatives was legendry and with his unfathomable dedication to change India, Congress workers across the country rededicate themselves to the life of their leader, who not only dared to dream but implemented life altering transformation and change. He said millions of Congress workers and leaders undertook a special 'SEVA' drive today in the service of the people and dedicated themselves to the service of people in times of the Covid-19 pandemic. "As a deliberately negligent and callous leadership in the central government was caught napping during the second coronavirus wave, which hit the country in January-February 2021, Indian National Congress and its frontal organisations, especially the Indian Youth Congress, have done stellar work in the service of fellow countrymen, with dedication and humility,” he said. “Providing free ambulance and hearse vehicles, oxygen and oxygen concentrators, medicines, and home isolation kits, from arranging plasma donors to tele-consultations, from providing dry ration to food packets and even assisting in cremation and burial of the loved ones; Indian National Congress and its workers have shown the fortitude and resilience in the most painful times," he claimed. "The Congress will continue to be at the service of every single Indian across the country to hold their hand, to be of service and to try and ease the troubles. These initiatives will be ongoing for as long the pandemic continues," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-time-for-pm-modi-to-act-instead-of-giving-speeches-advice-says-congress-988587.html
22-05-2021||National Politics||Will India's Covid-19 catastrophe hurt Narendra Modi?||India is suffering a coronavirus catastrophe with millions of infections and nearly 300,000 dead but it is likely to have a limited impact on the political fortunes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Here's why. A massive surge in cases has overwhelmed the health system in many areas. Officially, the death toll is nearing 300,000. But many experts say the true figure could be three or four times higher -- and maybe more. Hundreds of bodies have been dumped in rivers or buried in shallow graves. Barely three per cent of people are fully vaccinated.  India's top virologist recently quit a scientific advisory panel after criticising the government's "stubborn resistance to evidence-based policymaking". In early 2021 it appeared India might have overcome the pandemic. India has "saved the world from disaster by bringing the situation under control," Modi said on January 28. Huge political rallies for a string of elections and mass religious gatherings went ahead, including the Kumbh Mela with millions of mostly maskless pilgrims. The authorities did little to prepare for another wave of infections, critics say. Oxygen production was not increased and field hospitals were dismantled. Two recent surveys, Twitter hashtags like #Modiresign and a barrage of anecdotal evidence strongly suggest so.  Emblematic for many is the fact that all the while work has continued on a grandiose revamp of the Indian parliament area. "(Bodies) are literally floating in the river Ganga," said student Oindrila Ghosh, 19. "Why is the government prioritising this (project) more than the health and safety of the public?" Some rank-and-file supporters of Modi's Bharatiya Janatha Party (BJP) are unhappy. The government "made a terrible mistake by not planning for a Covid-19 second wave disaster," Amit, 38, a self-declared "hard-core" BJP supporter told AFP.  "This will make people like me not vote in the next election for the BJP, or any party." Shailja Jain, 28, said since voting for Modi in 2019 her support had already taken a hit from the BJP's "fascist, communal, casteist, hyper-capitalist agenda". "But their handling of the Covid-19 pandemic was the absolute last straw," the chartered accountant told AFP. Helped by its social media army, the BJP has gone on the offensive, blaming state governments and others for ignoring what it says were Modi's repeated warnings of a second wave. This week the BJP released a "toolkit" purportedly compiled by the opposition Congress party aimed at "spreading fake, negative news and stirring up discontent".  Congress called it bogus and Twitter labelled a tweet by the BJP's national spokesman featuring screenshots of the alleged masterplan as "manipulated media". The BJP failed to win the state election in West Bengal and did poorly in some constituencies in Uttar Pradesh. Some attribute this to Modi's handling of the pandemic. But local issues were big in these elections, and the BJP did well in Assam and Puducherry and made substantial gains in West Bengal despite failing to clinch the state. Nationally, the only real rival is the ailing Congress, and the next general election isn't scheduled till 2024. "The Congress has completely collapsed everywhere," said Kanchan Gupta from the Observer Research Foundation. "Once initial anger subsides, people (will) start looking at things more rationally," Gupta told AFP. Michael Kugelman from the Wilson Centre said the current situation "will be forgotten soon enough". This is the case even if the pandemic continues. "Modi is likely to go into the next election from a position of strength -- no matter how the pandemic plays out," he told AFP. But Pratap Bhanu Mehta, a contributor to the Indian Express daily, is not so sure. "This crisis is so personal to most people, it's not an abstract crisis. It's not happening to other people, it's happening everywhere," he told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-indias-covid-19-catastrophe-hurt-narendra-modi-988653.html
22-05-2021||National Politics||Y+ security given to LS MPs Sisir Kumar Adhikari, Dibyendu Adhikari||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has given Y+ security to Lok Sabha MPs Sisir Kumar Adhikari and Dibyendu Adhikari in West Bengal. The CRPF will provide security. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/y-security-given-to-ls-mps-sisir-kumar-adhikari-dibyendu-adhikari-988660.html
22-05-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena blames ONGC for barge P-305 tragedy, asks if Dharmendra Pradhan would resign||The Shiv Sena on Saturday held Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) responsible for the death of several personnel of the barge that sank off the Mumbai coast when cyclone Tauktae brushed past the city earlier this week and sought to know if Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan would resign owning the moral responsibility of the tragedy. In an editorial in its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, the party said the deaths were not caused due to a natural disaster, but it was a case of culpable homicide as ONGC did not take the cyclone warnings seriously. Barge P-305, which housed personnel engaged in maintenance work of an offshore oil drilling platform of state-run oil and gas major ONGC, sank on Monday evening during the cyclone. The official death toll in the tragedy has reached 60.  “Warning of the cyclone was given well in advance, but the ONGC ignored it and did not recall the 700 workers on the barge. The barge sank and 75 workers died - 49 bodies have been found and 26 are still missing,” the Sena said. “Had the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard not launched search and rescue operations, all the 700 people would have drowned in the sea. These workers may be employees of a private company, but they were doing oil rigging for ONGC. Hence, it was the duty of the ONGC administration to protect them,” it said. The party said it was surprised to know that ONGC did not take the cyclone warnings seriously when all the states on the west coast were preparing to counter its onslaught and Union Home Minister Amit Shah held discussions with the chief ministers of these states.  "The callous approach of ONGC administration is surprising. Hence the demand of filing a case of culpable homicide against it for its negligence is justified. Do petroleum minister, ONGC chairman, its board of directors have any responsibility or not?" it asked. The cyclone cannot be blamed for this tragedy at sea. It is not a natural disaster, but a case of culpable homicide, the party alleged. ONGC is one of the ‘navratna’ companies and the process of its privatisation has begun, the Sena said, adding that petroleum companies have given thousands of crores of rupees to the PM Cares Fund. But the companies failed to protect its workers. “Will petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan quit owning moral responsibility for the death of innocent people?” it asked. The party demanded punishment against those who did not act despite having prior information about the cyclone. "Those who did not act on the inputs are criminals," it said. On Thursday, the Sena had sought a high-level probe into the barge tragedy and demanded the resignation of Pradhan and the ONGC chairman. The party, which heads the government in Maharashtra, had also said that the death of workers on the ONGC barge was a man-made tragedy and the guilty must be punished severely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-blames-ongc-for-barge-p-305-tragedy-asks-if-dharmendra-pradhan-would-resign-988685.html
22-05-2021||National Politics||Congress, BJP fight as controversy over usage of 'Indian variant' grows||The Narendra Modi government has asked all social media platforms to remove any content that refers to the ‘Indian variant’ of the coronavirus, triggering a war of words with the opposition Congress. In a letter to all social media platforms, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said it had come to the knowledge that a “false statement” was being circulated online implying that an ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus is spreading across the country. “WHO has not associated the term ‘Indian Variant’ with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports,” the letter said and asked social media platforms to remove “all the content that names, refers to, or implies ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus from your platform immediately.” Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath took a jibe at Prime Minister Modi, saying he is “afraid of this Covid variant”.  “It started with Chinese corona. Now, it’s the Indian variant of coronavirus. Today, India’s President and Prime Minister Modi are afraid of this Covid variant. What toolkit is this? Our scientists are calling it the Indian variant. Only BJP advisers are not accepting it,” Kamal Nath said. He said that India is now identified with the new variant of the coronavirus that has prompted foreign countries such as Britain to suspend flights and bar entry of Indians. Hitting back at the Nath, senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar said the Congress is not only insulting the country but also weakening the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. “Such statements by Congress leaders are creating fear and confusion among the people. This is not the role of constructive opposition. Congress is now resorting to negative politics. Sonia Gandhi should explain, why is Congress resorting to negative politics,” Javadekar said.  BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya said the term ‘Indian variant’ existed only in the Congress toolkit and nowhere else.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-bjp-fight-as-controversy-over-usage-of-indian-variant-grows-988724.html
22-05-2021||National Politics||Kamal Nath kicks up political row with 'Bhartiya corona' remark||Former Madhya Pradesh CM Kamal Nath kicked up  a political row with his "Bhartiya corona" remark, inviting sharp reactions from the BJP, which slammed Congress for "insulting the nation." The row was triggered after Madhya Pradesh BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar uploaded a video clip on his Twitter handle, in which Nath was heard saying: "This started as China ka corona. Now India became so great that it has become the 'Indian corona' of the world. Britain's Prime Minister said they are afraid of Indian corona, and shut down all the flights. Students, who were doing jobs there, have been denied entry because of the fear that they will bring it with them. This is now our nation's identity. Not to talk of 'Mera Bharat Mahan', it has now become Mera Bharat Covid. Suppressing or hiding this won't do." In another video clip, Nath is also heard asking party workers to provoke farmers and tell them what the government is doing ("Yeh aag lagane ka mauka hai"). While BJP supporters condemned his remarks on Twitter with the hashtag #ArrestKamalnath, condemning Nath's remarks, Parashar said, "Kamal Nath, you have abused India...did not expect you will stoop so low in your slavery to the foreigners (a jibe at Sonia Gandhis' leadership). You should have been ashamed of saying Indian corona. Why do you fail to speak on China and Italy." BJP has repeatedly attacked Congress on Sonia's Italian origin and Rahul Gandhis' visit to the Communist China. Parashar also challenged the Congress to get the video probed as some called the video clip in which he is provoking farmers as fake. Nath later clarified that the BJP is not showing the full video. "Why are they releasing a five second video footage. They will not tell that. But they are doing politics on it," he said.Nath also slammed the central government saying "they are not fighting Covid but criticism." "They're busy in image management, not Covid management. Yesterday, I asked for info on bodies that arrived at crematoriums. They're lying to all and Madhya Pradesh is an example of it," Nath said. Facing a consistent campaign from Congress against the Government's handling of the pandemic, particularly its vaccination strategy, BJP went into a campaign mode not only to slam the former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister but also to question the Congress commitment to the cause. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar in Delhi hit out at Nath for linking a coronavirus variant with India and latched on to his remarks to accuse the Congress of making frequent statements to "insult" the country and weaken its fight against Covid-19. He ruled that Nath used the term "Indian corona" even as the World Health Organization (WHO) has already clarified that any variant is not named after any country. Javadekar said, "He (Nath) did not stop there and said 'hamari pahchan mera Bharat Covid'... This is an insult to India. Many Congress leaders are making such statements. Sonia Gandhi should tell as to why the Congress is doing such negative politics and why has she not condemned Kamal Nath's remarks." Drawing a parallel between Nath and Delhi Chief Minister of AAP Arvind Kejriwal, Madya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra said, "A few days back, we heard Arvind Kejriwal’s fake statement on Indian variant and Singapore. Kamal Nath is also calling it Indian Covid. This is sure that Kamal Nath has a connection with the toolkit."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kamal-nath-kicks-up-political-row-with-bhartiya-corona-remark-988818.html
22-05-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi accuses Narendra Modi of shedding crocodile tears on Covid-19 deaths||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said a crying prime minister is the government of India’s response to "the highest Covid deaths" in the country, devoid of vaccines and having the lowest GDP. Gandhi made the frontal attack against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the grim pandemic situation in the country, leading two other senior Congress leaders, P Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh, too to join him in the attack. "No Vaccines. Lowest GDP. Highest Covid deaths... GOI's response? PMCries," he said in an acerbic tweet on Friday, while also accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of shedding “crocodile tears” while paying homage to the people who died of Covid-19. No VaccinesLowest GDPHighest Covid deaths... GOI’s response? "Crocodiles are innocent," said the Congress leader in another tweet, in a dig at Prime Minister Modi turning emotional during his digital interaction with doctors in his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi on Friday. Crocodiles are innocent. मगरमच्छ निर्दोष हैं। On his Twitter handle, Gandhi also shared a chart on the global economic condition and pandemic situation, tweeted by the Union government’s former Chief Economic Advisor Kaushik Basu. The chart showed India’s GDP at minus eight against 3.8 of Bangladesh, 1.9 of China and O.4 of Pakistan. In the same chart, India was shown suffering 212 deaths for each million of its population due to Covid-19 against 0.4 deaths in Vietnam and two in China. "Due to the mismanagement of the Modi system, India has the black fungus epidemic along with the Covid pandemic," Gandhi said in yet another tweet, targeting the prime minister. "Along with the shortage of medicines for Covid, India also has a huge shortage of medicines for this big disease. The prime minister will soon be making a 'taali-thaali' (clapping and beating of plates) announcement to deal with the disease," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Another Congress leader Jairam Ramesh too attacked the government over the alleged poor pace of anti-Covid vaccination, saying the country needs vaccines, not “crocodile tears”. "Claim -- Jan 2021: Modi Govt will vaccinate 30 cr Indians fully by July end. Reality -- 22nd May: 4.1 cr Indians got both doses. Claim -- 21st May: India will fully vaccinate all adults by the end of 2021. Reality -- 21st May: Only 14 lakh vaccinated whole day," he said on Twitter. "We need vaccines, not crocodile tears," Ramesh added in his tweet. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram also cautioned the government saying both the IMF and WHO have cautioned India against the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination. "The claim of the Union health minister of getting 216 crore vaccine doses by December 31 to vaccinate the entire adult population by that date must be backed by hard data. So far, it is not," he said in a series of tweets. "We need data on the capacity of domestic producers, orders placed vaccine-wise, import contracts concluded, agreed schedule of delivery etc. Nothing has been disclosed so far,” he said in a tweet. "The final warning to the government is that if vaccination is not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave," he said. Chidambaram said the Modi government cannot say “we did not anticipate these consequences"'. The final warning to the government is that if vaccinations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave. "The government has been duly forewarned," he said. The Congress has been critical of the government's vaccination policy and slow pace of inoculations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-accuses-narendra-modi-of-shedding-crocodile-tears-on-covid-19-deaths-988860.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Now, Madhya Pradesh declares 'black fungus' an epidemic||The Madhya Pradesh government has declared black fungus or mucormycosis a notified disease in the state. The state Public Health and Family Welfare Department on Friday issued an order, in which it notified black fungus under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Madhya Pradesh Public Health Act. A notifiable disease is required by law to be reported to the government authorities. The collection of information allows the authorities to monitor the disease and provides early warning of possible outbreaks. The order came after Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a meeting on Friday evening, an official statement said. “Black fungus is declared as an epidemic in the state. There should be good arrangements for treatment of this disease. The availability of Amphotericin B (used in the treatment of black fungus) should be ensured for those undergoing treatment,” Chouhan said during the meeting. Four persons died of mucormycosis, a serious but rare fungal infection now affecting coronavirus patients, in Damoh and Balaghat districts of the state, officials said on Friday. As per the government order, the powers mentioned in the two Acts will be vested in district collectors, chief medical and health officers, civil surgeons, hospital superintendents, sub divisional officers and block medical officers. This notification will be effective till the next order, it said. On Thursday, the Centre had told the states and Union Territories to declare black fungus a notifiable disease, stating that the infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality among Covid-19 patients. Chouhan had held talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday and briefed him about the status of black fungus disease in the state, an official said. During the meeting held on Friday, the chief minister said that the positivity rate in Madhya Pradesh has dropped to 5.6 per cent. The state on Friday reported 4,384 new coronavirus cases and 79 fatalities, taking the infection tally to 7,57,119 and the toll to 7,394, the health department said. A total of 9,405 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the count of recoveries in the state to 6,82,100, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/now-madhya-pradesh-declares-black-fungus-an-epidemic-988693.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Terror hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch; arms, ammo seized||Security forces busted a terrorist hideout near the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Saturday and seized some arms and ammunition, the third such recovery in a fortnight, police said here. The recovery includes an AK-56 assault rifle, a magazine with 30 rounds, and two Chinese pistols and a magazine, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Poonch, Vinod Kumar said. The hideout was busted during a joint search operation by the police and the Army in Qasba village of the district, the officer said, adding that an FIR has been registered under relevant sections of the law and an investigation is on. Before this, 19 hand grenades were seized from another terrorist hideout in the Phagla area of Surankote on May 9. On May 18, two pistols and 11 rounds of ammunition were seized from Mahra village of Surankote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terror-hideout-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-arms-ammo-seized-988700.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Mayawati expresses concern over status of vaccination drive||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati on Saturday expressed serious concerns over the status of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 and asked the central and the state governments to pay attention to it. "The status of the vaccination drive to save the people of the country from the deadly coronavirus is quite frightening as compared to other countries. The second dose of the vaccine has been given to even fewer people which is very serious and worrying," the BSP supremo said in a tweet in Hindi. "The central and all state governments must pay attention to it. This is the demand of the BSP," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-expresses-concern-over-status-of-vaccination-drive-988709.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Will have to shut Covid-19 vaccination centres for 18-44 age group, stock over: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Covid-19 vaccination centres for those in the 18-44 years age group are being closed in the national capital due to lack of doses and appealed to the Centre to provide more vaccines. From Sunday, all vaccination centres for youths in Delhi will be closed as stocks have run out, he said in a press conference. Delhi requires 80 lakh doses a month to vaccinate its youth. But it only received 16 lakh doses in May. The Centre has further decreased Delhi's quota in June to 8 lakh doses, Kejriwal said. The national capital needs 2.5 crore doses to vaccinate all adults, he said, urging the Centre to raise the quota and supply to the city. Kejriwal said that the speed of spread of the coronavirus has significantly slowed down in Delhi. In the past 24 hours, around 2,200 cases were reported and the positivity rate is 3.5 per cent, he said. The chief minister extended four suggestions to the Centre to enhance vaccine availability in the country. The central government should within 24 hours direct all capable companies in the country to start manufacturing Covaxin as Bharat Biotech has agreed to share its formula, he said. Vaccines manufactured abroad should be used in India and the Centre needs to buy vaccines on the behalf of states, Kejriwal said. Foreign companies should be allowed to manufacture vaccines in India and the Centre should try to get vaccines from such countries that have more doses than what they need, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-have-to-shut-covid-19-vaccination-centres-for-18-44-age-group-stock-over-arvind-kejriwal-988714.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||'Corona curfew' in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal extended till June 1||The district administration in Bhopal on Saturday extended the Covid-19-induced curfew in the Madhya Pradesh capital till June 1, an official said. The 'Corona curfew' was first enforced on April 12 due to the spike in Covid-19 cases and it has been extended several times. The last extension was valid till May 24 and the curfew was supposed to be lifted at 6 am on that day. According to the order issued by district collector Avinash Lavaniya, the curfew has been extended in the areas under Bhopal Municipal Corporation and Berasia town till 6 am on June 1, the official added. The essential services and emergency travel are exempted from the purview of the restrictions, he said. According to the official, the Covid-19 caseload in Bhopal, as of Saturday, was 1,16,481, including 895 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-curfew-in-madhya-pradeshs-bhopal-extended-till-june-1-988718.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Over 8 lakh migrant workers left Delhi in first four weeks of Covid lockdown: Report||Over eight lakh migrant workers left the national capital in the first four weeks of the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a report from the Delhi Transport Department. Between April 19 and May 14, a total of 8,07,032 migrant workers left Delhi for their home states in buses, out of which 3,79,604 left during the first week of the lockdown itself. The number started declining from thereon, 2,12,448 left in the second week, 1,22,490 in the third week and 92, 490 in the fourth week. "The timely coordination with transport authorities of neighbouring states, especially Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand by the Government of NCT of Delhi has helped about eight lakhs migrant workers to reach their destination without any difficulty," read the report. There were 21,879 interstate bus trips during the four weeks of the lockdown, it added. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had first imposed a lockdown on April 19 which was later extended multiple times, lastly on May 16. Learning from the past experience of the first surge of pandemic in March 2020 when the city experienced heavy movement of migrant workers to their native places, the state Transport Department this time had deputed an adequate number of buses to facilitate migrant workers to reach their destination. "Transport department, Govt. of NCT of Delhi prepared a plan for deployment of 500 cluster buses on interstate routes under emergency. There was no complaint of overcharging as the interstate buses were owned and operated by state governments," the report said. It also mentioned that "train travel" was a preferred mode by migrants in the current lockdown as trains were operational unlike the last year's coronavirus-induced lockdown in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-8-lakh-migrant-workers-left-delhi-in-first-four-weeks-of-covid-lockdown-report-988723.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 turns Kashmir’s lavish weddings to an austere affair||The ongoing Covid-19 clampdown has severely affected all spheres of life in Kashmir, and weddings are no exception. What is usually celebrated with a lavish function is now being conducted as an austere ceremony. The peak wedding season in Kashmir usually starts in late April. However, this year's fasting month of Ramazan started from April 13 and ended on May 13. Hundreds of families in Srinagar had planned weddings after Eid, but the Covid lockdown has reduced marriage functions to a simple and close family affair. As per guidelines issued by the J&K administration, only 25 guests are allowed to attend any marriage function in Srinagar. On an average, 400-500 guests are usually invited to a middle-class Kashmiri wedding that lasts for three days. A variety of dishes called ‘wazwan’, mostly non-vegetarian, are cooked for the guests. However, due to the prevailing situation, the big and ostentatious weddings have been replaced by simple gatherings of close relatives and some neighbors. “We have a large family but to choose only 25 guests is a huge issue. Whom to invite and whom to leave is a tough ask,” Hilal Ahmad, whose son is getting married this Sunday, told DH. He said they even had to leave close relatives out of the guest list, which was an embarrassing situation. “Not inviting your nephews and nieces to a marriage function, not only in Kashmir but anywhere, is unheard of. But the situation has forced people to do so as everybody is concerned about safety,” Ahmad added. Last year, several families postponed weddings hoping for respite in the Covid-19 situation this year. Marriage dates are finalized in Kashmir usually four to six months prior. “As the situation had improved during winter, we finalized the marriage date of my daughter for May-end. We had postponed the marriage last year too, but now we have no other option but to go for an austere function,” said Muneera, whose daughter is getting married next week. She said their plan to cook over 600 kg of meat and chicken for the wedding feast was reduced to 40 kg as the wedding was reduced to a few guests. Many families that had reserved hotels and planned wedding receptions at marriage halls have also cancelled the bookings. The cancellation of wedding functions has dealt a serious blow to the livelihood of people associated with the trade. From tent owners to ‘wazas’ (cooks) and mutton sellers to dry fruit and bakery shops, the clampdown couldn't have come at a worse time. “This is the third season where mass cancellation of bookings happened. Earlier, in August 2019, we faced the same situation after J&K’s special status was revoked; and last year, the Covid restrictions gave another blow to our business. We were expecting good business this season, but it seems our miseries have no end,” Shahid, a tent owner, said. He said more than a dozen employees are without work. “Initially, I was paying them some money from my savings. But now I am myself out of money,” Shahid added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-turns-kashmir-s-lavish-weddings-to-an-austere-affair-988726.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 2,260 Covid-19 cases, 182 deaths; positivity rate drops to 3.58%||Delhi recorded 2,260 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest since March 1, and 182 fatalities on Saturday with the positivity rate slipping to 3.58 per cent, even as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal cautioned that falling numbers did not mean the dangers have been stalled. According to the latest health bulletin issued by the health department here, the number of deaths recorded in the city has also dipped to less the 200 the first time since April 18. Delhi had recorded 3,846 Covid-19 cases and 235 deaths on Wednesday, 3,231 cases and 233 deaths on Thursday, and 3,009 cases and 252 deaths on Friday. On Saturday, 2,260 cases and 182 deaths were recorded, with a much lower positivity rate of 3.58 per cent, according to the health bulletin. This is the lowest daily spike in cases recorded since March 31 (1,819) and the first time that the count has gone below the 3,000-mark since April 1, when 2,790 people tested positive for the viral disease. The new fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 in the national capital to 23,013 on Saturday. The positivity rate was 5.5 per cent on Thursday and 4.76 per cent on Friday, slipping gradually to less than 4 per cent on Saturday. In an online briefing, Kejriwal said, “In the past 24 hours, only about 2,200 cases have come up in Delhi, and the infection rate has also declined in the past 24 hours, and come down to about 3.5 per cent. But this does not mean that the dangers of the coronavirus have been stalled. It persists". "We have to take every measure to save ourselves from the coronavirus," he said. As the cases registered a mark fall, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain shared the bulletin copy on Twitter, and wrote that the number of daily cases of the disease in the city stands at 2,260. "These are lowest numbers after 31 March. Still need to take all precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour," he added. Amid escalating cases of black fungus in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Jain earlier in the day had asked people to be watchful and not resort to self-medication, particularly of steroids, and said about 15 hospitals in the city are treating patients of mucormycosis. Mucormycosis or black fungus is more common among people whose immunity has got lowered, due to Covid, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues, or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway", while sounding a tone of caution. Kejriwal on Saturday said, “To save Delhi and the country from the third wave, there is only one way – vaccinate maximum people in minimum time. Beds, ICUs, oxygen, and medicines, we are already preparing for all this, but the vaccine is the strongest weapon to save ourselves from the wrath of the coronavirus. The shortage of vaccines is not just the concern of the government, the ordinary man is also scared of the problem of shortage of vaccines." Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 2, the city registered a record 407 deaths, according to official data. A total of 63,155 tests, including 43,061 RT-PCR tests and 20,094 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Saturday. The number of cumulative cases on Saturday stood at 14,15,219. Over 13.6 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases decreased to 31,308 on Saturday from 35,683 a day before. The number of people under home isolation dipped to 18,060 from 20,673 on Friday while the number of containment zones dropped to 48,429 from 50,074 a day before, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-2260-covid-19-cases-182-deaths-positivity-rate-drops-to-358-988732.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis: Allow foreign companies to manufacture vaccines in India, urges Delhi CM Kejriwal||Vaccination centres for youths in Delhi will be closed from Sunday as stocks have run out, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday as he urged the Centre to allow foreign companies to manufacture vaccines in the country. In a digital address, he said the Centre should provide more vaccines to the national capital, which require 80 lakh doses immediately to vaccinate its youth; it has received only 16 lakh doses so far. He said the Centre has decreased Delhi's quota in June to 8 lakh, adding that the Capital needs 2.5 crore doses to vaccinate all adults. He urged the Centre to raise the quota. "From Sunday, all vaccination centres for those in 18-44 years age group in Delhi will be closed as stocks have run out," he said. Kejriwal also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that Delhi has run out of stock and it will have to close vaccination centres for youths immediately, besides raising the issue of halving the number of vaccines for June compared to May. Giving four suggestions, he said the Centre should direct all companies within 24 hours to make vaccines as Bharat Biotech has agreed to share Covaxin's formula with other firms. "Foreign companies should be allowed to produce vaccines in India. Vaccines manufactured abroad should be used in India and the Centre needs to buy vaccines on the behalf of states. The Centre should try to get vaccines from such countries that have more doses than what they need," he added. On the situation in Delhi, he said the spread of Covid-19 has "significantly slowed down" in Delhi. According to the medical bulletin, there were 2,260 cases in the 24 hours while the positivity rate has slipped to 3.58%. The death toll has slipped below 200 with the Capital recording 182 deaths. On Friday, there were 3,009 cases while the positivity rate was 4.76%. There were 252 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-allow-foreign-companies-to-manufacture-vaccines-in-india-urges-delhi-cm-kejriwal-988733.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||NIA files charge sheet in Kishtwar weapon snatching case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) Saturday filed a charge-sheet before a special court in Jammu against Hizbul Mujahideen militants, who were involved in weapon snatching in hilly Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir. A spokesperson of the NIA said the charge-sheet was filed against Jaffer Hussain, Taraq Hussain Giri (both residents of Kishtwar) and Tanveer Ahmed Malik of neighboring Doda in RC-08/2019/NIA/JMU. “Charges will be abated against other three terrorists involved in the crime - Osama Bin Javed alias Osama, Haroon Abbas Wani and Zahid Hussain alais Zahid, who have been killed in encounters with security forces,” he said. “The case was initially registered as FIR no. 31/2019 of Kishtwar PS on 08.03.2019 under sections 392 RPC, sections 7, 25 & 30 of Arms Act and sections 16,18 20 &23 of UA (P) Act relating to snatching of service weapon from escort incharge of DM, Kishtwar. The NIA re-registered the case as RC-08/2019/NIA/JMU on 02.11.2019 and took over the investigation. “Investigation has revealed that the instant case was one of the several terrorist acts committed by Hizbul Mujahideen during 2018-2019 in Kishtwar. The objective of all these terror acts was to revive militancy in Kishtwar by looting arms and targeting prominent persons of a particular community to create terror among the members of that community,” the spokesperson said. “Osama, Haroon and Zahid were terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen in Doda-Kishtwar belt and were involved in many terror acts. Accused Jaffer Hussain, Tanveer Malik and Taraq Giri were providing logistics support and organising shelter for the HM terrorists involved in the multiple terrorist incidents,” he said and added further investigation in the case continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-charge-sheet-in-kishtwar-weapon-snatching-case-988742.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Civil society groups on forefront to mitigate sufferings of Covid victims in Kashmir||As Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc in Kashmir like most parts of the country, the response of the civil society groups to mitigate the sufferings of the victims have been overwhelming. A number of NGOs and volunteers have been an oasis of hope for people in Kashmir, going into overdrive to help mitigate the suffering of the poor and needy during the pandemic. From arranging oxygen to food, helping in burial of patients who die due to Covid to providing monetary help to poor families who have lost their livelihood due to the lockdown, civil society in Kashmir has been at the forefront of the fight against the deadly pathogen. It is not only during the Covid crisis, but Kashmir has a long history of community support as NGOs and volunteers have always been on the frontline during earthquakes, floods and man-made disasters. This time also hundreds of civil society members in Kashmir have dedicated themselves to fight Covid-19 as hospitals are struggling to cope with a relentless inflow of patients mainly complaining of bilateral pneumonia and who need oxygen support. Shabir Ahmad, a shopkeeper from north Kashmir, whose family tested Covid positive earlier this month, was clueless after his diabetic mother’s condition worsened. “I got panicked as oxygen levels had dipped to 70 and she faced breathlessness. I requested some relatives to shift her to Srinagar for treatment, but nobody was willing to come forward due to the fear,” he told DH. It was one of his friend’s who asked Ahmad to call the helpline number of Help Poor Voluntary Trust (HPVT), an NGO, which sent an ambulance during night and ferried his mother to JLNM hospital in Srinagar. “Had they (HPVT) not taken my mother to the hospital she might have died at home,” he said while expressing gratitude to the members of the NGO for the selfless work they are doing. The Haj House in Srinagar, otherwise only used when local Muslims travel to Saudi Arabia for the pilgrimage to Mecca, was converted into a 100-bedded Covid-19 hospital by volunteers of Kashmir Athrout, a charitable organization in collaboration with the District Disaster Management Authority. The ambitious project attracted volunteers from all spheres of society, including doctors. ‘Athrout’ chairman Bashir Ahmed Nadwi said besides providing oxygen support to the 100-bed hospital they are also giving meals to patients undergoing treatment in the makeshift hospital. Different NGOs like Athrout Kashmir, SRO Kashmir, Help Foundation, Help Poor Voluntary Trust, J&K Yateem Foundation, Silk Volunteer Kashmir are providing oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders to Covid patients while Ehsaas International is providing free tele medical consultation to the public. Mohammad Afaaq Saeed, a businessman, who is associated with Social Reforms Organisation (SRO) Kashmir, says they have kept 250 oxygen cylinders, 223 oxygen concentrators, 250 non-invasive machines, four ambulances and other equipment available for Covid patients. “Our volunteers work 24X7 on the ground to mitigate the problems of Covid patients. We receive dozens of calls from distraught families of Covid patients every day,” he said.  The SRO not only provides coronavirus patients with oxygen support, doctor consultations and food but also helps in burial of people who die due to Covid. The NHO has even established a community graveyard where they have buried three victims since last year. There are hundreds of civil society members like Sayeed who are on the forefront of providing succor to the needy patients in this hour of tragedy across the Valley. With thousands of new Covid-19 cases and dozens of deaths reported daily in J&K, volunteers and community groups continue to be the cornerstone of the pandemic response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civil-society-groups-on-forefront-to-mitigate-sufferings-of-covid-victims-in-kashmir-988754.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||DDMA asks pharmacies to display available stock, cost of Covid-19 drugs prominently||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Saturday directed authorised dealers and pharmacies selling Covid-19 medicines to display available stock and cost of the drugs prominently at their shops. In an order, the DDMA said it has been noticed that coronavirus patients are facing difficulties in procuring essential Covid-19 drugs on time and at the prescribed rates, causing hindrance in timely and effective treatment. The drugs are Ivermectin tablets, Doxycyclin tablets/capsule, Methyl Prednisolone tablets and injections, Dexamethasone tablets and injections, Budosenide Inhalers and Respules Favipiravir tablets, Apixaban tablets and Enoxaparin Sodium/ Clexane, it said. The order said it is necessary to disseminate proper and reliable information to people in respect of availability and pricing of these drugs. "... all authorised dealers/retailers/sellers of essential Covid-19 management drugs in the NCT shall display the information of stock position and MRP of all these drugs at conspicuous places at their business premises for information of general public," the order said.  The order also directed the medicine sellers to update the stock position of these drugs four times a day -- at 10 AM, 2 PM, 6 PM and 9 PM respectively. The district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police have been directed to ensure strict compliance of the order. "In case any person is found violating the aforesaid directions , the defaulting person shall be proceeded against as per the provisions Section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC, the Epidemic Act, 1897 Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Rules 1945 and other applicable laws," it said. The order was issued following the directions of Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal. Baijal had instructed that drugs related to Covid treatment should made available to the people. He had said that it should also be ensured that hoarding, over charging or black marketing of such drugs/medicines does not happen by prominently displaying stocks and rates of such drugs by dealers/retailers/sellers for information of people at large, an official said. "Accordingly, the government on Saturday issued an order under the aegis of DDMA which will be strictly enforced in letter and spirit by the Drug Controller, DMs and DCPs," the official added. The L-G has further instructed that a similar order regarding equipments and machines like oximeters, oxygen cylinders/concentrators etc, related to Covid should also be issued at the earliest, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-asks-pharmacies-to-display-available-stock-cost-of-covid-19-drugs-prominently-988767.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Black fungus declared notifiable disease in Uttarakhand||With black fungus cases rising in Uttarakhand, it was declared a notifiable disease in the state under the Epidemic Act, 1897 on Saturday. So far, 64 people have been infected with black fungus in the state and of them, four have died. Black fungus or mucormycosis has been declared a notifiable disease for its co-ordinated treatment as a growing number of people are contracting the infection post Covid-19, Health Secretary Pankaj Kumar Pandey said. The state government also issued an SOP on Saturday for the judicious distribution of Amphotericin B, a drug used in treating black fungus patients. Amphotericin B should be provided to only government medical colleges, institutions and Covid-dedicated hospitals on payment after they formally requisition for its supply on the prescribed format giving details of the patients and nature of infection. Rashmi Pant and Kailash Gunjyal have been appointed as the nodal officers for scrutinising the requisitions for Kumaon and Garhwal regions respectively, the SOP said. The current SOP supersedes an earlier order issued on May 18 for the judicious use of the drug, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/black-fungus-declared-notifiable-disease-in-uttarakhand-988781.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||J&K: Some DDC members willing to resign due to govt's indifference, claims Mehbooba Mufti||PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday claimed that a group of DDC members in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir have offered their resignation citing government indifference and not being allowed to tour their constituencies on security grounds since the election last year. Mufti posted on Twitter a video of the disgruntled District Development Council (DDC) members from the central Kashmir district which was purportedly shot on Eid-ul-Fitr last week. “Detaining DDC members from Budgam since 7 months in the name of security defeats the purpose of their election. Held against their will, admin has also prevented them from touring their constituencies. They are so fed up that they have offered to resign @OfficeOfLGJandK,” Mufti said in a tweet. In the video, the members said the government has no plans for them and they were not being allowed to visit their constituencies. “It is unfortunate that we are living under detention since the past seven months. We are far away from our families and the education of our children has also suffered. The government has not paid us any salary so far,” one of the members said. They offered their resignation from the council to which they were elected last year. “If the government has no plans for us, then please accept our resignation… Those who do not want any security, want to live in their homes, and are ready to give an undertaking should be allowed to go. This will also save the government some money,” they said. The members said they needed to visit their constituencies to help the people in need. “If we cannot help the people in the times of natural disasters or fire incidents, then what good are we? In that case, it is better that the government accepts our resignation,” they said. Another member of the group said it was unfortunate that they were not allowed to move out even on Eid. “It is unfortunate that today is Eid and even prisoners are allowed to celebrate it with their families, but we, who are called public representatives, are not allowed,” the member said in the video. Meanwhile, officials said the DDC members have been put up in cluster accommodations for their security and they were not detained. “There is a security threat and that is why they have been put up at secure accommodations. They are free to go wherever they want to, but have to follow proper SOPs like they have to inform the police in advance about their visit or whatever their need is,” officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-some-ddc-members-willing-to-resign-due-to-govts-indifference-claims-mehbooba-mufti-988792.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh to ease coronavirus curfew from June: CM||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday announced that the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state would be gradually relaxed from the next month. "Our target is to free our state of Covid-19 by May 31. We will have to unlock the coronavirus-induced curfew gradually from June 1. The world has to move but we will need to unlock in such a manner that Covid-19 doesn't spread again," he said at a meeting to review the coronavirus situation. Lockdown-like restrictions to contain the spread of coronavirus infection -- termed as `curfew' by the state government -- are in force in many cities and towns of MP. In most of the districts including Bhopal they have been extended till May 31. Several localities in major cities would already be free of Covid-19 infection, Chouhan said in the meeting, a video of which was tweeted by his official Twitter handle. "Identify the spots where coronavirus infection is still present and make micro-containment zones. Infected persons should either be isolated at home or shifted to Covid Care Centres,”, the chief minister said. The ongoing restrictions should be strictly implemented to break the chain of infection, Chouhan added. The positivity rate of Covid-19 -- the proportion of infections found among those tested -- has come down to 4.82 per cent as of Saturday, he noted. At the peak of the second wave in the state, the positivity rate had crossed 20 per cent. In 79,737 tests conducted in the state on Saturday, 3,844 persons tested positive, while 9,327 patients were also given discharge during the day, the chief minister informed. The recovery rate in the state has gone up to 90.86 percent, Chouhan added. The third phase of `Kill-Corona' campaign in the state will be completed on May 24 and the fourth phase should be started after that, he instructed. Medical kits should be provided to every suspected Covid-19 patient with symptoms such as cold and cough, he said. On Friday, the state had reported 4,384 new coronavirus cases and 79 deaths, taking the caseload to 7,57,119, and death toll to 7,394.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-to-ease-coronavirus-curfew-from-june-cm-988821.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Coronavirus curfew extended till May 31 in Uttar Pradesh||The partial coronavirus curfew in Uttar Pradesh has been extended till 7 am on May 31, a state government statement said here on Saturday. Earlier, the UP government had imposed the restrictions till 7 am on May 24. "The Uttar Pradesh government is committed to safeguard the life and livelihood of people of the state. Keeping this in mind, the policy of partial coronavirus curfew was adopted,” the statement said, adding that the measure gave positive results. "In this regard, a decision has been taken to extend the partial coronavirus curfew in the state till 7 am on May 31," the statement added. Coronavirus vaccination drive, industrial activities and other essential services will continue during the period, the statement said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-curfew-extended-till-may-31-in-uttar-pradesh-988830.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi government likely to extend Covid-19 lockdown by another week||The Delhi government is likely to extend the ongoing lockdown by another week, although the Covid situation is improving in the city with less number of cases and declining positivity rate in the past few days, official sources said on Saturday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had first imposed a lockdown on April 19 which was later extended multiple times, lastly on May 16. In the last 24 hours, around 2,200 cases were reported in the city and the positivity rate too declined to 3.5 per cent, Kejriwal said in an online briefing earlier in the day. "But this does not mean the threat of coronavirus has been averted. We have to take all the steps to safeguard against coronavirus," he said. The chief minister had said on Friday that he would have a discussion with the Lt governor and share the decision taken in the meeting, when asked by reporters about any relaxation in lockdown in view of the improving situation. "The ongoing second wave has been very fatal and there are little chances that lockdown will be relaxed. It is highly likely that another weeklong extension will be announced by the government," the sources said. Community platform LocalCircles conducted a survey in which 68 per cent respondents from Delhi favoured a weeklong extension of the lockdown, said founder of LocalCircles Sachin Tapadia. The percentage of respondents favouring lockdown extension was 85 per cent in the last two weeks, he said. Brijesh Goyal, the chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry(CTI), said the opinion of traders was divided over extension of the lockdown as revealed in a survey conducted by it. "Fifty per cent traders of Delhi are in favour of extending the lockdown for another one week and the remaining 50 per cent supported opening the city," he said. Goyal said the survey also revealed that 85 per cent of factory owners were in favour of opening up all types of industrial activities shut due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-likely-to-extend-covid-19-lockdown-by-another-week-988845.html
22-05-2021||North and Central||White fungus case reported in Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur; doctor says infection common, curable||A 55-year-old man who had recovered from Covid-19 has been diagnosed with `white fungus', a type of fungal infection, in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh even as the state is dealing with an outbreak of mucormycosis or `black fungus' among coronavirus patients or survivors, a health official said. Though it was said to be the `first reported case' in the state during the ongoing second wave of coronavirus pandemic, a senior doctor said white fungus is quite common and curable. Known as Aspergillus Flavus infection in medical parlance, it is not a new disease, nor is it as fatal as mucormycosis, and is curable with commonly available medicines, she said. The 55-year-old patient was operated on May 17 after complaining of persistent headache and eye pain and a test on Friday revealed that he had white fungus in the nose, said Dr Kavita Sachdeva, head of the ENT department at government-run Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College hospital in Jabalpur. "He is recovering well and will be discharged shortly," she said. White fungus is curable with commonly available medicines and does not need expensive injections unlike in the case of mucormycosis, nor is it as deadly, Dr Sachdeva added. "White fungus is not rare and many people have been cured of it," she said. This infection is more common in rural areas as it is carried by dust, hay or other such particles, she said. "It has no direct connection with diabetes, but diabetes aggravates most infections, bacterial and fungal," she added. On average, five white fungus patients visit the hospital a month, Dr Sachdeva said. "By contrast, mucormycosis is rare. We get eight to ten cases in the entire year," she added. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang said on Saturday that the state has reported 650 confirmed cases of black fungus so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/white-fungus-case-reported-in-madhya-pradeshs-jabalpur-doctor-says-infection-common-curable-988868.html
22-05-2021||Opinion||European Union's Indo-Pacific strategy||There is a buzz around India’s breadth of relationship with Europe, and in equal measure, the European Union (EU)'s views on India and the Indo-Pacific from a new prism. After remaining ambivalent to the emerging construct that many saw as one driven by the United States to contain the rise of China, recently the Council of European Union published its strategy paper towards the Indo-Pacific. “…the EU’s intention to reinforce its strategic focus, presence and actions in this region of prime strategic importance for EU interests. The aim is to contribute to regional stability, security, prosperity and sustainable development, at a time of rising challenges and tensions in the region," the paper noted. It asked the High Representatives and the European Commission to prepare a joint communication on cooperation among member-states in the region by September this year. Among the countries in Europe, France was the first to get off the block by adopting a strategy on the Indo-Pacific in 2018. French interest comes naturally as the country holds territories in Africa and the southern Pacific. Subsequently, other countries in Europe, like Germany and The Netherlands, came up with their vision for the region. Increasingly, one of the areas of convergence among different countries is on the contours of the Indo-Pacific, which initially was envisaged by the United States as the waters occupying the expanse from Hollywood, the West Coast of America, to Bollywood, the west coast of India. For New Delhi, that space meant the two oceans' waves lapping the shores of the Pacific up to the shores of Africa. The EU document specifies the region as one ranging from the east coast of Africa to the Pacific Island states with an underpinning of upholding democracy, human rights, the rule of law and respect for international law. A strong and noticeable feature of the strategy cleared by the foreign ministers of the 27 countries Bloc characterised the region as one that represents the economic and strategic centre of gravity while recommitting the EU politically to the region. Now that countries around the globe are preparing for a new order as the world slowly comes out of the global health pandemic, the EU realises the current dynamic in the Indo-Pacific gives rise to intense geopolitical competition that in turn brings into play tensions on trade and supply chains, among others. In its strategy paper, the EU reasons its standpoint on the Indo-Pacific. The region contributes 60 per cent of the global GDP and two-thirds of global growth having three major economies - China, Japan and India – outside of the EU. The EU estimates that by 2030 nearly 90 per cent of the 2.4 billion middle-class members will be from the region and countries in the region will remain at the forefront of the digital economy and technological advancements. To top it, the EU is a leading investor, a big trading partner and ahead of others as a development aid provider in the region. These are compelling reasons for the EU to come out with a perspective on the Indo-Pacific and the imperative of working together with the Asian continent on other challenges like climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution. Geo-economic construct remains a key focus area and the EU is working to deepen engagement in this sector after entering into Free Trade Agreements with Japan, South Korea, Vietnam and Singapore while deciding to restart negotiations with India, which remain stalled since 2013. In this context, the Bilateral Investment Treaty that the EU signed with Beijing last December gave European companies equal status in China. The agreement came after seven years of discussions but soon ran into rough weather in the European Parliament on sanctions over some EU politicians. The Bloc remains sensitive to human rights and concerns over Beijing’s treatment of Uyghurs and Muslims in the Xinjiang region. On May 20, the EU Parliament voted on a resolution to freeze ratification of the agreement. The EU vision of the Indo-Pacific comes in the backdrop of another development. The United Kingdom made public its ‘tilt’ towards the Indo-Pacific that, among others, emphasises economic engagement with countries in the region. That the British determination came after a formal post-Brexit break with the EU underscores its significance. Yet, the EU strategy is not just economic engagement. The paper mentions developing partnerships in defence and security areas, specifically maritime security, malicious cyber-attacks, terrorism, organised crime and emerging technologies. For a continent and many of its member-states depending on trade that runs through the region, keeping the sea lanes of communication open is a priority. The factsheet prepared by the EU emphasises the Bloc will protect critical maritime routes through capacity building for partners and improve domain awareness. It includes organising more joint exercises and port calls between the Indo-Pacific naval units and EU's counter-piracy naval force, encouraging partner countries to participate in the EU military and civilian common security and defence policy missions. The EU also aims to expand its security and defence dialogue with more partners in ASEAN Defence Dialogue. India, like other countries in the region, awaits how the strategy rolls out. Despite the lack of specific mention, China remains the focus as countries around the world work to come up with ways in dealing with the challenge. (K V Prasad is a New Delhi-based journalist.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/european-unions-indo-pacific-strategy-988734.html
22-05-2021||Opinion||The airborne Covid-19 threat is confirmed - what to do about it?||By Faye Flam, You know something is wrong with the public health messaging in the US when a tow truck driver is giving out better information on Covid-19 transmission than the WHO or CDC. His words of wisdom to me, when he came to tow my car back to the dealer earlier this spring, was that if you’re indoors with people and one of them is infected, you can still get infected even if everyone is wearing a mask. And if you’re outdoors and someone is infected, you’re probably not going to get it. He was speaking from direct experience, having done essential work through the worst of the pandemic. He said he’d seen co-workers get sick and that his boss had died. And he was right. The SARS-CoV2 virus can travel on very small particles that disperse quickly outdoors but can build up inside. Indoors, these particles can affect people who stay more than six feet away. And the hodgepodge of masks Americans have adopted may provide some protection, but they don’t render an unsafe situation safe. Though scientists have been discussing airborne transmission for months, it was only this week that the WHO and CDC made this official. With the vaccine rollout still in its early days globally, those officials should follow up this belated admission with guidance unvaccinated people can use to minimise their risk. Clarifying the word “airborne” would be a good place to start. The scientific meaning isn’t the same as its common meaning, and so people may wrongly assume that outdoor air is dangerous. As a recent article in the New York Times reported, news about the concept of airborne transmission was compelling people in India to close their windows rather than open them. Indeed, reports on airborne transmission can be unnecessarily panic-inducing, implying that risk is nearly unavoidable, and that there’s no safe distance from our fellow humans. It’s true that the virus can build up in indoor environments in a way that can still pose a risk even if people wear masks and stay more than six feet apart. But that risk can be mitigated by opening windows and wearing N95 masks, and by keeping exposure short. A quick trip to the supermarket is going to be safer than a long meal in a restaurant or an exercise class. And because the virus is primarily traveling on smaller particles, the risk is tiny outdoors, even if someone passes within six feet. Indoor restaurants, therefore, are not rendered safe by rules that dictate people put on a mask when they’re not eating, or by most of the plexiglass dividers between tables. Opening windows does help, as would offering a warning that unvaccinated people are taking risks by dining inside. This has long been known — though officials were slow to admit it. Last May, I interviewed Muge Cevik, an infectious disease specialist at the University of St. Andrews in the UK. She had been collecting all the data she could find from contact tracing around the world to see how the disease was actually being transmitted. There were reports that so-called superspreading events had happened primarily in offices, at business conferences, in retail stores where people lingered, and indoor restaurants. Beyond superspreading, there was lots of transmission in homes. She found that the amount of time people spent in a closed environment matters. And the greater the number of people in an enclosed space, the higher the odds that one of them is contagious. That’s why in Japan, people have long been warned to avoid the three Cs — crowds, closed spaces and close contact. Useful public health messages don’t need to be complicated. It’s not too late to do a better job on public health messaging and prioritising. In countries where people are returning to offices and other workspaces, ventilation should be a higher priority than sanitising surfaces. In India, where the pandemic is raging, officials should stop wasting resources on drones spraying disinfectant on parks. Here in America, we’ve worried too much about 15-minute grocery store trips and have taken false comfort in a six-foot distance. We have spent far too much mental energy enraged at each other for going unmasked to the beach, or taking masks off in a parking lot — assigning other people’s behavior an outsized role in our own risk. A better understanding of what airborne transmission really means can help us better manage our own risks and preserve our ability feel good about our fellow human beings. And, of course, should motivate more of us to get the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-airborne-covid-19-threat-is-confirmed-what-to-do-about-it-988812.html
22-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Staying positive||“Variety is the very spice of life, that gives it all the flavour” is a quote by William Cowper. Undoubtedly, with the explosion of the internet, a variety of things have kept us happy and engaged in these locked up days. Sitting in the comfort of our homes, everything that we wish to see or listen to is just a click away - films, education, fashion, health and fitness, literary fests, and so much more. Even those who had no time to take small breaks are reduced to do just this. In a way, the lockdown has bridged the generation gap. We have adapted to the new normal of being laid back. I call my friends frequently just for chit-chat. Indeed not Covid topic but to find out how they are coping. Mostly the response is, ”Oh, what else? I eat to sleep and sleep to eat and am gaining pounds..." A peripatetic pal is focussed on taking virtual tours around the world. An arty senior roams around in the art galleries to see the paintings in all detail, which he would not have covered in his lifetime. Another friend spends his time listening to his favourite ragas. For him, the music never sounded so melodious, tuned to the perfect pitch, in the comfort of his lounge. The foodie friend loves going through recipes to stir up the easiest and nutritious platter. Older women who had given up knitting are vigorously at it now, knitting scarves and beautifully designed sweaters for their grandchildren. Green-thumbed friends are busy with terrace and balcony garden meeting and giving tips to each other about garden care. With so much going on, people who are into yoga, music and storytelling cannot sit idle. Anything including clutter clearing around the house is enough to keep one active. Despite all this, we are yearning for our good old times. Will things get back to the original state? Will this lethargic condition be shed? Will our relationships with colleagues, family and friends resume? When such apprehensions fog up my mind, I hear the whistle of the garbage van. The boys swiftly swing each collection to the pile. The newspaper man tosses the roll to each house accurately. The milk boy places the sachets into the hanging bags of our homes. The sweepers clean the streets without fail. To top it all, filter coffee aroma hits my breath. Finally, the fiery but cheerful entry of our house-help armed with mask and sanitiser adds more positive vibes. Positivity is a catalyst that helps in planning the day without gloom! As long as we are reported ‘negative,’ we can think positive and carry on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/staying-positive-988610.html
22-05-2021||Second Edit||Israel-Palestine: US fell short on intent, diplomacy||A ceasefire between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas, which came into effect on Friday, has brought to an end eleven days of ferocious fighting. At least 240 people were killed either by Hamas rockets or Israeli aerial strikes, the overwhelming majority of them – 232, including women and children – were Gazans. Both the conflict actors, the Israeli government and Hamas, are busy spinning victory narratives. While Israel has claimed “unprecedented military gains”, Hamas has said that it forced Israel to agree to a truce. Understandably, civilians, who bore the brunt of the fighting, who lost friends and family and whose homes were reduced to rubble in the relentless bombing, are not claiming victory. Whether the ceasefire will last is hard to say but it will give civilians a respite. Egypt brokered the truce between Israel and Hamas. This was possible because of the relationship Cairo has with the conflict actors. While Egypt and Israel are strategic partners, Cairo wields influence over Hamas as it provides Gaza with the only passage to the outside world that is outside Israel’s control. Importantly, a US role was restricted by the fact that it has declared Hamas a terrorist organisation and hence cannot negotiate with it. The Israel-Palestine crisis is the first major foreign policy challenge for US President Joe Biden. His long silence on the hostilities and his repeated expression of support to Israel’s right to defend itself against Hamas’ rockets even as he failed to extend such support to the Palestinians against Israeli bombing have drawn criticism worldwide. Indeed, Democrat Congressmen have been urging him to pressure Israel to scale back its strikes on Gaza and to express concern for Palestinian casualties, too. Unlike his predecessor, Donald Trump, who would have tweeted offensive and anti-Palestinian remarks right through the crisis, Biden chose “quiet diplomacy.” It appears that while avoiding publicly rapping Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu on his knuckles, Biden was pressing him to agree to a ceasefire. With the truce done, Biden has done well to correct his earlier pro-Israel tilt, at least in his public statements. “Palestinians and Israelis equally deserve to live safely and securely,” he said in a statement an hour before the truce took effect. He has also promised to contribute funds for the reconstruction of Gaza, although he has stressed that this will be routed through the West Bank-based Palestinian Authority and not Hamas. If Biden is keen to play a meaningful role in the Israel-Palestine conflict, he must recognise the reality on the ground. The US must engage Hamas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/israel-palestine-us-fell-short-on-intent-diplomacy-988606.html
22-05-2021||South||Kozhikode plane crash: Pilot's family still waiting for compensation||The family of Captain Deepak Sathe, who died when an Air India Express flight crashed at the Kozhikode airport on August 7 last year, is still waiting for the compensation from the government. Deepak Sathe's son Dhananjay wrote on Twitter on Thursday that it has been 10 months since his father's death and "individuals in employee compensation commissioner office (Mumbai, BKC) are misguiding and setting up hoops for my mother in the middle of a pandemic". A day after the crash, the Union and the Kerala government had announced Rs 10 lakh compensation each to the families of those who died in the crash. An Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including its six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport amid heavy rains on the evening of August 7 last year. The narrow-body B737 plane fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 21 people, including both pilots. Responding to Dhananjay Sathe's tweet on Friday, the Ministry of Civil Aviation said on Twitter that the Aviation Secretary has contacted Maharashtra's Chief Secretary over the issue of employee compensation of late Captain Dipak Sathe. "The compensation amount was deposited by Air India with Employees Compensation Commissioner Pallakkad, Kerala. It was then transferred to Employees Compensation Commissioner, Bandra on request of your relatives," the ministry noted. "It can be disbursed after filing claim by legal heir of the deceased employee before the said authority. It is statutory provision which needs to be followed," it added. A five-member panel of Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB), formed on August 13 last year, is inquiring into the circumstances of the crash. It has not submitted its report yet. Captain S S Chahar, a former DGCA-designated examiner for pilots of B737NG aircraft, is the investigator-in-charge of the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kozhikode-plane-crash-pilots-family-still-waiting-for-compensation-988624.html
22-05-2021||South||Congress MLA V D Satheesan to be Leader of Opposition in Kerala Assembly||A long-awaited generation shift in the Congress in Kerala has happened with 57-year-old V D Satheesan being made the Leader of the Opposition in the state replacing senior leader Ramesh Chennithala. A change in Kerala PCC president replacing Mullappally Ramachandran is also likely to happen soon with Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran being one of the front runners. Congress high command took the decision to make Satheesan Congress legislative party leader considering the strong demand from majority of the young Congress leaders in Kerala and overcoming the strong demand by a section of senior leaders for retaining Chennithala. Rahul Gandhi was also reported to have favoured a change. The decision is a setback to the groupism in the Congress as the prominent groups led by Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala were reported to be pressing for retaining Chennithala. A long-awaited generation shift in the Congress in Kerala has happened with 57 year old V D Satheesan being made the leader of opposition in the state, replacing senior leader Ramesh Chennithala. A change in Kerala PCC president replacing Mullappally Ramachandran is also likely to happen soon with Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran being one of the front runners. Congress high command took the decision to make Satheesan Congress legislative party leader considering the strong demand from majority of the young Congress leaders in Kerala and overcoming the strong demand by a section of senior leaders for retaining Chennithala. Rahul Gandhi was also reported to have favoured a change. The decision is a setback to the groupism in the Congress as the prominent groups led by Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala were reported to be pressing for retaining Chennithala. The middle-aged and young leaders of the party had overwhelmingly welcomed the decision to make Satheesan the new opposition leader. Senior leaders like Oommen Chandy also welcomed the decision. There were unconfirmed reports that Chennithala had congratulated Satheesan over phone.  A native of Ernakulam district in Kerala, Satheesan is a five time legislator from Paravur in the district. A post-graduate in law, Satheesan is considered to be well studied leader and enjoyed mass connect. He entered mainstream politics mainly through trade unions and had held the president post of over 20 trade unions. He had been fighting against environmental issues also. Satheesan said that he was confident of reviving the Congress from the setbacks it now faced. The opposition would be giving unconditional support to all efforts of the government in fighting Covid. An uncompromised fight against communalism will be launched, he said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that considering Satheesan's performance in the Assembly so far, he could be a good opposition leader. Indicating that a change in Kerala PCC president post is also likely to happen soon, Ramachandran said that he had already conveyed to the party national leadership that he would accept any decision for the larger interest of the party. Sudhakaran had even openly expressed his wish to be KPCC president. The decision of the CPI(M) to bring in more new faces to the forefront was also putting pressure on the Congress leaders to given way for the next generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-mla-v-d-satheesan-to-be-leader-of-opposition-in-kerala-assembly-988676.html
22-05-2021||South||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise, Tamil Nadu goes for complete lockdown from Monday||Warning that the Covid-19 cases in the state could attain their peak in May-end or early June, the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday extended the lockdown by another week from May 24 with stringent restrictions. During the complete lockdown from Monday, the government said all shops will be closed, while vegetables, and fruits will be sold through mobile shops arranged by the local administration. Only emergency services like chemist shops, processing industries, and others that manufacture medical equipment will be allowed to function. To allow people to stock up provisions and vegetables, the government has relaxed restrictions on May 22 and May 23 during which public transport will also function. On Saturday and Sunday, shops will remain open till 9 pm, while TASMAC outlets that sell liquor will remain closed. However, the decision to open up public transport in the middle of a lockdown led to criticism with many arguing that this could lead to further spread in rural areas of the state. The state came under lockdown on May 10, and restrictions were tightened from May 14. Chief Minister M K Stalin said the restrictions are being tightened to break the Covid-19 chain as per advice from medical experts. The announcement was preceded by meetings with medical experts, and a committee of legislators of all political parties formed to advise ways to combat the coronavirus. During the meetings, Stalin said the Covid-19 cases were on the rise in Tamil Nadu though the numbers are less than those being reported by neighbouring states that have lesser population. “Many say the Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu would reach its peak in May-end or early June...we should ensure that the chain is broken and the number of deaths are reduced,” Stalin said. The decision came as the death toll in the state due to Covid-19 continues to rise rapidly. At last count on Saturday, the state had 2,74,629 active cases with the death toll standing at 19,598. The Chief Minister also said health care workers are under severe stress due to the increase in the number of cases, and regretted that many considered the lockdown as a holiday by flouting the rules.  Dr J Amalorpavanathan, the man behind Tamil Nadu's robust organ donation system, told Deccan Herald that a lockdown will certainly help break the Covid-19 chain. “But the lockdown will have to be used to ramp up the vaccination drive, increase the number of tests, and take care of the economic needs of the people. Lockdown with the above mentioned steps will certainly help in reducing the number,” Amalorpavanathan said. During the complete lockdown, people are allowed to travel only for medical and other emergencies, while the need for e-registration has been dispensed with for those traveling within the district for medical reasons. Chemist shops, and other emergency services, including processing industries, will continue to function. Restaurants will be allowed to function for take-away services during fixed hours for lunch, breakfast, and dinner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-tamil-nadu-goes-for-complete-lockdown-from-monday-988730.html
22-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu setting up special Covid-19 vaccination camps for differently-abled||Tamil Nadu is adopting a three-pronged strategy to ensure that the differently-abled in the state get vaccinated for Covid-19 in a seamless way with the state opening up vaccination for all eligible age groups. The first priority is to set up differently-abled at vaccination centres, special camps in neighbourhood areas for those with special needs, and vaccinating those who cannot step out at their homes. Chief Minister M K Stalin launched a special camp in T T K Road in Chennai on Saturday where 22 differently-abled persons got their jabs. For those who cannot travel to the regular vaccination centres, the government has announced mobile numbers – including a video call service – for them to get registered so that a camp can be arranged near their place of residence. The numbers are 1800 4250 111 and 97007 99993. “We have divided the differently-abled into three categories. Those who can make it to the centres on their own, people who cannot travel long distances, and others who cannot move. For those who can reach centres, they will be given jabs on priority as they do not have to stand in the queue,” Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Principal Secretary and Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), told DH. “Special camps will be organised for others in their vicinity. And for those who cannot move out of their homes, vaccination will be provided at their residence. Health care workers have been asked to visit the differently-abled and assess the situation. We are particular that this section of the population should not suffer in any way,” Bedi added. The job of identifying differently-abled persons who need assistance will be executed by the department concerned which is directly under the control of the Chief Minister, officials said. Dr P Simmachandran of the Tamil Nadu Differently Abled Federation Charitable Trust, Chennai (TNDFCT) welcomed the move to organise special camps for differently-abled, saying such a move will be helpful to those in need, especially during the lockdown. “The special camps are really welcome. Since public transport and auto rickshaws are off roads, getting the differently-abled vaccinated in their vicinity or at their homes is a very good idea. This will not just give them protection from Covid-19 but also reduce their stress,” he said, demanding that the government provide special assistance to the differently-abled in view of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-setting-up-special-covid-19-vaccination-camps-for-differently-abled-988800.html
22-05-2021||South||Kerala seeing an alarming rise in Covid-19 deaths||Kerala is witnessing a steep rise in Covid-19 deaths over the last few days, even as the total fatality rate remains low at 0.3 per cent. The daily death toll which until the first week of may had not crossed the double digits, remained under 50. More than 500 Covid-related deaths were reported over the last four days.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that most of the deaths being reported now were those who got infected when Covid-19 was at its peak in Kerala last week. Health experts had already alerted that the death rate may go up once the number of cases increases. He also said that though the state was not witnessing a declining trend in fresh cases, experts were warning of a third phase and hence the state would continue to remain vigil. The state has thus far reported 7,170 cases with the fatality rate at 0.3 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-seeing-an-alarming-rise-in-covid-19-deaths-988813.html
22-05-2021||South||Distribution of Ayurvedic medicine touted as miracle cure for Covid-19 indefinitely suspended||Distribution of the Ayurvedic preparation, that came to be known as 'Krishnapatnam Medicine', touted to be a miracle cure for Covid-19, drawing thousands of people to the village, has been indefinitely suspended till its efficacy is scientifically established. A team of experts from the Andhra Pradesh Ayush Department, led by its Commissioner Ramulu Naik, inspected a demonstration of the medicine preparation in Krishnapatnam on Saturday. SPS Nellore district joint collector M N Harendhira Prasad said distribution of the medicine would commence only after the government clears it. "Teams from ICMR and Ayush are studying the preparation and it may take at least 10 days for the report to come in. After that, the medicine distribution will be permitted if the government clears it," Prasad said. The joint collector asked people not to come to Krishnapatnam as the medicine distribution has been stopped. Ayurvedic practitioner M Anandaiah had been distributing his preparation to people for a month now and it has created a lot of buzz in the social media, resulting in a heavy rush of people to Krishnapatnam village. The AP government is treating it as a 'local health practice and tradition' as there is a belief among a large number of people that the medicine is helping them tackle Covid, both in a curative and preventive manner. The state government on Friday took up the issue with the Central Ayurvedic Research Institute and asked it to conduct a "very scientific and authentic exercise" to determine the efficacy of the medicine. The CARI agreed to send its team of experts from the Vijayawada regional centre to Krishnapatnam on Monday to study the process of medicine preparation, the ingredients used and other aspects. Preliminary tests conducted on the samples of the preparation so far revealed no harmful ingredient in it, Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal pointed out. Meanwhile, local media reports said a retired school headmaster Kotaiah,who was administered the Ayurvedic medicine a couple of days ago, turned critical on Saturday, but Water Resources Minister P Anil Kumar Yadav who hails from SPS Nellore district, said the formers condition was stable. He warned that action would be taken against those who post misleading information in social media on the medicine. "Study is going on. The government will take a decision on the medicine only after the report comes out," the Minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/distribution-of-ayurvedic-medicine-touted-as-miracle-cure-for-covid-19-indefinitely-suspended-988817.html
22-05-2021||South||Domestic travellers priority as Kerala charts out measures to revive tourism sector||With Covid-19 cases showing a decline in Kerala over the past few days, the state is charting measures to revive its vital tourism sector, hit hard by the pandemic, by rolling out packages that encourage domestic travellers to visit destinations in the state. A high-level meeting presided by Tourism Minister Mohamed Riyas on Saturday decided to finalise projects and implement them at the earliest so as to inspire confidence in travellers and woo them to a whole range of places across the state, a Kerala Tourism press release said here. The initiative, which is being carried out considering that the pandemic will take time for authorities to promote international tourists, seeks to complete select tourism projects in the districts on a time-bound basis. Kerala Tourism will work in close association with allied departments by initiating sustained dialogues with all parties. In a month, the various approval/classification schemes under Ease of Doing Business will go online, it said. Authorities will draft new Covid-19 protocols for tourists arriving from other states. This will be done after Tourism officials hold talks with their counterparts in the Ministry of Health. The government will administer the Covid-19 vaccine to deserving workers in the tourist sector and explore the possibilities to train them for jobs in tune with world tourism standards, the release said. Today's meeting between the Department of Tourism and senior functionaries of allied institutions entrusted top officials to come up with drafts of projects that can reinvigorate the tourism sector, which has been in the doldrums owing to the pandemic. The proposed initiatives will start by the second week of June, by when authorities are hopeful of a slide in the graph of the present second wave of Covid-19, the release said. The department has conceived strategies to hard-sell Kerala Tourism as a formidable brand by extending novel packages to potential beneficiaries. Authorities are also aiming at long-term projects of overarching nature that can redefine the states tourism face. One among them will be renewed stress in Responsible Tourism (RT) that will take care of ecological conservation while playing host to travellers. The measures under RT will also ensure that the local population benefits from tourism, even as the regions traditional lifestyle and culture find highlight. The Department of Tourism will work in association with local administration bodies so as to initiate projects that can empower common people, the release said. Kerala Tourism aims to coordinate the functions of the allied departments so as to develop a tourism circuit. Infrastructure will be accorded renewed prominence, with focus on the building efficient roadways. To make sites free from pollution will be another area of focus, authorities said. The less explored Malabar will be a region of special focus, according to the meeting that was attended by Tourism Principal Secretary Rani George and Kerala Tourism Director V R Krishna Teja, besides top officials of other allied bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/domestic-travellers-priority-as-kerala-charts-out-measures-to-revive-tourism-sector-988820.html
22-05-2021||State||Karnataka's oxygen quota for every Covid-19 patient among the lowest in India||Karnataka, which has the highest active Covid-19 cases in India, has among the lowest daily per-patient oxygen allocation at 1.90 litres, an analysis of government data shows. Officials say the situation has not improved despite the issue being raised “multiple times”. According to official data, the number of active cases in Karnataka as on May 21 afternoon was 5.34 lakh. The oxygen allocated to the state is 1,015 MT, which works out to 1.90 litres per patient, a government calculation shows. States which are worse off include Odisha (1.83 litres per patient), Tamil Nadu (1.67) and Kerala (1.13). Delhi's per-patient oxygen allocation is 16.53 litres for 35,683 active cases while in Gujarat, it is 10.95 litres for 89,018 active cases. Telangana gets 9.83 litres per patient for 45,757 active cases. "Our per-patient allocation is almost ten times less than that of Telangana. Despite having the highest caseload, our oxygen is still being sent to other states," a senior official said, requesting anonymity. The Centre has yet to decide on Karnataka's request to allow the use of all oxygen produced in the state. "Maharashtra, during its peak, was allowed to consume all of its locally-made oxygen. Why isn't this applicable to Karnataka given the number of cases we have?" the official asked. According to doctors, a person on a ventilator consumes about 30 litres per minute of oxygen. In less severe cases, a patient requires about 5-10 litres per minute of oxygen. However, not all Covid-19 patients require oxygen and oxygen requirement varies for every patient depending on the severity of the condition.  "As per WHO calculation, 17% of the total active cases need oxygen. Based on this parameter and taking into account the present situation, Karnataka needs about 1,750 MT of oxygen per day," said Dr Prasanna HM, President-Elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). If a similar trend continues, the state will require about 2,000-2,100 MT oxygen per day to face the third wave, he added, urging the government to act immediately and take necessary measures. Among those hospitalised, about 40-50% patients require oxygen support, doctors further said. Dr Madan Gaekwad, who heads the Chandramma Dayanand Sagar Medical College, observed that the state government's move to insist on private medical colleges to set up oxygen generators is a step in the right direction. "That will serve as back-up in case of delay in oxygen deliveries," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-oxygen-quota-for-every-covid-19-patient-among-the-lowest-in-india-988589.html
22-05-2021||State||Complete lockdown of 2 days comes into effect in Belagavi||A complete lockdown of two days to prevent the spread of Covid-19 came into effect on Saturday. It will be in effect till 6 am on Monday and only emergency services like hospitals and medical shops will remain open. The district has been recording a huge rise in new cases of Covid-19.  Police have made elaborate arrangements to ensure that nobody ventures out and loiterers, who move around in the guise of getting medicine and essentials, will be prevented from doing so. Prominent roads and circles are manned by police and those out for emergency works have to provide details about the hospital or the medical store they are visiting. Roads that used to witness people going out to get essentials like provisions, milk, and fruits are now empty. Only some who were on their way to hospitals and to buy medicines were seen in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/complete-lockdown-of-2-days-comes-into-effect-in-belagavi-988652.html
22-05-2021||State||Oxygen Express piloted by 'All female crew' reaches Bengaluru||An Oxygen Express train piloted by an 'All Female Crew' arrived in the city with 120 metric tonnes of medical oxygen from Jamshedpur. "The 7th Oxygen Express to Karnataka has arrived in Bengaluru from Tatanagar (Jamshedpur) on Friday. This Oxygen Express train piloted by an all female crew will ensure continued supply of oxygen for Covid-19 patients in the State," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted on Saturday. According to Railway officials, the 8th Oxygen Express also reached Bengaluru from Jamnagar in Gujarat, carrying 109.2 metric tonnes of the life-saving gas early this morning. The state government has sought 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen daily in view of rising Covid cases in the state. Karnataka has reported 32,218 Covid infections and 353 related deaths on Friday taking the total infections and fatalities to 23.67 lakh and 24,207 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/oxygen-express-piloted-by-all-female-crew-reaches-bengaluru-988669.html
22-05-2021||State||Covid-19: Karnataka government to immerse ashes of cremated bodies||Ramping up facilities for a quick cremation of Covid-19 mortalities, the Karnataka government is worried about unclaimed ashes of the cremated bodies. Sources in the state government revealed that ashes of about 1,000 cremated Covid-19 patients have still not been claimed by the family members. Alarmed by the piling up of ashes at the crematorium sites, the state government has decided to conduct post-death rituals of these unclaimed ashes and immerse them in water.  Acknowledging the problem Revenue minister R Ashoka said, "Several family members are not coming forward to take back the ashes of the Covid-19 bodies for immersion in rivers. We have been continuously trying to reach the family members. However, their phone numbers are either switched off or not reachable. A few of them are citing various difficulties in collecting the ashes. Hence, the government has decided to immerse the ashes as per the rituals." Officials revealed that open-air crematoria on the outskirts of Bengaluru that witnessed the highest number of cremation of Covid-19 patients are facing this problem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-karnataka-government-to-immerse-ashes-of-cremated-bodies-988680.html
22-05-2021||State||Speaker Krishna is a role model: Siddaramaiah||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday mourned the death of former Speaker K R Pet Krishna and said that Karnataka had lost a humble and committed leader who is also a role model.  Krishna, who passed away on Friday, was suffering from cancer and was being treated in Chennai. Paying last respects to the departed, the Congress leader said, he and Krishna maintained a good rapport for many years. "I became MLA in 1983 and Krishna entered assembly in 1985," Siddaramaiah recalled. Krishna had great concern for the poor and the oppressed class, Siddaramaiah said adding that the late leader wanted to change the system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/speaker-krishna-is-a-role-model-siddaramaiah-988697.html
22-05-2021||State||Mysuru has 20 cases of 'black fungus': BJP MP||Mysuru district is increasingly reporting cases of 'black fungus' among those infected with the coronavirus. On Saturday, the district had over 20 cases of 'black fungus' or mucormycosis, BJP MP Pratap Simha said. These patients are undergoing treatment at K R Hospital and other private hospitals. Simha said the state government is taking measures to control the spread of the fungus and assured that it will come in control in a few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-has-20-cases-of-black-fungus-bjp-mp-988707.html
22-05-2021||State||Negative Covid-19 report a must for entering Karnataka||A negative Covid test report is a must for inter-state travellers coming into Karnataka, said State Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday. "We have barricaded not only major roads but also the minor ones as was done last time," he told reporters. "We have imposed restrictions, especially in the border districts such as Belagavi, Bidar, Bidar, Kalaburagi, Anekal in Bengaluru (bordering Tamil Nadu) and near Mangaluru (bordering Kerala)," he said. As directed by the Centre, a negative Covid report is a must for the inter-state travellers to enter Karnataka, the Minister said. The Minister said he has directed the district authorities, including the police, to strictly impose the lockdown in the districts to contain the spread of the infection. He appealed to the people to abide by the lockdown. Meanwhile, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant tweeted that the police personnel in the city have been instructed to take action legally, including booking cases and seizing vehicles of those who violate the lockdown guidelines and wilful defaulters. "Please cooperate with @BlrCityPolice in implementing the lockdown guidelines. Let us beat #Covid19 together. Stay Home. Stay Safe!" Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday announced the extension of lockdown till June 7, which was slated to end on May 24. The State has imposed restrictions since April 27 but the stringent restrictions were imposed on May 10 for a period of two weeks. However, the government extended it for another two weeks as the Covid cases grew unabated and caused intense stress on the hospitals, doctors and paramedical staff. On Saturday, the State reported 32,218 fresh Covid cases and 353 related fatalities while there were 5,14,238 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/negative-covid-19-report-a-must-for-entering-karnataka-988794.html
22-05-2021||State||C T Ravi feels Congress is making an organised attempt to malign Modi||Accusing the Congress of an “organised attempt to malign” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi on Saturday claimed that several recent instances were proof that the alleged toolkit was not fake.  “There have been organised efforts to project Kumbh Mela as a Covid “super spreader” at national and international levels. However, when we look at the Covid situation, Maharashtra and Kerala have high number of cases. More than 2 lakh people participated in the Kumbh Mela and only 1,700 of them have tested positive,” Ravi said.  He added that those who projected Kumbh Mela a “super spreader” do not talk about Eid celebrations in Hyderabad and West Bengal. “The alleged toolkit also strategised to glorify deaths in the country. There have been efforts to create chaos and anxiety among patients, he added. “Also, the Congress has a role in the bed blocking scam. By blocking the beds first and acting like saviour later, the Congress served its own political interests,” Ravi claimed. Further, to malign PM Modi, the Congress publicised usage of “Modi strain” and “Indian strain,” Ravi said. “Is it a coincidence that several leaders including Dinesh Gundu Rao used this term again and again?” he said, adding that all this had been laid out in the alleged toolkit for Congress leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/c-t-ravi-feels-congress-is-making-an-organised-attempt-to-malign-modi-988850.html
22-05-2021||State||Indian Army sets up 100-bed Covid Care Centre in Bengaluru||The Indian Army has set up a 100-bed Covid Care Centre at Ulsoor. The centre is located at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Madras Engineer Group (MEG) Centre, on St. Johns Road, coming under Shivajinagar constituency, East Zone. In a statement, the Army said that the facility was set up in collaboration with civil administration and that the centre will be operated jointly. While the state government has taken the responsibility of provisioning medical staff and equipment, the Army has shouldered the task of administrative support. The Covid Care Centre is to cater to mild symptomatic and asymptomatic Covid patients referred by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) after bed allotment. The General Officer Commanding, Karnataka and Kerala Sub Area handed over the facility to the State administration on Saturday, in presence of V Somanna, Housing Minister, P C Mohan, MP, Gaurav Gupta, BBMP Chief Commissioner and other officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/indian-army-sets-up-100-bed-covid-care-centre-in-bengaluru-988861.html
22-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt lying about Covid-19 cases reducing: Siddaramaiah||Karnataka’s Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday claimed that the BS Yediyurappa administration was “lying” to citizens about Covid-19 cases coming down in the state, underlining the drop in the number of tests being done. The former chief minister tweeted an April 25 circular issued by National Health Mission (Karnataka) director Arundhati Chandrasekhar, according to which random testing of asymptomatic persons has been suspended until further orders. “The actual reason behind the chief minister’s lie that Covid-19 cases are reducing is the BJP’s government’s circular that asymptomatic persons should not be tested,” Siddaramaiah said. “Do you know the dangers of this, chief minister?” he asked. According to the circular, tests are compulsory for people who show Covid-19 symptoms, including influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). Compulsory testing also includes primary contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient and all members living in that person’s house, all symptomatic contacts, pregnant women (two weeks before scheduled delivery) and those surgery-bound persons who die of suspected Covid-19. “It’s this foolish decision of the BJP government, due to which Covid-19 isn’t coming under control in spite of the lockdown,” Siddaramaiah argued. “There are chances that an infected person, who isn’t tested because of no symptoms, will infect many others with the coronavirus.” The Congress leader cited testing numbers to buttress his argument. “The chief minister boasted that case numbers fell from 49,000 in the first week of May to 38,000 within days of imposing a lockdown. But, he did not say that the number of tests went down from 1,77,560 on April 1 to 97,000 on May 17,” he said. Siddaramaiah asked CM Yediyurappa to “immediately resume” testing of asymptomatic persons. “Coronavirus should be fought with medicine and treatment and not by fekugiri of lies and deceit,” he said. Earlier this week, Health Minister K Sudhakar acknowledged that testing had gone down. “Of course, I agree that the number of tests conducted has reduced. We will take measures to address that,” he said. “But, our positivity rate is dropping despite testing only symptomatic patients. That’s a good sign,” he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-lying-about-covid-19-cases-reducing-siddaramaiah-988717.html
22-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka seeks 20,000 vials of Amphotericin-B to treat black fungus, Centre gives 1,270||Karnataka has received a total of 1,270 vials as against the 20,000 it had sought. As per the Centre's information, the drug has been proportionately distributed among all the states by taking into consideration the cases of black fungus infection. While 75 per cent of the available drug has been divided among the infection reported states, the other 25 per cent will be distributed after assessing the case details from other parts of the country. According to the details made available by the Centre, a total of 8,848 cases have been reported across India, out of which 500 cases are from Karnataka and hence 1,270 vials have been allocated. Gujarat has reported the highest number of black fungus infections with 2,281 cases and was provided with 5,800 vials, followed by Maharashtra with 5,090 vials for 2,000 cases; Andhra Pradesh with 2,310 vials for 910 cases; Madhya Pradesh with 1,830 vials for 720 cases, and Rajasthan with 1,780 vials for 700 cases. Similarly, Telangana has also reported 350 cases and has been allocated 640 vials, while Haryana with 250 cases has been given 640 vials. Commenting on the allocation, D V Sadananda Gowda, Union Minister for Fertilisers, Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals tweeted, "The allocation has been made after reviewing the cases in various states and union territories."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-seeks-20000-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-treat-black-fungus-centre-gives-1270-988727.html
22-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 31,183 new Covid-19 cases, 451 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 31,183 fresh coronavirus cases and 451 deaths, the Health Department said. With these, the total number of the infected so far was 23,98,925 and the deaths 24,648, the department said. There were 4,83,204 active cases, a dip of 31,034 compared to Friday. The total number of those discharged stood at 18,91,042 with 61,766 recovering from the deadly infection. Bengaluru Urban district reported 8,214 infections and 200 fatalities, which is the highest in the state. The city has so far reported 11,12,058 infections and 10,856 deaths. There were 2,61,115 active cases. According to the health bulletin, there were 2,526 infections in Mysuru, 2,157 in Ballari, 1,641 in Hassan, 1,357 in Uttara Kannada, 1,026 in Belagavi, 973 in Dharwad, 971 in Shivamogga and 913 in Dakshina Kannada. Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Kolar, Mandya, Raichur and Udupi were among the districts with over 500 cases. The department said 35 deaths took place in Bengaluru Rural district, 20 deaths in Uttara Kannada, 19 in Ballari, 18 in Tumakuru, 14 each in Shivamogga and Ballari, 13 in Hassan and nine each in Chikkaballapura, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad and Mysuru. Deaths were reported in 19 other districts as well. 1,28,761 tests were done on Saturday, of which 1,11,235 used the RT-PCR method, while the rest used other methods. So far, 2.85 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department said. As on Saturday, 1.20 crore doses were administered in the state, comprising both first and second doses of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-31183-new-covid-19-cases-451-deaths-988841.html
22-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KDA chief unhappy over health dept's 'obsession with English'||Kannada Development Authority (KDA) chairperson T S Nagabharana on Saturday expressed his displeasure over the Health and Family Welfare department’s obsession with English language. Addressing the two-day Kannada Medical Literary conference organised by Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences in Bengaluru on Saturday, Nagabharana said, “Even during the pandemic times, the department is sticking to its obsession with English in issuing all Covid-19-related circulars, public notices and guidelines in English first. All such communications should be issued in Kannada first as it would reach a large number of people,” the Kannada film-maker, who has carved a niche for himself in parallel cinema, said. Nagabharana urged Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar to address this issue immediately. “All communications and public notices pertaining to Covid-19 issued in English will not reach the rural population. I request the minister to look into it immediately,” he added. Nagabharana even stressed about introducing Kannada in medical education. “It is not easy to teach medicine in Kannada or any other regional languages. But, we can have bilingual text books, a medical dictionary in Kannada to attract more and more youngsters from rural areas to study medicine, “ he said. Third wave of Covid Dr Giridhar R Babu, epidemiologist, and member of Technical Advisory Committee for Covid-19, said that the third wave of Covid-19, which is expected to hit the state, apart from the Under 18 age-group, will affect those who’d not exposed to the virus and the ones who have not been vaccinated will be hit hard. “Those who have not been vaccinated and ones who have not been infected by the virus in the first and second waves will be more vulnerable to infection in the third wave,” he said. Speaking at a panel discussion, Dr C N Manjunath, director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences said, “The high mortality rate due to heart attacks during Covid pandemic is not because of the medication, but because of the delay in seeing the doctors,” explained Dr Manjunath. Dr M K Sudarshan, chairman, Technical Advisory Committee for Covid-19, speaking at one of the sessions on the inaugural day of the conference, stressed on the importance of the Covid appropriate behaviour in keeping the virus at bay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kda-chief-unhappy-over-health-depts-obsession-with-english-988851.html
22-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||H D Deve Gowda urges Centre for massive scale-up in Covid-19 vaccine production||Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda to acknowledge his letter that had suggestions to the Centre on managing the Covid-19 pandemic. This underlined Gowda’s ability to fire up bonhomie, even unlikely ones. Gowda, 88, shares with Shruthi H M Sastry his insights on governance during the pandemic. Excerpts: There’s been much friction between the Centre and state governments during the pandemic. This is true in Karnataka’s case, too. Do you think federal principles are being followed? Mistakes have been made by both the state governments and the Centre. Yesterday, in Varanasi, the prime minister is said to have become emotional. Over the past one-and-a-half years, he hasn’t gone there. He may have of course coordinated with the chief minister (who is from the same party) and the local officials. Reports of dead bodies floating (in the river) etc have added to (Modi’s) emotional reaction. To ensure that such incidents do not repeat, it’s important for the states and Centre to work in tandem. On the other hand, the Centre has also conducted video conferences to take the opinions of different chief ministers irrespective of political parties. On the state government’s part, I believe it failed on many counts. Can you elaborate? There was apathy in bringing patients to hospital on time. The state government failed in ensuring adequate supply of ventilators or oxygen. They are talking about oxygen production now when they could have taken the same measure three months ago. There are allegations that there is a delay in ensuring vaccine supply to certain districts. The government has also failed in curbing black-marketing of medicines such as Remdesivir. This leads us to wonder whether it can go unabated without lacunae in the government. It appears that the Opposition is walking a tightrope. While it’s their job to question the government, they’re also criticized for opposing too much. How do you see the Opposition’s role now?  I recently wrote a letter to PM Modi giving a set of suggestions that were neither an attack nor a counter-attack against the government. The PM even considered some of my suggestions. Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, too, wrote to the President of India urging the government to take over the responsibility of education of children who have lost both parents in the pandemic. She and I have also discussed some of these suggestions. In such a situation, I cannot let my political differences come in between. Any political party for that matter cannot resort to blaming each other at this juncture. The government must also consider these suggestions outside political boundaries. Online registration of vaccination of persons aged 18-44 has raised concerns about digital divide. What do you think is a good approach to ensure vaccination for all? Let’s go a step back and ask, “Do we have enough vaccines for all?” In the absence of vaccines, people are anxious and are willing to try any and every medication, whether it is scientifically proven or not. The government should immediately think of massive manufacturing of vaccines within the country. The state government’s relief package has been criticized for being inadequate. When smaller states have given bigger packages, naturally there is lot of disparity in what is being given in Karnataka. Drawing from your experiences in governance, how should the government prepare for the third wave of Covid-19? I insist the Centre should ensure that our own industries are manufacturing vaccines in the country and are generating adequate power to sustain ventilators in the hospital. People should also cooperate by wearing masks in public. Vaccine loopholes in terms of black market have to be dealt with by an iron hand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-d-deve-gowda-urges-centre-for-massive-scale-up-in-covid-19-vaccine-production-988855.html
22-05-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Oxygen leakage: 11 patients shifted from Sirsi hospital||Eleven patients in the Pandit general hospital in the town were shifted to the hospitals in the neighbouring taluks in following leakage in the oxygen supply network, in the early hours of Saturday. A total of 31 patients are admitted in the Covid ward in the hospital of whom 21 were put on oxygen support. The hospital staff noticed that required amount of oxygen was not being supplied to the patients. The ward was supplied with oxygen from the storage unit situated adjacent to the hospital. Alert hospital staff found that there was a leakage in the supply network. As a precautionary measure, 11 patients were shifted to government hospitals in the neighbouring taluks. Experts from Hubballi and Karwar Naval base plugged the leakage.  Assistant Commissioner Akruti Bansal said that a possible tragedy was averted as the hospital staff swung into action immediately after noticing the defect.  Administrative Medical Officer Dr Gajanana Bhat said that there was oxygen shortage in the hospital and fresh patients were being admitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/oxygen-leakage-11-patients-shifted-from-sirsi-hospital-988854.html
22-05-2021||West||Corruption complaint filed against former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh, two others||A complaint has been filed against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, former police officer Pradeep Sharma and inspector Rajkumar Kothmire with the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) for alleged extortion and corruption, an official said on Friday. The complaint was filed by Virar-based builder Mayuresh Raut with the Director-General of ACB on Wednesday, he said. These officers extorted money, cars, property and documents from him when Singh was Thane police commissioner, the complainant alleged. The ACB has summoned Raut to record his statement at its Thane office on Monday, sources said. Raut had earlier levelled allegations of corruption in a separate complaint against Sharma, former senior police inspector of the Anti Extortion Cell (AEC), Thane, seeking a probe into his assets. A similar complaint was also filed against Kothmire on May 7 and a collective complaint mentioning the names of three officers including IPS officer Param Bir Singh was filed on Wednesday, sources said. Singh was shunted out as Mumbai commissioner and transferred to Home Guard after the arrest of police officer Sachin Waze in the Ambani residence bomb scare case. Singh later made allegations of corruption against then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who subsequently resigned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/corruption-complaint-filed-against-former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-two-others-988618.html
22-05-2021||West||Cyclone Taukate: 26 still missing; Navy deploys diving teams to look for bodies||With no trace of 15 personnel from barge P305 and 11 from tugboat Varaprada six days after Cyclone Tauktae fury rendered the vessels adrift, the Navy on Saturday deployed specialised diving teams to boost the search and rescue operations (SAR) off Mumbai coast. "To augment the ongoing search and rescue (SAR) operations for the crew of Barge P305 and Tug Varapradha, specialised diving teams onboard INS Makar (with sonar) and INS Tarasa sailed out early morning today from Mumbai for carrying out an underwater search," the Indian Navy said.  The death toll on barge P305 that sank in the Arabian Sea on Monday reached 60 on Friday with the recovery of 11 more bodies even as the Navy and the Coast Guard continued the search for the 15 missing personnel from the barge and 11 from Varaprada. When contacted, an official said updates on overnight SAR ops are awaited. Hopes of finding more survivors of the Cyclone Tauktae fury have receded, an official said. Of the 261 personnel who were on barge P305, 186 have been recovered so far. Of the 13 persons on Varaprada, two have been rescued. While all the 440 persons on barges Gal Constructor and Support Station 3 (SS-3) and drillship Sagar Bhushan were brought ashore to safety, Naval and Coast Guard vessels and aircraft scoured the waters off the Mumbai coast as the search and rescue operations entered the sixth day on Saturday. Mumbai police have announced they will conduct a probe as to why the ill-fated barge remained in the turbulent area despite warnings about cyclone Tauktae, an official said. The police have also registered accidental death reports in connection with the death of the personnel on the barge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-taukate-26-still-missing-navy-deploys-diving-teams-to-look-for-bodies-988654.html
22-05-2021||West||Maharashtra CM hits back at BJP jibe, says 'at least I am taking stock on ground, not in helicopter'||Amid opposition BJP’s criticism over the duration of his visit to cyclone-hit Konkan region of Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that he was at least taking stock of the situation on the ground and not conducting an aerial survey in a helicopter. His remarks were apparently aimed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who recently conducted an aerial survey in Gujarat, where cyclone Tauktae wreaked havoc earlier this week. Thackeray on Friday visited Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts in Konkan to know the ground situation in the aftermath of the cyclone, and directed the authorities to complete the crop loss assessment within two days. However, BJP leaders in the state targeted him over the duration of his visit. While former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said he was surprised to know that Thackeray was making political comments during his “merely three-hour long” tour of Konkan, Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council Pravin Darekar sought to know how the CM could understand in just three hours the extent of damage caused by the cyclone. When asked about the BJP’s criticism, Thackeray said on Friday, "It’s okay if my tour lasted four hours. At least I am on the ground taking stock of the situation and not in a helicopter for a photo session…I am a photographer myself.” “I have not come here to respond to opposition’s criticism," he said at Malvan in Sindhudurg. Cyclone Tautkae, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, also affected several other states along the west coast, including Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-hits-back-at-bjp-jibe-says-at-least-i-am-taking-stock-on-ground-not-in-helicopter-988687.html
22-05-2021||West||Gujarat: Asiatic lioness, four blackbucks found dead near dam||A lioness and four blackbucks were found dead near a dam at Visavadar in Gir forest division of Gujarat's Junagadh district, an official said on Saturday. These wild animals apparently died due to drowning, and there does not seem to be any connection with cyclone Tauktae, which ravaged the state earlier this week, he said. "The carcasses were found on the banks of a dam in Vekariya village of Visavadar range forest in Gir West forest division on Friday, and the cause of the death is being ascertained," chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Junagadh, Dushyant Vasavada said. Gir forest in Junagadh, one of the worst cyclone-affected districts in Gujarat, has a sizable population of Asiatic lions. "The lioness, aged around five to nine years old, appears to have died due to drowning. However, the incident doesn't seem to have any connection with the cyclone. The lioness might have gotten trapped while chasing the blackbucks," the official said. In another development, a leopard died at an animal care centre at Vadal in Bhavnagar district on Saturday, a few days after being rescued and brought here, the forest department said. The animal, aged between five and nine years, was brought to the centre on May 16 after it attacked and injured a child, an official said, adding that the predator was sick and was found dead in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-asiatic-lioness-four-blackbucks-found-dead-near-dam-988705.html
22-05-2021||West||Goa's special task force meets to prepare for third Covid-19 wave||Goa's newly-formed special task force to tackle the expected third Covid-19 wave got cracking on Saturday, with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant chairing the force's first meeting here. At the meeting, Sawant directed officials of the special task force to collate all relevant data and carry out procurement of necessary medicines and setting up of other infrastructure within the fortnight. "Dr Sawant called upon the private practitioners in the state to adopt a line of treatment that would be in synchronisation with the standard protocol adopted in government hospitals. Emphasising on incorporating the Covid treatment protocol of AYUSH Ministry, he urged to improve the immunity of parents and children on priority," a Goa government spokesperson said. Headed by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, the special task force comprises of top health ministry officials, as well as government doctors and representatives of the private medicine practitioners. The other measures deliberated at the meeting includes creating infrastructure which includes paediatric intensive care units, neonatal intensive care units, paediatric beds in Goa and identify the need for augmentation of infrastructure to face the challenges of the third wave that may affect children. The special task force also resolved to ensure training and availability of counsellors of Education and Women and Child departments besides other agencies, developing common SOPs to manage Covid in children. "The special task force also explored the possibility of obtaining Covid vaccines for 18 to 44 age group, prioritising lactating mothers and youth with co-morbidities," the spokesperson also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-special-task-force-meets-to-prepare-for-third-covid-19-wave-988744.html
22-05-2021||West||Barge P-305 sinking: Search ops continue for 15 missing persons, Navy deploys diving teams||With at least 15 crew and oil workers still reported missing, the Indian Navy has deployed diving teams and special vessels intensifying the search and rescue (SAR) operations. On Saturday morning, INS Makar and INS Tarasa sailed out of the harbour and reached ONGC’s Mumbai High offshore development area  and launched operations looking for people missing from accommodation barge Papaa-305 and anchor-handling boat/tug Varaprada. INS Makar is the lead ship of the Makar-class of survey catamarans used for hydrographic survey by the Indian Navy – generally tasked with undertaking hydrographic surveys for producing navigational charts and is capable of collecting marine environmental information by conducting limited oceanographic surveys. INS Tarasa  is a patrol vessel of the Car Nicobar-class of Indian Navy and the last ship in the series of four Water Jet Fast Attack Craft (WJFAC). “To augment the ongoing SAR operations for crew of Barge P305 and Tug Varapradha, specialised diving teams onboard INS Makar (with sonar) and INS Tarasa sailed out early morning today from Mumbai for carrying out an underwater search," the Indian Navy said. So far, the Indian Navy, which is leading the SAR operations, have rescued 186 persons and recovered 60 bodies, while 15 are still reported missing. Meanwhile, a P-8I is a long-range, multi-mission maritime patrol aircraft carried out reconnaissance missions over the designated area even as ALH, SeaKing and Chetak helicopters carried out search operations while ships like INS Kolkata, INS Kochi, INS Betwa and INS Beas continue to be in the vicinity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/barge-p-305-sinking-search-ops-continue-for-15-missing-persons-navy-deploys-diving-teams-988752.html
22-05-2021||West||A new twist in Maharashtra Legislative Council nominations||In a shocking development, Raj Bhavan has stated that the list recommended by the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for nominations to the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) from the Governor’s quota was not available with the office of the Public Information Officer. This came to light after Raj Bhavan responsed to an application filed by veteran activist Anil Galgali under the Right to Information Act. Galgali had sought information from the Governor’s secretariat on April 22, regarding the list submitted by the Chief Minister/Chief Minister's Secretariat to the Governor on the appointment of members to the Legislative Council. Also, he wanted to know the current status of the proposal submitted by the Chief Minister/Chief Minister's Secretariat to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Replying to Galgali's application on May 19, Jayaraj Chaudhary, Under Secretary, Governor's Secretariat, informed that the list of Governor-appointed Legislative Council members was not available in the office of the Public Information Officer (Administration). Galgali has filed the first appeal against what he describes as “misleading information”. “The Chief Minister and other Ministers say the list has been sent to Raj Bhavan. The CMO has refused to provide the list as no final decision has been taken on it by the Governor, whose office is giving a different answer,” Galgali said. “If the list is indeed sent, any one of the Chief Minister's Secretariat or the Governor's Secretariat should make the information public. If the Governor has a list, he should take decision that what he wants to do... decide on it or not,” he said. The development came a day after the Bombay High Court sought an explanation on why  Koshyari has still not taken any decision on the issue, pending for over six months now.  A division bench, comprising Justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade, asked the state to reply by when the Governor would consider the nominations made on November 6. It may be recalled that an MVA ministerial delegation, comprising Parliamentary Affairs minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena, Minority Affairs minister Nawab Malik of NCP and Medical Education and Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh, had called on Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan and submitted the 12 names. The Governor nominates 12 MLCs for a tenure of six years – based on the recommendations of the state Cabinet. According to Article171(5) of the Constitution: “(5) The members to be nominated by the Governor under sub clause (e) of clause (3) shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely: literature, science, art, co operative movement and social service.”  However, no timeframe is mentioned. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said: "What is happening is against the Constitution... the Governor has not even looked at the file. It has been several months since the government submitted 12 names for the Council from the Governor's quota." However, BJP leader Ashish Shelar said: "I do not see anything that goes against the Constitution... the Governor's office works on a framework."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/a-new-twist-in-maharashtra-legislative-council-nominations-988775.html
22-05-2021||West||Mumbai sees 1,299 Covid-19 cases, 52 deaths, 1,827 recoveries||Mumbai's Covid-19 tally reached 6,96,379 after 1,299 people were detected with the infection on Saturday, and the death toll increased by 52 to touch 14,574, an official said. He said 1,827 people were discharged from hospitals, taking the recovery count in the metropolis to 6,51,216, which is 93 per cent of the caseload. "A total of 60,48,686 coronavirus tests have been conducted so far, including 29,264 during the day. The time taken for the tally to double has reached 326 days. The city currently has 62 containment zones and 246 buildings are sealed," the BMC official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-sees-1299-covid-19-cases-52-deaths-1827-recoveries-988816.html
22-05-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 26,133 new Covid-19 cases, 40,294 recoveries; 682 die||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 26,133 fresh Covid-19 cases and 682 deaths, taking the tally to 55,53,225 and the toll to 87,300, the state health department said. With 40,294 patients getting discharged during the day, Maharashtra's overall count of recoveries rose to 51,11,095, leaving the state with 3,52,247 active cases, it said, adding the case recovery rate improved to 92.04 per cent while the fatality rate increased to 1.57 per cent. At the same time, the case positivity rate slightly dipped to 16.97 per cent, the report said. Of the 682 fatalities, 392 occurred in the last 48 hours while 290 had occurred in the last week, it said. With 1,283 new cases and 52 fatalities, Mumbai's infection count rose to 6,95,483 and the toll to 14,516. The Mumbai region, including the Mumbai Metropolitan area and satellite towns, added 3,603 new infections and 106 fatalities in the day, the department said. The Nashik division added 4,130 fresh cases and 83 deaths. Ahmednagar district reported 1,650 cases and 28 fatalities. Nashik city and its rural parts reported 16 and 15 deaths, respectively, followed by 10 fatalities from Jalgaon district, the department said in a report. Pune division added 6,652 cases including 908 infections from Pune city. Rural parts of Pune reported 1,947 cases while Solapur and Satara districts added 1,363 and 1,791 infections, respectively. Of the 111 deaths in the Pune division, 35 each were reported from rural parts of Pune and Solapur, while 15 fatalities each were reported from Pune city and Satara district, the report said. Out of 3,931 cases in the Kolhapur division, Kolhapur and Sangli districts added 1,134 and 1,216 fresh cases, respectively, it said, adding that the division reported 110 fatalities. The Aurangabad division reported a decline in cases adding 983 infections in the day and 54 fatalities deaths of which 25 are from Aurangabad city and 12 from rural parts of Aurangabad district, the report said. The Latur division's caseload increased by 1,752 cases and 95 deaths. The Beed district which has been reporting the highest cases for the last some weeks in the entire division, reported 792 cases and 53 deaths on Saturday. Osmanabad and Latur districts also added 17 and 16 deaths, respectively, it said. The Akola division added 2,996 cases and 53 deaths, the department said. The Nagpur division added 2,086 cases and 70 fatalities, of which 29 occurred in Gadchiroli district and 18 in Wardha district, the report said. With 2,81,585 new tests, Maharashtra has so far tested 3,27,23,361 samples. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 55,53,225; new cases: 26,133; deaths: 87,300; discharged: 51,11,095; active cases: 3,52,247; people tested so far: 3,27,23,361.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-26133-new-covid-19-cases-40294-recoveries-682-die-988853.html
22-05-2021||West||Indian Navy locates barge Papaa-305 on seabed||The ill-fated accommodation barge Papaa-305 — that sunk in the Arabian Sea after being caught in Tauktae cyclone five days ago — has been located on the seabed by a specialised survey ship of the Indian Navy on Saturday night. In the early hours of Saturday, INS Makar and INS Tarasa sailed out of the harbour and reached ONGC’s Mumbai High offshore development area, and launched operations looking for people missing from accommodation barge Papaa-305 and anchor-handling boat/tug Varaprada. INS Makar is the lead ship of the Makar-class of survey catamarans used for hydrographic survey by the Indian Navy – generally tasked with undertaking hydrographic surveys for producing navigational charts and is capable of collecting marine environmental information by conducting limited oceanographic surveys. INS Tarasa is a patrol vessel of the Car Nicobar-class of Indian Navy and the last ship in the series of four Water Jet Fast Attack Craft (WJFAC). To augment the ongoing search and rescue (SAR) operations for crew of barge Papaa-305 and Tug Varapradha, specialised diving teams onboard INS Makar (with sonar) and INS Tarasa sailed out early morning today from Mumbai for carrying out an underwater search. In the evening, INS Makar located the barge on the seabed. So far, the Indian Navy, which is leading the SAR operations, has rescued 186 persons and recovered 66 bodies, while 9 are still reported missing. Meanwhile, P-8I — a long-range, multi-mission maritime patrol aircraft — carried out reconnaissance missions over the designated area even as ALH, SeaKing and Chetak helicopters carried out search operations, while ships like INS Kolkata, INS Kochi, INS Betwa and INS Beas continue to be in the vicinity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-locates-barge-papaa-305-on-seabed-988864.html
