23-05-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Complete lockdown extended to weekdays in Dharwad district||District administration, in consultation with the district in-charge minister, has decided to extend the complete lockdown in the district till June 7. However, there will be slight relaxation in the lockdown norms on May 27 and 28, where shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to function between 6:00 am and 10:00 am. Sources in the district administration informed DH that such a decision was taken in the hindsight of fresh cases continuing to rise in the district. On average, the district is reporting 800 plus cases every day, while its discharges are around 700 per day. Sources also said that the decision had become inevitable as positives cases were on the rise in rural areas. Addressing a virtual press conference Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said here on Sunday that complete lockdown, which was imposed on Saturday and Sunday (May 22 and 23), will continue till June 7. People will be allowed to buy milk, vegetables and fruits between 6 am and 8 am from their immediate neighbourhood during the complete lockdown. As per the fresh guidelines, all shops and business establishments except medical shops and hospitals, will remain closed. However, provisions have been made for the sale of groceries and meat on only Thursday and Friday between 6:00 am and 10:00 am. Like in the weekend lockdown the administration has issued restrictions on the functioning of hotels, where even parcel of food will not be allowed from May 25 to June 7. However, when the issue of hardship for covid patients attendees was brought to the notice of DC, he said provisions will be made for hotels, within the vicinity of hospitals to provide parcels if the administration gets a written request from hospitals. This facility will be available only to the patients and their attendants, he said. Only government vehicles and those deployed for Covid work will be permitted to ply on roads during the complete lockdown. Only five persons will be allowed to participate in the funeral, the order said. The DC said no fresh permissions will be issued to perform weddings till June 7. Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, replying to a question, said those travelling from one district to another or within the district on medical emergencies should show the related medical documents on demand from checking officials and they will be permitted to travel. Similarly, the vaccination centres will operate as usual and those going for vaccination should show the messages they have received from the authorities. Those violating the lockdown guidelines will be punishable under The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and The Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Covid 19 Regulations 2020. Earlier in the day, District In-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar chaired a meeting with senior district-level officials and took stock of the situation. Based on the advice given by the ‘experts, the minister and officials decided to extend the complete lockdown till June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/complete-lockdown-extended-to-weekdays-in-dharwad-district-989130.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MRPL neglected local candidates during recruitment: Former MLA Mohiyuddin Bava||Former MLA Mohiyuddin Bava alleged that the MRPL had not given preference to local candidates while filling up vacant posts. "Priority was given to candidates from North India during the filling up of posts," he charged. Bava said the local candidates had been neglected during the selection of candidates. Sarojini Mahishi report emphasising appointing local candidates has been ignored," he told media persons. He sought to know why BJP MLAs and MPs were silent on the issue. MRPL had promised to provide employment to local candidates. While recruiting 214 staff, only 13 from Karnataka were recruited. Among 13, only three are from Udupi, Karkala and Mangaluru. DYFI state president Muneer Katipalla demanded the cancellation of the recruitment process. "A high-level probe should be ordered into the recruitment process at the MRPL. People of undivided Dakshina Kannada districts have been cheated. DYFI has been demanding 80% jobs for local residents since the beginning," Muneer said. Following a row over the recruitment process, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, MLAs D Vedavyasa Kamath, Umanath Kotian and Dr Y Bharath Shetty held discussions with MRPL Managing Director M Venkatesh and other top officials. The MP, in a Facebook post, said that he has directed the MRPL on withholding the recruitment list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mrpl-neglected-local-candidates-during-recruitment-former-mla-mohiyuddin-bava-988916.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||UN-Habitat conducts study on plastic leakage in Mangaluru||In a unique initiative, UN-Habitat, an international programme of the United Nations, has partnered with Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC), Hasiru Dala and APD Foundation, for undertaking a survey based on the study of potential plastic leakage from Municipal Solid Waste Management systems, to understand and strengthen waste management in the city. The United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) has been working closely with the Centre in promoting policies and programmes on mutually agreed upon, technical cooperation initiatives in support of sustainable urbanisation, promoting climate-smart and nature-based urban development, waste-wise cities programme and the implementation of the New Urban Agenda to achieve Sustainable Development Goals, especially Goal 11. The project is being implemented in two Indian cities i.e. Mangaluru and Thiruvananthapuram. About twenty volunteers of Hasiru Dala and APD Foundation participated in the assessment study that entailed sampling of household waste, commercial and institutional waste to understand waste characterisation and leakages across the value chain in Mangaluru city. Additionally, the team also conducted a detailed survey of resource recovery facilities within the city (both formal and informal) to assess the recovery of resources. A thorough landfill site assessment was also conducted by the team. UN-Habitat India officials — Swati Singh Sambyal, Waste Management Specialist  Jogesh Arora, Programme Specialist and Kartik Kapoor, Waste Management Consultant, led the work in the city of Mangaluru with support from Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) and representatives from Hasiru Dala and APD Foundation —  Vanishree B R and Nagaraj Raghava Anchan. The project is funded by the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW), an international not-for-profit organization, partnering with government, environmental and economic development organisations, UN agencies and communities around the world to address the challenge and bring innovative solutions to end plastic waste in the environment. UN-Habitat is one of the strategic partners of the Alliance. The project "Waste Wise Cities: Tackling Plastic Waste in the Environment" has been launched in six target cities (two cities each in Ethiopia, India and Kenya). Under this, UN-Habitat has been mapping the waste flows and assessing potential plastic leakage from waste management systems and identifying short and long term pathways to increase the amount of plastic waste collected, recycled and recovered through the application of the Waste Wise Cities Tool (WaCT). "This ground assessment under the project will help the city to better understand the critical areas and issues where waste management can be strengthened, to make better actions plans and decision making on solid waste management and to promote investments that are focusing on circular economy and resource recovery," said Swati Singh Sambyal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/un-habitat-conducts-study-on-plastic-leakage-in-mangaluru-988965.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dog tied to bike, dragged for 1.5 km in Mangaluru; 2 held||The police have arrested two persons including a minor, for allegedly tying the dog to a bike and dragging it for about 1.5-km at Maryhill in Mangaluru. One of those arrested is Irayya Basayya Hiremath, a worker in a farmhouse in Konchady. The dog had bitten his slipper, which made him angry and led him to do the inhuman act, according to DCP (Law and order) Hariram Shankar. The Animal Care Trust received a message from the public that the dog was in pain and was bleeding from the paws. The CCTV footage had captured the video of the incident who in turn informed Kavoor Police. The Kavoor police have registered a case under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act 2020 as they were found wandering for non-essential purposes. It may be recalled that a similar incident had occurred near NITK, Surathkal on April 24 and the video of a dog tied to a bike and dragged had gone viral. The police had then arrested two persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dog-tied-to-bike-dragged-for-15-km-in-mangaluru-2-held-988967.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru-based Trust provides insurance coverage for crematorium staff and families||Mangaluru-based Sevanjali Charitable Trust has provided insurance coverage to a BJP corporator and families of crematorium staff at a total cost of Rs 39,851. "As many as 16 members of seven families have been insured under Corona Kavach policy,: informed Hanumantha Kamath of the Trust. Each member has been insured upto a period of 10 months. Kamath recollected that during the first wave, all the bodies of Covid 19 victims were burnt at the electric crematorium in Bolar. During the second wave, the bodies of victims who died from Covid 19 are being burnt at Nandigudde and other crematoriums. "It is a challenge to conduct final rites of those who lost their lives to Covid-19. Thus, the Trust has decided to take care of the health of the staff at the crematorium, who are also Corona warriors," he stressed. The insurance cover of Rs two lakh was provided to the staff of crematorium at Boloor, Nandigudda, Shaktinagara, and Kadri. Insurance cover was also provided to Corporator (Ward number 26) Ganesh Kulal who performed final rites of 15 Covid-19 bodies, he added.  The insurance coverage initiative is to boost the morale of these corona warriors at crematoriums.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-based-trust-provides-insurance-coverage-for-crematorium-staff-and-families-989022.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||BSY will complete his term as CM: Nirani||Minister of Mines and Geology from Commerce and Industries Murugesh Nirani on Sunday said there is no question of a change in the Karnataka Chief Minister's post and that B S Yediyurappa will complete his term. Speaking to reporters, Nurani said Yediyurappa will be the CM for the remaining two years and BJP will go for upcoming Assembly elections under his leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bsy-will-complete-his-term-as-cm-nirani-989043.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||International volleyball player in Davanagere comes to aid of Covid patients||A video of 19-year-old Habeebunissa carrying an oxygen cylinder to provide it to someone in need has gone viral on the internet. Habeebunissa is an international volleyball player who has been saving Covid-19 patients’ lives with limited resources at hand by providing them with oxygen cylinders in Davanagere. In the video, Habeebunissa is seen with her brother carrying an oxygen cylinder on a bike after a CG hospital patient needed it. There was no oxygen in the hospital and the family was asked to get one. Without thinking twice, Habeebunissa collected the oxygen cylinder and quickly went to the hospital. With her help, the patient survived. Later she went ahead to arrange four more oxygen cylinders. After the video went viral on the internet, she has been winning hearts with her initiative. Not only arranging oxygen cylinders, but Habeebunissa has also been actively involved in doing other social work amid the pandemic. She has been distributing masks, arranging for blood, and also cooking meals with her mother for the stranded families.  Currently, Habeebunissa is in her final year of studying ITI (electrical) at Millat College. She is also the vice-president of the Youth Congress Davanagere unit. She has worked towards motivating many girls from her locality to take up sports and gain leadership skills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/international-volleyball-player-in-davanagere-comes-to-aid-of-covid-patients-989074.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mudhol CMC president succumbs to Covid-19||Mudhol City Municipal Council (CMC) president and a national-level wrestler Siddanath (Sanju) Dadasaheb Mane (32) died due to Covid-19 related complications at a private hospital in Belagavi on Sunday. Having elected from ward number 18 for the first time, Mane, a staunch supporter of Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, was elected to the top post at a young age. Before entering electoral politics, Mane had made a mark in traditional wrestling. He had won Karnataka Kesari title twice and Karnataka Kanteerava once. Siddanath Mane had lost his mother to Covid-19 just three days back. He is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mudhol-cmc-president-succumbs-to-covid-19-989170.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man who lost 5 family members to Covid finds 'peace of mind' in serving the needy||In a span of half an hour on May 1, 2021, T Raghavendra Shetru of Dharwad lost two of his close relatives to Covid-19. He was not even able to perform their final rites properly due to Covid restrictions. During the first wave, Raghavendra lost three family members, including his father, in a span of 14 days. He has endured the pain of losing two uncles, a brother and a first cousin. To overcome his grief, Raghavendra along with his friend Mahantesh Nargund decided to serve the needy and get some peace of mind. Every day, he has been serving food packets, fruits, water and other eatables to nearly 400 needy persons on the streets of Dharwad. A native of Sandur taluk in the Ballari district, Raghavendra has been running Matha hotel at Shivaji Circle, Dharwad, for the past two years. The hotel is running in losses and he has taken heavy loans from banks and relatives, he said. “I pay loan interest on a weekly and monthly basis. I am not worried about my loan. What I am worried is about human sufferings. So, I decided to start providing food packets to the needy. This gives me peace of mind,” Raghavendra said. He thanked Assistant Commissioner of Police G Anusha for extending her helping hand. “When we informed her about our intention to help the needy with food, she not only gave permission but also provided us a vehicle to carry the food packets,” he said. “I am willing to help any number of needy people and one can reach me on 70220-82374,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-who-lost-5-family-members-to-covid-finds-peace-of-mind-in-serving-the-needy-989177.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Staff's negligence caused Chikkaballapur quarry blast, panel tells NGT||A joint committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to study the stone quarry blast incident in Chikkaballapura district in which 6 people died, has blamed illegal possession and inappropriate handling of the explosive material by unauthorised persons working in the company responsible for the incident. "The main cause of the blast/accident is due to illegal possession and inappropriate handling of the explosive material by unauthorised persons who were working in M/s Shree Bhramaravasini M-sanders LLP (Stone Crusher), under the verbal instructions of the owners of M/s Shridi Sai Aggregates (Stone Quarry) and Shree Bhramaravasini M-sanders LLP in Hirenagavalli Village," said the report submitted to the NGT. "The accident has occurred due to mere negligence and ignorance of the employees of M/s Shree Bhramaravasini M-sanders LLP, Hirenagavalli village, Karnataka. This also determines that the owners of both M/s Shridi Sai Aggregates (Stone Quarry) and M/s Shree Bhramaravasini M-sanders LLP (Stone Crusher) have not taken due diligence and responsibility in handling the explosives and merely misguided the employees/staff of the Shree Bhramaravasini M-sanders LLP crusher by taking risk of their lives," the report added. Since the owner of the quarry has not complied with the provisions of the Mines Act, 1952 and The Explosives Act, 1884, the Karnataka government was taking action against Shirdi Sai Aggregates, said the report. The NGT principal bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel had taken suo motu case of incident and formed a joint committee comprising both Karnataka and Central Government officials and asked them to visit the spot and submit a report. Six people died and one was injured in Hirenagavalli, in Chikkaballapur on the night of February 22 after gelatin sticks used in a stone quarry exploded. On the loss of lives, the joint committee said the compensation has been calculated with the available information of the employees who died in the blast. However, the committee said, there was no major impact on the environment (flora, fauna, water body, atmosphere and livestock etc.) at the blast site. The committee also said the blast site did not require any restoration measures as it was barren land with dry to scanty vegetation. Even environmental compensation was not required to be calculated, the panel said. Since the blast occurred for less than a minute, the effects were negligible, barring huge noise and dust/gases in the atmosphere, the panel said. However, the committee said the state government may also provide the composition of the explosives involved in the blast/accident (after the complete investigation by the Central Investigation Department) to Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) for assessing the possible impact of the chemicals on the environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/staffs-negligence-caused-chikkaballapur-quarry-blast-panel-tells-ngt-989201.html
23-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress accuses BJP of being 'anti-Dalit'||Karnataka Congress accused the 'anti-Dalit' attitude of BJP administration for the shameful incident reported at Mudigere in Chikkamagaluru taluk, where a dalit youth was forced to drink urine in custody by police sub-inspector Arjun Horakeri. It is shocking that such incidents, which were restricted to the BJP-ruled states like UP, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, are now being reported in Karnataka, Congress said. The fact that the accused police inspector was transferred and not suspended is a clear sign of the anti-Dalit policy of BJP. Recalling that BJP MLA Siddu Savadi was let scot-free after his alleged assault on Dalit woman Chandni Nayak, Congress said on Twitter that the incidents reflected that the saffron party was anti-Dalit and anti-women. Congress MLC Prakash Rathod demanded strict action against the police official under relevant sections of the law. "The state government should immediately apologise to the Dalits of Karnataka," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-accuses-bjp-of-being-anti-dalit-989178.html
23-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 23||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below the 3 lakh-mark for the seventh consecutive day, with 2.4 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,68,27,665 as of May 23, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,99,266 as of May 23, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged: 2,34,25,467  Total Vaccination: 19,50,04,184 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-23-988956.html
23-05-2021||National||DH Toon | Rural India cries for help as second Covid wave spreads||India has been hard hit by a second wave of coronavirus infections which has overwhelmed its health system, even in big cities. In the countryside, medical facilities are dilapidated and doctors and nurses are few on the ground, meaning many clinics are run by people who don’t have training.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rural-india-cries-for-help-as-second-covid-wave-spreads-988960.html
23-05-2021||National||After a day of remaining static, fuel prices go up again||Diesel price in the national capital on Sunday crossed Rs 84 mark while petrol rate in Mumbai neared Rs 100 a litre after fuel prices were raised again. Petrol price was increased by 17 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike — 12th this month — pushed petrol and diesel prices to an all-time high across the country. In Delhi, petrol rates climbed to Rs 93.21 a litre and diesel rose to Rs 84.07. Rates had already crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and with the latest increase, the price in Mumbai too was inching towards that level. A litre of petrol in Mumbai now comes for Rs 99.49 and diesel is priced at Rs 91.30 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15-days, and foreign exchange rates. This is the 12th increase in prices since May 4, when the state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan had the costliest petrol and diesel in the country at Rs 104.18 per litre and Rs 96.91 a litre, respectively. In 12 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 2.81 per litre and diesel by Rs 3.34.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-a-day-of-remaining-static-fuel-prices-go-up-again-988975.html
23-05-2021||National||India reports 2,40,842 new Covid-19 cases, 3,741 deaths||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below the 3 lakh-mark for the seventh consecutive day, with 2,40,842 new cases recorded in a single day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday, lowest in over a month. With the fresh cases, India's tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,65,30,132. The death toll due to the disease rose to 2,99,266 with 3,741 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further reduced to 28,05,399 comprising 10.57 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 88.30 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease in the country surged to 2,34,25,467 while the case fatality rate stood at 1.13 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7 last, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 32,86,07,937 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to May 22 with 21,23,782 samples tested on Saturday. The 3,741 new fatalities include 682 from Maharashtra, 448 from Tamil Nadu, 451 from Karnataka, 218 from Uttar Pradesh, 201 from Punjab, 182 from Delhi, 176 from Kerala, 154 from West Bengal, 134 from Uttarakhand,  118 from Andhra Pradesh, 115 from Rajasthan, 103 from Chhattisgarh and 98 from Haryana. A total of 2,99,266 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 87,300 from Maharashtra, 24,658 from Karnataka, 23,013 from Delhi, 20,046 from Tamil Nadu, 18,978 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,208 from West Bengal,  13,089 from Punjab and 12,494 from Chhattisgarh, the ministry said. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-240842-new-covid-19-cases-3741-deaths-988969.html
23-05-2021||National||PM Modi to review preparations to deal with cyclone Yaas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting, which will be attended by key ministers and officials, on Sunday to review preparations to deal with the approaching cyclone Yaas.  Representatives from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), secretaries from Telecom, Power, Civil aviation and Earth Sciences ministries will attend the meeting besides the home minister among others. Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and cross the Odisha and the West Bengal coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-review-preparations-to-deal-with-cyclone-yaas-988982.html
23-05-2021||National||Delhi extends coronavirus lockdown till May 31||Delhi government on Sunday extended the Covid-19 lockdown in the national capital by one week, saying the process of unlocking will begin from May 31 in a phased manner if cases decline. The announcement by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal came on a day when Covid-19 cases in the capital dropped below 2,000-mark after the second wave of the virus hit the city. The health bulletin issued on Sunday said the city reported 1,649 cases in the past 24 hours as against 2,260 the previous day. Kejriwal said the decision was taken after consulting the people of the capital and the lockdown will be in place till 5 am on May 31. Delhi has been under complete lockdown since April 19 night. "The battle is pending and is not over yet. Even now more than 1,000 cases are emerging... If we are to lift the lockdown right now, then we might lose out on whatever we have gained after a struggle, hard work, and sacrifice in the last month... If the cases continue to decline at this pace, we will start the unlock process in a phased manner," he said. Appealing to people to support the government and adhere to the lockdown this week same as before, the Chief Minister said the administration is fully prepared for the third wave of Covid-19 and the "first and foremost agenda" is to get people vaccinated. "The top priority of the Delhi government is to figure out how to vaccinate the 2.5 crore people of Delhi within three months, but there is a paucity of vaccines. It does not matter at what cost they are giving the vaccines to us, we are willing to spend from the budget of the Delhi government," the Chief Minister said. According to the medical bulletin, the test positivity rate has dropped further to 2.42 per cent (68,043 tests) from 3.58 per cent (63,155 tests) on Saturday. However, the number of deaths marginally increased from 182 to 189.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-may-31-988992.html
23-05-2021||National||Surajpur collector removed after video shows him hitting man in Chhattisgarh||The collector of Chhattisgarh's Surajpur district, Ranbir Sharma, was removed from the post on Sunday after a viral video showed him slapping a man and throwing his mobile phone for alleged Covis-19 norms violation. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel issued instructions for the removal of the IAS officer from the post. The collector along with some policemen on Saturday stopped the man, identified as Aman Mittal (23), who was on his motorcycle, on a road in Surajpur where the coronavirus-induced lockdown is in force. In the video, the man can be seen showing a piece of paper and something on his mobile phone to the collector, who takes the device and throws it on the ground. Sharma is then seen slapping the man and encouraging two policemen, who rush to the spot and start hitting the man with sticks.   The collector's act drew sharp criticism on social media platforms with people demanding his removal and registration of an FIR against him. The collector later apologised for his act. Chief Minister Baghel in a tweet in Hindi on Sunday said, "Through social media, the case of misbehaviour of Surajpur Collector Ranbir Sharma with a young man has come to my notice. It is very sad and condemnable. In Chhattisgarh, such acts will not be tolerated at all." "Instructions have been given to remove Sharma with immediate effect," he added. In another tweet, Baghel said such conduct was not acceptable by any officer during his/her administrative tenure. "I am upset with this incident. I apologise to the young man and his family," the CM tweeted. किसी भी अधिकारी का शासकीय जीवन में इस तरह का आचरण स्वीकार्य नहीं है। इस घटना से क्षुब्ध हूँ। मैं नवयुवक व उनके परिजनों से खेद व्यक्त करता हूँ। Soon after the CM's directive, the state government transferred Sharma to the Mantralaya (secretariat) in Nava Raipur as joint secretary (waiting). The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Raipur Zila Panchayat, Gaurav Kumar Singh, has been appointed as the new collector of Surajpur. Meanwhile, the IAS Association strongly condemned Sharma's act. "It is unacceptable & against the basic tenets of the service & civility. Civil servants must have empathy & provide a healing touch to society at all times, more so in these difficult times,” the association tweeted. The IAS Association strongly condemns the behaviour of Collector Surajpur, Chhattisgarh.It is unacceptable & against the basic tenets of the service & civility.Civil servants must have empathy & provide a healing touch to society at all times, more so in these difficult times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surajpur-collector-removed-after-video-shows-him-hitting-man-in-chhattisgarh-988993.html
23-05-2021||National||Explained | Covid-19: Mucormycosis or 'black fungus' - What is a notifiable disease?||Mucormycosis or 'black fungus', which is being found in a rising number of Covid-19 patients across India, has been declared a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Act 1897 in many states, including Telangana and Uttarakhand.  It is a rare but dangerous fungal infection caused by a group of moulds known as mucormycetes, which are present naturally in the environment. It has been a cause of panic for many states, even more so with AIIMS Director Dr Nikhil Tandon saying that it is airborne. They cause serious complications only when a patient has pre-existing health conditions or has taken medications that compromise the immune system. But what does it mean to declare an infection a notifiable disease? What is a notifiable disease? A notifiable disease is an illness that is required by law to be informed to government authorities. This is applicable to private establishments. This helps the government to form a bank of data about the disease and monitor it, which helps in providing early warnings about outbreaks. As per the World Health Organization’s International Health Regulations, 1969, the disease has to be flagged to the WHO to help with its global surveillance and advisory role. The responsibility to declare any disease as a 'notifiable' disease lays with the state governments. Registered medical professionals need to notify such diseases in a proper form within three days, or notify verbally via phone within 24 hours depending on the urgency of the situation. This means that all government hospitals, private hospitals, laboratories, and clinics will have to report cases of the disease to the government. This helps the government to track the disease and formulate a plan of action to tackle it. Over the years, the Centre has notified many diseases including cholera, diphtheria, encephalitis, leprosy, meningitis, pertussis (whooping cough), plague, tuberculosis, AIDS, hepatitis, measles, yellow fever and malaria dengue.  Is the declaration different from an epidemic? India's Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 does not provide a clear definition of an epidemic. But generally, an epidemic is defined as a sudden increase in the number of cases of a particular disease, more than what is expected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-covid-19-mucormycosis-or-black-fungus-what-is-a-notifiable-disease-988995.html
23-05-2021||National||Explained: How IMD categorises cyclones||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has had a hectic month so far as the country's top weather body continues to issue warnings and predict trajectories of two cyclones on both sides of the Indian peninsula. While cyclone Tauktae rammed into the west coast, the incipient cyclone Yaas is likely to strike the east coast on Wednesday. Yaas is likely to swirl up into a “very severe cyclone” over the Bay of Bengal, according to the IMD’s latest estimates. Tauktae, on the other hand, was a rung higher, being the first “extremely severe cyclone” to hit the Gujarat coast in 23 years. Last year’s Amphan was at the top of the stepladder, categorised as a “super cyclone”. The Met department has devised this hierarchy for cyclonic storms as part of its early warning system for tropical cyclones with the express purpose of curbing loss of life and property due to these violent weather events. It uses a network of satellites, radars, weather prediction models and communication technology to forewarn people, the government, disaster management and the media. The core criterion for labelling a cyclonic formation as one of eight categories of cyclonic storms, in order of increasing severity, is the maximum wind speed within the cyclonic system. Windspeed is usually a function of the difference in pressure between the low-pressure eye and the areas outside it. The various categories of cyclones are as follows, depending on their maximum sustained wind speed: 1. Low-pressure area: Windspeed does not exceed 31 km per hour 2. Depression: Windspeed between 31-49 km per hour 3. Deep depression: 50-61 km per hour 4. Cyclonic storm: 62-88 km per hour 5. Severe cyclonic storm: 89-117 km per hour 6. Very severe cyclonic storm: 118-167 km per hour 7. Extremely severe cyclonic storm: 168-221 km per hour 8. Super cyclonic storm: 222 km per hour and higher||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-imd-categorises-cyclones-989000.html
23-05-2021||National||5G to spur contractual staffing requirement in telecom; hiring sentiment positive: TeamLease||The much-awaited 5G services roll-out is expected to spur telecom contractual staffing over the next two years and will emerge as a key driver for hiring activities in the sector, according to a senior official at TeamLease. The Department of Telecom (DoT) already set the ball in motion for 5G trials earlier this month, when it approved applications of telecom companies including Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea for conducting the trials. According to Deval Singh, Business Head- Telecom, IT and ITES, Media and Government, TeamLease Services, the outlook for contractual hiring in the sector remains positive, notwithstanding some ambiguities on account of the second severe wave of Covid-19. "Telecom vertical is one of the biggest markets for staffing industry...this was one of the verticals which grew even during the Covid times, and I believe that trend will continue in 2021," Singh told PTI. The 5G roll-out in future will offer a boost to the economy and to the labour market, Singh said. "The second wave is a little ambiguous, so no one knows how the growth will be shaped. Having said that, there will be a clear impact for the next two years in telecom industry in a positive way with launch of 5G services, when it comes to economy and when it comes to labour market," Singh noted. As per TeamLease, the talent requirement by the industry is expected to see 18 per cent growth this year, with profiles ranging from technicians to installation engineers, and from civil engineers to project managers, in demand. The growth would have been more pronounced but for the second wave of pandemic. The industry is, however, optimistic that once the overall situation improves, 5G would galvanise job opportunities in the sector. The demand for contractual staff in the telecom sector surged in 2020 despite the backdrop of lockdown and movement curbs, as remote working and social distancing norms drove data usage to new highs, pushing players to invest in network capacities. Telecom services have been categorised as 'essential services' amid lockdown. "We hired over 50 per cent more in 2020, than in 2019," Singh said but did not comment on absolute numbers. TeamLease Services is a human resource company offering a solutions to over 3,500 employers for their hiring, productivity and scale challenges. Singh said telecom companies have not put brakes on hiring, and with the government approving applications for 5G trials now, the hiring confidence is "even more". It is pertinent to mention here that the list of telecom gear makers approved by DoT for trials include Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung, C-DOT and Reliance Jio's indigenously developed technologies. The duration of the trials, at present, is for a period of six months, including a time period of two months for procurement and setting up of the equipment. The permission letters specify that each operator would have to conduct trials in rural and semi-urban settings in addition to urban settings so that the benefit of the 5G technology proliferates across the country. A recent report by Ericsson has estimated that India can potentially have 40 million 5G users in the first year when the next-generation service is made available to them. According to Ericsson ConsumerLab report, consumers have shown willingness to pay 50 per cent more for 5G plans bundled with digital services while they want to pay only 10 per cent more for just 5G connectivity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5g-to-spur-contractual-staffing-requirement-in-telecom-hiring-sentiment-positive-teamlease-989015.html
23-05-2021||National||Govt not in favour of door-to-door vaccine programme: PM's Principal Secretary||Even as most states report shortfall of vaccines and people continue to face trouble getting slots, the central government is not keen on the door-to-door vaccination programme. This is largely due to the complexity of supply chain management, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Pramod Kumar Mishra said. Earlier this week, the Bombay High Court had reportedly said that it was disheartened and disappointed with the Centre's insensitivity and with the Mumbai civic body for not starting door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for senior citizens and specially-abled, bed-ridden and wheelchair-bound people. Over the significant decrease in the daily vaccination rate for the past few days, Mishra said it isn’t because of the change in strategy or policies. “In the early phase of vaccination, we had allowed stockpiling from before the vaccination began. That is why we were able to inoculate more people per day as delivery capabilities were systematically ramped,” he told the publication. He added that the government aims at vaccinating all the adults by the end of this year.  Kumar's statement comes at a time when Opposition parties have been accusing the government of sending vaccines "meant for Indian citizens" to foreign countries and questioning its statement that India will be in a position to vaccinate all of its adult population against the coronavirus by the end of 2021. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 19.50 crore on Sunday, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-not-in-favour-of-door-to-door-vaccine-programme-pms-principal-secretary-989023.html
23-05-2021||National||Record 21.23 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in a single day: Centre||India has set a record of conducting the highest Covid-19 testing in a single day with more than 21.23 lakh fresh tests, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. This is also the fifth successive day that more than 20 lakh tests have been conducted in India, it said  Cumulatively, 21,23,782 tests conducted have been conducted in the last 24 hours in the country. The ministry also said that the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 19.50 crore on Sunday.  “A total of 19,50,04,184 vaccine doses have been administered through 28,00,808 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today," it said. "These include 97,52,900 HCWs who have taken the 1st dose and 67,00,614 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 1,49,52,345 FLWs (1st dose), 83,26,534 FLWs (2nd dose), 99,93,908 beneficiaries under 18-44 age group (1st dose), 6,06,90,560 (1st dose) and 97,87,289 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years and 5,65,55,558 first dose beneficiaries and 1,82,44,476 second dose beneficiaries of more than 60 years old,” the ministry said. The Daily Positivity Rate has declined to 11.34 per cent and India's total active caseload has decreased to 28,05,399 on Sunday. “A net decline of 1,18,001 is witnessed in the last 24 hours. It now comprises 10.57 per cent of the country's total positive cases. Seven states cumulatively account for 66.88 per cent of India's total active cases,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-2123-lakh-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-a-single-day-centre-989026.html
23-05-2021||National||Army helps douse major forest fire near LoC in J&K's Rajouri||The Indian Army on Sunday doused a major fire near the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, preventing damage to seasonal crops in two villages, officials said. The fire in Lam forest in Nowshera sector started around 12.30 am and took the army and the locals several hours to put it off, the officials said. "The Indian Army at Lam undauntingly regardless of personal safety went over the steep hillocks by midnight around 0030 hrs and helped douse the forest fire spread preventing damage to seasonal crops of residents of Kallar nd Gunni villages," Army's Jammu-based White Knight Corps said in a tweet. The officials said the fire spread fast, threatening the standing wheat crops but timely intervention by the Army averted a major tragedy. A defence spokesman said the army, in a separate case, extinguished a house fire and also provided relief to the affected family in Mangat area of Ramban district. "At midnight of May 22, a major fire broke out in the house of Mohammad Yusuf Wani at Mangat. Army personnel from Mohubal immediately rushed for assistance and doused the fire using their fire extinguishers," the spokesman said. He said the quick response by the Army and locals could control the fire and its spread to neighbouring houses after five hours of efforts. "Army personnel entered the house and successfully retrieved important household items as well. The upper floor of the house was completely damaged, however, the lower floor was saved due to the joint efforts," he said. The spokesman said no one was injured in the incident. Later, the Army also provided relief material to the house owner and his family, the spokesman said, adding the village is remotely located, where such incidents are mostly handled by joint efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-helps-douse-major-forest-fire-near-loc-in-jks-rajouri-989032.html
23-05-2021||National||PM Modi reviews preparedness for cyclone Yaas, asks for timely evacuation of people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for timely evacuation of those involved in off-shore activities as he chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparedness of states and central government agencies to deal with the situation arising out of cyclone Yaas. He asked officials to work in close coordination with states to ensure safe evacuation of people from high-risk areas, and to ensure that time duration of outages of power supply and communication network are minimum and restored swiftly, a PMO statement said. Modi also asked officials to ensure proper coordination and planning with state governments to ensure that no disruption is caused to Covid-19 treatment and vaccination in hospitals. He called for involving various stakeholders like coastal communities and industries and directly reaching out to them and sensitising them, the PMO said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the cyclone is expected to cross West Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 evening with the wind speed ranging 155-165 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. It is likely to cause heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of West Bengal and north Odisha. The IMD has also warned of storm surge in coastal areas of West Bengal and Odisha. The IMD has been issuing regular bulletins with latest forecast to all states concerned, the PMO noted. The Ministry of Home Affairs is reviewing the situation and is in touch with the state governments, union territories and the central agencies concerned. It has already released the first instalment of SDRF in advance to all states, and the National Disaster Response Force has pre-positioned 46 teams which are equipped with boats, tree-cutters, telecom equipments in five states and UT. In addition, 13 teams are being airlifted on Sunday for deployment and 10 teams have been kept on standby, the PMO noted. Home Minister Amit Shah, other ministers and senior officials attended the meeting. In a tweet, Modi said he emphasised on timely evacuation as well as ensuring that power and communications networks are not disrupted. "Also emphasised on ensuring Covid-19 treatment of patients in affected areas does not suffer due to the cyclone. Praying for everyone’s safety and well-being," he said. The PMO said the Indian Coast Guard and the Navy have deployed ships and helicopters for relief, search and rescue operations, while the Indian Air Force and engineer task force units of the Army, with boats and rescue equipment, are on standby for deployment. Seven ships with humanitarian assistance and disaster relief units are on standby along the western coast, it added. Highlighting the efforts being made by other ministries, the PMO said the Petroleum & Natural Gas ministry has taken measures to secure all oil installations in the sea and to bring back their shipping vessels to safe harbour. The Ministry of Power has activated emergency response systems and is keeping in readiness transformers, DG sets and other equipment for immediate restoration of electricity. The Ministry of Telecom is keeping all telecom towers and exchanges under constant watch and is fully geared to restore telecom networks while the Union Health Ministry has issued advisory to states and UTs concerned for health sector preparedness and response to Covid-19 in affected areas, it added. The NDRF is assisting state agencies in their preparedness for evacuating people from vulnerable locations and is also continuously holding community awareness campaign on dealing with the cyclonic situation, it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-preparedness-for-cyclone-yaas-asks-for-timely-evacuation-of-people-989033.html
23-05-2021||National||Oxygen Express surpasses 15,000 tonnes in deliveries; Assam latest to get consignment||The railways has so far delivered 15,284 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in 936 tankers to various states through its Oxygen Express service, the national transporter said on Sunday. So far, 234 Oxygen Expresses have completed their journey and brought relief to various states, while nine loaded Oxygen Expresses are currently on the run with more than 569 tonnes of LMO in 31 tankers. The first Oxygen Express to Assam with 80 tonnes of LMO in four tankers reached Assam on Sunday. The delivery of LMO by Oxygen Expresses to Karnataka has crossed the 1,000-tonne mark, the railways said in a statement. On an average, Oxygen Expresses have been delivering over 800 tonnes of LMO to various states each day now. Oxygen relief by Oxygen Expresses reached 14 states -- Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Assam. So far, 614 tonnes of oxygen has been offloaded in Maharashtra, nearly 3,609 tonne in Uttar Pradesh, 566 tonnes in Madhya Pradesh, 4,300 tonnes in Delhi, 1,759 tonnes in Haryana, 98 tonnes in Rajasthan, 1,063 tonnes in Karnataka, 320 tonnes in Uttarakhand, 857 tonnes in Tamil Nadu, 642 tonnes in Andhra Pradesh, 153 tonnes in Punjab, 246 tonnes in Kerala, 976 tonnes in Telangana and 80 tonnes in Assam. The railways has mapped different routes with oxygen supply locations and keeps itself ready with any emerging need of states. States provide tankers to the Indian Railways for bringing LMO. Oxygen Expresses started their deliveries 29 days back on April 24 in Maharashtra with a load of 126 tonnes. Its first service began when empty tankers left Mumbai on April 19 to be loaded with the life-saving gas. Criss-crossing the country, the Indian Railways is picking up oxygen from places such as Hapa, Baroda, Mundra in the West and Rourkela, Durgapur, Tatanagar, Angul in the East and then delivering it to states of Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Assam in complex operational route planning scenarios. The average speed of these critical freight trains is way above 55 kmph in most cases over long distances. Running on high priority Green Corridor, with a highest sense of urgency, operational teams of various zones are working round the clock in most challenging circumstances to ensure that oxygen reaches in fastest possible time frame, . Technical stoppages have been reduced to one minute for crew changes over different sections. On Saturday, in a first, an Oxygen Express train piloted by an 'All Female Crew' arrived in the Bengaluru with 120 tonnes of medical oxygen from Jamshedpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-express-surpasses-15000-tonnes-in-deliveries-assam-latest-to-get-consignment-989035.html
23-05-2021||National||ONGC reaches out to families of dead in barge sinking||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) has started reaching out to families of the dead, missing and survivors of the private contractor-operated barge that sank in the Arabian Sea after being battered by a severe cyclone. While Indian Navy, Coast Guard, ONGC teams and private contractor Afcons are putting in all efforts to locate the missing personnel through sea vessels and aerial search, the state-owned firm has extended an immediate relief of Rs 1 lakh to the survivors and Rs 2 lakh to the deceased and missing persons' families, company officials said. "Teams have formed which have started visiting the families to hand over immediate relief amounts," an official said. "So far, 13 families have been provided with the immediate relief and the rest will be handed over the cheques at the earliest possible. There were 261 persons onboard Afcons' Barge P-305, which lost anchor and hit an unmanned installation before capsizing last week. While 186 were rescued, 66 bodies have so far been recorded and nine are still missing. "Those on barge P-305 were either employees of Afcons or hired by them for executing a contract the firm has won from ONGC. We are obtaining details of those onboard P-305 from the private contractor to extend the relief," he said. Caught in high velocity winds and swelling sea, all the anchors of the Barge P-305 gave away, leading it to drift uncontrollably. It hit an unmanned platform of ONGC resulting in water ingress and eventually capsized at around 1700 Hrs of May 17. A 24x7 helpline was set up from May 18. In order to reach out the all the families which ONGC is not able to contact because of non-availability of phone numbers, ONGC has issued a press release in this regard in vernacular languages in the states of domicile of the affected persons, so that family members can contact the company on helpline numbers for any assistance required for the purpose. "ONGC is providing all necessary logistical help and support for the dependent family members to travel to Mumbai and back besides making arrangements for families to take back the mortal remains of the deceased person to their hometown," the official said. "ONGC and AFCONS teams are working together to provide support to families in distress." So far, 40 bodies have been identified so far and all formalities have been completed for 35. ONGC has provided complete logistics support to the families of 17 deceased persons to take the mortal remains to their hometown. Afcons has also extended similar support for 17 deceased persons whereas family of one person took the custody of mortal remains by themselves. ONGC has also set up a helpdesk at the JJ Hospital to facilitate the families of the deceased persons. Senior officials from the oil ministry and ONGC are monitoring the relief and rescue operations continuously and hourly updates are being obtained, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ongc-reaches-out-to-families-of-dead-in-barge-sinking-989037.html
23-05-2021||National||Serum Institute disassociates itself from its executive's remarks on Covid vaccination drive||The Serum Institute has disassociated itself from its executive director's statement that the government began the Covid-19 vaccination of multiple age groups without taking into consideration the available stock, stating that this is "not the view of the company". In a letter to the Union Health Ministry on May 22, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director of Government and Regulatory Affairs at the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), clarified that the statement by its executive director Suresh Jadav at a recent event is not the view of the company, sources said. "On behalf of our CEO Adar C Poonawalla, I want to inform you that this statement is not issued on behalf of SIIPL (Serum Institute of India Private Limited) and the Company completely dissociates itself from this statement. It is reiterated that, this is not the view of the company at all. "SIIPL is committed to maximise its Covishield production and it stands shoulder to shoulder to strengthen the government's fight against Covid-19," he said in a communique. SII also clarified that Poonawalla is the only official spokesperson of the company. Amid an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the country, SII executive director Suresh Jadhav on Friday alleged that the government began inoculating people from multiple age groups without taking into account the available stock of vaccines and the WHO guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-disassociates-itself-from-its-executives-remarks-on-covid-vaccination-drive-989038.html
23-05-2021||National||Women can get Covid vaccine anytime after delivery: Experts||A woman can get vaccinated against Covid-19 anytime after the delivery of her baby, healthcare experts have said and stressed on the need to permit vaccination of even pregnant women to protect them from the infection. The government recently allowed vaccination for lactating mothers. The NITI Aayog Member (Health) has stressed that there is no problem in breastfeeding after vaccination and it must not be halted "even for an hour". Healthcare experts have also said that a woman can get vaccinated against Covid-19 anytime after the delivery of her baby. Dr Khan Amir Maroof, Professor, Department of Community Medicine, University College of Medical Sciences and GTB Hospital, Delhi, said there is no risk to the neonate from a vaccinated, breastfeeding mother. "There is no reason to delay the vaccination after delivery," he said. Further, he said, no specific precautions need to be taken by lactating women in view of vaccination and the same precautions which apply to the general population are applicable to them as well. Dr. Loveleena Nadir, senior consultant gynaecologist and obstetrician at Fortis La Femme, Rosewalk Hospital and Apollo Cradle Royale, said vaccination can also be done during any phase of menstrual cycle. "Covid-19 is not an indication for caesarean delivery but there has been an increased frequency of pre-term births and caesarean deliveries, probably due to maternal illness associated with Covid-19 infection. If one has recovered from Covid infection, defer vaccination for 3 months from date of recovery," she said. She further said that if a patient has taken the first dose and later turned out to be pregnant, they are advised to continue the pregnancy. "Pregnancy doesn't increase the risk of acquiring SARS-COV-2 infection but appears to worsen the clinical course as compared to non-pregnant women," she added. Experts have stressed on the need to vaccinate pregnant women to protect them from the infection. Maroof said the government guidelines has not yet recommended Covid-19 vaccination for pregnant women. "This is because the Covid vaccine trials were not done on pregnant women and their safety and efficacy related data is not available. The Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India has, however, recommended that Covid vaccine should be given to pregnant women as the risk of getting infected with Covid and mortality is high during this pandemic," he said. "This seems to be higher than the risk due to the side effects of the vaccine,” he said.  Dr. Sujeet Ranjan, Executive Director of the Coalition for Food and Nutrition Security (CFNS), New Delhi, said WHO guidelines state that pregnant and lactating mothers can be vaccinated but in India, the matter regarding inoculation of pregnant women is under discussion and further deliberation by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI). "We are hopeful that Health Ministry may soon allow Covid-19 jab for pregnant women also. There are many countries that have already started Covid vaccination of pregnant and lactating mothers. In the present time, the scientists are trying to generate enough data to recommend. We have learned that neither of the two Covid vaccines being administered in India -- Covishield or Covaxin -- has been tested on pregnant or lactating women for its impact, efficacy and side effects. Therefore, we need to strictly follow the policy advice by the Health Ministry,” he said. Dr Jaideep Malhotra, former president of the Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India and founder of the Infertility Centre of Rainbow IVF, said this fact should be circulated that the vaccines available in India right now do not contain live virus, hence are safe for pregnant and breastfeeding mothers and will not cause any more serious side effects like abortions or congenital malformations. "Very important message is that vaccinating pregnant women is going to take care of two lives and it is something which should be expedited as soon as possible. With 40 million pregnancies happening, we take care of almost 80 million lives," said Malhotra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-can-get-covid-vaccine-anytime-after-delivery-experts-989054.html
23-05-2021||National||Amid Covid, charity began from home for Lucknow NGO||The community kitchen operated by Dr Akhilesh Das Foundation is an example of charity beginning at home, and then gradually expanding to lend a helping hand to others. According to Viraj Sagar Das, the chairman of the foundation named after the former Union minister, the idea of starting the community kitchen came to him when he began sending food to his uncle and aunt, after they got infected with Covid-19. "It was around April 12, the death anniversary of my father Akhilesh Das, that the community kitchen started its operation. The idea to start it came as we were sending food to my 'taau' and 'taai', both of whom had tested positive for Covid-19 infection and were living alone," he told PTI. "We thought that if my uncle and aunt are facing this problem, there would be many people in the city dealing with the same issue," Das said. "Initially, we were sending 50 'thaalis' (food plates) of lunch and dinner per day. But, as of now, we are sending as many as 500 'thaalis' of lunch and dinner every single day. This is free of cost," he added. Das also informed that the foundation provides free ambulances services, thereby helping people save precious time and money. Apart from this, the foundation has distributed rations among the poor, and masks and sanitisers to close to 5,000 police personnel, he added. Rajesh Srivastava, who works at a private dental college in Lucknow, said he benefitted from the service provided by the NGO. "For three days, we availed the 'thaali' service of Dr Akhilesh Das Foundation as I and my wife were recovering from Covid-19. My wife was feeling weak, and was unable to cook. At that point of time, the 'thaali' service proved to be quite helpful," Srivastava said. Amit Saxena and his wife contracted Covid-19 in the first week of May. He said the 'thaali' service proved to be a great help as they were unable to cook for themselves. "The thaali service proved to be tremendously helpful, and we are still continuing with it," he added. Meanwhile, the Lucknow Development Authority is also starting a community kitchen from May 24 to provide free food to the attendants of Covid-19 patients, an official statement said here. UP Law Minister and MLA from Lucknow Central Brajesh Pathak informed that a community kitchen named after former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee --- Atal Bhojnalaya --- has commenced operations on Friday, and it will provide free food to the needy twice in a day. Pathak said the 'bhojnalaya' will benefit daily wage labourers, rickshaw pullers, taxi drivers, cart vendors and others. Similarly, a Marwari community kitchen is being run by the Agarwal Samaj at the Maharaja Agrasen Public School to provide food to Covid-19-infected people and their attendants since May 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-charity-began-from-home-for-lucknow-ngo-989055.html
23-05-2021||National||Toolkit case: Chhattisgarh cops serve notice to Sambit Patra||BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra on Sunday did not appear in person or online as directed before Raipur police in Chhattisgarh in connection with an FIR registered against him and senior colleague Raman Singh over an alleged fake toolkit, officials said. Patra, who was asked to appear at 4 pm on Sunday before personnel from Civil Lines police station, where the FIR is registered, exempted himself citing personal reasons, they added. The FIR was registered against Raman Singh, BJP vice president and former chief minister of Chhattisgarh, Patra, and others in Raipur on May 19 under the charges of spreading fake news and promoting enmity between classes in the alleged toolkit row. The case was filed at the Civil Lines police station following a complaint lodged by Akash Sharma, president of the National Students’ Union of India’s (NSUI) Chhattisgarh unit who alleged that Singh, Patra and others had circulated a fake "toolkit" using the letterhead of the Congress. “Patra did not appear before police investigators. As per his advocate, Patra was busy in some personal engagements and sought one week to appear before police,” said Civil Lines station house officer R K Mishra. A similar notice has been served on Singh asking him to remain present in his residence at 12:30 pm on Monday for the recording of the statement in connection with the case, the Civil Lines police official added. “In the notice, Civil Lines police said that Patra is a suspect in the case of the alleged toolkit. Therefore, it has been directed to him to appear either in person or through a video conference on May 23 at 4 pm for the investigation of the case. Not complying with the notice is going to attract legal action,” the officer had said. Twitter recently labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet of Patra on the alleged toolkit prepared by Congress to target the Narendra Modi government. The Congress had on Thursday written to Twitter asking it to permanently suspend the accounts of BJP president J P Nadda, Union minister Smriti Irani, Patra and other BJP leaders for allegedly "spreading misinformation and unrest in the society". The Congress had said the toolkit documents flagged by the BJP are "fake" and has filed a police complaint against its leaders. The BJP has been attacking Congress over some controversial content of the so-called 'Covid' toolkit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-chhattisgarh-cops-serve-notice-to-sambit-patra-989057.html
23-05-2021||National||India challenges $1.2 billion Cairn arbitration award, says never agreed to arbitrate tax dispute||India has challenged an international arbitration tribunal asking it to return $1.2 billion to UK's Cairn Energy Plc on grounds that it had never agreed to arbitrate over a "national tax dispute", the finance ministry said on Sunday. While the government appointed a judge on the three-member arbitration panel and fully participated in the proceedings against India seeking Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes from Cairn, the ministry said the tribunal "improperly exercised jurisdiction over a national tax dispute that the Republic of India never offered and/or agreed to arbitrate." India had seized and sold shares of Cairn in its erstwhile India unit, confiscated dividend due and withheld tax refunds to recover the tax demand it had levied two years after passing a law in 2012 that gave it powers to levy tax retrospectively. Cairn invoked arbitration under the India-UK bilateral investment treaty. In December last year, Cairn won an award that held the levy of taxes using the 2012 law unfair on the company and the tribunal asked the Indian government to return $1.2 billion plus cost and interest. In a statement, the finance ministry called the 2006 reorganisation of Cairn's India business for listing on the local bourses as "abusive tax avoidance scheme that were a gross violation of Indian tax laws, thereby depriving Cairn's alleged investments of any protection under the India-UK bilateral investment treaty." "The award improperly ratifies Cairn's scheme to achieve double non-taxation, which was designed to avoid paying taxes anywhere in the world, a significant public policy concern for governments worldwide," it said, adding the government on March 22 challenged the arbitration award in a court in The Hague — the seat of the arbitration. It is not clear if a court in The Hague can go into merits of levy of taxation by the Indian government over a corporate amalgamation scheme. Precedence dictates that challenges to international arbitration award are restricted to tribunal not following due process. The tribunal that went into Cairn's challenge consisted of three judges — one judge each being named by the company and the Indian government and a third neutral presiding officer. The three-member panel unanimously overturned the tax and asked India to return the value of shares sold, dividend seized and tax refund withheld. This together with interest and cost comes to $1.72 billion. With India refusing to pay, Cairn registered the award in nine jurisdictions including the US, the UK, Canada and Singapore and has started a process to recover the money from government-owned entities. Earlier this month, it filed a plea in a court in New York for declaring Air India as India's alter ego so it can be forced to pay the award. "The Government of India is vigorously defending its case in this legal dispute. It is a fact that the Government has filed an application on March 22, 2021 to set aside the highly flawed December 2020 international arbitral award in The Hague Court of Appeal," the Department of Revenue in the Ministry of Finance said in the statement. India's appeal before The Hague Court also says that the claims underlying the award are based on an abusive tax avoidance scheme that was a gross violation of Indian tax laws, thereby depriving Cairn's alleged investments of any protection under the India-UK bilateral investment treaty. It further said the proceeding before The Hague court is pending and the government is committed to pursuing all legal avenues to defend its case in this dispute. It added that Cairn's CEO and its representatives have approached the government for discussions to resolve the matter. "Constructive discussions have been held and the Government remains open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country's legal framework," the statement added. If the New York court were to recognise Air India as the alter ego of the Indian government, Cairn can seek attachment or seizure of its assets in the US such as airplanes, immovable assets and bank accounts to recover the amount it was awarded by the arbitration tribunal. Even if Cairn succeeds in getting Air India recognised as the alter ego of the government, it would not mean that the airline's assets will fall into the hands of the British firm, sources said. All it means is that Cairn can seek seizure of any asset Air India may have in the US. There may not be many such assets. The only threat there could be is that when an Air India airplane lands at any US airport, Cairn would be able to move court and get that attached before it flies out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-challenges-12-billion-cairn-arbitration-award-says-never-agreed-to-arbitrate-tax-dispute-989062.html
23-05-2021||National||After Sonali Guha, Sarala Murmu wants to rejoin TMC||With the TMC having emerged victorious with a thumping majority in the recently concluded assembly elections, turncoats who had quit the party to join the BJP seem to be making a beeline for re-entry into the Mamata Banerjee camp, the latest being Sarala Murmu. Murmu, who had switched camp as she was reportedly unhappy with the ticket that was given to her by the ruling party, has expressed her desire to return to the TMC, a day after Banerjee's former aide, Sonali Guha, made a similar appeal. Claiming that it was a mistake on her part to have joined the BJP, Murmu said that she wants party supremo Mamata Banerjee to pardon her. "If she accepts me, I will stay with her and work for the party diligently," Murmu told reporters at her Malda home. Murmu was nominated from Habibpur seat in Malda, but party sources had then claimed that she was keen on contesting the election from Malda constituency. "I committed a mistake and want Didi (Banerjee) to pardon me for that," she said. Former TMC MLA Sonali Guha had on Saturday written to Banerjee, apologising to her for leaving the party. The four-time MLA from Satgachhia in South 24 Parganas district, in a letter which she also shared on social media, said, "The way a fish cannot stay out of the water, I will not be able to live without you, 'Didi'. I seek your forgiveness and if you don't forgive me, I won't be able to live. Please allow me to come back, and spend the rest of my life in your affection."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-sonali-guha-sarala-murmu-wants-to-rejoin-tmc-989065.html
23-05-2021||National||Absence of medical resources forced Covid-19 patients to fend for themselves: Delhi HC||Absence of medical resources forced Covid-19 patients to fend for themselves and look for oxygen concentrator as an alternative to liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and even procure the device from overseas amid short supply, the Delhi High Court has said. The court made the observation while declaring as "unconstitutional" the Centre's decision to impose Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) on oxygen concentrators which are imported by individuals or received as gifts for personal use. The verdict came on a plea by 85-year-old Gurcharan Singh, who was suffering from Covid-19, challenging the imposition of IGST on the import of oxygen concentrators as gift for personal use. He had said his nephew sent an oxygen concentrator for him as a gift from the US to ameliorate his condition. A bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh took judicial notice of the fact that LMO was in short supply not only in Delhi but in all parts of the country which has resulted in people scrambling for oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, and in cases where a person has suffered severe infection, for hospital beds, so that the person concerned could be put on a ventilator. "The absence of adequate medical resources forced persons infected with coronavirus, their relatives and friends, to fend for themselves and thus, find necessary means for survival. The fact that enough beds were not available in hospitals which, understandably, were required for critically patients, forced other patients to look for sources for supply which provide a viable alternative to LMO," the bench said in its May 21 verdict. It added that "oxygen concentrators appeared to be that alternative. It is in this context that one would have to take judicial notice of the fact that since the production and supply of the oxygen concentrators did not commensurate with its demand, people looked for resources beyond our borders for supply of oxygen concentrators." Asserting that oxygen concentrators are in present times placed at par with life-saving drugs and medicines, the bench said "we hold imposition of IGST on oxygen concentrators which are imported by individuals and received as gifts (free of cost) for personal use, is unconstitutional" and quashed the May 1 notification of the Ministry of Finance that oxygen concentrators imported for personal use, irrespective of whether they are a gift or otherwise, will be charged with an IGST of 12 per cent. Before May 1, an individual importer had to pay 28 per cent IGST for oxygen concentrator gifted to him for personal use. The bench noted that the situation had become particularly critical around May 7 when the data provided by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare showed 4,14,188 fresh infections and 3,915 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/absence-of-medical-resources-forced-covid-19-patients-to-fend-for-themselves-delhi-hc-989071.html
23-05-2021||National||From The Newsroom: PM reviews preparedness for Cyclone Yaas||In your evening news brief, PM Modi reviews preparedness for Cyclone Yaas; Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar arrested in wrestler murder case and UAE asks to host 2023 UN climate change conference.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 23, 2021:   Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for timely evacuation of those involved in off-shore activities as he chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparedness of states and central government agencies to deal with the situation arising out of cyclone Yaas. He asked officials to work in close coordination with states to ensure safe evacuation of people from high-risk areas, and to ensure that time duration of outages of power supply and communication network are minimum and restored swiftly, a PMO statement said. Modi also asked officials to ensure proper coordination and planning with state governments to ensure that no disruption is caused to Covid-19 treatment and vaccination in hospitals.   Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar and another person were arrested on Sunday in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case that led to the death of a wrestler here, officials said. Kumar (38) and his associate Ajay, alias Sunil, (48) were arrested from Mundka, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) P S Kushwah said. The case relates to the May 4 incident at the stadium in which wrestler Sagar Rana died and two of his friends, Sonu and Amit Kumar, were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers. The Delhi Police had announced a reward of Rs one lakh for information leading to the arrest of Sushil Kumar, who had since been on the run. Another reward of Rs 50,000 was announced for Ajay Kumar's arrest.   The United Arab Emirates has asked to host the COP 28 international conference on climate change in 2023, Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan said on Sunday. The annual Conference of Parties (COP) is the decision-making body responsible for monitoring and reviewing the implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The UAE exports oil and hosts the International Renewable Energy Agency's (IRENA) headquarters.   Source: PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-reviews-preparedness-for-cyclone-yaas-989085.html
23-05-2021||National||Decision on Class 12 board exams to be taken at the in next few days: Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank||A broad consensus emerged on conducting the Class 12 board examinations – with selective subjects and in a staggered manner – at a meeting convened by the Centre with state education ministers on Sunday. However, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said the states have been further given time till Tuesday (May 25) to make suggestions in writing before the Centre took a final decision in the next few days. Two proposals were on the table – conduct exams as usual at examination centres but for fewer subjects or shorten the duration of the exam to 90 minutes with an emphasis on objective type questions. The board also proposed to increase the examination centres to ensure social distancing. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who chaired the meeting, said the priority of the government was to conduct all examinations in a safe and secure environment. The meeting was held against the backdrop of a sustained campaign by parents and students to cancel the board exams citing the Covid-19 pandemic. “While a broad consensus was there, however, it was decided that states and UTs may like to further examine the matter and send their feedback in writing by May 25,” an Education Ministry statement said. While Education Ministers of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka spoke in favour of holding Class 12 exams, those from Maharashtra and Delhi insisted on vaccination of students and teachers before going ahead with the exams. “We cannot play with the safety of students just to fulfill our stubborn wishes,” Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told reporters here. Nishank said the Class 12 board exams and the All India Entrance Examinations were crucial in shaping the future and defining the careers of students. As many as 14 lakh students have registered for Class 12 examinations with the CBSE and several others with the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations. Besides Singh and Nishank, union ministers Smriti Irani and Prakash Javadekar – both former union education ministers – attended the virtual meeting with state education ministers. Earlier on April 14, the Central Board of Secondary Education postponed the Class XII exams and a decision on the exams would be taken on June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-on-class-12-board-exams-to-be-taken-at-the-in-next-few-days-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank-989093.html
23-05-2021||National||India trying to save vaccines by delaying shots for recovered Covid-19 patients: Govt panel head||India is trying to save scarce Covid-19 vaccines by delaying shots for those who have recovered from the disease, the head of a government panel said, adding the campaign should not have been opened to all adults before covering the most vulnerable. Under fire for his handling of the world's worst rise in coronavirus infections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made all adults eligible for vaccination from May 1. Vaccine shortages have now forced many states, including the capital New Delhi, to again prioritise those aged above 45. "It's been done to save vaccine doses," Narendra Kumar Arora, head of the government's National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, told Reuters on Friday. "We discussed delaying it by three months, six months or nine months, but finally we said 'we can manage it with three months, let's do three months for now'". Arora said that given the vaccine shortage in India, the focus should have been on immunising the most at risk. "Our group prioritised those aged 45 or more," he said. "Because 75 per cent of the mortality and morbidity is in that age group." The ministry and Modi's office did not respond to a request for comment. India has administered about 19.2 crore doses, the most after China and the United States, but given the necessary two-doses to only about 3 per cent of its 135 crore people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-trying-to-save-vaccines-by-delaying-shots-for-recovered-covid-19-patients-govt-panel-head-989098.html
23-05-2021||National||NHRC seeks report on barge Papaa-305 sinking after authorities 'appeared' to have known danger||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Sunday sought reports from various authorities into the sinking of a barge in the Arabian Sea in wake of Cyclone Taukate, saying it appeared that they were aware of the "potential danger" but took "no effective" steps to bring the seafarers to safety. At least 49 people have been killed in one of the worst offshore disasters in the country when the barge P-305, also known as Papaa-305, sank on May 17 due to the cyclone. Several people are still missing. The NHRC felt that the loss of precious lives could have been avoided, if all the involved agencies had followed standard safety regulations and protocols, both before and during the build-up of the cyclone.   "It appears that the Director General, Shipping, ONGC authorities and the Coast Guard were aware that in the wake of cyclone Tauktae, there was potential danger to the lives of the workers on-board a dumb Barge but it seems that no effective steps were taken to bring the victims to safer places and they were left helpless. This is a serious case of violation of the Right to Life of the victims," it said. The NHRC has sought reports from the Union Petroleum Secretary, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Chairman, Indian Coast Guard Director General and Director General of Shipping, Mumbai within six weeks. It has asked the officials to provide accurate data regarding persons on-board at the time of the incident, steps taken after receiving an alert regarding the cyclone, persons missing persons rescued till date with their health status as well as the status of the rescue operation as on date.   They should also provide details about the status of the inquiry ordered in the matter, the action taken against the responsible public servants and the relief granted to the next of kin of the deceased and to the injured workers, it said in a statement.   The NHRC statement also referred to an article written by security expert C Uday Bhaskar, who has also served with the Indian Navy, who claimed that the contract workers are always put at the lower end of the ladder and very few safety norms and regulations are put in place. "The Writer has categorically mentioned that the ONGC and its major contractors are well aware of this grim ground reality. The vast number of seafarers especially, the Contract Workers who have little or no voice as a collective must not be taken for granted," it said. The Accommodation Work Barges (AWB) are reportedly the equivalent of rudimentary dormitories at sea for contract workers and their living conditions are spartan in a flat-bottom, floating structures called barge with cramped built-up accommodation. When these have no self-propulsion, these are deemed to be “dumb” as was the case with the ill-fated barge, it said. "Given the high operational costs in maintaining a workforce on an oil rig or platform at sea, cost-cutting and penny-pinching is endemic to the off-shore hydrocarbon sector and this particular installation is also not an exception in this regard," the statement said quoting the article. The NHRC referred to Bhaskar's assertion that India has an anomalous Maritime Sector Management pattern as domain competence is ignored and the Civil Servants are preferred for the top job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-seeks-report-on-barge-papaa-305-sinking-after-authorities-appeared-to-have-known-danger-989107.html
23-05-2021||National||Barge sinking: 8 unidentified bodies found along Raigad coast||At least eight unidentified bodies have been found at multiple locations along the Raigad coast over the last couple of days which could possibly be of those who were on board the ill-fated accommodation barge Papaa-305, as the Indian Navy-lead Search and Rescue (SAR) operation continued in the Arabian Sea. The Raigad police are in touch with the Yellow Gate police station in Mumbai and authorities of the Indian Navy. Five were found along the Mandwa coast, two in Alibaug beach and another one on the Murud coast. The bodies are yet to be identified. Of the 261 personnel who were on barge Pappa-305 at the time of the incident, 186 have been rescued so far. So far the Indian Navy, which is leading the SAR operations, have recovered 66 bodies while 9 are still reported missing. Two others who were on board have been rescued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/barge-sinking-8-unidentified-bodies-found-along-raigad-coast-989116.html
23-05-2021||National||Union health minister asks Ramdev to withdraw statement on allopathic medicines||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday asked Baba Ramdev to withdraw his “objectionable and unfortunate” comments on allopathic medicine, reprimanding the yoga guru for making such remarks in the first place. "The people of the country are very hurt by your remark on allopathic medicines. I have already talked to you about this feeling over the phone. Doctors and health workers are like gods for the people for whom they are fighting against the coronavirus risking their lives," Vardhan said in a two-page letter written in Hindi. "You have not only insulted corona warriors, but hurt the feelings of the people of the country. Your clarification is not enough to make up for it. I hope you will think hard about it and withdraw your statements completely.” The reproach from the minister comes a day after Indian Medical Association flagged a video to Vardhan in which the yoga guru was purportedly saying "Allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalia science hai (Allopathy is such a stupid and bankrupt science). Ramdev who established the Patanjali brand of products was also heard saying at a recent event, "Lakhs of people have died because of allopathic medicines, far more than those who died because they did not get treatment or oxygen". Besides IMA, several other medical associations lodged protests against Ramdev. While IMA and the Federation of All India Medical Association served legal notices to Ramdev for his alleged baseless accusations against evidence-based medicine, Delhi Medical Association filed a police complaint against the celebrated yoga practitioner. In his letter, Vardhan said, “The statement disrespects the corona warriors. Your statement on allopathy can break the morale of healthcare workers and weaken our fight against Covid-19. Vaccine is an important weapon against corona and it came from allopathy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-minister-asks-ramdev-to-withdraw-statement-on-allopathic-medicines-989121.html
23-05-2021||National||Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar sent to 6-day police remand||Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar was on Sunday remanded in police custody for six days over his alleged involvement in the death of a 23-year-old wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium. After questioning him for around 30 minutes inside the court, the police sought his custody for 12 days for further interrogation. Metropolitan Magistrate Divya Malhotra granted the police six-day custody of Kumar, who was arrested, along with co-accused Ajay, on Sunday from outer Delhi's Mundka area. Kumar was evading arrest and had been on the run for nearly three weeks. According to the Delhi police, Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted fellow wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar at the stadium on May 4 night. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later. During the proceedings, Additional Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava, representing the state, told the court that Kumar's custodial interrogation was required to unearth the whole conspiracy and motive behind the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/olympic-medallist-sushil-kumar-sent-to-6-day-police-remand-989123.html
23-05-2021||National||SC decides to consider review plea on judgement debarring civil judges to compete for district judges||The Supreme Court has decided to examine in open court review petitions against its 2020 judgement which disallowed civil judges to compete for direct recruitment to the post of district judges.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Vineet Saran and S Ravindra Bhat would take up on Monday a batch of petitions by Raheemali M Nadaf and others from Karnataka,Gaurav Pragyanan from Madhya Pradesh, Madhukar Singh from Uttar Pradesh and Manglesh Chaubey from Rajasthan. The court had earlier issued notice to the registrar general of the Karnataka High Court, which conducts the selection process to the post of district judges through the Higher Judicial Service examinations and the Karnataka government, on the review petition filed by advocate by Sanjay M Nuli on behalf of Nadaf and others. Similar notices were issued to MP, UP and Rajasthan High Courts on other petitions. The top court, in its judgement of February 19, 2020, had held the direct recruitment to the 25% post of district judges was exclusively meant for lawyers with seven years continuing practice and judicial officers cannot be allowed to compete for it.  The judgement by the apex court had all India ramifications, as it related to interpretation of Article 233 of the Constitution.  The review petition filed by civil judges from Karnataka contended that interpretation of the words "direct recruitment" must not only be confined to the members of the Bar and it must not prevent any in-service candidate, if he otherwise fulfilled all the requirements. "Prohibiting a civil judge from being appointed as a district judge through direct recruitment is against the principle of equality," the petitioners maintained. The petitioners, who had gained cumulative experience of more than seven years of practice before their selection as civil judge, contended that the apex court's finding that the aspirants for district judges post must be in practice as advocates on cut-off was erroneous also for being detrimental to those who joined non-litigation field of law. The petitioners said they successfully cleared written and Viva Voce examinations on August 22, 2019 but could not be appointed to the post of district judges due to interim orders issued by the top court on May 10 and July 19, 2019. In their plea, they said their selection must be saved and the matter should be examined by a Constitution bench of five judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-decides-to-consider-review-plea-on-judgement-debarring-civil-judges-to-compete-for-district-judges-989126.html
23-05-2021||National||Army recovers 15 explosive sticks along LoC in Kashmir||Army has recovered 15 plastic explosive sticks hidden inside a shed near Line of Control (LoC) in Tangdhar area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. A defence spokesperson said the recovery was made on Saturday morning by a joint team of army and police on a ‘specific input’ in Nichli Jabri village of Tangdhar. “The explosives were hidden in the dhok (temporary shelter) for further transshipment to the hinterland,” he said. The army statement said that security agencies and civil administration in Tanghdar tehsil “continue to work hand in hand to negate the security threat of smuggling of narcotics, weapons and stores” for militant organisations in J&K, through Tangdhar bowl. "In the last two years, 28 weapons and over 60 kgs of narcotics have been recovered from Taghdar, apart from a host of explosives, including ammunition and grenades," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-recovers-15-explosive-sticks-along-loc-in-kashmir-989136.html
23-05-2021||National||India becomes third nation after US, Brazil to cross 3 lakh Covid-19 deaths||India on Sunday reached yet another grim milestone as it became the third country after the USA and Brazil to log more than 3 lakh Covid-19 deaths, recorded over the last 14 months. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in India stands at 3.03 lakh as against 5.89 lakh in the USA and 4.48 lakh in Brazil. The Union Health Ministry’s official statistics, however, still show a cumulative death count of 2.99 lakh as the data will be updated on Monday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becomes-third-nation-after-us-brazil-to-cross-3-lakh-covid-19-deaths-989147.html
23-05-2021||National||Congress slams Centre for stretching decision on Class 12 exams||Congress on Sunday slammed the Modi government for stretching the decision on conducting CBSE Class 12 exams for months and demanded cancellation of the exams. Lending her support to students raising their voice against the board exams, AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the indecision on the exams was taking a toll on the mental health of children who were wondering how to appear for the exams wearing PPE kits. “Students studying for the CBSE 12th grade examinations have been sharing their concerns about these exams being held during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.Their health and safety MATTERS,” Priyanka said on Twitter. “Why are we not learning our lessons,” she asked. Her remarks came on a day when the Centre held consultations with state education ministers on conducting the Class 12 board examinations. Maharashtra Education Minister and Congress leader Varsha Gaikwad pitched for vaccination of students and teachers before conducting the exams. “This is high time we need to define our priorities. For us, students are the topmost priority. Exams can be reconsidered and reconducted. The policy should be – No exams until every student gets vaccinated,” Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi said. “I fail to understand the reasoning behind holding these exams, not to mention having stretched this decision out for months,” Gandhi said. “I have said this before and am repeating it again. The mental health of children is as important as their physical well being. It’s about time our education system incorporates sensitivity towards children’s well being and starts taking these issues seriously,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-slams-centre-for-stretching-decision-on-class-12-exams-989182.html
23-05-2021||National||Every Indian will be vaccinated against Covid by December: Union minister Shekhawat||Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Sunday asserted that India has been working fast to increase the production of Covid-19 vaccines and said each citizen of the country will be inoculated by December. He also attacked the opposition, saying it has been trying to politicise matters related to the vaccination drive against the coronavirus. "We have been constantly working on increasing the production and availability of vaccines, and will have each Indian vaccinated by December, which will be a huge record," Shekhawat said. He added that this will all happen on account of the country's own endeavours. "It is for the first time in history that India developed its own vaccines for any virus parallel to the rest of the world. Earlier, it took years for vaccines of any virus to reach India," he told a press conference here. Shekhawat said that the opposition did their best to politicise the vaccination drive through "malicious" narratives questioning quality and authenticity of vaccines developed in India. "They acted with their vested political interests and blemished the image of the country. But now the same persons have been queuing up for a vaccine shot," the Union minister for Jal Shakti said and added that the opposition should apologise. Referring to medicines like remdesivir, used in Covid treatment, and amphotericin-B for black fungus treatment, Shekhawat said the country has already reached a surplus state with production of 1.5 crore vials of remdesivir per month and efforts are on to meet the growing requirement of amphotericine vials now. "We are sourcing (amphotericine) vials from foreign countries. Three lakh vials have already reached and three lakh more are expected to come in the next three days," he said. Six companies have been producing amphotericine vials in the country and five more companies have been given permission, the minister said "Considering a 30 days gestation period of the (amphotericine) vial before it is finally ready for administration, we will have adequate vials after 30 days,” he said. Shekhawat also stressed on the need for strengthening medical and health infrastructure in rural areas. “We need to strengthen our Community Health Centers (CHC) in villages. We will have to work to improve infrastructure at CHCs and ensure the presence of doctors there”, he said. He said that 30 such centers will be upgraded in the next three months at a cost of Rs 15 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/every-indian-will-be-vaccinated-against-covid-by-december-union-minister-shekhawat-989188.html
23-05-2021||National||Spouse of Indian official in Pakistan tests Covid-19 negative contrary to clamour on social media||The spouse of an official of the High Commission of India in Islamabad finally tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection, contrary to the clamour on social media by the netizens of Pakistan. The Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) test conducted at the Provincial Public Health Referral Laboratory at Lahore in Pakistan revealed that the spouse of the official of the High Commission of India in Islamabad had not been infected by the virus, sources in New Delhi said. The laboratory, which conducted the test, is run by the provincial government of Punjab in Pakistan. A 17-member-team of diplomats and consular officials posted at the HCI Islamabad as well as the members of their families crossed over to Pakistan from India through the Attari-Wagah border on Saturday. The rapid tests conducted by the Pakistan Government’s health officials purportedly found the spouse of one of the officials positive for the SARS-CoV-2 infection. Pakistani netizens reacted sharply with some expressing concerns on social media platforms over possibility of the SARS-CoV-2 variant that wreaked havoc across India now posing a new threat in their country. Some even drew the attention of the Asad Umar, the chief of the National Command Operation Centre constituted by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government to oversee measures to contain the outbreak. The RTPCR test conducted by the referral laboratory in Lahore however confirmed that the spouse of the official of the HCI Islamabad was not infected by the virus. All members of the team however would remain in quarantine for 14 days as the protocol put in place by Pakistan Government for any visitor from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spouse-of-indian-official-in-pakistan-tests-covid-19-negative-contrary-to-clamour-on-social-media-989199.html
23-05-2021||National||Ramdev withdraws statement on allopathy after Harsh Vardhan's letter||Yoga guru Baba Ramdev on Sunday withdrew his statements on allopathic medicine that had triggered an outcry among the medical fraternity. Responding to a letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, in which he reprimanded the yoga guru for his “objectionable and unfortunate” comments, Ramdev said he wants to put the matter to rest. "Hon’ble Minister, I have received your letter. I withdraw my statement, putting to rest the controversy over various medical practices," Ramdev tweeted. Earlier, Vardhan rebuked Ramdev for his comments. “The people of the country are very hurt by your remark on allopathic medicines. I have already talked to you about this feeling over the phone,” Vardhan said in a two-page letter written in Hindi. “Your clarification is not enough to make up for it. I hope you will think hard about it and withdraw your statements completely," the minister wrote. The Indian Medical Association had flagged a Ramdev video to Vardhan, in which the yoga guru is heard saying: “Allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalia science hai (Allopathy is such a stupid and bankrupt science)." Besides IMA, several other medical associations lodged protests against Ramdev. While IMA and the Federation of All India Medical Association served legal notices to Ramdev for his baseless accusations, the Delhi Medical Association filed a police complaint against the yoga practitioner. In his letter, Vardhan said, “Your statement on allopathy can break the morale of healthcare workers and weaken our fight against Covid-19. Vaccine is an important weapon against corona and it came from allopathy.” (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramdev-withdraws-statement-on-allopathy-after-harsh-vardhans-letter-989202.html
23-05-2021||National||All bodies recovered in barge tragedy off Mumbai coast||Exactly a week after an accommodation barge Papaa-305 and tug Varaprada sunk in the Arabian Sea when the devastating Tauktae cyclone hit the ONGC’s Mumbai High offshore development area, a total of 86 crew members and oil workers died and all persons on board the two vessels have been accounted for. While 261 persons were on board Papaa-303, 13 were on board Varaprada, a tug and anchor-handling vessel. A total of 188 survivors – 186 from Papaa-305 and two from Varaprada were picked up at sea during the massive Indian Navy-led Search and Rescue (SAR) operations. During the last seven days, 70 dead bodies have been recovered from the Arabian Sea by the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard. Besides, over the last couple of days, eight bodies have been recovered from the Raigad coast of Maharashtra and eight from the Valsad coast of Gujarat. “All 274 reported missing have been accounted for. Final confirmation, however, will be pending till the identification of all bodies are complete,” officials of Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command said on Sunday night. The Yellow Gate police station, which has jurisdiction over the Arabian Sea, and have registered an FIR into the case, are investigating the matter. The bodies are being sent to the Sir JJ Hospital, where the post-mortem are being conducted before being handed over to the relatives.  The barge, along with its marine crew was owned and operated by Durmast Enterprises Ltd, which was chartered by Afcons Infrastructure Ltd, which along with its consortium partner Halani-Tes-Nauvata, has been working with ONGC for the revamp of its unmanned offshore platforms in the Arabian Sea. Meanwhile, the ONGC management has decided to extend an immediate relief of Rs 1 lakh to the survivors and Rs.2 lakh for the victims’ and missing persons’ families. Afcons too is working out a package ranging between Rs 35 to Rs 75 lakh per family. “It was our moral duty to support not only the families of the deceased persons on its direct rolls, but also families of all deceased persons who were employed with its subcontractors,” Afcons said in a statement. Afcons stated that it would ensure that the families of the deceased would receive a total compensation equivalent to a balance period of service up to 10 years salaries through a combination of ex gratia pay-outs and insurance compensation. While the modalities of the payments are being worked out, it is estimated that total compensation would range from Rs 35 lacs up to Rs 75 lacs per family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-bodies-recovered-in-barge-tragedy-off-mumbai-coast-989204.html
23-05-2021||National||Unlikely that 3rd Covid wave will primarily affect children, says IAP||Amidst growing fears of a third wave of Covid-19 epidemic impacting the children more, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics on Sunday said it was highly unlikely that the third wave would predominantly or exclusively affect children. "Children are as susceptible as adults and older individuals to develop infection but not severe disease. It is highly unlikely that the third wave will predominantly or exclusively affect children,” the IAP said in a statement. The last sero survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research between December 2020 and January 2021 showed the percentage of infected children in the age group of 10-17 years was around 25 per cent, which is the same as the adults, indicating while children are being infected as adults, they are not getting the severe disease. The clarification from India’s top association of child specialists comes at a time when a section of senior doctors, scientists and parents are getting worried about the possibility of the third wave of the pandemic adversely affecting the kids in a big way. The objective was to put out the factual position from the IAP, said Bakul Parekh, president of the association in 2020. In the first two waves, IAP said, most of the kids didn’t develop serious disease because of lesser expression of specific receptors to which SARS-CoV-2 binds to enter the host. However, it's entirely possible that a small percentage of children may still develop moderate to severe disease and if a large number of the population is affected in the third wave, the number of such children would also rise. But almost 90 per cent of infections in children are likely to be mild. “Severe disease does occur in children, but there is no evidence indicating that most children with Covid-19 infection will have severe disease in the 3rd wave. As per data collected in first and second waves, even severe Covid-19 infections in children are less likely to require ICU admissions,” the association said. In the case of a third wave, the doctors said, most affected children are likely to get a mild disease with fever and would require supervised home care with monitoring. While preventive behaviours are the same for children, educating the parents on illness, warning signs and mental health of the children is vital. This, however, does not mean that the hospitals and administration will not make arrangements for special Covid-19 units for children such as high dependency units and intensive care units. One would also have to watch out for emerging variants, it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlikely-that-3rd-covid-wave-will-primarily-affect-children-says-iap-989205.html
23-05-2021||National||Vaccine Shortage: Covid-19 shots administered in May fall by 10 lakh in 10 days||India has witnessed a drop of nearly 10 lakh Covid-19 vaccination doses over 10 days in May in what may be yet another sign of how a shortfall in vaccine supply cripples the world’s biggest adult vaccination drive. On May 21, a total of 13.8 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered all over the country, which is significantly less than the 23.85 lakh doses administered on May 11. The numbers improved a bit to 15.52 lakh doses a day later, but this is also less than 17.7 lakh doses administered on May 12. Only on four days in May, the vaccination crossed the 20-lakh mark with the highest inoculation taking place on May 10 with 24.3 lakh doses. Ten days later on May 20, only 13.83 lakh jabs were given. The week between May 5-11 was the best in terms of vaccination after which there is a steady slide in the number of shots given to people. “The poor timing of expanding eligibility increased demand significantly without increasing supply. This model risks worsening inequities in access within India, making it harder for the most vulnerable populations to access vaccines,” Krishna Udaykumar, a professor of global health medicine at Duke University, USA told DH in an interview earlier this month. The Union Health Ministry said more than 1.90 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses (1,90,20,313) are still available with the states for administration. Furthermore, 40,650 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states within the next three days. The Centre has so far provided more than 21.8 crore vaccine doses (21,80,51,890) to the states of which the total consumption including wastages stands at 19,90,31,577 doses. On Friday, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India would be in a position to vaccinate all of its adult population by the end of 2021, but experts pointed out that to achieve this, the country had to give 80 lakh jabs every single day for the rest of the year. Earlier this week, a top official of Serum Institute of India observed that allowing vaccination for multiple age groups without taking into account the production capacity has created the scarcity currently being seen in the country. “Initially, 300 million people were targeted for vaccination for which 600 million dosages of vaccines were required, but before we reached the target, additional age groups were added starting from 45 years onwards followed by 18 years onwards. We should have followed the WHO guidelines and prioritised vaccination accordingly to avoid scarcity,” Suresh Jadhav, executive director of SII had stated at a public event. The company, however, has distanced itself from Jadhav’s statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-shortage-covid-19-shots-administered-in-may-fall-by-10-lakh-in-10-days-989206.html
23-05-2021||National||Foreign Secretary to meet Bharat Biotech officials to offer help in getting Covaxin included in WHO list||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will soon hold a meeting with senior officials of Bharat Biotech to offer support of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to expedite the process to secure the World Health Organization’s recognition for the Covid-19 vaccine developed by the company based in Hyderabad. The officials of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are also expected to take part in the meeting. A source in New Delhi said that it was primarily the responsibility of Bharat Biotech to submit a dossier about its vaccine to the WHO in order to get it included in the Emergency Use List (EUL) of the international organization. The MEA would only offer its assistance to the company. The Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations offices in Geneva may help facilitate the process, the source said. The WHO has not yet included the ‘Covaxin’ developed by the Bharat Biotech International Limited in its list of the Covid-19 vaccines approved for Emergency Use. The Covishield developed by the AstraZeneca PLC and the Oxford University and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, however, was put on the WHO’s EUL on February 15 last. The Bharat Biotech on April 19 last submitted to the WHO its Expression of Interest for inclusion of the Covaxin in the EUL. The international organization, however, asked it to submit more information about the vaccine. A meeting between the officials of the Bharat Biotech and the WHO might be held within the next few weeks, ahead of the submission of the details by the company about the Covid-19 vaccine. The MEA and the MoHFW decided to offer its support to Bharat Biotech amid fear that Indian citizens, who had been administered the two doses of the Covaxin, might find it difficult to travel abroad unless and until the WHO would put it in its EUL. New Delhi anticipates that the governments of many nations might make it mandatory for visitors seeking entry to have been inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccines recognized by the WHO. Covaxin and Covishield are the two vaccines being administered in India. The Sputnik V vaccines developed by the Gamaleya National Centre of Epidemiology and Microbiology of Russia also started arriving in India and its administration recently began in Hyderabad. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself was administered with Covaxin. So were many ministers of his government in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-secretary-to-meet-bharat-biotech-officials-to-offer-help-in-getting-covaxin-included-in-who-list-989209.html
23-05-2021||National||Jharkhand CM pokes holes in Centre’s Covid policy||The Centre had wrested control over vital medical supplies, including the portioning of oxygen, medical equipment and vaccines but had fallen short on delivering the aid states needed to weather the crisis, the chief minister said. Soren laid into the Centre’s vaccine policy, pointing out that his state had not been given nearly as many vaccine doses as it needed. According to Soren, Jharkhand needed close to 3.5-4 crore doses of vaccine but had only received 40 lakh so far. “Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, despite being a civic body, can float a global tender for vaccinating Mumbai citizens… it has a huge budget. But Jharkhand cannot,” he said. He said less wealthy states could not manage to procure vaccines on their own for fear of going bankrupt. Soren urged political parties to keep their political ideologies aside for the moment and tackle the situation together. “At present, a boat is stuck in the middle of the ocean. First, let us bring the boat ashore. Then we can fight,” Soren said, adding that even people in “power and position” should question the government’s “mishandling” of the situation. Soren also called for transparency with respect to the utilisation of the PM CARES Fund. He said that thousands of crores had been collected under the scheme and the Centre should give an account of it to the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-cm-pokes-holes-in-centre-s-covid-policy-989232.html
23-05-2021||National Politics||CBSE Class 12 exams: Priyanka Gandhi bats for cancellation, slams govt for stretching decision for months||Asserting that the second wave of Covid-19 has shown that children are vulnerable to new strains, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday reiterated her call for not holding the CBSE Class 12 exams and slammed the government for stretching the decision on it for months. The Congress general secretary said expecting children who are already under immense pressure to sit for their exams wearing all sorts of protective gear for hours at a stretch day after day is "insensitive and unfair". Her remarks came ahead of a crucial meeting called by the Ministry of Education (MOE) on Sunday to decide on pending Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed due to the second wave of Covid-19.  "Students studying for the CBSE 12th grade examinations have been sharing their concerns about these exams being held during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Their health and safety MATTERS," Gandhi said in a tweet. "Why are we not learning our lessons?" she asked.  Gatherings in closed spaces promote the spread of Covid-19 and this wave has shown that children are vulnerable to new strains, she said in a series of tweets. "In any case expecting children who are already under immense pressure to sit for their exams wearing all sorts of protective gear for hours at a stretch day after day is insensitive and unfair," the Congress leader said.  insensitive and unfair. Many of them are likely to have family members who are down with COVID too. They are already dealing with enough stress. I fail to understand the reasoning behind holding these exams, not to mention having stretched this decision out for months. 3/4 Many of them are likely to have family members who are down with Covid-19 too and they are already dealing with enough stress, she asserted.  "I fail to understand the reasoning behind holding these exams, not to mention having stretched this decision out for months," Gandhi said. "I have said this before and am repeating it again. The mental health of children is as important as their physical well being. It's about time our education system incorporates sensitivity towards children's well being and starts taking these issues seriously," she said. The high-level meeting called by the Education Ministry will be chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani as well as Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar will be among those present. Education ministers and secretaries of all states and union territories have been asked to attend the meeting. The CBSE had on April 14 announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The CBSE had announced that a decision on the Class 12 board exams will be taken on or after June 1. A section of students and parents have been demanding that the exams be cancelled in the wake of the pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cbse-class-12-exams-priyanka-gandhi-bats-for-cancellation-slams-govt-for-stretching-decision-for-months-989019.html
23-05-2021||National Politics||Congress focusing on states to power its performance in 2024||Realising well that the road to power to Centre for it goes through states, Opposition Congress seems to have gone for a change in its political strategy during the pandemic and has focussed on demolishing the much-hyped models of BJP and NDA-ruled states like Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar while simultaneously keeping the heat on Modi dispensation at Centre. While debunking the "Gujarat model" riding on which Narendra Modi-led BJP had to come power at Centre, seems to be the prime focus of the Congress leaders, the party and its ally RJD in Bihar have taken all-out efforts to puncture the 'Sushashan Babu' image of Nitish Kumar in Bihar, highlighting the issue of the collapse of the health system in the state. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had been tasked with reviving the perennially falling fortunes of Congress in Uttar Pradesh, has latched on to the imagery of floating bodies in Ganga to put Yogi Adityanath government in the dock. Even Rahul Gandhi has been repeatedly attacking Modi, who is an MP from Varanasi, reminding him with sarcasm of his statement in past that he came to Varanasi at the call of Mother Ganges. After the double debacle in Lok Sabha polls in 2014 and 2019, the realisation has grown in Congress that its hopes of coming back to power at Centre cannot happen in one go without it having won the states first. In 2017, it made the first serious bid to win UP by going into alliance with Samajwadi Party but the attempt bombed. Towards the end of the year, however, its attempt was met with some success in Gujarat, the home state of Modi and Amit Shah, where it managed to checkmate the BJP at 99 seats, a substantial fall from its earlier performances. Its focus on winning elections paid off in 2018, when it won in three states -- Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. In 2019, Congress got a windfall gain with NDA ally in Maharashtra Shiv Sena deserting the BJP bandwagon, while Congress also managed to substantially improve its tally in Haryana, a state which it had lost in a big way in 2014. BJP's loss in some other states as well where Congress is not the principal gainer like Jharkhand, West Bengal and Delhi, has given the Congress hope that the ruling party is no longer invincible in states. So the main Opposition party, while keeping the heat on the Centre, has also planned to keep the states in focus. Giving Priyanka Gandhi the charge of UP, which has 80 Lok Sabha seats and where the BJP got plus 60 per cent votes in the last Lok Sabha polls, is part of the strategy. Seeking a white paper from the government on its Covid-vaccination strategy, Congress leader Rajiv Shukla on Thursday alleged that BJP-ruled states and the Centre were hiding data pertaining to deaths due to Covid and demanded they reveal the real figures. A close look at the Twitter timeline of Congress leaders amid the pandemic reveals, how even senior central level leaders of the party have been training guns on the BJP Chief Ministers, seeking to hurt the BJP in the states first, Latching on to a news report about deaths in Gujarat, Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan said, "this is terrible!! 1.23 lakh deaths in 71 days, that’s 1744 deaths per day. The much hyped Gujarat model always worked with concealing the data and fudging reports." Tagging a photo of a burial, All India Mahila Congress said, "Gujarat issued 1.23 lakh death certificates between March 1 and May 10, but registered only 4,218 Covid deaths.Gujarati newspaper Divya Bhaskar exposes BJP’s Gujarat Model! It is time PM Modi & HM Shah become answerable to their sins!" With Modi and Shah now in Centre politics, there is a feeling in Congress that the state is slipping from the BJP's hands and 2020 could be a game for it. Congress Working President Hardik Patel On May 20, Congress went for a video campaign on Twitter countering UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's remarks about controlling Covid-19 and alleging "BJP government in UP has left the health system to God (Ram Bharose) Whatever statistics are being given, the fact is that statistics are being hidden and people are being pushed into the grip of Corona. "BJP has made UP the laboratory of its failed governance. There are bodies everywhere on the sandbanks of Ma Ganga. The BJP government is trying to hide deaths and crush the voice about it," Congress said from its Twitter handle. AICC communication department chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted a video of a dilapidated hospital building of Bihar saying "O God, there is treatment, ICU and operation theatre in this medical college building in Bihar. Perhaps that is why Modi and Nitish Kumar are saying everything is fine (sab changa si). To counter the Congress attack, BJP leaders have raised questions about the Kerala Model of governance of CPI-M, targeted AAP-ruled Delhi Delhi, the MVA-ruled Maharashtra, Trinamool Congress-ruled West Bengal and Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. BJP's losses in West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in 2021 state elections has given Congress a breathing space and it is hoping to make gains in 2022 when seven states including UP, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will go to polls. In UP it has no organisation and in Punjab, its unit is divided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-focusing-on-states-to-power-its-performance-in-2024-989104.html
23-05-2021||National Politics||12 Opposition parties extend support to SKM protest call on May 26||Twelve major opposition parties have extended their support to the call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to observe countrywide protest on May 26, marking six months of the farmers protest at Delhi borders against the Centre's farm laws. The joint statement has been signed by Sonia Gandhi (Congress), H D Deve Gowda (JD-S), Sharad Pawar (NCP), Mamata Banerjee (TMC), Uddhav Thackeray (SS), M K Stalin (DMK), Hemant Soren (JMM), Farooq Abdullah (JKPA), Akhilesh Yadav (SP), Tejaswi Yadav (RJD), D Raja (CPI) and Sitaram Yechury (CPI-M). “On May 12, we had jointly written to Prime Minister Modi saying the following: Repeal farm laws to protect lakhs of our annadatas becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people”. “We demand the immediate repeal of the farm laws and the legal entitlement to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of C2+50 per cent as recommended by the Swaminathan Commission,” the joint statement said. It also said that the Central Government must stop being obdurate and immediately resume talks with the SKM on these lines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/12-opposition-parties-extend-support-to-skm-protest-call-on-may-26-989110.html
23-05-2021||National Politics||Resume talks with farmers for repeal of farm laws: Opposition leaders||Twelve opposition parties on Sunday declared support to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) which has given a nationwide protest call on May 26 to mark six months of their agitation against the three farm laws. The opposition leaders, including Congress President Sonia Gandhi and four chief ministers Mamata Banerjee, Uddhav Thackeray, Hemant Soren and M K Stalin, also asked the Modi government to resume talks with the agitating farmers for repeal of the farm laws and guaranteeing minimum support price for farm produce. “We demand the immediate repeal of the farm laws and the legal entitlement to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of C2+50% as recommended by the Swaminathan Commission. The Central Government must stop being obdurate and immediately resume talks with the SKM on these lines,” the joint statement issued by the opposition leaders said. Farmers from various parts of the country are protesting at Delhi borders against the three farm laws brought by the Centre, contending that it would only benefit big businessmen. Besides Gandhi and four chief ministers, signatories to the letter are former prime minister H D Devegowda (JDS), NCP chief Sharad Pawar, former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah (JKPA) and Akhilesh Yadav (SP), Tejashwi Yadav (RJD), D Raja (CPI) and Sitaram Yechury (CPI-M). Farmers, who had returned to their villages for the harvesting season, have started returning to the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri borders with Haryana, Ghazipur border with Uttar Pradesh, ignoring calls for ending the protests in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/resume-talks-with-farmers-for-repeal-of-farm-laws-opposition-leaders-989164.html
23-05-2021||National Politics||Nadda urges BJP workers to help people amid Covid to mark seventh anniversary of Modi govt||Facing "missing in action" jibe from Opposition parties, BJP chief J P Nadda has asked party workers to make the party visible and reach out to people who need help during the pandemic to mark the celebration of the seventh anniversary of the Modi government, which will be a non-pompous affair with a focus on organising various welfare events. Reviewing the relief work being carried out by BJP workers under "Seva Hi Sangathan" programme, Nadda on Sunday said, "The devotion with which BJP workers are involved in public service, reflects the tenets (samskar) of BJP." Making it clear that no event will be held to mark the anniversary due to the circumstances caused by the pandemic, Nadda on Saturday wrote to Chief Ministers of 12 party-ruled states telling them the party will instead organise welfare programmes "to express gratefulness to people" for having given the BJP opportunity to serve them for two consecutive terms. "BJP will not hold any celebratory events to mark Modi government's 7th anniversary," Nadda said in the letter. Opposition parties have repeatedly targeted the BJP for its alleged absence from the ground during the pandemic. Congress, which seems to have taken a visible early lead in providing relief work, has launched a campaign of "missing" governance, which the BJP has in the last fortnight tried to counter aggressively. Getting into a damage control mode, in the last one week, Nadda held back to back meetings with Chief Ministers, Party Presidents and MPs of over two dozen states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh,  Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar,  Telangana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Delhi,  Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Goa, Gujarat, Assam, Tripura, Arunachal Manipur, and Daman and Diu -- in which he has underlined the need for the party workers to reach help to the needy through collective efforts and asked them to spread awareness about the disease and reach all possible help. In the meetings, Nadda has told BJP workers to provide food, ration and medicine to the needy. Chairing a meeting on May 16 with national office bearers, Nadda asked them to reach out to people while maintaining health protocol. The same day he also flagged off Covid relief material for Himachal Pradesh. The party workers have also been told to highlight that while BJP-led NDA state governments have made the vaccination free for people to help the poor, Opposition leaders have only been attacking the government. Nadda said the party workers should dedicate themselves to the service of society. On May 21, Nadda inaugurated 800 nationwide Covid-19 Help Centres of BJP Kisan Morcha that will function at community centres in rural parts and carry out relief works in rural areas under the party's Seva Hi Sangathan and Mera booth Corona Mukt campaigns. Countering criticism by Congress, Nadda had highlighted the Modi government's achievements on Covid-19 handling, from vaccination to making the country independent in the production of PPE kit, face mask and sanitiser and ensure uninterrupted supply of medical equipment. In the letter to the party chiefs, Nadda talked about the circumstances caused by the pandemic, which he said has caused deep wounds to the nation and society with many children losing both parents to the disease. Telling the BJP chief ministers that it is now their responsibility to care for their future and take solid steps in this direction, Nadda told them that directives about a larger scheme to help such children and their families will be shared with them but they should on their own prepare a draft for the same keeping in mind the needs, situation and tradition of their states. He asked the states meanwhile to prepare a programme for the welfare of children orphaned by the Covid-19 pandemic, which will be launched on May 30 when the Modi government completes seven years in power. Nadda's letter to BJP-ruled states came two days after Congress President Sonia Gandhi had written to Prime Minister Narendra urging him to provide free education to the children whose parents have died of Covid-19. She had also given a suggestion of providing education to such children at the Navodaya Vidyalayas, whose creation across the country she had recalled in her letter, as her husband and late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s legacy. Nadda's letter says, "Standing by children who have lost both parents and providing them with every support for their safe future is also our social responsibility... The idea is that all BJP-ruled states launch the programme together when the BJP-led government at the Centre completes seven years."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nadda-urges-bjp-workers-to-help-people-amid-covid-to-mark-seventh-anniversary-of-modi-govt-989195.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt okays over 1.5 lakh cases for one-time financial assistance to para-transit vehicle drivers||Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday said his department has approved more than 1.5 lakh cases under a scheme to provide one-time assistance of Rs 5,000 to each para-transit vehicle driver during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. "I am happy to inform you that the transport department has approved 1,55,301 cases. Para-transit vehicle drivers/owners will start receiving Rs 5,000 in bank accounts linked to their Aadhaar from Monday," he tweeted in Hindi. Earlier this month, the Delhi government had decided to extend its scheme of one-time financial assistance to cover e-rickshaw owners. The decision is likely to benefit more than 60,000 permit holders of para-transit vehicles and owners of e-rickshaws registered in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-okays-over-15-lakh-cases-for-one-time-financial-assistance-to-para-transit-vehicle-drivers-989028.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Conducting Class 12 board exams before vaccinating students can be big mistake: Sisodia||Conducting Class 12 board exams before vaccinating students can prove to be a big mistake, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told the Centre on Sunday. Sisodia made the suggestion at a high-level meeting called by the Ministry of Education which is currently underway. "Raised the demand for making arrangements for vaccinating Class 12 students before board exams at a meeting with the central government. Conducting the examination by toying with students' safety will prove to be a big mistake. First vaccine, then exams," he tweeted in Hindi. "Ninety-five per cent of Class 12 students are above the age of 17.5 years. The Centre should talk to experts if they can be given Covishield or Covaxin vaccines," Sisodia said. The Centre should also talk to Pfizer for the vaccination of Class 12 students, he added. The meeting is being chaired by Union minister Rajnath Singh. The government is likely to take a final call on pending Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed in view of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/conducting-class-12-board-exams-before-vaccinating-students-can-be-big-mistake-sisodia-989040.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana to launch anti-Covid ‘Sanjeevani Pariyojana’ for quick medicare access at home||Haryana will launch on Monday an anti-Covid 'Sanjeevani Pariyojana' to provide for supervised and quick medical care at home largely for people in rural areas with mild to moderate symptoms of the disease. 'Sanjeevani Pariyojana' will extend medical care to rural areas where awareness of the second wave of Covid-19 and how to treat it remains low, an official spokesperson said here on Sunday. Chief Minister M L Khattar will roll out the initiative on May 24, through video conferencing, he added. The spokesperson described the programme as an important step in bringing much needed medical care to the people “who need it most, when they need it most”. “The initiative will comprise an Integrated Command and Control Centre for managing critical resources like hospital beds availability, oxygen supply, ambulance tracking and door-to-door awareness campaign to enable a bird's eye view of the entire healthcare system for the district administration,” the spokesperson said. “Besides, a Covid hotline will augment existing call centre capabilities to support basic triaging and guidance for patients with suspected or clinically diagnosed Covid-19,” he said. The initiative will expand the scope of medical advice beyond qualified doctors by mobilizing 200 final year and pre-final year medical students, besides interns, and connecting them to consultants and experts, he said. “This effort will enhance telemedicine/virtual health capabilities to provide treatment and monitoring for mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 from the point of their first visit till discharge facilitating activities such as consultations, investigation reports, upshifting the patient and monitoring test results,” he added. He said various interrelated activities will enable the Haryana government to offer a three-tier medical infrastructure for patients, including isolation wards at the village level and sub-centre level and in some cases at Primary Health Care centres for patients with mild symptoms who are unable to isolate at home, staffed with a doctor (including Ayush doctors), some nursing staff and volunteers. Besides, community health centres or field hospitals at district or sub-district level, for patients with moderate symptoms in need of oxygen support, equipped with oxygen concentrators and advanced medical centres at larger government, civil or private hospitals equipped with ICU facilities for critical patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-to-launch-anti-covid-sanjeevani-pariyojana-for-quick-medicare-access-at-home-989050.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh to hold Class 12 board exams from June 1 'from home'||The Chhattisgarh Board of Secondary Education (CGBSE) will conduct its Class 12 exams from June 1 wherein students would be allowed to collect question papers from specified centres, take them home and submit the answer copies within five days, officials said. As per an order issued late Saturday evening by CGBSE secretary V K Goyal, the board has decided to conduct the tests in this pattern in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the safety of over 2.86 lakh students across the state. The order said students of Class 12 will be given five days from June 1 to 5 to collect the question papers and blank answer sheets from the specified centres. They can collect the question papers on any date between June 1 and 5. The students would have to submit the answer copies at their respective centres within five days from the date of collection of the question papers, the order said. For example, if a student takes the question papers on June 1, then he or she must submit the answer copies by June 6 during working hours, Goyal said, adding that those who fail to submit the answer papers within the stipulated time will be considered absent. The answer copies can also be submitted on Sunday and holidays. Students are advised to get the question papers of their own subjects only, he said. They should write the answers on their own instead of taking help from others, he said. The first page of the answer copy should carry all the information regarding the student such as name, roll number, subject, subject code, signature and date, he said. Students should come to submit the answer sheets personally with their signature in the attendance register. If a student takes 20 pages for writing the answers, then he or she needs to submit the same number of pages mandatorily even if they are blank. The answer copies sent via post or courier would not be accepted by the board, Goyal said. It is mandatory for all students to follow social distancing and wear masks while collecting and submitting the question papers and answer sheets, he said. On May 19, 2021, the CGBSE declared results of Class 10 based on an internal assessment of the students as no final examinations were conducted in view of the pandemic. In March this year, the Chhattisgarh government closed all schools in the state and said it will promote students of all classes, barring Classes 10 and 12, without conducting their exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-to-hold-class-12-board-exams-from-june-1-from-home-989051.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||17-year-old Muslim boy dies after 'police thrashing'; two cops charged with murder in UP's Unnao||Two police constables and a homeguard have been charged with the murder of a 17-year-old vegetable seller, Faisal Hussain, who was caught for violating the 'corona curfew' and allegedly beaten mercilessly, first outside his home and then inside a police station, officials said on Saturday. The incident, which took place in Unnao district's Bangarmau area on Friday, led to angry protests from locals who relented after senior police officers assured the boy's family of an impartial probe, they said. Citing preliminary information from the post-mortem report, a police official said the teenager might have died because of head injuries. Police said the constables and the homeguard have been booked under Indian Penal Code section 302 (murder). Constables Vijay Chodhury and Simavat have been suspended and homeguard Satyaprakash has been sacked, police said. The incident had taken place on Friday in the Bhatpuri locality in Unnao district's Bangarmau when the boy was selling vegetables outside his house. The boy's family alleged that he was caught by a constable for allegedly violating the 'corona curfew' and thrashed with a stick. He was later taken to a police station, where he was again thrashed following which his condition deteriorated and he was rushed to the Community Health Centre, where he was declared dead, the family alleged. He was beaten up in front of the inspector in-charge, the boy's family alleged. A police spokesperson on Sunday evening informed that the Bangarmau Station House Officer (SHO) Jitendra Kumar Singh has been sent to the Police Lines. Hasanganj SHO Mukul Prakash Verma has been made the SHO Bangarmau, the spokesperson said. Agitated over the police action, locals blocked a road and their protest ended late on Friday night after senior police officers, including ASP Shahi Shekhar Singh, assured the boy's family all help, an impartial probe, and handed over a copy of the FIR. The family has demanded action against the guilty, a government job and compensation. Following the assurances , the boy's body was handed over to police for post mortem. Officials said a post-mortem examination was conducted during the day, but a final report would not be available before Sunday morning. Sources in the state health department said according to the post-mortem report, head injuries above the right ear were the main reason behind the boy's death, while there were 13 injury marks on his back. However, based on preliminary information, police spokesperson Sub-Inspector Zulfikar Ali, who is also the Unnao Police's social media cell in-charge, said the "cause of death is stated to be head injuries”. Asked as to how the vegetable vendor received injuries in his head, the SI said, "It is a matter of investigation. One can also sustain head injuries after a fall." He said further details will be available once a copy of the post-mortem report is received. Unnao Superintendent of Police Anand Kulkarni told a news publication that he had seen some CCTV footage which showed that an injury near the ear had caused internal bleeding. “We will seek medico-legal advice and proceed with the probe accordingly,” he said. “It is clearly seen that when he comes to the police station, he collapses. He is then picked up. But he collapses again. Then some police officials give him water. This whole sequence of events is recorded in the CCTV footage. In the meantime, some of his family members come,” he told The Indian Express. The SP added, “I have also seen the CCTV footage of policemen slapping him at the shop from where he was picked up. They don’t hit him with sticks or anything else there.” In a statement issued on Friday night, police had said, "Constable Vijay Chodhury has been suspended with immediate effect in the matter and services of homeguard Satyaprakash have been terminated. " According to extended family and neighbours quoted by IE, Faisal was the sole breadwinner of his family of six and had to look after more than one ailing member. Eye witnesses claim that he was taken by the cops for no reson The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed the curfew in the state till 7 am of May 24 to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Late on Sunday evening, District Magistrate Ravindra Kumar and SP Anand Kulkarni met the aggrieved family at their residence in Bangarmau, and spoke to them amidst heavy police presence. At this point of time, the media was not allowed in the vicinity of the house. (With inputs from reports by other news outlets)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-muslim-boy-dies-after-police-thrashing-two-cops-charged-with-murder-in-ups-unnao-989056.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Man's body taken in garbage vehicle for last rites in Madhya Pradesh||The body of a 21-year-old man, who allegedly committed suicide, was taken for last rites in a garbage vehicle in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas district, prompting the local civic administration to suspend its health official and terminate the services of three temporary employees. The incident took place in Sonkatch town on Saturday following which a video of it went viral on social media. In the video, some civic employees were purportedly seen dumping the body in an empty garbage vehicle. The opposition Congress hit out at the BJP over the incident, but the ruling party said immediate action was taken by local civic authorities. According to sources, the victim, who was a resident of Rolupipalia village, had allegedly committed suicide and the body was being sent for last rites to a burial ground from the mortuary of a local health centre after post-mortem. Sonkatch Municipality's chief municipal officer Ravi Bhatt told PTI on Sunday that the civic body performed the last rites of 67 people since April 18 this year. Referring to Saturday's incident, he admitted that the unclaimed body was sent for last rites in a garbage vehicle. He said an inquiry has been ordered into the incident and taking a serious note of it, the civic body's health department in-charge was suspended and the services of three temporary employees, including a sanitary supervisor, were terminated. Meanwhile, local Congress MLA and former state minister Sajjan Singh Verma targeted the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led MP government over the incident. In a couple of tweets, Verma said he had provided Rs 85 lakh for amenities in the Sonkatch Hospital from his local area development fund. "Despite this, dead bodies are being transported in garbage vehicle," he said. He also accused the BJP-ruled state government of "managing headlines and not performing the actual work". However, state BJP secretary Rahul Kothari told PTI that local civic authorities took immediate action into the matter. "Verma, who represents this area in the state Assembly since a longtime, had earlier been a state cabinet minister. He also has some responsibility for such a situation in his constituency," Kothari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mans-body-taken-in-garbage-vehicle-for-last-rites-in-madhya-pradesh-989064.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||In one month, Covid-19 deaths more than double in Jammu||The deaths in Jammu region due to Covid-19 have more than doubled in just one month with 886 patients losing their lies to the deadly pathogen from April 22 to May 22 compared to 783 in the previous 13 months. From the beginning of the Covid pandemic in March last year till April 22 this year, 10 districts of Jammu region had reported 783 deaths. However, in the last one month 886 people died every day due to the Covid-19 which on average makes nearly 30 deaths per day. From April 22 till May 22, Jammu and Kashmir recorded a total number of 1,12,906 Covid-19 cases, with the valley accounting for 69,206 cases and Jammu for 43,700 cases. But when it comes to deaths, Jammu recorded 886, compared to 521 deaths in Kashmir. In the last one month, the mortality rate in Jammu has jumped over 2 per cent which is higher than the national mortality rate of over 1.13 per cent. Besides, double mutant variant more prevalent in Jammu as compared to Kashmir region, health experts have blamed delayed hospitalization, vacuum in the non-government sector, lack of trained manpower in hospitals as major reasons for the spike in deaths in Jammu than Kashmir. Dr Bharat Bhushan of Government Medical College (GMC), Jammu says Covid patients in Jammu are getting hospitalised late – when they are already in a severe condition. “The effect of the double variant – which is more infectious and perhaps causes more severe disease – might be one of the reasons behind the surge in fatalities, but the bad condition of health infrastructure in Jammu cannot be overlooked,” he said. Unlike Kashmir valley, where a robust and experienced network of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are helping out patients with oxygen, concentrators, ambulances and essential medicines, Jammu lacks such a system. There are some small groups helping with oxygen supplies and cremations in Jammu, but that is insufficient before the current Covid tsunami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-one-month-covid-19-deaths-more-than-double-in-jammu-989068.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Villagers jump into river to avoid Covid-19 vaccination in Uttar Pradesh||The health officials at a village in Uttar Pradesh were taken aback when people, on seeing them, fled their homes and ran towards a nearby river. They even jumped into the river, when the officials reached the river bank. It was as if a police team had raided their village to nab some dreaded criminals. The bizarre scene was witnessed at Sisauda village in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district when a team of health officials reached the village on Sunday to vaccinate the residents against Covid-19. According to reports, around 200 people, who did not want to get vaccinated, fled their homes. As the health officials and the vaccination team were on the road, they ran toward the river bank. They jumped into the river, when the officials, trying to persuade them to get the shots, reached the river bank. Fearing that many of the villagers might drown in the river if they went any further, the officials assured them that they would not be vaccinated. The officials had a tough time persuading the villagers to come out of the river. Reports said that only 14 people could be vaccinated in the village, which has 1,500 residents. ''It is due to lack of awareness...we will soon launch an awareness campaign in the village,'' said a senior district official in Barabanki. Earlier also, health workers had faced problems in testing and vaccinating people against Covid in some districts in UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/villagers-jump-into-river-to-avoid-covid-19-vaccination-in-uttar-pradesh-989075.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Moderna refuses to sell Covid-19 vaccines to Punjab as state faces shortage||Vaccine manufacturer ‘Moderna’ has refused to sell Covid-19 vaccines to Punjab and said they only deal with the Government of India and not with state governments or private parties. Punjab Nodal Officer for vaccination Vikas Garg said that all vaccine manufacturers were approached for direct purchase of various Covid vaccines, including Sputnik V, Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, as per the directions of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. This was done after the state government decided to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of vaccines from all possible sources to ensure early inoculation in the state. Garg said that reply was received from Moderna which refused to deal with the State Government. Punjab had to stop vaccination for Phase I & Phase II categories over the last three days because of non-availability of vaccines. Garg said Punjab had received 44 lakh doses of vaccines from the central government till date. As per Central allocation for Phase III (18-44 age group), Punjab has been able to buy only 4.2 lakh vaccine doses, including 66,000 received on Saturday. A total of 3.65 Lakh have already been used, leaving only 64000 for use as of now, Garg said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/moderna-refuses-to-sell-covid-19-vaccines-to-punjab-as-state-faces-shortage-989076.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Cheetah to be re-introduced in India from Africa in November, says MP Forest Minister||Cheetah, the world's fastest land animal which was declared extinct in India in 1952, is expected to be re-introduced into the country in November this year at the Kuno National Park in Madhya Pradesh, state Forest Minister Vijay Shah said on Sunday. The country's last spotted cheetah died in Chhattisgarh in 1947 and it was declared extinct in the country in 1952. The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) some years back prepared a cheetah re-introduction project. The Supreme Court had earlier given its approval to introduce African cheetahs to a suitable habitat in India on an experimental basis. "We have started the process of creating an enclosure for around 10 cheetahs, including five females, to be brought from South Africa to Kuno in Sheopur district and it is going to be completed by August," Shah told PTI. Officials from India will be sent to South Africa for sensitisation and training in June and July this year and according to the plan, the transportation of the cheetahs will take place in October and November, he said. Kuno, located in the Chambal region, is spread over an area of over 750 sq km and has a conducive environment for the cheetah, he said. The protected area, comprising a considerable population of four-horned antelopes, chinkara, nilgai, wild boar, spotted deer and sambar, has a good prey base for the cheetahs, he said. "According to the approved timeline sent to us by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change this week, the tentative budget outlay of the 'Project Cheetah' is Rs 1,400 lakh for this fiscal," the minister said. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) is going to release the money for the project to Madhya Pradesh and the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) at Dehradun next month, Shah said. An expert from South Africa visited the Kuno National Park on April 26 this year along with scientists from the WII and inspected the facilities and habitat created there for the introduction of African cheetahs. They approved it and now the final process of bringing the cheetah is underway, a forest official said. Earlier, experts from the WII had visited four places in Madhya Pradesh to look for the best habitat for the introduction of African cheetah in the country last year, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests J S Chauhan, told PTI. The WII team had visited the Kuno National Park in MP's Sheopur district, the Nauradehi sanctuary in Sagar district, the Gandhi Sagar sanctuary on the northern boundary of Mandsaur and Neemuch districts and the Madhav National Park in Shivpuri district, Chauhan said. "Madhya Pradesh had in the past been home to cheetahs. The state has a long conservation history...we have the habitat. We also have a successful animal translocation track record," Chauhan said, referring to the tiger reintroduction programme in the Panna Tiger Reserve in 2009. Cheetah is considered vulnerable under the International Union for Conservation of Nature's (IUCN) red list of threatened species, with a declining population of less than 7,000 found primarily in African savannas. The Supreme Court last year set up a three- member committee to guide the NTCA on the cheetah re-introduction project. The panel has asked the WII to carry out a technical evaluation of all possible sites for the re-introduction of cheetah in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cheetah-to-be-re-introduced-in-india-from-africa-in-november-says-mp-forest-minister-989081.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||UP minister's brother secures job at state varsity under EWS quota||Can the brother of a minister be so poor that he becomes eligible to get a job under the EWS (economically weaker sections) quota? A huge controversy has erupted after the brother of Uttar Pradesh minister for basic education Satish Dwivedi was appointed assistant professor at the state university under the EWS quota. According to the sources, Dwivedi's brother Arun Dwivedi was appointed in the department of psychology in the state-owned Siddharth University in Siddharth Nagar district, a few days back. Incidentally, the vice-chancellor of the university Prof Surendra Dubey, whose term had expired, was given an extension by the state governor Anandiben Patel, until the appointment of a new VC two days back. Prof. Dubey, on being queried in this regard, defended the appointment and said that the EWS certificate was issued by the district authorities. ''His educational certificates were alright... he was selected on merit,'' he added. The appointment of the minister's brother under the EWS quota drew sharp reactions from the opposition leaders as well as the netizens, who flooded the social media platforms with their comments. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that in this crisis, the UP government's ministers were not seen in helping the common people but were eager to serve their own interests. ''UP's Basic Education Minister's brother became poor and got appointed as Assistant Professor.....Lakhs of youths are seeking employment in UP, but the jobs seem to be going to those trying to turn disaster into opportunity,'', she said in a Facebook post.  Dwivedi had recently faced the wrath of primary teachers after he claimed that only three teachers had died from Covid while being on duty in the recently concluded panchayat polls. The Teachers' association claimed that over 1,600 teachers had died from the deadly coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-ministers-brother-secures-job-at-state-varsity-under-ews-quota-989088.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||More doctors have died in Bihar than anywhere else during second wave of Covid-19 pandemic||In what is an alarming and shocking statistic, Bihar has registered the maximum number of deaths of doctors in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the total 329 deaths of medical practitioners in the country, Bihar has so far reported deaths of 96 doctors, around 30 per cent of the total casualty of doctors. A news agency, however, put the toll of doctors' death at over 400 during the second wave. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has, in response, formed an eight-member committee, headed by IMA president-elect Dr Sahjanand Singh to investigate the reasons behind such a large number of doctors’ deaths in Bihar. Of the 96 deaths in Bihar, 38 doctors died in Patna itself, while 14 others died in Muzaffarpur, five in Bhagalpur, and three each in Gaya and Siwan.  “The doctors in Bihar have been working tirelessly for the last 14 months for Covid as well as non-Covid patients. The IMA probe panel will find out the reasons behind such large number of deaths of doctors in the State,” said Dr Sahjanand Singh, who will head the investigation committee. The IMA president (elect) lamented that there were no beds reserved for doctors in either government or private hospitals in Bihar. “In many cases, doctors reportedly died due to lack of beds, ventilators and proper care,” rued Dr Singh. “The IMA has urged all the State Governments to immediately pay a compensation of Rs 50 lakh each to the deceased doctors’ family,” said Dr Singh, adding that IMA itself will pay economically weaker doctors (who passed away) Rs 10 lakh each. “In the first wave of Covid-19, India lost 748 doctors. If we take into account the deaths of doctors in the second wave, then the casualty figure will be over 1000,” added another IMA source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-doctors-have-died-in-bihar-than-anywhere-else-during-second-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-989097.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana government extends coronavirus lockdown till May 31||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the coronavirus lockdown till May 31, according to an order issued here. State Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan in the order said the lockdown, which was earlier imposed till May 24, has been extended by a week till 5 am on May 31. In a bid to contain the coronavirus spread, the state government had first imposed the lockdown on May 3, which was extended every week since then.  The Haryana government has termed the lockdown as "Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert/Safe Haryana)". The state has so far reported 7,33,628 infection cases, including 7,415 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-may-31-989101.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Non-Covid patients suffering amid lockdown in Delhi, say doctors||From delayed cancer surgeries to teeth and eye issues, patients having non-Covid ailments in Delhi are suffering in agony in absence of adequate medical attention as hospitals are overburdened during the second wave of the pandemic and the city is under a lockdown, say doctors. The restrictions imposed in the national capital on April 19 in the wake of the brutal second wave of the pandemic have hit the migrant labourers and the poor the hardest, but the interruption of non-Covid medical services has also added to the travails of many others. Doctors at leading government and private hospitals say that as the majority of the machinery is currently engaged in fighting the deadly Covid-19 on a war-footing and movement restrictions are in place, non-Covid patients who need surgeries or have ENT issues and have to be examined physically and pregnant women are especially at a loss. According to Dr Suresh Singh Naruka, senior consultant, ENT, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, "Non-Covid services have been largely impacted, but our hospital is trying to do best for such patients brought to the emergency". At the hospital, non-Covid emergency patients are treated as suspected cases of Covid-19 and intervention is immediately made, "otherwise, we could lose lives, if we wait for Covid test results", he said. "Once we had a case, where a person had swallowed an electric bulb, and every second was precious to save his life. So, we immediately started the procedure and saved him," he said. However, for cancer patients, the wait adds to the agony, as delayed surgeries mean prolonged pain. "I have an old patient who is suffering from cancer, and he was to be operated in April, but then due to the Covid situation and lockdown in Delhi, his surgery got delayed by over a month. "As a result, his cancer stage progressed in this period, and the accompanying suffering. It's a difficult time for non-Covid patients too," Naruka said. The ENT doctor said, at the moment, he is trying to see patients over video calls or teleconsultation and call them to the hospital only if it's unavoidable as bringing non-Covid patients to hospitals treating coronavirus patients poses a risk. "My domain is ear, nose and throat, and in many cases we have to probe deeper inside nose and treat using specialised instruments, which can only be done through physical examination. "So, it's a handicap for both doctors and patients. But due to Covid fear, we tell patients to not visit hospitals if it can be managed via teleconsultation, after which we prescribe medicines as needed," Naruka said. Besides, cancer and ENT (ear, nose throat) patients, those people having old dental issues or who have recovered from Covid, but having complications in teeth and gums due to lowered immunity, and with injury or ailments in eyes or skin are also suffering a lot of pain in the lockdown, doctors say. Noted dentist Dr Anil Kohli, whose clinic in south Delhi has been serving people for over four decades, said, "We have to serve people, and so we have adjusted ourselves to the new normal". "The first wave last year caught us unawares and there was a lot of fear among both healthcare workers as well as patients who felt anxious stepping out of their homes, despite having an unbearable toothache," he told PTI. However, as the vaccination process got underway, all the staff got vaccinated and so they too feel safe while rendering services, Kohli said, adding, doctors wear PPE kits while examining patients. "But, most of the dental clinics in Delhi are closed during the lockdown due to the Covid situation. Also, as we examine patients' mouths, so the risk is very high. Therefore, not many feel comfortable attending to patients. But we are serving with reduced business hours," he added. A staff at Cloves Dental, a pan-India chain of clinics based in Delhi, said that only emergency cases are being seen at their clinics with "proper Covid safety precautions" like the use of hand sanitisers, social distancing, and avoiding aerosol-generating procedure. "We are also providing teleconsultation and only if the case needs a clinic visit, we ask patients to come as there is Covid situation and lockdown restrictions," she said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the lockdown in Delhi will be extended till May end, and if cases continue to decline, the unlock process will be started in a phased manner. Delhi has been registering a fall in daily cases in the last few days, and on Saturday 1,649 Covid-19 cases, the lowest since March 30, and 189 deaths were recorded, while the positivity rate dipped to 2.42 percent, as per the latest health bulletin. Naruka feels, in pandemic time, pregnant women are suffering the most among the non-Covid patients, as they have to deal with so many health issues at once while ensuring the safety of the unborn child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/non-covid-patients-suffering-amid-lockdown-in-delhi-say-doctors-989103.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||64,000 people got Covid-19 jabs in Delhi on May 22: Atishi||Around 64,000 people received Covid-19 vaccine jabs in Delhi on May 22, AAP MLA Atishi said on Sunday. She also said that there will be no Covaxin doses left for inoculating those above 45 years of age, frontline and healthcare workers in the national capital after Monday evening. “Around 64,000 people were given Covid-19 vaccine jabs in Delhi on Saturday,” the AAP leader said. She said there was no clarity yet from the Centre on the supply of the next installment of Covaxin doses for those above 45 years. Atishi added that all centres inoculating 18-44 age group will be temporarily shut from Monday due to non-availability of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/64000-people-got-covid-19-jabs-in-delhi-on-may-22-atishi-989115.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Don't hold protest over failure to handle Covid, it may prove super-spreader: Punjab CM tells farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday urged the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) not to hold their planned sit-in over his government's "failure" to tackle coronavirus, saying their three-day protest may turn into a super-spreader. The farmers' outfit has decided to hold a protest from May 28 in Patiala, the CM's home constituency. Rejecting the allegation that his government failed to tackle the pandemic, the CM said they fought hard to prevent Punjab going the way of some other states such as Delhi, Maharashtra and even Uttar Pradesh, where bodies floating in the Ganga exposed the mismanagement by the BJP government. According to a statement, he urged farmers not to act "irresponsibly" and endanger their own lives as their planned protest may negate the gains made by the state government in the fight against the pandemic, amid a complete ban on all gatherings. Such a "dharna" will draw people mainly from villages, which are in any case going through a crisis during the second wave of the pandemic, he said, adding that the outfit’s action is completely unwarranted, considering the support his government has extended to farmers on the issue of the Centre's farm laws, said the CM. His government was the first to pass amendment laws in the state Assembly to contravene the farm laws, he said. “It is time for the farmers now to reciprocate by supporting the state government in the fight against the pandemic,” he said. He pointed out that even during the peak of the second Covid-19 wave in Punjab, things had not gone out of control here as they had in several other states. The state had been one of the best-performing so far as the management of the pandemic is concerned, he claimed. Given the gravity of the situation, there is no scope for any laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour and rallies or 'dharnas' of any kind are totally unacceptable when the lives of the people are at stake, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-hold-protest-over-failure-to-handle-covid-it-may-prove-super-spreader-punjab-cm-tells-farmers-989122.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||MP CM slams Kamal Nath over coronavirus remarks||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday wondered whether state Congress president Kamal Nath's alleged remarks on the spread of coronavirus in India amounted to sedition. “Will this (statement) not hurt the country's respect and does this not amount to sedition? Chouhan asked in a series of tweets and also spoke to reporters. Nath, the Opposition leader, on Friday said in a press conference, "Indians in the world have become synonymous with corona and our 'Mera Bharat' has turned into Covid (epicentre)". Questioning the number of Covid-19 fatalities "projected by India", Nath had claimed that in reality, 1,02,002 Covid-19 patients had died in Madhya Pradesh in the March-April period. “We are working day in and day out to combat Covid -19 and I hoped that all political parties would be onboard given this national crisis. But I am deeply saddened that former MP chief minister Kamal Nathji was destroying the morale of the country and the state (with his remarks)," Chouhan said. "Does using words like, 'Mera Bharat Covid', 'Indian Corona' suit Congress? Won't the morale of Indians living in other countries dip with such statements? Won't it hurt the country's respect? Does such a statement not amount to sedition? he asked. Chouhan said the government was working hard in a bid to free the state from coronavirus but "Kamal Nath is looking for an opportunity to do politics on deaths". As of Saturday, Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 tally stood at 7,60,963 and the overall death was 7,483, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cm-slams-kamal-nath-over-coronavirus-remarks-989135.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||'Black fungus' tally at Delhi's LNJP Hospital rises to 36||The Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital reported 15 more cases of 'black fungus' in a day, taking its tally to 36, a senior official said on Sunday. Of the 36 cases, 30 people are Covid positive, LNJP Hospital's medical director Dr Suresh Kumar said. Mucormycosis or 'black fungus' is more common among people whose immunity has weakened due to Covid, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues, or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis. If such patients are administered steroids, their immunity weakens further, allowing the fungus to thrive. Cases of 'black fungus' have been rising in the national capital amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "Currently, there are 36 black fungus patients at the LNJP Hospital and 30 of them are Covid positive," Kumar said. The LNJP Hospital had 21 cases of mucormycosis till Saturday evening. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Saturday cautioned Covid-19 patients against taking steroids without a doctor's advice. "This is very dangerous. A patient's immunity becomes zero when he/she takes steroids. 'Black fungus', which is found in soil or decaying matter inside homes, doesn't affect healthy people. Chances of infection are more in those with low immunity," he had said. It is imperative to control blood sugar levels. Any virus, fungus or bacteria multiplies rapidly when the blood sugar level increases, he had said. Jain had also said that there was a scarcity of drugs needed for the treatment of mucormycosis in Delhi and the rest of the country. About 15 hospitals in the city are treating patients of mucormycosis, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/black-fungus-tally-at-delhis-lnjp-hospital-rises-to-36-989143.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||At 3,308 daily Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir dip slightly||There was a slight dip in Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday while the deaths saw a slight increase in the last 24 hours compared to the previous day. According to the daily media bulletin, the Union Territory (UT) recorded 51 deaths and 3,308 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. On Saturday, the UT had reported 48 deaths and 3408 Covid-19 cases. Of the 51 fresh deaths on Sunday, 35 were reported from Jammu region, taking its death toll to 1,703 while 16 more deaths on Sunday took the Kashmir valley's tally to 1,861. Jammu is leading in the number of deaths reported during the second wave of Covid-19, while Kashmir is witnessing a higher number of infection cases. On Sunday out of 3,308 fresh cases, 2,187 were reported from Kashmir valley and 1,121 from Jammu. Srinagar, as per the data, is witnessing a decline in Covid-19 cases with 511 cases reported on Sunday. Earlier this month, Srinagar had reported more than 1,100 cases per day. The active cases have also seen a decline since last week. From a high of 52,848 active cases on May 13, the cases have come down to 47,437 in 10 days. The tally of recoveries in the UT has reached 2,19,620 which is over 81 per cent of the total cases. As per the details shared by the health department, 5,486 hospital beds have been designated for Covid-19 patients, of which 3,085 are occupied by patients admitted in various hospitals across J&K. 2,562 Covid patients are on oxygen support and 136 on ventilator support. On Saturday, J&K administration extended the lockdown in all 20 districts of the UT till May 31. Corona curfew was imposed in J&K on April 29 has and since been extended several times. Meanwhile, for the 25th consecutive day on Sunday, restrictions remained imposed across the UT to contain the unabated rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths. Majority of the people remained confined to their homes even as streets continued to wear a deserted look while shops and business establishments remained closed, and traffic off the roads. Police and paramilitary forces have closed majority of the roads with barbed wires and barricades to stop the movement of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-3308-daily-covid-19-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-dip-slightly-989150.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||J&K police recovers heroin worth 50 crore along LoC||Jammu and Kashmir police busted a Pakistan-sponsored narco-terror module and recovered eight kilograms of heroin worth 50 crores from north Kashmir’s frontier Kupwara district on Sunday, officials said. “On specific information, police busted a Pakistan-sponsored narco-terror module and arrested one terrorist associate identified as Mujasir Ahmad Lone. Incriminating material narcotic substance heroin eight kilograms worth Rs 50 crore in market were recovered from his possession,” a police spokesperson said in a statement. The other absconded involved persons have been identified and efforts are being taken to arrest them, he said and added the module was in close connection with the Pakistan-based militant handlers and were involved in drug trade and assisting financially to active ultras in the Valley. “The recoveries also exposed the inter-connection between drug dealers and terrorists. The module was working for terrorists to strengthen their activities in the valley and were misleading and motivating the local youth to join militant ranks,” the spokesperson added. Kupwara is a frontier district along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Earlier on April 14, security forces recovered 10 kilograms of narcotics with an approximate value of Rs 50 crore in the international market along the LoC in the same district. A similar consignment of deadly heroin, whose estimated market value, as per the police, is somewhere between Rs 50-60 crores, was seized on April 8 along the LoC in the same district. As per the data available with J&K Police, in 2020 alone, 36.08 kilograms of pure heroin and 49.7 kilograms of brown sugar were recovered from different parts of the Valley. These recoveries, police say, have clearly shown that the cross-border narco-terror threat has become a major area of concern in Kashmir. “In the wake of serious crackdown by the law enforcement agencies against the Hawala operators, Pakistan-based agencies use LoC route to send narcotics to fund the terrorism and unrest in the Valley. Since early 2019 when the cross LoC trade was shut down, narco-trade has become the exclusive route to finance terrorism and unrest in Kashmir,” a senior police officer told DH. He said narco terrorism in Kashmir seems to have a plausible reason for its growth since Pakistan backed terror operatives in the valley have a readymade network of over ground workers (OGWs) in border areas who have been acting as couriers of arms/ammunition, fake currency etc in the recent past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-recovers-heroin-worth-50-crore-along-loc-989163.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh extends ban on buses from neighbouring states||The Madhya Pradesh government's ban on the movement of buses from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan into the state in force till Sunday was extended during the day till May 31, officials said. The order issued by the Additional Commissioner (Transport) Arvind Saxena also stated that the ban covers vehicles with All India tourist permits, they added. On Sunday, MP recorded 3,375 Covid-19 cases and 75 deaths, taking the tally to 7,64,338 and toll to 7,558.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-extends-ban-on-buses-from-neighbouring-states-989179.html
23-05-2021||North and Central||FIR against Kamal Nath for allegedly creating panic through Covid-19 remarks||An FIR was registered against Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath on Sunday for allegedly creating panic over the coronavirus pandemic through his remarks, a police official said. The case against him was registered based on a complaint lodged by Bhopal BJP district president Sumeet Pachouri and two BJP MLAs- Vishwas Sarang and Rameshwar Sharma- among others, he said. Nath, a former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, was charged under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC and section 54 (making or circulating a false alarm or warning as to disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic) of National Disaster Management Act 2005, the official said. The FIR was registered at the Crime Branch police station, Bhopal, he said. About the basis on which the case against Nath was filed, Bhopal Headquarter Superintendent of Police, Ramji Shrivastav, said the action was taken based on the complaint and two videos provided by the complainants in a pen drive. Investigation into the case is going on, he said, without giving any further details. In the complaint, the BJP leaders alleged that Nath had said in his press conference at Ujjain on Saturday that, “Corona, which has spread in the world, is being known as the Indian variant of the virus.” Kamal Nath's statement at this moment of crisis is creating confusion and defaming the country internationally, the complaint said. It added that Nath has disobeyed the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines to stem Covid-19 and his act amounts to sedition according to IPC. Besides, the complaint also said Nath's "false allegations" that the government was hiding the real number of deaths occurred due to coronavirus amount to creating fear and falls under the category of criminal offence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-kamal-nath-for-allegedly-creating-panic-through-covid-19-remarks-989210.html
23-05-2021||Opinion||Will manufacturing, infrastructure revive Indian economy?||I was intending to write an article on some manufacturing-related aspects this month. It is such a hot topic. Everyone likes to discuss how and why manufacturing is or is not doing well. Or, on some similarly stimulating topic such as jobless growth. Then Covid intervened. It has been around for over a year but had gone onto the backburner. Some had even declared that India had defeated it and had started celebrating “our unique ability” to beat the virus. Then, it came back and washed away the State. There is no need to describe the consequences further as we have all experienced what transpired thereafter. The scale of damage has brought questions related to the country’s health infrastructure to the forefront. Experts had always said it was weak, but most of us earlier pooh-poohed the whole issue, feeling that while perhaps it may possibly be weak for ‘them’, it was not so for ‘us.’ After all, the country has almost 25,000 hospitals, 500 medical colleges, over 300 dental colleges, etc., apart from several super specialty/premium and super premium hospitals. Then, all of a sudden, it all looked so tiny, so insufficient, and people ‘we’ knew (not ‘them’) were suddenly dying because they could not get admitted to a hospital, or even if they did manage to get admitted, they could not get a basic thing like oxygen to breathe…even in the ICUs. While the authorities responsible are busy making excuses and trying to shift responsibility, it turns out that with only five beds per 10,000 population, India ranks 155th in the world, with only 12 countries worse than us. This apparently is because we spend only about 1.5% of our GDP on public health while even our South Asian neighbors spend more than double this. Brazil and South Africa spend over 8% and the advanced economies are in the healthy double digits. We also spend very little on education (less than 3% of GDP), but then, it was usually so far powerfully argued, we are a developing country and can ill-afford to spend more on health and education. It is more important, it is often said, to focus on economic growth, and that for this, we need to ‘invest’ in ‘manufacturing’ and ‘infrastructure’ rather than ‘spend’ on ‘health’ and ‘education.’ Surprisingly despite all this effort to ramp up ‘manufacturing’ and ‘infrastructure’, we have not really grown impressively in recent years. Admittedly, post the liberalisation of 1991, India’s GDP growth rate had zoomed, but that is now more a matter of historical record than current fact. What are we doing wrong? We can get a clue from the differential growth performance of two large neighbouring states in western US in the past two decades. These are Arizona and Colorado. Historically, Arizona had been a more advanced state, bordering Mexico and its seaports, than Colorado, a landlocked desert state 800-km away from the nearest seaport. Their GDPs, at the turn of the century, were $170 billion and $132 billion, respectively. But then, they experienced a reversal in ranking in a little more than a decade, with Colorado’s GDP of $264 billion overtaking Arizona’s $258 billion. This turnaround happened as Colorado started investing hugely in medical and education infrastructure. A large number of high-tech industries and highly skilled and well-paid professionals poured into the state, sidestepping Arizona, which continued to grow in its traditional manner. Since then, Colorado has widened the gap with Arizona. In 2020, its GDP was over $390 billion, Arizona’s $320 billion. Colorado’s is not a unique story. Sichuan, a landlocked province of China (again over 800-km away from the seaports) similarly invested hugely on its population’s health and education and again attracted a great number of high-tech professionals and industries to its Chengdu High-Tech Zone, overtaking Fujian and other similar South China Sea-proximate provinces which followed more traditional attitudes toward public health and education spending. The case studies of the previously unfashionable countries in Northern Europe are also now often current. To understand why what’s happening is happening, you need to ask no one except yourself or your children, where would you prefer to work and stay? Will availability or lack of high-quality educational and health facilities be a factor? Entrepreneurs and captains of industry will similarly tell you, but only if asked pointedly, that the provision of such facilities by the State is actually what attracts them. Expenditures on citizens’ health and education are ‘investments’ and not ‘consumption expenditure’. If we, as a country, want to develop and modernise, we must increase manifold our investment on health and education infrastructure. If the State currently has reduced capacity to invest, it must fiscally incentivise such investments through tax holidays/SEZ status, et al. Get these ‘pull’ factors going, and ‘manufacturing’ will troop in on its own. This will also resolve automatically the current problem of ‘jobless’ growth, as health and education are more ‘labour-intensive’ sectors and providers of better-quality jobs than the shopfloor of any factory. Not for nothing do the advanced countries’ indicators reveal that health and educational services account for over 20% of all employment, while in India it is only around 5%. Those countries thus also benefit hugely from the $100-billion health tourism as well as the educational tourism industry, oftentimes at our cost. Also, because we have low job creation in these high-income fields, citizens’ tax-paying capacity remains low. We thus experience a double, even a triple, whammy because of misguided policies. We need to reflect. And change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-manufacturing-infrastructure-revive-indian-economy-988897.html
23-05-2021||Opinion||The question remains: Was it meant to be a bioweapon?||As India and the world grapple with the second wave and possibly a third wave of the virus that emanated from Wuhan in China in late 2019, destroying families and economies and taking over three million lives so far, a new clamour has surfaced recently on whether the SARS-CoV-2 was indeed a bioweapon in the making that intentionally or otherwise escaped from a low-security biosafety level (BSL) 2 laboratory of the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV). In January, the alleged architect of the suspected bioweapons programme, Dr Shi Zhengli – called the “bat woman” -- was honoured by Beijing as an “advanced worker of the Chinese Academy of Sciences” for her “innovation [and] serving the country.” Shi has received more honours abroad, signifying her collaborative work. In June 2016, France contributed to the maintenance and training of the personnel at the high-security BSL-4 lab of the WIV and honoured Shi with the ‘Medal of Knight of the Order of Academic Palms.’ Shi obtained her doctorate in virology at the University of Montpellier II in France. France and China still cooperate on public health issues although France has had nearly six million infections and over 107,000 deaths so far from Covid. Months before the virus spread across Wuhan and later to the US and other countries, Shi was elected to the American Academy of Microbiology in January 2019. Shi had extensive interactions and conducted research projects with virologists in the US such as Peter Deszak, Kristian G. Andersen, Ralph S. Barik and others. The US National Institutes of Health-affiliated institutions funded research at WIV. E-mails declassified last week point to regular contacts between Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and WIV and have raised several eyebrows. It was reported that people made over 450,000 trips between Wuhan and the US just before the Chinese city came under lockdown on January 23, 2020. The US has so far reported 32 million infections and more than half a million deaths due to Covid. Chinese biowarfare researchers Qiu Xiangguo and her husband Cheng Keding and their students from China working at the Canadian National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg were reportedly involved in the smuggling of coronavirus in March 2019 to the Wuhan lab, from where it is believed to have leaked in late 2019. Qiu is reported to have visited WIV five times in 2017-18. In July 2019, Qiu and Cheng were relieved of duties at the Winnipeg lab. Canada has reported 1.3 million infections and over 25,000 deaths. Australian journalist Anthony Klan has reported that WIV had evolved cooperation with Pakistan on a bioweapons programme. Klan says that several research programmes in this regard are part of China-Pakistan Economic Cooperation since 2015. In October 2018, a Pakistani delegation from Karachi visited WIV scientists, while the latter paid a reciprocal visit in January 2019. While Pakistan received vaccines from China, it has reported nearly a million infections, and about 20,000 deaths due to Covid. As the disengagement process between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh appears to have stalled, India will have to factor in not just a two-front war, but one with a possibility of use of biological weapons against it. While many countries, including China, have pledged to abide by the Biological and Toxic Weapons Convention of 1984 to not develop, produce or stockpile such weapons, the experiments at WIV and 50 other institutions in China, and the lack of transparency regarding these programmes, cannot be ignored. China is suspected to have developed some 40 anti-human pathogens. It has also received training and technologies from advanced countries in the field of bioweapons by citing the threat of proliferation of such weapons to “countries of concern.” China’s inability to fully assist the World Health Organisation’s two delegations, despite its undertaking to the World Health Assembly in May 2020 in this regard, to probe the origins of the virus suggests that the international community will need to make serious efforts to fix accountability for the pandemic. The Communist Party constitution in China says that “scientific development” is the only approach to resolve problems. Yet, when it comes to finding the origins of the virus in Wuhan, it was less than forthcoming in sharing scientific data related to blood and drainage samples with the visiting WHO delegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-question-remains-was-it-meant-to-be-a-bioweapon-988901.html
23-05-2021||Opinion||Parliament must reclaim its role||In normal times, giving the dead a dignified farewell is considered a sacred duty, and families go to great lengths, if necessary, to perform that duty. But the tsunami of deaths caused by Covid has provoked an unseemly reaction – abandonment, a fate usually reserved for the destitute. It’s not just the bodies floating in the Ganga in UP and Bihar, families are refusing to take dead bodies to perform the final rites across the country. Meanwhile, the living are asking existential questions -- be it about the paucity of hospital beds, inadequate oxygen supply, extreme shortage of the promised vaccines, of jobs lost because of the lockdown, or the absence of food on the plates of the hungry millions. Those in power are busy spinning a narrative based on what a public intellectual recently described as the “idiot statistics of exponentialism.” A Truth Commission is sought to probe the multiple failures in containing the raging public health disaster and hold accountable those responsible for the gruesome mess in which we find ourselves. But, must we add another layer to the dysfunctional mechanisms of accountability or should we find ways of prodding them back into action? Parliament is the first and foremost of such accountability-enforcing forums enshrined in our Constitution. Yet, it is the judiciary that is demanding answers from the administration everyday while our MPs are busy doing everything else but what they were elected to do -- to seek accountability from the government. This, despite the public outrage at not only the inadequacy of healthcare services but also the absence of information that is crucial for keeping body and soul together. A stark contrast to such callousness here is the manner in which the US Congress and the federal government have responded to sustained public pressure on a topic of widespread debate but one that most of us would consider flippant. Come June, the US Department of Defense and intelligence agencies will present a detailed research report to Congress on “unidentified aerial phenomenon”, comprising of what folklore recognises as “UFOs” or “flying saucers.” This is mandated by the Consolidated Appropriations Act passed in December 2020 sanctioning a $2.3 trillion spend on a new Covid relief and stimulus package for Americans. Tucked away in the Act is a decree of the US Congress that the UFO report be submitted in an unclassified form -- in other words, accessible to all. The CIA promptly opened up more than 2,700 pages of declassified records on UFOs in January. They reveal that more than 90% of UFO sightings are attributable to clouds, weather balloons, planets and meteors or sunlight reflecting off metallic surfaces or dismissible as outright hoaxes. However, a small number of cases simply cannot be explained and the threat they pose to national security, apparently, requires assessment. The instrumentalities of the State bowed to people’s demand to know the truth, as they must in a functional democracy. Meanwhile, Indian authorities continue to treat vital information -- about vaccine purchase agreements with pharma companies, clinical trial data about new and repurposed Covid drugs, the manner of distribution of foreign medical supplies across India, and such other matters as sarkari secrets. For instance, we know very little about even the composition and the working of the many committees set up to advise the government on containing the pandemic. Instead of merely rubber-stamping the ruling party’s legislative agenda and its budgetary demands, Parliament must reclaim its role as the forum for holding government accountable on behalf of the citizen, voter and taxpayer. Bi-partisan action is the need of the hour because the truth about the government’s record of handling the pandemic is out there. Teary eyes only blur the vision, they cannot make reality go away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/parliament-must-reclaim-its-role-988902.html
23-05-2021||Opinion||Finished by fatalism||As a country, India is invariably in white heat. It staggers from one tragedy to another, one disaster to the next. It’s as if its everyday realities are pulled from its ancient epics but its gods rarely arrive to relieve mortals from their toils. While all this happens, India holds mega elections. The recent Assembly elections in four states (especially West Bengal) once again tripped the wires of India’s fault-lines. The BJP’s Bengal endeavour was perhaps unmatched in Assembly poll history. So was the role of the Election Commission of India, widely seen wilting and bending under pressure. One counsel on the ECI’s legal panel resigned, saying that his values were “not in consonance with the functioning of the commission.” The political rallies turned into coronavirus ‘super-spreader’ events. The prime minister and home minister helmed many of them. Throughout, the campaign was communalised, and gendered barbs issued from the nation’s prime minister’s lips. Of course, so much of this was a repeat of what we’ve seen over many years. A while earlier, Uttarakhand conducted the Maha Kumbh and later cancelled it. Its government ran ads with its then chief minister, the prime minister and the Uttar Pradesh CM beckoning all to grace it. Dr Ashish K Jha, dean of the public health department at Brown University, said it was the pandemic’s “worst super-spreader event.” Last year, some Hindu and Hindutva voices castigated the Tablighi Jamaat’s markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi. Now, those voices are quiet or on edge. This week, Swami Avdheshanand Giri of the Juna Akhara said associating the Kumbh with the Covid surge was an “attack on our culture”; Baba Ramdev said it was a “conspiracy against Hinduism.” But the Maha Kumbh transpired notwithstanding doctors’ and scientists’ warnings to the Centre since late 2020 to mind a possible second wave and scale up efforts to counter it. If now we bleed, burn and gasp, Modi is responsible. But that would miss the point. We’ve been this way – or surely, large parts of our country have been – for long. When India or Pakistan face a crisis, they usually respond with their worst instincts. Large parts of these countries are genuinely retrogressive, anti-rational, anti-health and hygiene. Some parts of the orthodox Islamic world, for instance, rejected the polio vaccine on religious grounds. Manipulating the Hindu almanac, the Centre and the Uttarakhand government advanced the Kumbh (which fills up the state treasury and keeps the government popular). One wonders how the mahants and babas acquiesced in such jugglery. Lately, public discourse has bristled over ventilators, dwindling oxygen supply and ICU beds. The Allahabad High Court regarded the second wave deaths as “not less than genocidal.” Point. Yet, public health disasters have been long in the making and they are regular. Recall the encephalitis deaths of children in Bihar or the Kolkata AMRI hospital deaths or the deaths due to lack of oxygen in Gorakhpur? We don’t remember them, for how much pain can a country process? They bespeak of a nation forever inclined to be on its deathbed. Karma, anybody? As we know, organised religion dictates many facets of life. So, should it not share some of the responsibility for where we are today? Recently, people in Gujarat applied cow dung on their bodies as a cure for coronavirus. Where does such behaviour come from? At some level, the religious faithful ought to be able to distinguish faith from reason. But who is to educate them? As Indians, we are often told, ‘our population is our strength’, ‘we are a young country’, etc. If those who mouth these lines understood their import, we’d see concrete action. Each Indian would be granted dignity, with quality and affordable healthcare, education, housing. But our everyday truth is hurtful; we are so removed from our fantasy aspirations. Our ongoing second wave deaths are so crushing due to their sheer predictability, given the default attitudes. A country that doesn’t accord money for health and education ends up paying for it every day. And common Indians justify it by invoking karma. Last year, when migrants walked back to villages, they said they were doing so bhagwan bharose. Now, we’re plummeting in the second wave. Our fatalism is finishing us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/finished-by-fatalism-988903.html
23-05-2021||Opinion||Can we have a standing ovation for our nurses, please?||Beena may not have a lamp in her hand, but every 10 minutes in the night, the lady quietly checks on Covid patients who have landed in her ICU ward. Bed no. 7 is an easy patient; she has to check only his oxygen saturation levels; and generally keep an eye on him for sudden fluctuations. Young man, he will recover. Oh, that way, bed no. 13 is also a young guy. But he has co-morbidities; diabetic for four years already, plus hypertension. His medicine list that Dr Asma gave her, Beena has to follow very carefully – what pill to give at what time and in what dosage. Where is the ward boy? Did he give this patient sponge bath? Bed no. 2 worries her the most. When the lady came in, she looked like she would be sent home in four days. After her CT scan, she told Beena about her granddaughter. “My phone is not here, Sister, otherwise I would have shown you her birthday picture in that red frill frock,” she had said in Kannada. And Beena smiled, her eyes glowing from inside her masked face and full PPE suit, top to toe. Then suddenly, the next morning when she came in on duty, she saw doctors trying frantically to revive the old lady’s heart function. Doctors who hadn’t even gone home for two days. Oh god, will she make it? That little girl, will she see grandma again? There are 22 beds in the ward that was changed just this March into a Covid ward; otherwise, those beds in the cardiology department used to be vacant. Until February, Beena and her colleagues actually had free time sometimes; they could sit and laugh, eat a Mysur Pak someone had kept in the nursing station. And once or twice a week, they all could make a group video call to Suchi who used to work here. Oh, that lucky girl, Suchi! There was an opening last November in a Dubai hospital, she applied, she got, and she left in a chartered flight the government had announced. Now, you know how much her salary is? If you convert Dirhams to Indian Rupees, it is Rs 1.2 lakh per month. Can you imagine? Riyadh, Rome -- everyday on the ‘Kochi Florence Nightingales’ WhatsApp group, someone or the other is posting about ‘Nurses Wanted’ ads. They said in America, the pay is $45 an hour. Is it really? But Beena sometimes doesn’t mind her Rs 19,000 per month salary. What she misses is the three days off that her foreign nurse friends got every week, that too after night duty. That, and respect. Patients there don’t expect the nurse to fold their bedsheets, feed them, wash their hair and even give them the bedpan. “Still, I am lucky I am in this big city, not a village. “Imagine no ventilator, no ICU, just me one nurse for 30 patients?” Beena shuddered. You see, a nurse can’t get attached to the patient. She was shocked when she got a message from the HR department of her hospital that the psychologist would take some ‘sessions’ for them. Some games organised specially. “These new people in the corporate office, they don’t have work or what – we nurses will now sit and play or what?” Beena was irritated. But last week, Reji, who had joined two years ago, and Manjunath (about him, a patient had said, “Manju is so caring, like a lady”) were both called by the Head Nurse to be sent for counselling. Beena later learnt, after she took off the PPE suit, took a hot shower in the nurses’ bathroom and came out, that the two of them had broken down three days back, crying, “We did so much, looked after them, made them do proning, and still four more people died today.” Both are in their early 20s. Beena was also like that 10 years back, very sensitive. Now, she has only her kids on her mind. Her husband is always supportive, but last week, he was worried. “You won’t get Corona yourself, no?” She had laughed, “No, you will have to cook for me for many more years.” She heard a beep on her phone. “Aye Beena, your patient no. 2, Sarasamma? She is good to go home, took your number. Said she will send you her little girl’s frill frock picture next week.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/can-we-have-a-standing-ovation-for-our-nurses-please-988904.html
23-05-2021||Opinion||Asia’s Covid-19 surges should worry us all||By Clara Ferreira Marques Complacency, populism and poor infrastructure fueled a devastating second wave of Covid-19 in India, a disaster that has infected millions and wrought havoc well beyond its borders thanks to a new, more contagious variant. But none of those failings are unique to the country. So why are we not paying more attention to surges elsewhere in the neighborhood, in places no better equipped to contain a spike or track new mutations? Alarm bells should be ringing across Southeast Asia. It’s bad enough in Thailand, Malaysia and even, to a more modest degree, Vietnam, all hitting record daily cases far worse than in earlier waves. Indonesia is edging toward 6,000 new daily infections, and the Philippines on Saturday announced over 6,800. It's too early to know if that's just a blip in a recent downward trend, or something more serious.  But a bigger concern should be the region’s poorer corners that, until now, had escaped the worst. Cambodia saw a surge so severe last month that leader Hun Sen said his country was “on the brink of death.” New infections have eased, but overall case numbers are now well over 24,000, from a 10th of that in early April. Laos had a total of less than 50 cases at the start of April, but official figures are now at more than 1,700. In Myanmar, it’s hard to even know the extent of the spread, given testing virtually dried up after a military coup in February. It’s all coming at a time when economies and households are weakened by the consequences of more than a year of virus restrictions, and few governments are eager to repeat 2020 lockdowns. Vaccine rollouts are slow and borders porous, with cases already turning up in  China. Laos has roughly 5,000 kilometers, some 3,100 miles, of frontiers with five neighbors, and early cases in this wave involved people crossing the Mekong River from Thailand.  Then there are wealthier countries, like Singapore and Taiwan, that had been seen as havens for their success in controlling the virus and are now grappling with outbreaks and imposing tighter restrictions. Japan is an unmitigated Covid-19 mess, with a fresh wave of cases, one of the lowest vaccination rates among affluent nations, and a looming Olympic Games opposed by more than 80 per cent of the population. Asia isn’t alone. South American authorities are struggling with new waves and a worrying variant, this time coming out of Brazil, where a president who scoffs at the disease has left hospitals struggling. But it’s a striking example — and not the first in this pandemic — of how we keep repeating the same mistakes. Two clear lessons need to be taken on board. The first, simply, is that there’s no way of controlling the coronavirus without vaccines. It’s the reason parts of Europe and the United States are now seeing lower numbers and discussing summer holiday plans. Thailand, by contrast, wants to reopen the tourist island of Phuket but has fully vaccinated just over 1 per cent of its population and is seeing prison outbreaks so severe it’s contemplating pardons.  A low vaccination rate left Taiwan exposed when cases broke through its defenses, and it’s a similar story in Singapore, where more citizens are immunized — just not enough of them. Both are now scrambling. The Lion City, forced to cancel high-profile events like the World Economic Forum, is rushing to give all adults a first shot by the end of August and will lengthen time between doses to cover more people.  That should be a warning to places where local cases are currently under control but vaccination rates remain anemic. Less than 12 per cent of Hong Kong’s population has had both doses. Australia has moved at such a leisurely pace — “a marathon and not a sprint” — that enough doses have been given to cover just 7 per cent of the population. Both should be doing far more to prepare. And there’s a second, vital lesson from India, and indeed Brazil. That’s the cost to the wider world of allowing hotspots to develop unmonitored, with insufficient testing, tracking and genome-sequencing abilities, which allow health authorities to keep up with the evolution of the virus and act accordingly. Their absence leaves everyone flying blind.  Consider Myanmar, already one of the worst-hit and least-prepared countries in Southeast Asia, with threadbare hospitals and just 0.7 intensive care beds and 0.5 ventilators per 100,000 people. India, by comparison, had a little over two beds, and South Korea nearly 11. None of that was helped by the military takeover, and doctors and nurses have been at the forefront of civil disobedience. Testing has fallen to a daily average of fewer than 1,000 samples from a paltry 18,000 before the coup. There is little hope for mass vaccination. Variants must be caught before they explode, and we can’t afford to overlook what’s happening now across the region. The double mutant variant seen in India was around in December, but progressed unchecked. More are bound to emerge at this phase of the pandemic. That means urgent outside support and attention. It isn’t, yet, all over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/asia-s-covid-19-surges-should-worry-us-all-989021.html
23-05-2021||South||First session of 15th Kerala Assembly to begin on May 24||The first session of the 15th Kerala Legislative Assembly will commence on May 24, three days after the second Pinarayi Vijayan government was sworn in at the Central Stadium. The session, to be held under strict Covid-19 protocols, would extend up to June 14, government sources here said. The new MLAs would be sworn in on May 24, the first day of the session, and Kunnamangalam MLA, PTA Rahim, who was appointed as the pro-tem speaker recently, would administer them the oath. The election of the new speaker of the 140-member- strong Assembly would be held on May 25. The ruling LDF has already announced Thrithala legislator, M B Rajesh as its speaker candidate. However, the opposition Congress is yet to declare its nominee. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan would present the customary policy address of theVijayan government on May 28 while Finance MInister K N Balagopal would come out with the revised budget of 2021-22 and vote on account on June 4. The 15th Kerala Assembly has its peculiar features in many ways as it is for the first time in the last four decades that the House is going to witness a government and chief minister for the second consecutive term. On the opposition side, a generational shift would be witnessed as vibrant leader V D Satheesan would replace senior leader Ramesh Chennithala in leading the Congress Legislative Party in the House. The 14th Kerala Assembly had seen Chennithala as the opposition leader. The war of words between Vijayan and the Congress leader over various issues had been an usual scene in the House throughout these five years. For the first time in its history, the Assembly would also witness a father-in-law and son-in-law together in the House. The rare record goes to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and PWD-Tourism minister P A Mohammed Riyas. The 45- year old Beypore MLA had married Vijayan's daughter Veena last year. Besides the Chief Minister and ministers K Krishnan Kutty (JD-S) and A K Saseendran (NCP), all the other 18 ministers are fresh faces this time. The 15th assembly would also see the presence of three women ministers, the highest number in recent times- Veena George (Health and Family Welfare), R Bindhu (Higher Education and Social Justice) and J Chinchurani (Animal Husbandry and DairyDevelopment). K K Rema, wife of slain RMP leader T P Chandrasekharan and a critic of the Chief Minister, would also be a striking presence in the House this time. She represents Vadakara constituency in the state assembly. The assembly secretary has issued detailed guidelines to ensure the strict compliance of the Covid protocol in the campus. Visitors' passes would not be issued this time considering the pandemic spread. Arrangements have also been made for the legislators, journalists and other office staff to undergo antigen tests on the assembly campus, official sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-session-of-15th-kerala-assembly-to-begin-on-may-24-989041.html
23-05-2021||South||First session of 15th Kerala Assembly to begin on May 24||The first session of the 15th Kerala Legislative Assembly will commence on May 24, three days after the second Pinarayi Vijayan government was sworn in at the Central Stadium here. The session, to be held under strict Covid-19 protocols, would extend up to June 14, government sources here said. The new MLAs would be sworn in on May 24, the first day of the session, and Kunnamangalam MLA, PTA Rahim, who was appointed as the pro-tem speaker recently, would administer them the oath. The election of the new speaker of the 140-member- strong Assembly would be held on May 25. The ruling LDF has already announced Thrithala legislator, M B Rajesh as its speaker candidate. However, the opposition Congress is yet to declare its nominee. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan would present the customary policy address of the Vijayan government on May 28 while Finance Minister K N Balagopal would come out with the revised budget of 2021-22 and vote on account on June 4. The 15th Kerala Assembly has its peculiar features in many ways as it is for the first time in the last four decades that the House is going to witness a government and chief minister for the second consecutive term. On the opposition side, a generational shift would be witnessed as vibrant leader V D Satheesan would replace senior leader Ramesh Chennithala in leading the Congress Legislative Party in the House. The 14th Kerala Assembly had seen Chennithala as the opposition leader. The war of words between Vijayan and the Congress leader over various issues had been a usual scene in the House throughout these five years. For the first time in its history, the Assembly would also witness a father-in-law and son-in-law together in the House. The rare record goes to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and PWD-Tourism minister P A Mohammed Riyas. The 45- year old Beypore MLA had married Vijayan's daughter Veena last year. Besides the Chief Minister and ministers K Krishnan Kutty (JD-S) and A K Saseendran (NCP), all the other 18 ministers are fresh faces this time. The 15th assembly would also see the presence of three women ministers, the highest number in recent times- Veena George (Health and Family Welfare), R Bindhu (Higher Education and Social Justice) and J Chinchurani (Animal Husbandry and DairyDevelopment). K K Rema, wife of slain RMP leader T P Chandrasekharan and a critic of the Chief Minister, would also be a striking presence in the House this time. She represents Vadakara constituency in the state assembly. The assembly secretary has issued detailed guidelines to ensure strict compliance with the Covid protocol on the campus. Visitors' passes would not be issued this time considering the pandemic spread. Arrangements have also been made for the legislators, journalists and other office staff to undergo antigen tests on the assembly campus, official sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-session-of-15th-kerala-assembly-to-begin-on-may-24-989045.html
23-05-2021||South||Covid-19 lockdown extended in Puducherry till May 31||The Puducherry government on Sunday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown till May 31 as Covid-19 cases continue to soar in the union territory. The two-week long lockdown clamped on May 10 is to come to an end on May 24 midnight. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said the lockdown is extended till month end, beyond midnight of May 24. All restrictions imposed from May 10 would continue and only essential services such as vegetables would be available till noon every day, an official release said. Milk and essential services would continue to be available and the government is keen that livelihood sources should not suffer any setback. With Puducherry registering unabated incidence of Covid 19, extension of lock down to rein in the pandemic has become necessary, an official source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-extended-in-puducherry-till-may-31-989058.html
23-05-2021||South||Suspension of professor over remarks against RSS, Centre sparks row||Protest is brewing against the action of Central University in Kasargod against an assistant professor who termed the RSS a proto-fascist outfit. He also allegedly flayed the centre's decision to export Covid vaccines. Assistant professor Gilbert Sebastian of Department of Politics and International Relations was placed under suspension pending enquiry. It was during a class on the topic of 'Fascism and Nazism' that Sebastian made a remark that RSS and Sangh Parivar organisations could be considered as proto-fascist. He flayed the centre's vaccine policy citing that the vaccine need of the country could not be even met.  While the university authorities maintained that action was initiated against Sebastian on the basis of a complaint filed by the ABVP unit of the college and a member of the National Monitoring Committee on Education under the MHRD, there were allegations that the vice-chancellor of the university H Venkateshwarlu was under pressure from the top to act. The assistant professor was even accused of trying to instil hatred. While the action against the professor triggered widespread criticism on social media, Congress MPs Shashi Tharoor and Rajmohan Unnithan and CPI Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam also reacted against the university's action. Tharoor said in a tweet that the concern he expressed about the dwindling space for dissent on campuses during discussions on National Education Policy was being echoed in Sebastian's case also. In a letter sent to the centre urging that the action against Sebastian should be revoked, Viswam said that persecuting someone for criticising the government itself is a feature of 'proto-fascism'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/suspension-of-professor-over-remarks-against-rss-centre-sparks-row-989124.html
23-05-2021||South||As Tamil Nadu relaxes lockdown for a day, people go shopping; throw Covid-19 norms to the wind||A large number of people thronged vegetable and fruit markets, jewellery stores, and textile showrooms across Tamil Nadu on Sunday as the government relaxed lockdown restrictions for a day, throwing Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to the wind. The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced all shops will remain open on Sunday, as the state will go for a complete lockdown with just emergency services in operation from Monday. As jewellery and textile shops upped their shutters, people thronged them, violating every rule that the government has brought in to control the spread of the novel coronavirus. As public transport resumed for a day after 12 days of lockdown, hundreds of people boarded buses from Chennai to their hometowns and villages across the state – most of these buses were full in capacity. And in Chennai and Madurai, people were seen shopping happily even as the state continues to add over 30,000 Covid-19 positive cases a day. Vegetable shops and departmental stores were also crowded throughout the day even as people complained of skyrocketing prices. Many shared their woes of “expensive vegetable shopping” on Twitter by posting bills of their purchase, while others blamed the government for opening up “almost everything” in the middle of a lockdown. Though Food Minister A Sakkarapani warned traders of action for selling food items at rates higher than normal, it was of little effect. People scrambled to buy essentials that would last for a week, even as the government said steps have been taken to deliver provisions, fruits, and vegetables through mobile shops in cities, towns and villages. Doctors and activists also questioned the move to open up transport and shops for a day after having locked them down for almost two weeks. “Any gains that would have been made in the past two weeks would have been lost with opening up everything for a day. Resumption of public transport was a bad move,” a doctor said, on the condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, Chief Minister M K Stalin addressed district collectors via video conferencing and asked them to ensure that the complete lockdown is implemented in an effective manner without much trouble to people. He also instructed district collectors to coordinate with officials concerned and ensure that oxygen supply to hospitals in their district are adequate. He also asked officials to work in coordination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-tamil-nadu-relaxes-lockdown-for-a-day-people-go-shopping-throw-covid-19-norms-to-the-wind-989142.html
23-05-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh government gives nod to use 'Krishnapatnam medicine'||The Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday said it prima facie has no objection to allow Ayurvedic practitioner B Anandaiah to continue his traditional system, which people started calling the 'Krishnapatnam medicine'. However, the government will take a final call after the team of experts from the state Ayush department submit their report on it. "There doesn't seem to be any objection to continuing the traditional system that has been continuing for the last many years. He has been doing such traditional systems for several years now. There is no objection to continue it without declaring it an ayurvedic medicine," Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal said. He told a press conference here that there was a system to validate it, through various tests, clinical trials and other procedures, if it was a medicine. "Without declaring it as an ayurvedic medicine for Covid any health supplement or traditional system depends on people's belief. There is no need to control or place restrictions if it has no harmful contents," Anil pointed out. The so called Krishnapatnam medicine being administered by Anandaiah so far had no (negative) impact and all ingredients being used in the preparation were certified to be safe. "Our teams are monitoring the persons and their contacts who used it to check if there are any negative or positive effects. A team from the Ayurvedic College in Tirupati, is also on the job. The data is being collected," the Principal Secretary added. It may be recalled that an ayurvedic practitioner M Anandaiah has been distributing his preparation to people for a month now and it has created a lot of buzz in the social media, resulting in a heavy rush of people to Krishnapatnam village in Nellore district. The AP government is treating it as a 'local health practice and tradition', as there is a belief in a large number of people that the medicine is helping them tackle Covid-19 both in a curative and preventive manner. Distribution of the preparation has been stopped since Saturday as the experts took up a study to determine its efficacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-gives-nod-to-use-krishnapatnam-medicine-989151.html
23-05-2021||South||Dispense with NEET, allow medical admissions based on plus-two marks: Tamil Nadu to Centre||Tamil Nadu government on Sunday reiterated that NEET is dispensed with and that admissions to medical colleges under state control should be based only on marks scored in plus-two exams. A statement from the government said the stand was communicated to the Centre during a meeting Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal held with education ministers of state. Higher Education Minister K Ponmudy, and School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi represented Tamil Nadu at the virtual meeting. Ponmudy said the state government said the Centre can conduct NEET exams for admissions into medical colleges that come under its control. “For the medical seats that come under state's control, we will fill it using marks scored in exams,” he told reporters after the meeting. As his comments were interpreted that Tamil Nadu was in favour of a state-level entrance exam, the state government issued a clarification late in the evening. “The state government is clear that NEET should not be conducted in the state, and admissions into medical colleges should be based only on marks scored in plus-two exams. There is no change in the state government's stand,” the statement said. Tamil Nadu is opposed to the conduct of NEET saying it discriminates against rural students||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dispense-with-neet-allow-medical-admissions-based-on-plus-two-marks-tamil-nadu-to-centre-989152.html
23-05-2021||South||Four die of 'black fungus' in Kerala||Four people died of mucormycosis, commonly known as 'black fungus' infection, in Kerala on Sunday, officials said here. While two persons who lost their battle with fungus belonged to Ernakulam district, two others were from Pathanamthitta district. They had been undergoing treatment in various hospitals in Kottayam and Ernakulam districts. According to officials, two persons infected with the 'black fungus', are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals in Ernakulam and Kottayam districts. The Kerala government has said it has decided to conduct a medical audit of 'black fungus' after reports emerged about the presence of the fungal disease in the state over the last one week. The decision was taken after some states started notifying black fungus, found in patients recovering from coronavirus, as an epidemic. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the availability of medicine for treating the disease will be ensured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-die-of-black-fungus-in-kerala-989176.html
23-05-2021||South||Former Kerala Congress leader Lathika Subhash may join NCP||A former woman Congress leader in Kerala who had grabbed attention after she tonsured her head to protest against the poor representation of women in Congress's candidate list, is likely to join the NCP. Lathika Subhash, a former Kerala Mahila Congress state president, had held talks with NCP state president P C Chacko, who had also quit the Congress recently. She later said that she would announce her decision soon and added that she would prefer NCP over any other party. Lathika had tonsured her head at the Kerala PCC office when the candidates for the election were announced. She was also expecting a seat. She later contested as an independent candidate from Ettumanoor in Kottayam district, but was unsuccessful.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-kerala-congress-leader-lathika-subhash-may-join-ncp-989196.html
23-05-2021||State||Man afflicted with rare Covid-linked syndrome||The case of a 53-year-old man in Bengaluru who came down with an uncommon neurological syndrome has left doctors worried. The syndrome in the current period is often a result of Covid-19. But in this case, doctors could find no trace of a previous infection. Known as Guillain Barre Syndrome, the condition causes the body’s immune system to damage nerve cells, resulting in muscle weakness and sometimes paralysis. It usually starts from the lower limbs and works its way up through the body resulting in death in a fraction of cases. On the morning of May 18, the patient, Shivraju (name changed), a native of Hassan, collapsed at home after suffering numbness in the lower limbs. Referred by local doctors to Nimhans, Shivraju was admitted to the hospital that same night. Neurologists at Nimhans told DH that while Guillain Barre Syndrome cases due to Covid-19 have increased at Nimhans, Shivraju did not report such an infection. “An RT-PCR test which was conducted on Tuesday delivered a negative result. However, he did have gastroenteritis a month ago and that could be the cause,” staffers told DH. No antibody test was conducted on the patient. According to Dr Pramod Krishnan, HoD and consultant, Neurology, at Manipal Hospitals (HAL Airport Road), cases of Guillain Barre particularly increase during the monsoon. “There are a raft of infectious diseases associated with GB, including echovirus, influenza, campylobacter, a type of bacteria often found in undercooked poultry and now, Covid-19. There have been a few cases associated with Covid-19 at this hospital,” he said. However, one of Shivraju’s relatives said that the patient had no history of infection. “He suddenly started complaining of cramps and pain in his feet, hands and legs from Monday. The doctors at Nimhans diagnosed it as Guillain Barre Syndrome which we have not even heard about,” the relative said. Suspicion has also fallen on vaccines.  “There were cases of transverse myelitis during original trial reports of Covishield,” said Dr K S Ravindranath, senior cardiologist at Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, speaking as an independent expert. “In Dubai, Guillian Barre Syndrome had been seen both post Covid and post vaccination following infection, but this is extremely rare in India.” According to Shivraju’s family, he had received the first dose of Covishield 15 days ago. The cost of treatment is high. Just five doses of IGIV immunoglobulin injections costs Rs 2.5 lakh or more. People feeling lower limb numbness should seek medical advice, doctors said. Neurosurgeon Dr N K Venkataramana of Brain Neuro Spine Hospital, also acknowledged that vaccines can cause such encephalopathy. “But it is not just the Covid vaccine. It can be any vaccine,” he said, but added that a previous mild infection was likely the cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-afflicted-with-rare-covid-linked-syndrome-988932.html
23-05-2021||State||Exam for II PUC students necessary: Suresh Kumar tells Centre||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said conducting of II PUC/grade 12 examinations was a necessity considering most of the students aspire to pursue professional courses. Taking part in the meeting called by Union ministry for education on Sunday, Suresh Kumar said that, "It is necessary to conduct examinations for II PUC courses considering the fact that majority of these students are going to take up professional courses. It is important to conduct some sort of examinations for them." "The examinations can be conducted at least in a simplified manner once the Covid-19 situation comes to control, but it is necessary to conduct the exams," said Suresh Kumar.  Explaining about the preparedness by Karnataka, the minister said, "Currently, we have postponed the II PUC exams considering the spike in Covid-19 cases across the state and decided to announce the fresh dates 15 to 20 days prior to the schedule." He also mentioned that the students who cannot attend the exams due to Covid reasons will be given one more chance to write the exams in the current academic year itself. Talking about simplifying the exams, the minister said, "Many are suggesting to simplify the exams and that process needs at least 45 days. Even the Union government has advised to simplify the exams. We will look into it once the situation comes to normalcy."  He said the Department of Pre University Education has completed the question paper printing process and if the exams are conducted in the month of July, then it is possible to announce results in the month of August.  In the meeting Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal,  Defense Minister Rajnath Singh, Textiles Minister Smriti Irani and other officials were present.  However the minister did not discuss anything about SSLC examinations which have been postponed for now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/exam-for-ii-puc-students-necessary-suresh-kumar-tells-centre-989092.html
23-05-2021||State||Will sort out confusion on aid to artistes: Karnataka DyCM||The confusion over the relief to artistes and art troupes in the Rs 1,250 crore financial assistance package announced by the government will be addressed soon, deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Sunday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has announced Rs 3,000 as relief for artistes and art troupes. “Kannada and Culture Department will soon clarify whether the artistes from cinema, TV, theatre and folk arts will be considered for relief,” he said.  Ashwath Narayan said that though the relief was insufficient, the government had announced assistance considering the financial limitations. To a question, he noted that though the state was facing a shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B for the treatment of Black Fungus, there were alternate drugs that were effective in treating the disease. On allegations that the state government was hiding the real death toll of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said that there was no question of hiding the toll. “All such allegations are baseless. It is wrong to sow confusion and distrust on the issue,” he said. Will relatives of those who died of Covid-19 be patient, if the right reason is not mentioned in death certificates, he asked. All matters related to the pandemic are being dealt in a transparent manner, Ashwath Narayan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-sort-out-confusion-on-aid-to-artistes-karnataka-dycm-989165.html
23-05-2021||State||DRDO to set up oxygen cylinder plant in Kalaburagi||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is setting up an oxygen cylinder manufacturing plant in Kalaburagi, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani has said. “There is no shortage of medical oxygen in the state, but we are not having enough tankers and cylinders for transportation and storage respectively. Though we supply oxygen through tankers, refilling cannot be completed speedily due to non-availability of sufficient cylinders,” he said. The DRDO unit at Kalaburagi, which can manufacture 500 cylinders per day, will be functional next week, the minister added. He was speaking to reporters here on Sunday. He said that the government was planning to float global tenders to conduct a survey of mineral resources in the state. “The state has rich natural resources compared to other states. “We need to know the quantity and quality of minerals available in the state. The survey is being conducted in a conventional manner. We don’t have technologies being used in Australia, Brazil and other countries. It is possible to adopt modern technology if global tender is floated,” Nirani opined. The government has decided to increase the gold production from 1.5 tonnes to 5 tonnes at Hatti gold mines in Raichur district. A detailed project report is being prepared for this purpose, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/drdo-to-set-up-oxygen-cylinder-plant-in-kalaburagi-989167.html
23-05-2021||State||Karnataka Covid victim's letter for mother's lost phone goes viral||An open letter by a girl who lost her mother to Covid-19 pandemic and is seeking help to trace her mother’s phone has gone viral on social media. Responding to this, DG&IGP Praveen Sood tweeted: “Our team is on the job to trace the phone.” “My moments with my mother are captured on her mobile phone, which is now lost. My mother is no more and the phone has my memories of her. Please help me find the phone,” said an open letter on social media. Hritiksha hails from Basappa extension in Gummanakolli village near Kushalnagar. She and her mother tested positive for Covid, 15 days ago. Her mother succumbed to the virus in the designated Covid-19 hospital on May 16. After her death, her other belongings were handed over to the family members. However, her mobile phone has been missing. All efforts by the family to locate the phone went in vain as it remained switched off. A number of photos and videos of Hritiksha’s family are saved on the phone. The girl posted a photo of hers on social media using her father’s phone, making an appeal to the people and officials to help her trace her mother’s mobile phone. In her letter, Hritiksha said she and her father are in home quarantine and cannot move out of the house. Their neighbours have been helping them out. The district administration has responded positively to the request by the girl. Personnel from the town police station have been asked to trace the phone. Dr Kushwanth Kolibail from the designated Covid-19 hospital said there are 10 unclaimed mobile phones with them. “If any of the phones is found to be that of Hritiksha’s mother, it will be handed over to the family,” Kolibail said. National Youth Congress president B V Srinivas and Karnataka Youth Congress leader Muhammed Harris Nalapad, responding to the girl’s request, have sent a new mobile phone to the girl, to aid in her online education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-covid-victims-letter-for-mothers-lost-phone-goes-viral-989168.html
23-05-2021||State||Fishing boat hits shore; all 10 on board rescued||A fishing boat accidentally hit the shore at Kodi near Ullal in Dakshina Kannada district in the wee hours of Sunday. All 10 fishermen on board were rescued by the local people.   The boat had left for fishing from Mangalore Old Port at 1.30 am and was anchored in the sea. However, the rope loosened due to gusty wind and the boat hit the shore, said the boat owners.  On hearing a loud noise, the local residents came out of their houses and saw a boat hitting the boulders dumped on the shores to check sea erosion. All the fishermen on board were rescued. The Ullal police visited the spot and registered a case.   The efforts to salvage the boat was not successful. The fish trays and nets in the boat were washed away in the sea. The boat too was damaged after it hit the boulders. The boat was built at a cost of Rs 1.20 crore. MLA U T Khader visited the spot and said the efforts to salvage the boat could not be taken up. Only the New Mangalore Port Trust has the crane which can be put into use for such operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fishing-boat-hits-shore-all-10-on-board-rescued-989169.html
23-05-2021||State||Karnataka government to deploy mobile clinics to curb rural Covid surge||The Karnataka government will deploy mobile clinics manned by final-year medical students to augment testing and treatment of suspected Covid patients in rural areas, as cases in semi-urban and rural areas soar. An order issued by N Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, said that lack of adequate testing facilities and reluctance of the rural population in getting themselves tested had caused cases to increase. In order to ensure early detection and treatment of Covid patients in rural areas, final-year medical students will be roped in and will be deployed in mobile units, the order said. The government will use State Disaster Response Fund to set up such mobile clinics at the state level. While case numbers have dropped in Bengaluru Urban, several districts are recording a surge in Covid cases. The mobile clinics, according to the order, will create awareness on Covid-19, conduct home visits to test anyone for Covid symptoms, conduct Rapid Antigen Tests for patients with symptoms, provide medical kits based on the severity of the patients condition, among other duties. Each mobile clinic will have to visit three to four villages on a daily basis and conduct tests, the order added. Meanwhile, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar has written to the state government to mandate five-year rural service to all candidates who complete medical education under government quota, to address the severe shortage of doctors in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-to-deploy-mobile-clinics-to-curb-rural-covid-surge-989175.html
23-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka health infrastructure ramped up significantly to fight Covid-19, says Health Minister||Defending the Karnataka government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, health minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said health infrastructure in the state has been ramped up significantly to control the pandemic, despite the revenue crunch. Capacity to test 1.5-2 lakh samples per day, availability of 1,015 Metric Tonnes of oxygen and more than 22,000 oxygen beds, supply of Remdesivir as per requirement are among various measures initiated by the state government, the Minister's office said in a release. The Departments of Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education have worked in synergy towards improving health infrastructure in Karnataka, it said, claiming that this has helped the state mitigate the impact of the second wave and provide timely treatment to the patients. "Significant transformation in health infrastructure has been achieved during this pandemic. Despite the revenue crunch, all available resources have been utilized to enhance health infrastructure. This will help in creating 'Arogya Karnataka' in the coming days," Sudhakar was quoted as saying. The minister's statement comes amid growing criticism of the government on its handling of the Covid crisis, especially during the second wave, from several quarters, including the opposition parties, pointing at issues relating to lack of beds, oxygen, crucial drugs and also vaccination,among others. Towards the end of February, about 60,000-70,000 cases were being tested per day, the release said, adding this number has been ramped up to more than 1,00,000 daily. So far, 2.85 crore samples have been tested in the state, out of which 2.38 crore were the RT-PCR method. It pointed out that more than 80 per cent of the tests in Karnataka are RT-PCR tests, which was above the 70 per cent suggested by the Centre to states. As many as 241 (Government: 91; Private: 150) RT-PCR labs are functional in Karnataka and swab collection centres have been set up at all levels or for every 50,000 population. Over the past one year, the health department has ramped oxygenated beds from 1,970 to 22,001 , ICU beds from 444 to 701 and beds with ventilators from 610 to 1,548. Also 1,248 HFNC (High-flow Nasal Cannula) beds have been set up, it said, adding facilities have been extended upto Taluk and CHC levels. The Department of Medical Education in March 2020 had only 4700 oxygenated beds, 341 ventilators, 15 HFNO (high-flow nasal oxygen) and 151 kiloliters capacity of Liquid Medical Oxygen. An 4705 oxygenated beds, 305 ventilators, 555 HFNC, 73 KL of LMO have been created, he said. Claiming that Karnataka has sufficient medical oxygen supply to treat Covid patients, Sudhakar said the state's oxygen production capacity is 815 Metric Tonnes and the Centre has allocated 1015 MT. Regarding vaccination, it said the government was working on a comprehensive plan to ensure that every citizen in the state gets the shots by November-December. As on May 22, 1,20,14,015 doses have been administered in the state. In addition to 1,13,26,340 doses supplied by the centre, the state has already received 14,94,170 doses following orders placed by it, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-infrastructure-ramped-up-significantly-to-fight-covid-19-says-health-minister-989108.html
23-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Necessary to hold 2nd year PU exams: Karnataka Education Minister||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar on Sunday said it was necessary to hold the second year Pre-University (class 12) exams, in the interest of students' future. An appropriate decision will be taken in the days to come, considering various aspects and the Centre's suggestions, he said. The Minister, who participated in the meeting of the Education Ministers of all states organised by the Centre's Ministry of Education, stressed the need to hold exams for second PU students in some way as they prepare for professional courses. Earlier this month, the Karnataka government had postponed the second PUC (class 12) examinations which were scheduled to begin from May 24, citing a surge in Covid cases as the reason. Holding the exams, by simplifying the process after Covid completely comes under control, will also be adequate, the Minister was quoted as saying by his office in a statement. The number of coronavirus cases is high everywhere, it has been decided for now that once the situation comes under control in Karnataka, giving 15-20 days time, dates for exams be announced in advance," he said. It has also been planned to provide an opportunity for students who will be unable to attend exams due to Covid reasons to take it up, during the current year itself. Noting that many were of the view that the exam process has to be simplified, Kumar said 45 days are required to complete the exam process in such a manner. Karnataka has the experience of holding SSLC (class 10) exams last year amid Covid, he pointed out. Though it will not be a major issue to hold second PU exams with this experience, an appropriate decision will be taken in the days to come in the interest of students' future, considering aspects like students learning, parents mindset, suggestion from the centre and overall preparatory measures. The process of preparing the question paper for the second PU exams has been completed in the state, the Minister said. The number of exam centres will be increased, and all the preparatory measures are being taken for the safe conduct of exams, whenever it happens. "In case the exams can be held in July, it will be possible to announce results in August, so NEET, JEE, CET, ICAR and other competitive exams can be held on appropriate dates in August," he suggested. According to the statement, at the meeting attended by Union Ministers like Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani among others, Ministers from several states expressed their opinion in favour of holding exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/necessary-to-hold-2nd-year-pu-exams-karnataka-education-minister-989139.html
23-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Drop rail, highway projects in Anshi National Park: Yellappa Reddy||Retired forest officer A N Yellappa Reddy, who headed the department of Ecology, Environment and Forests, has warned that the linear projects in the Anshi National Park will lead to irreparable damage to the unique ecosystem of the Western Ghats. Opposing the proposed track doubling of the Tinaighat-Colem section of Hosapete-Vasco Da Gama line and widening of a NH-4A between Panaji and Belagavi, he said the government nod to the projects show complete disregard to the environment, which has already suffered a huge blow due to the existing projects. "The Karnataka government has built a series of dams for hydroelectric power under the nomenclature of Kali first and second stage to cater to power and water demand of the Kaiga nuclear plant. A large extent of the forest was destroyed and submerged during the formation of the dams, and vast areas of primordial forests are also destroyed for the rehabilitation and relocation of the submerged villages," Reddy stated in a letter to the government. He said the projects have not been subjected to scrutiny. "The two projects will virtually destroy the (wildlife) corridors irreversibly and permanently curtail the genetic flow and stability of fauna and flora. The Wildlife Institute of India and all the other departments of Government of India are also aligned to blindly promote this (doubling) project without  understanding the damages," the renowned environmentalist lamented. The retired officer, who served in the Anshi National Park, urged the government to drop the proposed highway project and the doubling of the railway tracks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drop-rail-highway-projects-in-anshi-national-park-yellappa-reddy-989181.html
23-05-2021||West||Maharashtra's Mangrove Cell to acquire drones||Responding to complaints of mangrove destruction across MMR, Virendra Tiwari, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Mangrove Cell, disclosed that the consultancy firm Ernst & Young will carry out a detailed survey of the vulnerable areas. The Mangrove Cell also plans to acquire a drone to keep an eye on the mangrove destruction, Tiwari said, addressing an online discussion hosted by environment NGO NatConnect Foundation coinciding with the International Day of Biodiversity. The NGO has launched a social media campaign #MumbiodiversityBachao focusing on the degradation in MMR and appealed to Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray to take quick steps to save the environment immediately. “Act today. Tomorrow will be too late,” said the social media message. “We have been complaining against organized mangrove burial across the region to the Bombay High Court-appointed mangrove protection and conservation committee which in turn has been asking the authorities such as the PWD, CIDCO and District collectors to act,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. “Though some destruction has been halted in some places, it is rampant in other places in Uran, Kharghar, Ulwe and Vashi,” he said. Despite the inaction from PWD and CIDCO, the HC appointed mangrove committee has not been able to do anything, Kumar regretted. Even the Mangrove Committee asked CIDCO and all district collectors to hand over the mangroves to the forest department. Yet there is no movement on this front and the HC committee has not taken any action though they are empowered to do so, said Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-mangrove-cell-to-acquire-drones-988955.html
23-05-2021||West||Cyclone Tauktae: Two more bodies found on Valsad coast in Gujarat||Two more bodies were found on the shore of Gujarat's Valsad district on Sunday and they are suspected to be of the missing victims of the barge P305 and a tugboat that sank in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae, a police official said. With this, six bodies have so far been recovered from two places here in south Gujarat since Saturday evening, Valsad Superintendent of Police Rajdeepsinh Jhala said. On Saturday, four bodies were washed ashore- three on the Tithal beach and one on a beach in Dungri village here. Two more bodies were found at the Tithal beach on Sunday morning. The police have recovered their identity cards and some documents and further investigation is underway, the official said.  "From their uniform and life jackets, it appears they are the missing victims of the barge or the tugboat that sank off the Mumbai coast during cyclone Tauktae," Jhala said. He said out of the four bodies found on Saturday, one was identified as that of the captain of tugboat 'Varaprada' that sank last Monday. "We are trying to identify the other five bodies," he said. Barge P-305, which housed personnel engaged in maintenance work of an offshore oil drilling platform of the state-run oil and gas major ONGC, sank on Monday evening off the Mumbai coast after it went adrift due to the high-speed winds and huge tidal waves caused by the extremely severe cyclone which brushed the Mumbai coast on its way to Gujarat. Apart from the nine missing personnel of the barge P-305, the Navy and the Coast Guard are also searching for 11 missing persons from the tugboat Varaprada. Of the 13 people on Varaprada, two have been rescued, officials earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-tauktae-two-more-bodies-found-on-valsad-coast-in-gujarat-988999.html
23-05-2021||West||Eight bodies suspected to be of P-305 found on Raigad coast in Maharashtra||Eight unidentified bodies were found at three different locations along the coast in Maharashtra's Raigad district and the police suspect they could be of some of the victims of barge P-305 that sank off the Mumbai coast in cyclone Tauktae, a police official said on Sunday. Out of the eight bodies found on Saturday, five were washed ashore in Mandwa, two in Alibaug and another one in Murud, the senior official from Raigad police said. "The bodies are yet to be identified," he said. Local administration and senior officials of the state police have been informed about the bodies, he added. Barge P-305 sank during the Cyclone Tauktae fury last Monday and was located on the seabed on Saturday, a Navy spokesperson earlier said. The death toll on the barge rose to 66 with the recovery of six more bodies on Saturday, while nine personnel are still missing, the Navy had said. Of the 261 personnel who were on barge P-305 at the time of the incident, 186 have been rescued so far, it had said. Barge P-305, which housed personnel engaged in maintenance work of an offshore oil drilling platform of state-run oil and gas major ONGC, sank on Monday evening off the Mumbai coast after it went adrift due to the high-speed winds and huge tidal waves caused by the extremely severe cyclone which brushed the Mumbai coast on its way to Gujarat.  Apart from the nine missing personnel of the barge P-305, the Navy and the Coast Guard are also searching for 11 persons from tugboat Varaprada who went missing after the cyclone. Of the 13 people on Varaprada, two have been rescued. On Saturday, four bodies were also found on the shore of the Arabian Sea in Gujarat's Valsad district. "Seeing the uniforms and life jackets on the four bodies, it appears they are all members of the barge that had sunk off the Mumbai coast," Superintendent of Police, Valsad, Rajdeepsinh Jhala told PTI. The Navy had deployed specialised diving teams to boost the search and rescue operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eight-bodies-suspected-to-be-of-p-305-found-on-raigad-coast-in-maharashtra-989003.html
23-05-2021||West||Seizure of Natural Uranium conveyed to IAEA||Months after Natural Uranium to the tune of 7 kgs was seized from two Mumbai-based persons, the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) has conveyed the recovery to the international nuclear watchdog. The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra Police had arrested two persons with 7.1 kgs of Natural Uranium valued at Rs 21.30 crore. The accused were identified as Jigar Jayesh Pandya (27), resident of Thane and Abu Tahir Afzal Hussain Choudhary (31), a resident of Mankhurd. It may be recalled, the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) had confirmed that the material seized was Natural Uranium.   The case has now been taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The incident has been reported to the Incident and Trafficking Database (ITDB) of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), officials of the DAE said. The officials said that the Natural Uranium seized in this case is currently in the safe custody of the DAE. “It is used as fuel in nuclear power generation and among non-nuclear applications, it can be used as shielding material in teletherapy units and as counter weight material in aircraft,” the DAE said about the seizure. It is a radioactive element that emits alpha particles, which are stoppable even by thin paper sheets or human skin. However, ingestion of Natural Uranium particles can cause harm to living beings, both radiological and chemical. ‘India has a robust legal and regulatory framework for safety and security of nuclear and radioactive materials. Further detailed investigations on the matter are being carried out by the relevant investigating agencies,” the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/seizure-of-natural-uranium-conveyed-to-iaea-989031.html
23-05-2021||West||Vaccine drive to get faster after adequate supply starts from June: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday expressed confidence that the vaccination drive would be expedited after the state starts getting adequate supply of doses from June. Inaugurating a field training workshop titled Pediatrics Covid-19, Thackeray said his government was relentlessly pursuing the issue of vaccine supply, adding that his government was ready to make one-time payment for 12 crore doses for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group, who account for six crore of the state's total population.. "I am confident the vaccination drive will pick up once the supply is smooth after June," the CM asserted. He said the state witnessed oxygen shortage during the second wave of infections but it was now well equipped to tackle a possible third wave since effective steps had been taken to make the state self-sufficient in the vital gas. "Even though we haven't been successful in defeating the virus, we have kept the number of cases in control. It is the success of our state as a united force comprising all stakeholders. We have to be alert to protect children from the possible third wave. The first wave hit senior citizens, the second one targeted youth and now children are under threat," he said. The CM said "unpleasant decisions" like lockdown had to be taken to contain the outbreak and asked people to get treated immediately if they are experiencing Covid-19 like symptoms. Suhas Prabhu, head of the Covid-19 pediatric task force, said in a majority of cases, the only symptom may be fever with complete recovery being made in a week's time. "The other possibility was Covid pneumonia and infection from Covid positive mothers after the third trimester. Ninety per cent cases are likely to be asymptomatic, 5 percent moderate and 1-2 percent pneumonia," Prabhu said, adding that pediatric Covid care hospitals, pediatric ICUs and high dependency units were being set up in the state in view of a possible third wave. He said home care would be done through telecommunication in fever clinics. Vijay Yevale, another task force member, said parents should take their children to a doctor as soon as the latter have fever.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaccine-drive-to-get-faster-after-adequate-supply-starts-from-june-uddhav-thackeray-989044.html
23-05-2021||West||Former AEC Chairman Sreekumar Banerjee passes away||Eminent nuclear scientist Dr Sreekumar Banerjee, who has retired as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) and Secretary to Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), died of a heart attack in Mumbai in the wee hours of Sunday. A couple of months ago, he had tested positive for Covid-19 infection and had recovered. Dr Banerjee played an important role in garnering public support for India’s nuclear power programme post the Fukushima incident. Prior to his stint as DAE Chairman, he was the Director of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). By training, he was a metallurgical engineer from Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur. Banerjee was awarded the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology in Engineering Science (1989) and Padma Shri, in 2005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-aec-chairman-sreekumar-banerjee-passes-away-989063.html
23-05-2021||West||Goa Class 10 Board exam cancelled||The decision, Sawant said, was taken following a virtual conference with members of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, teachers and representatives of schools' management. "The Goa Board was asked to constitute a committee to take a decision on the issue. After consulting with the Goa Board, the Education department, teachers and managements the Goa government has taken a decision to cancel the exams of Std X students this year in everybody's interest," the Chief Minister said. "The students will be assessed according to their internal marks to decide their next promotion. If based on the internal marks some students are falling short for promotion, they will be allowed ATKT," Sawant also said. Sawant, however, said that a final decision related to Class XII exams has not been taken yet. In all, 43,547 students have enrolled to appear for the SSC and HSSC exams this academic year, which has been marred by the pandemic. Around 43,547 students are scheduled to appear for both SSC and HSSC examinations in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-class-10-board-exam-cancelled-989090.html
23-05-2021||West||Rajasthan Covid-19 lockdown extended till June 8||The Rajasthan government on Sunday extended the coronavirus lockdown by 15 days till June 8. The state may allow some relaxations in commercial activities from June 1 in districts where the Covid-19 situation will improve significantly, according to a government release. The home department on Sunday issued an order extending the lockdown from 5 am on May 24 to 5 am on June 8. In a meeting on Saturday, the council of ministers and experts had suggested extending the lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The state government also increased the fine for not wearing a face mask at public places or workplaces from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. Wedding ceremonies will not be allowed in the state till June 30, according to the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-june-8-989140.html
23-05-2021||West||Sonia Gandhi lauds Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut's 'Mission Oxygen' initiative||Congress President Sonia Gandhi has lauded the 'Mission Oxygen' initiative launched by Maharashtra Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut to provide much needed medical oxygen to various hospitals across the state during the second wave of the deadly coronavirus pandemic.  The mission launched by Raut is aimed to provide 2070 Jumbo Oxygen Cylinders per day within the next two months. In a letter sent to Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut, the Congress President has said it was truly a humanitarian task of the Energy Department headed by Dr Raut who came forward to use the resources at his disposal at a time when Maharashtra is facing an acute shortage of medical oxygen. It is feared that the third wave would hit the state in the near future. To increase the availability of Oxygen, Dr Raut has launched Mission Oxygen to be implemented in three phases with the help of Maharashtra State Power Generation Co Ltd (Mahagenco). As a part of the first phase, a medical oxygen plant at Swami Ramanand Tirtha Rural Hospital in Ambejogai district Beed, with a capacity of 288 jumbo cylinders per day was set up by the Parli Thermal Power Station. With the commissioning of this plant on 27 April, Coovid-affected patients in the Parli-Beed area started getting oxygen cylinders. A similar plant with a capacity of 84 cubic meters per hour has been set up at Parbhani District Civil Hospital. As a part of the second phase, the existing ozonation plant of Khaparkheda Thermal Power Station(Nagpur) is being relocated to Kamptee Sub District Hospital. Another existing ozonation plant at Paras Thermal Power Station (Akola) will be relocated soon at Government Hospital Akola. In the third phase, refilling/bottling plants will be set up at power plants at Koradi (Nagpur), Paras (Akola) and Parli (Beed). This phase will be realised soon by using the latest technology of compressors, filters, sieve and others. The essential machinery and equipment are being imported. In order to prepare for the third wave in the immediate future, the third phase of the mission is currently in progress. It is expected that these activities would be completed within the next two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sonia-gandhi-lauds-maharashtra-energy-minister-nitin-rauts-mission-oxygen-initiative-989148.html
23-05-2021||West||Goa Covid curfew extended till May 31||The Goa government on Sunday extended till May 31 a coronavirus-induced curfew in place in the state since May 9, an official said. The order, which was issued during the day, stated that all shops will remain shut except those selling essential times and medicines, which can conduct business from 7 am to 1 pm. Restaurant kitchens can operate between 7 am and 7 pm during the curfew period, the order informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-covid-curfew-extended-till-may-31-989197.html
