25-05-2021||First Edit||Central Vista: A vanity project in the time of Covid-19||Questions had been raised about the government’s Central Vista redevelopment plan even when it was first proposed. Work started on it after an unduly hurried procedure. It was criticised as a vanity project for which there was no need and rationale when the economy was declining and there were more important priorities. These questions are more relevant now when the country is in the grip of a pandemic and the economy is in a much worse condition. Last week, a number of former civil servants wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to avoid expenditure on non-essential items like the Central Vista project. Others also, including the media, have expressed concern over the project on various grounds. The Delhi High Court has reserved its judgement on a petition that sought directions to the Centre to suspend work on the project as the gathering of hundreds of workers at the site would violate Covid protocol. The Supreme Court had once cleared the project but opposition to it has continued on many grounds. These grounds include damage to the environment, destruction of heritage, wrong prioritisation of tasks by the government, wastage and misuse of public money, arbitrariness and lack of transparency in processes and procedures, favouritism in the selection of the architect, etc. Even one of these reasons is enough for serious scrutiny of the project, but the government is unwilling to accept any criticism of it. It told the court, as it has made it clear in public many times, that it is determined to go ahead with the project and to complete it before the next Lok Sabha election in 2024. Whatever the government’s explanations and defence, the Central Vista project would be considered a folly and a monument to vanity, especially as it is being pursued in these times of national misery. It shows an obsession with creating a grand structure, as rulers and emperors have done in the past to perpetuate their legacy. It is not a project undertaken openly and transparently, as it should be done in a democratic country. No consultations have been held with the public, the opposition parties and other stakeholders. Even photography at the construction site is banned. Why is there so much secrecy for a public work? The estimated cost of the project is Rs 20,000 crore. It could be much more by the time it is completed. This is a big amount for a country that is in dire straits economically and which has much more important tasks at hand. If the government persists with the work, it will be like fiddling when the country is burning with death and disease.`||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/central-vista-a-vanity-project-in-the-time-of-covid-19-989660.html
25-05-2021||In Perspective||Mumbai High tragedy raises questions||Located off the coasts of Maharashtra and Gujarat, the Mumbai High offshore development area in the Arabian Sea is the flagship asset of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC), and of the utmost strategic importance for India. With an output of 1.7 lakh barrels per day in 2020, it is India’s top oil-producing field. When a week ago, Cyclone Tauktae wreaked havoc along the coasts of Maharashtra and Gujarat, it hit Mumbai High, too, resulting in the sinking of an accommodation barge Papaa-305 and tug Varaprada, resulting in 86 deaths. The incident raised multiple questions – on safety at the rigs, on whether and who ignored the cyclone warnings, on accountability at the ONGC or higher up in the system. When the incident took place on May 17, there were 342 installations in the Western Offshore region of the Arabian Sea, with over 7,500 people. Out of these installations, 243 were fixed and 99 floating. Of the 7,500 people, over 6,000 were in vessels. ONGC officials say that based on the weather warning, the company activated its emergency response system and issued instructions to all installations to take action as per the standard operating procedure. Of the total assets there, five were affected – Papaa-305, an accommodation barge with 261 persons on board; GAL Constructor barge with 176 persons on board; anchor handling vessel Varaprada with 13 persons on board; drill ship Sagar Bhushan with 101 persons on board; and construction barge Support Station with 202 persons on board. A total of 714 persons were on board these vessels, of which 628 have been saved while 86 lost their lives. As Tauktae hit the region, the wind speed was 100-120 kmph and waves rose over 8-10 feet. The anchors of Papaa-305 gave way and it crashed into an unmanned platform and capsized. The barge, along with its marine crew, was owned and operated by Durmast Enterprises Ltd., which was chartered by Afcons Infrastructure Ltd., which, along with its consortium partner Halani-Tes-Nauvata, has been working with ONGC to revamp its unmanned offshore platforms in the Arabian Sea. So far, there has been no statement from the Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. However, the ministry has appointed a probe committee, comprising Amitabh Kumar, Director General of Shipping, SCL Das, Director General of Hydrocarbons, and Nazli Jafri Shayin, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Defence, to enquire into the incident. The Yellow Gate police station in Mumbai, which has jurisdiction over a vast region of the Arabian Sea, has registered an FIR booking the Captain/Master of the barge for culpable homicide and negligence.  Meanwhile, there is a blame game going on. Afcons Infrastructure Ltd said that the weather forecasts received on May 14 from the “service provider” predicted that sustained wind speed of maximum 40 knots (classified as a “Tropical Storm”) is likely to occur at its specific work location late on May 16 or early on May 17. It said that on May 14 itself, all vessels were advised to secure their respective workspaces and move to safe locations at the earliest. Accordingly, all vessels and barges, including Papaa-305, started moving out of their work locations on May 14/15. While the other barges moved to Mumbai Port, Mumbai Outer Anchorage, or an anchorage close to Revdanda, “However, the Master of Papaa-305 chose to move 200 m away from the HT platform where it was working, and to remain at that location, deciding this as a safe location since the max predicted wind speed was only 40 knots and his location was 120 nautical miles away from the eye of the tropical storm,” a statement said. Afcons chartered the vessel from Durmast. Charting is not the same as subcontracting. Durmast is the owner and the responsibility for marine operations rests with the vessel owner and his marine crew stationed on the vessel. “Afcons, as charterer, deploys its construction workmen and supervisors, who stay on the barge and carry out construction/revamp work on the platform,” it said. A strategic affairs expert who keenly follows the aviation and oil sectors said: “The question here is not who owns (the vessel) …the main issue is, when there is an IMD report on May 11 on the impending cyclone and what its impact could be, why were people not evacuated? The first point that needs to be looked into is the ignoring of the Met report, and rest of the things come later…the SOP comes into operation from the (time of the) weather report itself.” Experts have also pointed out that the post of the Directorate General of Shipping must be with “domain experts” and not just administrative persons. Former Indian Navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash (retd) has pointed out: “The fatal flaw lies in the assumption that critical posts requiring deep domain knowledge are tenable by any generalist bureaucrat needing a parking slot. Two examples: Director-General Shipping, D-G Civil Aviation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/mumbai-high-tragedy-raises-questions-989658.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA organises musical evening programme for Covid patients||Honnali MLA MP Renukacharya danced with inmates of Covid care centre by maintaining social distancing at H Kadadakatte village in the taluk on Monday evening during musical evening programme organised to help Covid positive patients overcome fear. Speaking on the occasion, the MLA said the programme was organised in Kittur Rani Chennamma Covid care centre at H Kadadakatte to instill positive thoughts in the minds of Covid patients. Circle Inspector Devaraj enthralled people by singing song from the film "Rajakumara". The MLA danced to the popular Kannada song "Huttidare Kannadanaadalli Huttabeku" sung by Kannada matinee idol the late Dr Rajkumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-organises-musical-evening-programme-for-covid-patients-989668.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Initiate measures to contain 'black fungus': D K Shivakumar||KPCC President D K Shivakumar said that the Karnataka government should initiate measures to contain 'black fungus'. "The government has no clarity on 'black fungus'. The Ministers in Karnataka have been issuing statements that have been creating fear among people," he said. Speaking to media persons on arrival at a helipad in Dharmasthala, he said, “There is a conspiracy to bury the alleged incident of making a Dalit youth drink urine by a PSI of Gonibeedu station in Chikkamagaluru district. "Where is the Karnataka State Commission For Scheduled Castes & Scheduled Tribes?" he asked. Congress had given a proposal to hand over a Rs 100-crore grant for Covid-19 vaccines in Karnataka. If the government gives an accord for the same, the party will take suitable measures to it, he said D K Shivakumar visited the Shanthivana Nature Cure Hospital. After consulting Chief Medical officer Dr Prashanth Shetty, he will leave for Bengaluru on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/initiate-measures-to-contain-black-fungus-d-k-shivakumar-989776.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ensure uninterrupted supply of drugs to treat black fungus patients: Ex-Karnataka minister Ramanath Rai||Former Karnataka minister B Ramanath Rai urged the Centre and state government to supply the required quantity of medicines to treat black fungus. There is a shortage in availability of Amphotericin-B drug to treat black fungus in Dakshina Kannada as well as in Karnataka, he told media persons at Congress Bhavan on Tuesday. “The Karnataka government had sought 20,000 vials of Amphotericin-B drug. But Centre had supplied only 3,960 vials. It is the responsibility of government to ensure that supply of drug is uninterrupted to treat the patients. The government should consider the issue of black fungus seriously,” he said. There are allegations that the medicines are available in the black market. The government should check black marketing of such medicines. Instead of waiting for the Centre to supply Amphotericin-B drug, government should procure at least 25,000 vials to ensure that there was no shortage in Karnataka, he said. Government should include treatment for black fungus under Ayushman Bharath Arogya Karnataka scheme and other medical life insurance scheme for the benefit of patients. The black fungus is caused due to lack of cleanliness in ventilator, failure to use distilled water for humidifier and also excessive use of steroids as per experts. The government should direct hospitals to maintain cleanliness. He condemned the BJP for engaging in the propaganda on fake toolkit and urged Dakshin Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel to ensure that local youth get employment in industries in Mangaluru. He urged the Centre to declare Covid-19 pandemic as a national disaster and make arrangements to supply grocery kits to all the households in dire need of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ensure-uninterrupted-supply-of-drugs-to-treat-black-fungus-patients-ex-karnataka-minister-ramanath-rai-989884.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Meet the Mangaluru schoolboys who made a user-friendly Covid-19 portal for Dakshina Kannada||The students, who are also friends, made the website after realising that details pertaining to Covid-19 were scattered and not readily available.  Adhvik Hegde and Amol Mendonca started work on the website on May 1 and launched it on May 15. The website has garnered around 10,000 views. It has a list of hospitals, laboratories, ambulance services, food delivery services and more.  “The website aims to provide people of Mangaluru city a well-organised, easily accessible Covid-19 resource database,” Adhvik told DH. He said, “We realised that Dakshina Kannada district lacked an easily accessible and user-friendly database. There was not much data available online for citizens. To help people get details of food delivery or ambulance service at one site, we came up with the website. We managed to work on the website by compiling all details while preparing for the Board examinations, along with attending coaching classes for JEE. We worked till late night.” “Our parents were happy and excited as it was something innovative. They are proud that people are using and benefiting from the website,” he said. "As we wanted to launch the website as quickly as possible, we opted for partial coding and took up already available designs. We reached out to a few doctors and got them onboard for free consultation. Amol has already spoken to a few more doctors who have promised to help us,” said Adhvik. He said, “We are also looking at improving and adding more data to the website. We have given contacts of food delivery services so that those in home isolation can access them.” Adhvik is the son of businessman Sitharam Hegde and Smitha Hegde, while Amol is the son of architect Ashok Mendonca and homemaker Surbhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/meet-the-mangaluru-schoolboys-who-made-a-user-friendly-covid-19-portal-for-dakshina-kannada-989891.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister, MP against DC for closure of CCCs: KPCC spokesman||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson M Lakshmana on Tuesday said that the district in-charge minister and MP have turned against the DC after she ordered the District Health Officer (DHO) to close the 16 step-down Covid Care Centres. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, Lakshmana said, "The minister and the MP have now turned against the DC after she ordered closure of the Covid Care Centres, observing the irregularities." Based on the report issued by the Health Department officials that the step down hospitals were charging more than the government fee and lack of facilities, the DC told to close the centres. Some of these centres were not given permission by the DHO, but approved by the MP. Some even lacked facilities and medical staff to treat Covid patients, he alleged. The BJP leaders have started targeting the DC, as they will lose the commission with the closing down of the 16 Covid Care Centres, he alleged. The District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar has formed several task forces and appointed BJP partymen. Now, the DC has been excluded from the task force, while MP Pratap Simha has been given the in-charge of three task forces. Does these task forces have government directives, he asked. No Congress leaders or experts were included in the task forces. Is it a BJP force, he criticised. I will write a letter to the Prime Minister over the functioning of the Mysuru MP. Medicines are not available for black fungus. Instead of attending to it, they are forming task force for the third wave, he criticised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-mp-against-dc-for-closure-of-cccs-kpcc-spokesman-989943.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||PSI Siddaraja, part of anti-Veerappan team, dies of cardiac arrest||Police sub inspector Siddaraja Nayaka, who took part in the operation against forest brigand Veerappan, died of cardiac arrest here, on Tuesday. He leaves behind wife and three sons. He played an important role in the operation against Veerappan, led by SP Harikrishna and SI Shakeel Ahmed. He received seven bullets on his head in a shootout between Veerappan. Four bullets were removed after surgery and the remaining three was left as it could not be removed. He recovered and rejoined the duty. The people felicitated Siddaraja last year during the Covid first wave, when he worked without availing leave for three months. He was also presented with Prof MDN Pratishtana award by the Raitha Sangha in February. Siddaraja was only six days left for retirement. He was suffering from diabetes and died of heart attack on Tuesday, according to the police. The last rites were conducted at his native Palya village in Kollegal taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/psi-siddaraja-part-of-anti-veerappan-team-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-989946.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Miniature sculpture of Saranath Buddha unearthed||A miniature sculpture of Lord Buddha was discovered at Alembi in 76 Badagabettu village, a local suburb. The sculpture was found in the debris excavated from a well near an abandoned temple. Prof T Murugeshi, associate professor in the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, MSRS College, Shirva, said the sculpture's height is 9 cm and its width is about 2 cm. It was made out of soft sandstone and looks like a replica of Saranath Buddha, he added.  "It is the first-of-its-kind miniature sculpture found in Karnataka as well as in Udupi. The Lord Buddha is carved beautifully and he is seated on a lotus pedestal in Dharma Chakra Pravarthana Mudre delivering his first sermon at a deer park. Below the seat, six disciples are seated on either side of the Dharma Chakra. Buddha is seen in clothes and he is wearing earrings. A small Ushnisha is shown on the top of the head. In the back of his head, a beautifully carved round lobe is also seen. On the top corners, two Yakshas and on either side of his backload, two-winged horses are also carved," he explained. Prof Murugeshi said the sculpture is in Gupta style. "In the same vicinity, a Brahmi inscription, dating back to the 4th to 5th century, was also discovered in the past. Traditionally, ancient Tulunadu was said to be ruled by the Kadambas of Banavasi. Guptas and Kadambas of Banavasi had matrimonial relations. Therefore, the discovery of Lord Buddha's image is not unusual. But, the discovery has opened a new chapter in the history of the Udupi district and in the study of Buddhism in South India. Ganesh Raj Saralebettu, Shreyas, Nagaraj, Gowtham, Kavya, Bhavya, Harshitha, and Ganesh played a very important role in this discovery," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/miniature-sculpture-of-saranath-buddha-unearthed-989948.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's artisans feel left out in special Covid package||Even as the governments have been doling out packages and extending concessions and support to various sections of the people, to overcome the financial crisis induced due to Covid-19, following curfews, lockdowns and unlocks, there have been complaints that certain sections have been excluded. While artistes and artisans of various art forms have been urging the government, to extend financial help and support, to wade through the crisis, president of Karnataka Handicrafts Artisans' Welfare Association C Chinnaswamy has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to consider ‘inlay work artisans’ of Mysuru as ‘deprived category’, for extending financial support. Chinnaswamy said, "Mysuru rosewood inlay, which earned the Geographical Indication (GI) tag in 2005, is a sculpture and decorative art, that uses various types of wood, flushed over rosewood or other types of wood, as ornamental and decorative artefacts, in and around Mysuru." Secretary of the association Murugesh Jayaram said, “Inlay art, using ivory, pearls and precious metals earlier, is over 400 years old and was initially patronised by the Vijayanagara kings. After their downfall, the Wadiyars patronised this work." "The Mysuru Palace is largely decorated with this art form. Many doors of the Palace have used inlay art. Several household in the Mysuru region have inlay art works. Over the years, the art form has earned patrons all over the world. Earlier also, the Wadiyars took steps to popularise this art forms and also exported them through an agency, which later became Cauvery Emporium,” he added. “Predominately rosewood is used in inlay work, along with mango, jackfruit, doodhi, champa or rubber wood. White wood articles are mainly made out of either shivani or kadam wood. Artisans, who have settled down in Mysuru, are involved in making this art. The art has been passed on over generations, hereditarily. Sometimes, whole families are involved in making one piece of art, demonstrating team effort. Due to the changes in the education and vocation systems, the younger generation is moving out to other professions. Thus, this art work needs a revival,” he said. Chinnaswamy said, “The artisans still spend hundreds of man hours, to produce one good piece of inlay work. The beauty of Mysuru inlay work is in the extent of detailing and intricacy of patterns. Typical articles made with inlay work are furniture, boxes, pen-stands, bowls, panels and wall hangings.” “There are over 13,000 artisans involved in handicrafts in Mysuru. Among them nearly 5,000 artisans do inlay art work. While many other vocations and businesses can recover once the Covid crisis ends, but handicrafts will take a longer time. Handicrafts are not basic needs and depend on the tourism sector. During the first wave of Covid, some of the artisans got at least a few kits of groceries and provisions from some philanthropists and NGOs. But, this time, nobody, including the government, have come to the rescue of the artisans,” Chinnaswamy said. R Bhanuprakash, founder of Craft Melon, said that if the government supports the artisans, to sustain and wade through the Covid crisis, it will also help conservation of the art itself. “Most of the art forms, including inlay art, are passed on from generation to generation, in the families of artisans. Over the past couple of generations, the members of such families have drifted away in search of other vocations for various reasons, including poor revenues. If the government too does not lend a hand, at times like these, youngsters in the families of the artisans will get disillusioned and abandon the art,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-artisans-feel-left-out-in-special-covid-package-989949.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Covid Captains’ launched in Chamarajanagar to contain pandemic||‘Covid Captains’, a unique programme to check the spread of Covid pandemic in rural areas, was launched by District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar in Gundlupet. The college lecturers and head masters of the high schools coming under 130 Gram Panchayats of the district have been appointed as Covid Captains. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer will be the ‘Super Captain’ of the programme. Each gram panchayat will have a Covid Captain and he will be associated with the doctors and the officials of primary health centres of the region. Asha and anganwadi workers will work in tandem with them to prevent the spread of Covid in rural areas. The Covid Captain teams will create awareness on wearing masks, following social distancing and the importance of maintaining hand hygiene, among the villagers. Priority will be on subjecting the symptomatic people to Covid tests, which will help in reducing the critical cases and also check the death rate. This will gradually help in the decline in positive cases, it is hoped. Besides, the teams has also taken the responsibility of instilling confidence among the people. The Covid Captains have been given vehicles and they will tour the villages coming under their respective gram panchayat limits from 8 am to 8 pm. This will help in controlling the spread, said Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-captains-launched-in-chamarajanagar-to-contain-pandemic-989951.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Substandard and insufficient food in Indira Canteen draws flak||With hundreds of people left starving without food due to Covid-induced lockdown, the state government started providing free food to the shelterless through Indira Canteen from May 11. The Indira Canteen near the private bus stand in Srirangapatna town has been providing free breakfast, lunch and dinner. Every day around 80 to 100 people benefit from this. According to sources, the breakfast supplied weighs 225 gm, lunch and dinner 300 gm each. There are complaints that the food supplied is of very less quantity and insufficient for a person. Most of the beneficiaries are construction and hotel workers and the food supplied is insufficient, it is said. One of the workers complained that ‘rice bhath’ is supplied all the three times of the day and the taste is of substandard quality. There is no proper response from the authorities when questioned. Hence, a few have stopped going to Indira Canteen, he said. The government has fixed Rs 15.30 for breakfast and Rs 20.05 for lunch and dinner. The supplier has to manage with this amount, otherwise the canteen contractor will face losses, said Town Health Supervisor Shivashankar. Tahsildar M V Roopa said, “Food is being distributed free of cost to the homeless since May 11, through Indira canteen. But, the food supplied is insufficient. Hence, it has been brought to the notice of the higher officers and it has been requested to increase the quantity of food.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/substandard-and-insufficient-food-in-indira-canteen-draws-flak-989953.html
25-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Belagavi orders complete lockdown from May 29-31||A complete lockdown of two days has been enforced in Belagavi district from 6 am on May 29 till 6 am on May 31. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath issued orders enforcing complete lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the district. As cases of Covid-19 have been increasing in the district, it has been decided to impose complete lockdown during the weekend, Hiremath informed in the orders issued on Tuesday evening. During the complete lockdown, hospitals, medical stores and vehicles transporting essentials within the district and neighbouring districts are allowed. Programmes like marriages and others for which permission has been given earlier will also be allowed during the complete lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-belagavi-orders-complete-lockdown-from-may-29-31-990004.html
25-05-2021||Main Article||Coronavirus is the enemy, not Narendra Modi||When Dr Anthony Fauci, Director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious diseases and adviser to every US President since Ronald Reagan, and to Joe Biden now, was asked by an Indian TV anchor, what lessons had he learnt about the Covid pandemic that has ravaged America and the rest of the world and what was his advice to India, the wise, avuncular doctor had this to say: “We must pull together as a united nation. You can’t have divisiveness among you. The common enemy is the virus. Put aside all political disagreements and all ideological differences. And focus on one thing only, like a laser beam. The enemy is the virus. You have got to fight the virus together, particularly when you have a big diverse country like the United States and a big diverse country like India. You have got to put all your resources and focus just on the virus. That’s the lesson I have learnt.” Today, our country is at war with itself -- the ruling party at the Centre and the opposition-ruled states are fighting each other instead of collectively fighting the virus, which continues to destroy lives and livelihoods. Even as ghastly scenes play out at hospitals, with rows of ambulances waiting with Covid patients seeking hospital beds, and as wrapped dead bodies continually roll out at another exit, as funeral pyres burn day and night, unable to cope with the influx of dead bodies, as rivers of joy turn into rivers of sorrow, as floating corpses are brought ashore and the riverbanks strewn with bloated bodies, while a whole nation is in mourning even as death stalks the land, our leaders of political parties, with no conscience to prick their souls but only vaulting ambition, are tearing each other apart like vultures steeped in blood. There are demands from well-known writers, including from the opposition, asking Narendra Modi to resign. The timing may not be right. They must face the reality. The regional satraps are more than a match to the two BJP leaders controlling the party as we have seen it in state elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra, Telangana, Odisha, Jharkhand, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, and even Maharashtra. But when it comes to fighting Modi-Shah nationally, the opposition leaders forget that they are hopelessly fragmented. They have to knit themselves together first and choose one leader of stature (without authoritarian traits, a charge they make against Modi) from among them who is acceptable across India and unite on a common ideology and development agenda before nurturing any ambitions of replacing Modi. Modi still commands a large following. The opposition is sure to crumble in a heap if they can’t rise above their differences, their petty politics and inflated ambitions and egos. There’s a rebellion now within Congress to displace the Gandhi family. But it is not strong enough to bring about a change. Similarly, only inner party democracy within BJP coming to the fore and demands from within the party and the RSS, its mothership, along with the rising disillusionment with the present leadership, can possibly bring about a change of leadership in the BJP. When there’s a rising clamour for change from within the BJP, a leader may emerge in the mould of Vajpayee, someone who is strong but not authoritarian, proud of his Hindu origins but does not use it for political ends, and treats other religions with reverence, who celebrates democracy, debate and dialogue, who is accommodating and conciliatory in his approach, has a generosity of spirit and a scientific temper that embraces ideas from everywhere, and holds himself accountable to the people. There may be hints of unhappiness with Modi in a recent article in Indian Express written by Ram Madhav, the former BJP general secretary now reverted to the RSS, and signs of discontent in the recent statements of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, but they are still very muted. Any glimmer of glee among Modi detractors is premature. Right now, the BJP is content with Modi, just as Congress is blissful with Rahul Gandhi, Samajwadi Party with Akhilesh Yadav, TMC with Mamata Banerjee, and other regional parties are all happy with their party bosses. A palace coup within the BJP amidst the pandemic is unlikely but if it happens, it will not be a peaceful transition. Nor is it desirable when the country is in a deep crisis. Imagine changing horses midstream, that too when the stream is in full spate. Modi, for his part, should climb down from his pedestal, and ‘with malice toward none, and charity toward all’, invite the opposition leaders, the intelligentsia of the right and left, and scientists and doctors, to forge a new way to combat the virus. He must restore confidence in the people that he will join everyone, setting aside his politics and ideology, to fight the pandemic collectively. As a first important step, he must pledge to make it easy for scientists to access data pertaining to the virus and ensure total transparency at all levels. This will enable them to provide him and the state governments evidence-based advice and timely action plans to tackle the virus. Without data, you are flying blind. This is the time for Modi to dedicate himself to working with the states and focus on building the nation’s crumbling healthcare infrastructure on a war footing and bring about the reforms necessary to realise it. The opposition, too, must stop treating Modi like its ‘enemy number one’, howsoever his ideology and politics are an anathema to them. They must join hands with him in a spirit of unity to conquer the virus. They must put lives above politics. This is not the time to fight Modi. That time will come. In 2024. They must bide their time till then. This is the time to bind and band together to fight the virus. (The writer is a farmer, soldier and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-is-the-enemy-not-narendra-modi-989661.html
25-05-2021||National||After withdrawing his remarks on Allopathy, Ramdev poses 25 questions to IMA||A day after withdrawing his comments on Allopathy that had triggered a storm of sorts with IMA threatening to go to court and a wing of it lodging police complaint against him, Yoga Guru Ramdev on Monday issued an open letter to IMA, posing 25 questions asking the modern medicine whether it has treatment for a number of diseases. Earlier, the Health Minister had written a letter to Ramdev asking him to "withdraw his objectionable statement" saying it had hurt the sentiments of the entire nation and insulted the corona warriors." While the Yoga Guru asked the IMA if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension and diabetes thyroid, arthritis, colitis and asthma, he also asked whether it can provide medicines for fatty liver and liver cirrhosis. "After All, allopathy is now 200 years old," the Yoga Guru said, daring it to find treatments for liver ailments and asking questions like "What treatment is there for cholesterol. Does the pharma industry have treatment for migraine?," he asked Ramdev's supporters on Twitter expressed solidarity behind him and also attacked the Health Minister. Many of these tweets were also retweeted by the Yoga Guru, indicating that the matter is yet not over. Haryna Health Minister Anil Vij said on Twitter "one lakh Coronil kits of Patanjali will be distributed free among corona patients. Half of the cost of Coronil has been borne by Patanjali and half by Covid Relief Fund of Haryana government." Retweeting this, Yoga Guru said the central government and other state governments should also come forward like the Haryana government for freedom from corona.  Last June, Patanjali had clarified that they never said that Coronil kit was a cure for Covid-19, soon after its launch as treatment for coronavirus patients kicked up a row. In February this year the medicine was, however, launched in presence of Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari. Coronil had by then received the Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CoPP) from the Ministry of Ayush, which had said that Coronil can be sold only as an immunity-booster and not as a cure. Harsh Vardhan's strongly-worded letter to Ramdev had said that his statement on allopathy can break the morale of healthcare workers and weaken the country's fight against Covid-19. The Health Minsiter was referring to the Yoga Guru's viral video on social media in which he was heard saying "Allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalia science hai (Allopathy is such a stupid ineffective science)". Going hammer and tongs against it, IMA had asked the Health Minister, himself an Allopathic doctor to "either accept accusation and dissolve modern medical facilities or prosecute him under the Epidemic Diseases Act" and accused Ramdev of doing this with the"selfish malevolent to boost up their unscrupulous, unprincipled, deceitful and unpatriotic business fortunes." Patanjali Yogpeeth had later come out with a clarification saying the video clip was taken out of context and Ramdev has "utmost regards" for Allopathic doctors and has no ill-will against the modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-withdrawing-his-remarks-on-allopathy-ramdev-poses-25-questions-to-ima-989624.html
25-05-2021||National||Pfizer, Moderna vaccine order book full, says Centre||“Based on their surplus and how much they can provide to India, they will come back to the government… based on that we can facilitate the state governments,” said Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary Health Ministry, after Punjab and Delhi claimed that the two US vaccine makers turned down their requests for jabs. At least eight states and three municipal corporations have either floated global tenders for vaccines or were planning to do so to ramp up vaccination as the second wave of Covid-19 rips through India’s urban centres and hinterlands. Besides states, big civic bodies such as Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, too, have decided to go global to source vaccines. The BMC is learnt to have received bids from the manufacturers of the Sputnik-V Covid-19 vaccine. Amid widespread vaccine shortages, the Union Government on Monday told the Kerala HC that only 57% of the vaccines produced in the country were reaching citizens, while the court sought to know why the vaccination was not being provided free. According to the affidavit filed by the government, out of the 28.33 lakh doses of vaccines being produced daily in the country, only 12 to 13 lakh doses were being distributed. Hearing a bunch of pleas challenging the Centre’s vaccine policy, a Division Bench of Justices Vinod Chandran and M R Anitha even suggested that excess funds from the Reserve Bank of India may be used for vaccinating all citizens for free. The country’s 137 crore people can be vaccinated with Rs 34,000 crore. The Centre could procure vaccines at Rs 150 or Rs 250 and this amount could be sourced from the Rs 54,000-crore dividend from the RBI to the Centre, the court suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfizer-moderna-vaccine-order-book-full-says-centre-989647.html
25-05-2021||National||NHRC notice to Centre, states on 'poor working conditions' of ASHA workers||The NHRC has issued notices to the the Centre and the states over allegations of "poor working conditions" of ASHA workers in the rural areas across the country, the rights panel said on Monday. The National Human Rights Commission has observed that the allegations of "poor working conditions", if true, raise very crucial issues as the entire health management system of the vast rural population across India depends upon these ASHA workers. "The NHRC has taken cognisance of a complaint that the ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers are not getting their dues and safety equipment despite being working on the frontline during the Covid-19 pandemic in the rural areas across the country," a statement said. Accordingly, it has issued notices to the secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and to the chief secretaries of the states to submit their reports on the issues raised in the complaint within six weeks, the rights panel said in the statement. Therefore, the reports must carry the details on how many ASHA workers are working in each state, status and amount of remuneration and other dues paid to them during the pandemic, arrears due to them, health protection measures instituted for their protection to discharge their professional functions, it said. The reports must also include facilities provided to these health workers and their families to protect health needs, compensation in the event of fatality incurred during discharge of duty, long term health insurance/protection, social security/protection facilities as per the extant guidelines, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-notice-to-centre-states-on-poor-working-conditions-of-asha-workers-989655.html
25-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 25||The daily count of coronavirus cases in the country fell below the 2-lakh mark after over a month taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,69,48,874, while the death toll rose to 3,07,231, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,69,48,874 as of May 25, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 3,07,231 as of May 25, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 2,40,54,861  Total Vaccination: 19,85,38,999  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-25-989686.html
25-05-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Where is the Congress toolkit?!'||Days after the government asked Twitter to remove the "manipulated media" tag on BJP leader Sambit Patra's tweet and it not complying with it, Delhi Police on Monday served a notice on the social media giant seeking details on how it classified the post on a ‘toolkit’ in such a manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-where-is-the-congress-toolkit-989691.html
25-05-2021||National||Actor Deep Sidhu booked for violating Covid norms in Punjab||In yet another tryst with authorities, the Punjab Police on Tuesday booked actor Deep Sidhu for violating Covid-19 guidelines in Faridkot district. An FIR has been registered under Sections 188, 269 of IPC & Epidemic Diseases Act against him for addressing a gathering in Jaitu and Matta village without mask, the police told ANI. Sidhu was arrested by Delhi police in February and April in relation to the violence during the farmers' tractor march against the central government's new farm laws on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-deep-sidhu-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-in-punjab-989707.html
25-05-2021||National||Petrol nears Rs 100/litre mark in Mumbai after 13th fuel price hike in May||Petrol price inched towards the Rs 100-mark in Mumbai on Tuesday after fuel rates were hiked again. Petrol price was increased by 23 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike - 13th this month - pushed petrol and diesel prices to record-high levels across the country. Petrol price in Delhi rose to Rs 93.44 a litre and diesel to Rs 84.32 a litre. In Mumbai, petrol price climbed to Rs 99.71 a litre and diesel to Rs 91.57 per litre. Rates had already crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and with the latest increase, the price in Mumbai too was inching towards that level. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15-days, and foreign exchange rates. This is the 13th increase in prices since May 4, when the state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan had the costliest petrol and diesel in the country at Rs 104.42 per litre and Rs 97.18 a litre, respectively. In 13 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 3.04 per litre and diesel by Rs 3.59.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-nears-rs-100/litre-mark-in-mumbai-after-13th-fuel-price-hike-in-may-989710.html
25-05-2021||National||India's daily Covid infections fall to 1.96 lakh, lowest since mid-April||The daily count of coronavirus cases in the country fell below the 2-lakh mark after over a month taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,69,48,874, while the death toll rose to 3,07,231, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 1,96,427 new coronavirus infections were reported in a day. The country also reported the lowest death toll in 21 days with 3,511 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. India had registered 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections on April 14. The active cases have further reduced to 25,86,782 comprising 9.60 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 89.26 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,40,54,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.14 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 33,25,94,176 samples have been tested up to May 24 with 20,58,112 samples being tested on Monday. The 3,511 new fatalities include 592 from Maharashtra, 529 from Karnataka, 404 from Tamil Nadu, 207 from Delhi, 196 from Kerala, 187 from Punjab, 153 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 122 from Uttarakhand and 103 from Rajasthan.   A total of 3,07,231 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 89,212 from Maharashtra, 25,811 from Karnataka, 23,409 from Delhi, 20,872 from Tamil Nadu, 19,362  from Uttar Pradesh, 14,517 from West Bengal, 13,468 from Punjab and 12,646 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-infections-fall-to-196-lakh-lowest-since-mid-april-989709.html
25-05-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: NDA ally Jitan Ram Manjhi calls for PM Modi’s photo on death certificates too||Former Bihar chief minister and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ally Jitan Ram Manjhi on Monday chimed in on the debate over the use of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph on vaccine certificates, saying that his photographs “should also be put on death certificates of Covid-19 victims”. “If you are so fond of putting photographs on the vaccine certificate, then the photo should be put on the death certificate too. Only this will be fair,” the head of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) (HAMS), part of the ruling NDA alliance in the state, wrote in a tweet that has since been deleted. The comment was Manjhi’s second on the subject, following another tweet on Sunday after being vaccinated with a second dose of Covaxin that suggested it might be more appropriate to have the President’s photograph on the certificates as the constitutional head of the country. He added that the prime minister’s picture should be accompanied by those of the President and the states’ chief ministers. को-वैक्सीन का दूसरा डोज़ के उपरांत मुझे प्रमाण-पत्र दिया गया जिसमें प्रधानमंत्री की तस्वीर लगी है।देश में संवैधानिक संस्थाओं के सर्वेसर्वा राष्ट्रपति हैं इस नाते उसमें राष्ट्रपति की तस्वीर होनी चाहिए,वैसे तस्वीर ही लगानी है तो राष्ट्रपति के अलावा P.M स्थानीय C.M की भी तस्वीर हो। The state governments of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh have replaced the prime minister's photographs with those of their chief ministers, arguing that the move was justified as states were being made to bear the financial burden of vaccinating their citizens. Rajasthan’s health minister Raghu Sharma has also objected to the PM's photograph on the certificates for similar reasons. Opposition parties have argued that Modi’s photograph on vaccine certificates hands the ruling party undue credit for vaccinating the 18-44 age bracket, while dumping the responsibility on individual states. “If someone wants to take credit, then he should also be ready to face abuse for deaths as well. Why should others get the abuse?” HMAS spokesperson Danish Rizwan said in a video tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-nda-ally-jitan-ram-manjhi-calls-for-pm-modi-s-photo-on-death-certificates-too-989723.html
25-05-2021||National||No reason to believe children will be disproportionately affected in third Covid-19 wave: N K Arora||There is no reason to believe that children will be disproportionately affected by the coronavirus in the coming weeks and months or in the next wave, the head of a government working group said, but stressed on the need for additional resource inputs to improve the paediatric Covid services. In an interview with PTI, Dr N K Arora, Chairman of India's Covid-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), said Indian data does not show specific predilection of the currently circulating virus strains either for the youth or paediatric age group. "However, since the absolute numbers have increased, patients from both age groups are being noticed more,” he said. Arora, who is Director of INCLEN Trust, said it is not possible to predict any third wave at this time. "But based on what the experience is available from our own country and that from other parts of the world, there is no reason to believe that children will be disproportionately affected in the coming weeks and months or in the next wave," he said. But he stressed on the need to improve the paediatric Covid services and align with the rest of the Covid-19 management framework. "It is absolutely necessary to appreciate that newborn, children and pregnant women require specific care facilities. Children below 10 years will need either mother or father or a care provider with them. Similarly infected pregnant women can deliver prematurely. I am given to understand that treatment protocols are already prepared and are under review by different paediatric groups and associations," he said. Arora said similarly the unique hospital care requirements are being worked out. "The country is already managing children and most Covid care centres have provision but there is need for additional resource inputs to improve the paediatric Covid services and align with the rest of the Covid-19 management framework,” he added. Some experts are highlighting the need for preparation warning that children could be affected by the third wave more than adults. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria has also said there was no indication that children will be severely or more affected in the third wave of the pandemic. "If we see the data of the first and second waves, it is very similar and it shows that children are usually protected and even if they get it, they only have mild infection. And the virus hasn't changed so there is no indication that children will be more affected in the third wave," he told reporters on Monday. And there is this hypothesis that the virus enters through ACE receptors in the body and these receptors are relatively less in children as compared to adults. This is a hypothesis on why the infection has been less amongst children, he said. "Those who floated this theory said that children have so far been not affected so perhaps they will be most affected in the third wave but there is so far no evidence that there will be severe infection in children or there will be more cases in them in the upcoming wave," Guleria added. The Indian Academy of Paediatrics recently said though children appear as susceptible as adults it is "highly unlikely that the third wave will predominantly or exclusively affect children". “We need to be prepared with more in-patient beds and intensive care beds for children,” it said. The country's apex child rights body National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has also said that the Centre and states should ramp up their preparations to protect children and neonatals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-reason-to-believe-children-will-be-disproportionately-affected-in-third-covid-19-wave-n-k-arora-989728.html
25-05-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi asks Congress workers to provide all help in ensuring safety of people during Cyclone Yaas||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday appealed to party workers  to provide all assistance in ensuring the safety of the people who would be impacted by Cyclone Yaas. Cyclonic storm Yaas is likely to make a landfall near Balasore in north Odisha at a speed of 155 kmph to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, around noon on May 26, the Met department had said on Monday. "#CycloneYaas is moving towards Bengal and Odisha from the Bay of Bengal. I appeal to Congress workers to provide all assistance ensuring safety of those affected," Gandhi said in a tweet.  I appeal to Congress workers to provide all assistance ensuring safety of those affected. The former Congress chief urged people to follow all precautionary measures.  A massive evacuation drive has been launched in all low-lying areas and vulnerable storm-surge pockets, following the IMD predicting a tidal surge of 2-4.5 metres during the landfall of Yaas, officials had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-asks-congress-workers-to-provide-all-help-in-ensuring-safety-of-people-during-cyclone-yaas-989730.html
25-05-2021||National||Ensure more Covid-19 vaccines are available to states: Gehlot to Centre||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday that the Union Health Ministry should provide more vaccines to states instead of highlighting vaccination statistics. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should have put vaccine production on top priority and if necessary, more companies should be allowed and encouraged to produce vaccines by changing the law, he said. "The Union Health Ministry should leave statistics and ensure more vaccines are available to the states. If the third wave affects children, then the country will never forgive," Gehlot tweeted. In a country with a population of 130 crore, if vaccines are not provided soon and the third wave of coronavirus starts affecting children, then the situation of lack of oxygen and medicines will be worse than the second wave and saving children lives will be difficult, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-more-covid-19-vaccines-are-available-to-states-gehlot-to-centre-989735.html
25-05-2021||National||Mehul Choksi missing: Why is the fugitive diamantaire in Antigua?||Choksi seems to have made this move since the Indian government has been putting pressure on Antigua to revoke his citizenship. But, why did Mehul Choksi go to Antigua? In the first week of January 2018, Mehul Choksi had fled India, almost a month before the PNB scam surfaced. Choksi and his nephew, Nirav Modi, were booked by CBI in two cases related to the banking fraud and filed a charge sheet against them. The duo allegedly siphoned off Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National bank. In July 2018, it was found out that Choksi had reached Antigua that month. He had also taken citizenship of the twin-island nation in November 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment Program (CIP). What happened? It is believed that the fugitive diamantaire took this move also to avoid extradition to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-missing-why-is-the-fugitive-diamantaire-in-antigua-989736.html
25-05-2021||National||Toolkit used by BJP to target opponents, alleges Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday alleged that social media or 'toolkits' were used by the BJP to target opponents, adding that when it faced a backlash, it put pressure through various ways. Raut made the comments while talking to reporters here in connection with a notice sent by the Delhi Police to Twitter India over the probe into a complaint about an alleged 'Covid toolkit'. The BJP had accused the Congress of creating a 'toolkit' that seeks to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, Congress has denied the allegation and claimed the BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' to defame it. Last week, Twitter labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on the alleged 'toolkit'. When asked about the issue, Raut said, "Social media or toolkit was used by the BJP previously. However, when it faced a backlash, it is carrying out raids, apprehending some people or pressuring through various ways." "We are watching it and enjoying it," he added. A debate is going on in the country and across the world about toolkits and social media, the Rajya Sabha member said without elaborating. On the reported meet between top leaders of the BJP and the RSS to discuss the impact of the Covid-19 crisis on the party's image and its fallout on state polls, including of Uttar Pradesh, due next year, Raut said he does not want to comment on the issue. "I have deep respect for Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat. I expect critical remarks from him over the thousands of bodies washed up on the Ganga river banks recently. The issue was as important as the Ram temple,” he said. Asked about claims by some sources that the list of 12 members to be nominated to the Maharashtra Legislative Council was with the state governor's office, Raut said he was happy that "no ghost had stolen the file". "Was it Bofors, or Rafale, or any corruption charges-related file?" he asked. Raut said it contained names of 12 candidates to be appointed as MLCs from the governor's quota. The names were unanimously cleared by the state cabinet. "I will distribute sweets in the Raj Bhavan when the list is signed by the governor," he said. The ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra has been targeting Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over the delay in the nomination of 12 members to the Legislative Council under the governor's quota. The file recommending the 12 names for nomination to the Upper House was sent to the governor in November last year. On Monday, Raut said there were reports that the Raj Bhavan had replied to an RTI query that it did not have the file containing names of the 12 persons recommended by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-used-by-bjp-to-target-opponents-alleges-sanjay-raut-989740.html
25-05-2021||National||Confident that India will continue to shape big debates of our times, says External Affairs Minister Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has expressed confidence that India will continue to shape the “big debates of our times” as he interacted with Permanent Representative Ambassador T S Tirumurti and other officials and diplomats from India to the United Nations. Jaishankar arrived in New York on Sunday evening on his first visit to the US after India entered the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member in January this year and will meet UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Tuesday. “A productive strategy session with @ambtstirumurti and our UN team in New York @IndiaUNNewYork. Confident that India will continue to shape the big debates of our times,” Jaishankar tweeted on Monday after his meeting with Tirumurti, Deputy Permanent Representative Ambassador K Nagaraj Naidu and diplomats from the Permanent Mission of India to the UN. “Grateful to EAM @DrSJaishankar for guidance in focussing our efforts in @UN and in Security Council for 2021-22,” Tirumurti tweeted. From New York, Jaishankar will travel to Washington where he is expected to meet US Secretary of State Antony Blinken. A State Department spokesperson said Blinken and Jaishankar would discuss a wide range of issues, including Covid-19, efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad grouping, enhancing the UN and multilateral cooperation. “The Secretary looks forward to meeting Minister Jaishankar during his visit, and to discussing a broad range of issues, including Covid-19 relief, efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad, enhanced UN and multilateral cooperation, and a range of other shared regional security and economic priorities,” the spokesperson said. In addition to meeting his counterpart, Jaishankar is scheduled to meet US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, other senior officials of the Biden administration, influential lawmakers, think-tanks, leaders of the corporate sector and members of the Indian American community. Neither the State Department nor the Ministry of External Affairs have announced the day and timing of the Jaishankar-Blinken meeting. Blinken on Monday left for a quick trip to the Middle East as part of the efforts of the Biden administration’s peace process in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/confident-that-india-will-continue-to-shape-big-debates-of-our-times-says-external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-989741.html
25-05-2021||National||Covid-19: All you need to know about 'yellow fungus'||Although the second coronavirus wave is finally showing signs of retreat with fresh daily cases dipping to their lowest since mid-April, a spate of fungal infections have followed in its aftermath — the latest being a deadly “yellow fungus”. A patient recovering in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad was diagnosed with yellow fungus while already infected with both black and white fungal infections. Yellow fungus can be fatal as it originates internally and makes it more difficult to identify and treat the disease. Here’s everything we know so far about the yellow fungus: What is yellow fungus? Yellow fungus, or mucor septicus, is a fungal infection that medical experts say generally does not occur in humans, but in lizards. Experts suggest that these rare fungal infections are afflicting people as treatments for Covid-19 that involve steroids and immunosuppressants have weakened the body’s natural immunity. What are the symptoms? Lethargy, weight loss, reduced appetite are seen as common symptoms of the infection. However, if the infection is not identified on time, symptoms could become more severe, including the leakage of pus and slow healing of wounds, sunken eyes organ failure, and necrosis, in which cells in living tissue die prematurely. Is it more dangerous than black and white fungus? Yellow fungus is treatable if detected early, although the fact that it arises within the body can delay its detection and make it potentially harder to cure than black and white fungal infections. Additionally, the yellow fungus could cause organ failure in some cases. However, there are no clear studies or comments by experts that give an exact figure on its mortality rate. What are the causes of yellow fungus? High levels of humidity beyond the 30-40% range promote the growth of fungus. The main cause of the fungal infection is said to be poor hygiene. Old food and improper disposal also contribute to the growth of the fungus. What is the treatment for yellow fungus? The only known treatment for yellow fungus is the Amphotericin B injection, an antifungal drug that is also used to treat cases of black fungus. Symptoms should be monitored closely and patients should be rushed to a hospital immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-all-you-need-to-know-about-yellow-fungus-989747.html
25-05-2021||National||Chhatrasal stadium brawl: Sushil Kumar taken to spot for crime scene reconstruction||The Delhi Police Crime Branch Tuesday took Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar to the Chhatrasal Stadium here to recreate the crime scene in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of a wrestler there, officials said. Kumar and his associate Ajay were arrested on Sunday from outer Delhi's Mundka. The police team visited the crime scene in the morning and was back by the noon, officials said. "A team of Crime Branch investigating the case went to the Chhatrasal Stadium in connection with the probe. Kumar was also taken to the spot to recreate the scene of crime and ascertain the sequence of events that unfolded on the day of incident," a senior police officer said. Kumar was interrogated for almost four hours on Monday also , officials said, adding they are investigating the case from different angles. A senior official had said earlier that Kumar was questioned to ascertain the sequence of events that transpired and led the crime and also about his whereabouts after the incident. "He was also questioned about his associates and friends who helped him to hide. He will be taken to the spot for recreating the crime scene,” the officer had said. A 23-year-old wrestler died and two of his friends were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Kumar and others inside the Chhatrasal Stadium. The incident occurred on the intervening night of May 4 and May 5 over a dispute related to a property located in the Model Town area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhatrasal-stadium-brawl-sushil-kumar-taken-to-spot-for-crime-scene-reconstruction-989749.html
25-05-2021||National||Navneet Kalra's bail plea hearing adjourned to May 28 in oxygen concentrator case||A Delhi court on Tuesday adjourned to May 28 hearing on the bail application filed by businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the oxygen concentrator black marketing case. During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Kalra. The restaurateur is in judicial custody till June 3. Metropolitan Magistrate Swati Sharma deferred the hearing in the matter to May 28 at 12 pm after advocate Vishal Gohri, representing the accused, sought adjournment. The court had adjourned hearing in the bail plea twice before on May 20 and 22. On May 22, the district court dismissed the plea of Delhi Police seeking five more days of custodial interrogation of Kalra. Earlier, a similar application was junked by a different judge on May 20 and Kalra was sent to 14-day judicial custody. Prior to this, the restaurateur was remanded to three days in police custody following his arrest. The businessman was nabbed from Gurugram on May 16 and arrested formally on the next day. Police claimed the concentrators were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs 50,000 to 70,000 a piece against its cost of Rs 16,000 to Rs 22,000. The concentrators are crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 patients and are in high demand amid the second wave of the pandemic. On May 5, a case was registered against Kalra under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also registered a money laundering case against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navneet-kalras-bail-plea-hearing-adjourned-to-may-28-in-oxygen-concentrator-case-989752.html
25-05-2021||National||Supreme Court notice to Centre, West Bengal on plea against exodus of people due to post-poll violence||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre and the West Bengal government on a plea to take steps to prevent an alleged exodus of people due to “state-sponsored” violence after the Assembly elections results. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai sought a response from the Centre and the Mamata Banerjee government on a petition contending that more than one lakh has been displaced in West Bengal following the poll results on May 2. Senior advocate Pinky Anand, appearing for social worker Arun Mukherjee and others, said she was seeking relief on humanitarian ground. She asked permission to make the National Commission for Human Rights, the National Commission for Women and the National Commission for Protection of Children's Rights as parties to the plea. The court, which said no ex-pate order can be passed, allowed her plea to make various rights panel as parties to the matter and fixed the case for further hearing on June 7. The plea asked the court to constitute an SIT and investigate and register cases in the incidents of political violence, targeted killings, rape, and vandalism in the state. “The exodus of the people in West Bengal due to state-sponsored violence has posed serious humanitarian issues related to their survival, where they are forced to live in deplorable conditions, in violation of their fundamental rights enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution,” it claimed. The plea contended the situation in West Bengal has become so volatile and politically charged, with severe consequences against the lives and liberty of individuals, that intervention by this court was urgently needed. It alleged that police and the state-sponsored goons were in cahoots because of which the police proved to be a mere spectator in the entire episode, discouraging and threatening victims from filing FIRs. The petitioners also sought the formation of a commission for rehabilitation of displaced persons, compensation for loss of family members, property, livelihood, mental and emotional agony. They also asked the court to issue direction to the Centre to discharge its duty under Article 355 of the Constitution, including all measures under the law of the land, including executive orders, to ensure rule of law in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-west-bengal-on-plea-against-exodus-of-people-due-to-post-poll-violence-989759.html
25-05-2021||National||NGT sets up panel to probe alleged violation of norms in Mekedatu dam construction||The National Green Tribunal has constituted a committee to submit a report on alleged violation of norms in the construction of a reservoir across the Cauvery river at Mekedatu in Karnataka. The NGT Southern bench, comprising Justice K Ramakrishnan and expert member K Satyagopal, issued notices to the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), Department of Water Resources, Central Water Commission, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu governments among others. The Green Bench issued a direction after taking suo motu cognisance of a newspaper report that said Karnataka proposes to construct a dam across the Cauvery river in the area and that the proposal was deferred by the Cauvery Water Management Authority twice in the past following strong opposition from the Tamil Nadu government, citing the pendency of case before the Supreme Court. "Considering the allegations made in the newspaper report, we are satisfied that there arises a substantial question of environment, which requires the interference of this Tribunal. So, the matter is admitted." "Issue notice to the respondents...along with copy of the newspaper report and gist of the Suo Motu proceeding with full cause title so as to enable them to comply with the direction," the bench said. The committee comprises of senior members from the Integrated Regional Office, MoEF, Bangalore, Cauvery Water Management Authority, Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited and the Forest Department not below the rank of Additional Conservator of Forest, Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-sets-up-panel-to-probe-alleged-violation-of-norms-in-mekedatu-dam-construction-989762.html
25-05-2021||National||Covid-19: India prioritises increasing vaccine supply over mix-and-match doses||After scientific studies have indicated some success in the mixing of two different types of Covid-19 vaccines, countries have started weighing upon it. India, however, has decided to prioritise increasing the supply. In the second wave of coronavirus in India, the central government and scientists are focusing on efficient management and quick supply of vaccines to the states. “From an immunology viewpoint, mixing two types of vaccines is not a problem. But studies show some more reactogenicity or minor side effects,” virologist Shahid Jameel told the publication. After discussing the new study, experts want to prioritise the supply of vaccines in the country and control the second wave. “Whether it can or should be explored in India will depend upon the basket of vaccines available in India. At this point, we should not divert our attention from increasing vaccine supply,” he said. So far, India hasn’t tapped into the study of mixing vaccines, even though the country has been struggling to expand the vaccination drive. Immunologist Dipyaman Ganguly told the publication, “It may be an interesting proposition, given the variant strains that are running amok at present. There are apprehensions around wild-type spike-directed vaccines falling short on curbing some of the new variants.”COVID||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-prioritises-increasing-vaccine-supply-over-mix-and-match-doses-989765.html
25-05-2021||National||India's Covid-19 positivity rate down to 9.54%||The daily Covid-19 positivity rate has reduced and now stands at 9.54 per cent, while the single-day recoveries continue to outnumber the new cases for the 12th consecutive day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The active Covid-19 caseload has also reduced to 25,86,782 with a net decline of 1,33,934 cases being witnessed in a span of 24 hours. It now accounts for 9.60 per cent of the country's total infections. The active cases have decreased since its last peak on May 10. "India's daily recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases for the 12th consecutive day with 3,26,850 patients recuperating in a span of 24 hours taking India's cumulative recoveries to 2,40,54,861. "A total of 20,58,112 tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours in the country and cumulatively 33,25,94,176 tests have been done so far. The daily positivity rate has reduced and stands at 9.54 per cent today," the ministry said. "In encouraging signs to India's fight against Covid-19 pandemic, the daily new cases have fallen below 2 lakh to a level seen 40 days before with 1,96,427  new infections being registered in a span of 24 hours," the ministry said. Daily new cases were 1,84,372 on April 14. A total of 19,85,38,999 vaccine doses have been administered through 28,41,151 sessions, according to a provisional report prepared at 7 am on Tuesday. These include 97,79,304 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 67,18,723 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,50,79,964 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 83,55,982 FLWs who have taken the second dose, and 1,19,11,759 beneficiaries in the 18-44 year age group who have received the first dose. According to the ministry data, 12.82 Lakh vaccination doses were administered in the 18-44 age group in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-positivity-rate-down-to-954-989766.html
25-05-2021||National||Mayawati extends support to farmers' protest call on May 26||BSP president Mayawati on Tuesday extended support to the countrywide protest call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha on May 26 against farm laws, and asked the Centre to adopt a sympathetic attitude towards farmers. The agitating farmers will observe a 'black day' on May 26 to mark the completion of six months of their protest. In a tweet in Hindi, the BSP supremo said, "Farmers of the country are continuously agitating even in the extreme calamity of the coronavirus to demand the withdrawal of the three new agriculture laws. BSP supports the nationwide protest day on May 26 to mark the completion of six months of the movement. The Centre also needs to adopt a sympathetic attitude.” Accusing the Centre of adopting a confrontational attitude towards farmers, she said the deadlock has resulted in tension especially in the neighbouring states of Delhi. The BSP appeals to the Centre to negotiate with the agitating farmers and find a solution to their problems. Several other political parties have also extended support to the farmers' protest call. Farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 protesting farmer unions, on Friday had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging for the resumption of talks. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government had failed to break the deadlock over the legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-extends-support-to-farmers-protest-call-on-may-26-989786.html
25-05-2021||National||#ArrestYuvikaChaudhary trends on Twitter after actor uses 'casteist slur'||Actor Yuvika Chaudhary, known for films like "Om Shanti Om" and "The Shaukeens", on Tuesday found herself in the midst of a controversy when a video of hers allegedly using a casteist slur went viral on social media. The former "Bigg Boss" contestant soon took to Twitter to issue an apology, saying she did not know the meaning of the said word. While the video has not been removed from the actor's vlog (video blog) on YouTube, the portion where she mentions the slur appears to have been chopped off. The original clip, which is still being shared on social media, shows her husband, actor-model Prince Narula in the midst of a grooming session as Chaudhary explains why she is not dressed well. Later, the 37-year-old model-actor apologised for her actions and said she didn't mean to hurt anyone's sentiments. "Hi guys I didn’t know the meaning about that word wt I used in my last vlog I didn't mean to hurt anyone and I can never do that to hurt someone I apologise to each n everyone I hope you understand love you all (sic)" Chaudhary tweeted. Hi guys I didn’t kw the meaning about that word wt I used in my last vlog I didn’t mean to hurt anyone and I can never do that to hurt someone I apologise to each n every one I hope you understand love you all The incident comes weeks after "Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah" actor Munmun Dutta was criticised for using a casteist slur in one of her videos. She was later booked by the police in Haryana's Hansi town and Indore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrestyuvikachaudhary-trends-on-twitter-after-actor-uses-casteist-slur-989791.html
25-05-2021||National||Indian-origin family in US returns $1 million discarded ticket to winner, wins hearts for honesty||A woman in the US state of Massachusetts threw away her shot at $1 million, but as luck would it, she got a second chance at the fortune, thanks to an Indian-origin family who returned the discarded lottery ticket to their long-time customer, earning appreciation for their honesty. Lea Rose Fiega bought a Diamond Millions scratch-off ticket in March at Lucky Stop, a store owned by the Indian-origin family in Southwick, where she was a regular customer. "I was in a hurry, on lunch break, and just scratched it real quick, and looked at it, and it didn’t look like a winner, so I handed it over to them to throw away,” Fiega said on Monday. But the ticket was not fully scratched off and it sat in a pile in the store for 10 days until Abhi Shah, son of the store owners, noticed the unfinished $30 ticket in the trash, the New York Post reported. Abhi said the winning ticket was sold by his mother Aruna Shah to one of their regular customers. “One evening, I was going through the tickets from the trash and [noticed] that she didn’t scratch the number. I scratched the number and it was $1 million underneath the ticket,” Abhi was quoted as saying by the local TV station WWLP. “I was a millionaire for a night,” he joked. Abhi said he initially thought of buying a Tesla car, but later decided to return the winning ticket. “I mean I had $1 million in my hand and on the other hand I wanted to do something good,” he said. The family said it was not an easy decision to return the ticket. “We didn’t sleep two nights,” said Maunish Shah, owner of Lucky Spot. “He called my mom, grandparents in India, they said, ‘Give it back, we don’t want that money,’” Maunish said. The family then decided to return the ticket. Since the customer visited the store often, they knew where to find her. The younger Shah came to find Fiega at work and told her his parents wanted to see her, according to the lottery winner. “I said ‘I’m working,’ and he said ‘no you have to come over’. So, I went over there and that’s when they told me. I was in total disbelief. I cried, I hugged them,” Fiega said. The other customers of the store are not surprised that the Shahs did the right thing. “They’re just purely good people. You can tell by just talking to them,” one customer was quoted as saying by WBZ TV, a CBS-owned-and-operated television station licensed to Boston, Massachusetts. The family is now fielding congratulatory calls and interview requests from across the country. “If I had kept that million, I wouldn’t have been this famous. So, I’m glad I gave it back,” Abhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-family-in-us-returns-1-million-discarded-ticket-to-winner-wins-hearts-for-honesty-989792.html
25-05-2021||National||As Covid-19 vaccine shortage soars, daily jabs plunge over 35% to 980 per 10 lakh adults: Report||As the vaccine mismanagement and the resultant shortage continue, the daily vaccination has come down to 980 per 10 lakh people as of May 23, down from 1,455 per 10 lakh a week earlier and against the world average of 3,564 per 10 lakh, according to a report. The only saving grace is the continuing decline in the pandemic caseload, which has been trending downward for the second week in a row as daily cases declined 22 per cent sequentially in the week ended May 23, which is faster than the 15 per cent fall the week before, Crisil said in the report. This means that the infections may have crossed the peak on May 6, when the country had reported 4.14 lakh cases. Daily new cases now average 2.5 lakh, down from 3.3 lakh in the week ended May 16. More significantly, as of Tuesday, the daily caseload has fallen below the 2-lakh mark as in the past 24 hours there were only 1,96,427 new Covid-19 infections. With the vaccine availability remaining a national bottleneck, the pace of vaccination has been steeply falling and as of May 23, daily vaccinations have come down to a low of 980 per million people from 1,455 per million a week earlier, down over 35 per cent. The world average is 3,564 per million, the report said. Though Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Delhi have vaccinated the highest proportion of their population among the respective groups, the pace of vaccination has declined further in May in these states. Vaccination will further slow down as the availability of fresh doses is going to take time. As of Tuesday, the total tally pandemic cases increased to 2,69,48,874, while the death toll rose to 3,07,231. The infection crossed the 20-lakh mark on Aug. 7, 2020, 30 lakh on Aug. 23, 40 lakh on Sept. 5 and 50 lakh on Sept. 16. It went past 60 lakh on Sept. 28, 70 lakh on Oct. 11, crossed 80 lakh on Oct. 29, 90 lakh on Nov. 20 and surpassed the 1-crore mark on Dec. 19, 2020. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4, 2021, according to the Union Health Ministry data. According to Crisil, while daily cases dipped, testing continued to increase as it grew 11 per cent last week, bringing down the test positivity rate to 13.1 per cent from 18.8 per cent a week earlier. Also, the recovery rate improved to 88.7 per cent as of May 23 from 84.8 per cent the previous week. Taking together the decline in new infections, positivity rate and active cases, coupled with improving recovery rate, the country may have crossed the peak of the second wave on May 6, the report said. However, states like Tamil Nadu, Odisha and Assam are still under a strong viral grip, on the other hand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan have seen the sharpest declines, it added. The economic impact of the second wave on the states would be determined by the caseload, the nature of lockdowns, structural composition of output (across sectors/regions) and above all, the pace of vaccination, the report said, adding states with higher services dependency, and slower pace of vaccinations would remain more vulnerable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-soars-daily-jabs-plunge-over-35-to-980-per-10-lakh-adults-report-989798.html
25-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas: Paradip port suspends operation from 2 pm on May 25||Paradip Port Trust (PPT) suspended its operations from 2 pm on Tuesday as part of safety measures in view of the impending severe cyclone 'Yaas', which is likely to cross Odisha coast on May 26, an official said. At least 12 vessels proceeded down to the deep sea so as to avoid the path of the storm, he said, adding that all the trucks, dumpers and large cargo handling equipment in the port area will be taken to a safe zone. "The authorities have been in coordination with the Odisha government and the Jagatsinghpur district administration to take all the precautionary measures," Paradip Port Trust Chairman Vinit Kumar told reporters.   Severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' is likely to make landfall near Dhamra Port in Bhadrak district early on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. State Higher Education Secretary Saswat Mishra has arrived here to review the local administration's preparedness for the cyclonic storm as the government has set a "zero casualty" target. The Jagatsinghpur district administration has been making arrangements for evacuating people living near the coastal areas to cyclone shelters. src="https://embed.windy.com/embed2.html?lat=17.686&lon=86.572&detailLat=12.962&detailLon=77.607&width=100%25&height=500&zoom=5&level=surface&overlay=wind&product=ecmwf&menu=&message=&marker=&calendar=now&pressure=&type=map&location=coordinates&detail=&metricWind=default&metricTemp=default&radarRange=-1" frameborder="0"> "Over 10,000 people have been evacuated in Jagatsinghpur till 10 am on Tuesday," an official of the local administration said. Inspector-General of Police (Operations) Amitabh Thakur and Jagatsinghpur SP Prakash R reached the Paradip Police Station to review the situation and held talks with personnel of National Disaster Response Force and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force. Kumar said the port authorities have provided food and drinking water to cyclone shelters in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-paradip-port-suspends-operation-from-2-pm-on-may-25-989814.html
25-05-2021||National||China tests unmanned flights near Kailash range||China has reportedly developed and conducted the first test run of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) meant for the surveillance of Indian positions near the strategically important Kailash Range. Developed in Shaanxi, the UAV’s first flying and control task at Gar Gunsa in the Tibet Autonomous Region was undertaken by the Hailan Aviation team, news agency IANS reported, citing sources. “The UAV took off from an elevation of 4700 m at Baga Township and completed its task of patrolling, control and search operation in the Kailash Mountain region," the agency quoted sources as saying. The Kailash range became a focal point when the Indian Army preemptively occupied certain critical heights overlooking Chinese positions last year in August. The move was in response to China’s incursions at the northern bank of the lake and forced Beijing’s troops into a stalemate that brought to a close a months-long bout of sporadic skirmishes at the border. This also included fighting at Galwan Valley, that led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers in June last year. The two sides had agreed to a disengagement, a process that was completed in only February this year, though recent reports have suggested that complete de-escalation was still a ways off. So far, 11 rounds of Corps Commander level talks have yielded some success, even though officials are yet to find solutions for friction points like Gogra, Hot Spring and Depsang.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-tests-unmanned-flights-near-kailash-range-989815.html
25-05-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Cong vs BJP rivalry heats up over 'toolkit' case||In your evening news brief, Ocugen submits ‘Master File’ to US FDA; US Secretary of State Antony Blinken begins a Middle East visit in Israel and Congress vs BJP rivalry heats up over an alleged 'toolkit' on Twitter.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of May 25, 2021: As the Congress vs BJP rivalry heats up over an alleged 'toolkit' on Twitter, it has come to light the Delhi Police issued a notice to Congress leaders Rajeev Gowda and Rohan Gupta in the toolkit row. The notice was issued on May 21 and the Congress replied to the Police on May 22 saying an FIR has been filed in Chhattisgarh and they are moving ahead with that case. Meanwhile, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala wrote to Twitter with the tweets and names of Ministers who shared this puported 'toolkit' saying that various Union Ministers in the Modi government have used the forged documents to "to gain undue and wrongful political advantage by spreading potentially dangerous, false and fabricated material through their Twitter handles, against the Indian National Congress and its leaders."       Ocugen, Bharat Biotech's American partner for Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, has submitted a "Master File" to the US Food and Drug Administration prior to seeking an emergency use authorisation in that country. "The company is currently evaluating the clinical and regulatory path for Covaxin in the United States including obtaining Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Also, eventually biologic license application (BLA) approval in the United States, as well as the company's commercialization strategy, if authorized or approved," Ocugen has said in a recent regulatory filing.      US Secretary of State Antony Blinken began a Middle East visit in Israel on Tuesday, seeking to bolster its ceasefire with Gaza's ruling Hamas group and help speed humanitarian aid to the devastated Palestinian enclave. In tandem with Blinken's mission, Israeli authorities said they were allowing fuel, medicine and food earmarked for Gaza's private sector to enter the territory for the first time since 11 days of cross-border hostilities ended on May 10. Source: DHNS/PTI/Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-cong-vs-bjp-rivalry-heats-up-over-toolkit-case-989829.html
25-05-2021||National||Poll violence: 3 people arrested for killing of 2 BJP workers, West Bengal tells Supreme Court||The West Bengal government on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that three persons have been arrested in a case related to the killings of two BJP workers in the post-poll violence, after lodging of an FIR on a complaint by the victims. Responding to a plea for CBI probe into the matter, senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the WB government, submitted before a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai that the matter was already under the investigation of the state police. He also pointed out a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court decided to take up all case related to post-poll violence. The court, however, granted the state government time to file a reply to a petition filed by Biswajit Sarkar, the brother of slain Bengal BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar. The petitioner, who claimed to be an eyewitness to the killing of Sarkar on May 2 at North Kolkata, alleged that the mob dragged him out of his house, tied the CCTV camera wire around his neck, and smashed his head and brutally killed him in front of his mother. On May 18, the court had issued notice to the West Bengal government on the plea for CBI probe into the killings of two BJP workers in the post-poll violence, witnessed after the ruling TMC secured third consecutive term victory in Assembly elections. Senior Advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for the petitioner, had contended that violence was unleashed at the behest of state administration, as not only was there total inaction but the police stood idly and the people were left to die. The plea alleged "indiscriminate" killing of innocents across the state "in a coordinated manner" after the Assembly polls results. It sought a direction for an SIT probe as it was "impossible" to conduct a fair and impartial enquiry into murder of Sarkar and a Bengal BJP booth worker, Haran Adhikari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poll-violence-3-people-arrested-for-killing-of-2-bjp-workers-west-bengal-tells-supreme-court-989834.html
25-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas: Andhra Pradesh CM asks 3 coastal districts to be on high alert||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked Collectors of the three north coastal districts to be on a high alert in view of the Yaas cyclone that is likely to cross the Bay of Bengal coast in neighbouring Odisha on Wednesday. The Chief Minister conducted a videoconference with Collectors of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts and reviewed the situation. Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, who was camping in Srikakulam, briefed the CM on the prevailing situation in the three north coastal districts. All higher officials were stationed in Srikakulam, bordering Odisha, to closely monitor the situation and take required action, he said. Except for light rain, there has been not much impact in Srikakulam district. The Chief Secretary said diesel generators sets have been kept ready in all hospitals to ensure there was no disruption to oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients, in the event of a power outage. Srikakulam District Collector J Nivas said they were coordinating with Odisha officials to take necessary precautionary and relief measures where required. Special teams have been positioned in Ichhapuram to handle any problem related to the transportation of oxygen tankers, Nivas added. Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam Collectors, Hari Jawaharlal and V Vinay Chand, too explained that alternative measures were kept in place to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients in case of a power failure caused by the cyclonic storm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-andhra-pradesh-cm-asks-3-coastal-districts-to-be-on-high-alert-989840.html
25-05-2021||National||Expedite policy on providing ration to poor during pandemic, High Court tells Delhi government||The Delhi High Court Tuesday expressed hope that the Delhi government would expeditiously finalise its policy for providing rations to poor people, especially destitute women and disabled children, "so that they do not starve for want of food" during the pandemic. Justice Rekha Palli observation came after the Delhi government, represented by standing counsel Santosh K Tripathi, said its policy to provide ration and food to the poor was underway and would be finalised soon. The submission by the Delhi government came after the court asked "what do you want them (poor people) to do? Beg for food?" Tripathi told the court that soon over 240 centres would be opened across the national capital to provide rations to the poor, during the pandemic, without asking for any identification. "It is hoped that the respondent (Delhi government) will take expeditious steps to finalise the policy, so that people like the petitioners here, including helpless women and disabled children, do not starve for want of food," the court said and listed the matter for hearing in July. The court was hearing a plea moved on behalf of seven families who lost earning members to Covid-19 or lost jobs due to the pandemic and had no other source of livelihood and were seeking ration facilities without any insistence on ration cards. The court issued notice to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and the Delhi government and sought their stand on the plea, filed through advocate Abhishek Anand, which has also sought monetary relief for the petitioners and others like them to that they can purchase LPG cylinders to cook food or to provide them with LPG cylinders during the lockdown period. The petition also seeks directions that landowners should not forcefully charge rent during the prevailing pandemic or in the alternative the Delhi government should provide them financial assistance to pay the rent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expedite-policy-on-providing-ration-to-poor-during-pandemic-high-court-tells-delhi-government-989850.html
25-05-2021||National||ESIC scheme adds 12.24 lakh new members in March 2021||Around 12.24 lakh new members joined the ESIC-run social security scheme in March, as against 11.77 lakh in the previous month, official data on Tuesday showed, giving a perspective on formal sector employment in the country. The gross enrolments with ESIC during 2020-21 dipped nearly 24 per cent to 1.15 crore amid the pandemic, compared to 1.51 crore in 2019-20, according to the latest data. The latest data are part of a report released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Gross new enrolments with the Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) were 8.87 lakh in June 2020, 4.89 lakh in May and 2.63 lakh in April, showing the increase in enrolments after easing of the lockdown, as per the data. In July 2020, gross enrolments dipped to 7.63 lakh, but improved to 9.5 lakh in August, 11.58 lakh in September and 12.13 lakh in October 2020. It again dipped to 9.58 lakh in November 2020. The gross enrolments with ESIC improved to 12.33 lakh in December 2020. The gross enrolments again dipped to 11.84 in January and further to 11.77 in February this year. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25 last year to contain the spread of coronavirus infections. Later, restrictions were eased for various economic activities in phases. The NSO report showed that gross enrolment of new subscribers with ESIC was 1.49 crore in 2018-19. From September 2017 to March 2018, around 83.35 lakh new subscribers had joined the ESIC scheme. The report said gross new enrolments with ESIC from September 2017 to March 2021 period were nearly five crore. The report is based on the payroll data of new subscribers of various social security schemes run by ESIC, Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA). It has been releasing the data of these bodies since April 2018, covering the period starting from September 2017. According to the report, net new enrolments with retirement fund body EPFO stood at 11.21 lakh in March, down from 11.28 lakh in February 2021. It showed that from September 2017 to March 2021, around 4.2 crore (gross) new subscribers joined the Employees' Provident Fund scheme. The report, titled 'Payroll Reporting in India: An Employment Perspective - March 2021', said that since the number of subscribers is from various sources, there are elements of overlap and the estimates are not additive. NSO also said the report gives different perspectives on the levels of employment in the formal sector and does not measure employment at a holistic level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/esic-scheme-adds-1224-lakh-new-members-in-march-2021-989854.html
25-05-2021||National||Covaxin doses reached 30 cities in 30 days, says Bharat Biotech MD Suchitra Ella||Bharat Biotech Co-Founder and Joint MD Suchitra Ella on Tuesday said that Covaxin has reached 30 cities in 30 days despite some employees being off work due to Covid-19. "Covaxin reaches 30 cities within 30 day. All our employees are committed, working 24x7 thru lockdowns for the country's immunisation - pls send your prayers to their families, some are still quarantined & off work," Ella said in a tweet. By way of dispatch to private hospitals, the vaccine has reached various cities, including Amritsar, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Ernakulam, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Kanpur, Kolkata, Guwahati, Mysore, Pune, Raipur, Mohali and Vijayawada. Last week, Bharat Biotech said it plans to produce an additional 200 million (20 crore) doses of Covaxin at its subsidiary's facility in Gujarat. This will take the overall production volume of the vaccine to about 1 billion (100 crore) doses per annum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-doses-reached-30-cities-in-30-days-says-bharat-biotech-md-suchitra-ella-989860.html
25-05-2021||National||CPI slams ‘authoritarian’ policies of Lakshadweep administrator||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has hit out at Lakshadweep Administrator Praful K Patel over policies introduced by him in the union territory that the party alleged are “anti-people and authoritarian”. In a statement issued by CPI General Secretary D Raja, the party demanded that Patel be recalled immediately. “The Communist Party of India notes with anguish and indignation the anti-people and authoritarian acts of Lakshadweep administrator Praful K Patel. The BJP government at the Centre has been misusing the constitutional authorities including the governors to implement its Hindutva agenda and topple democratically elected governments,” the party alleged. It claimed that the saffron party has been using the same tactics in West Bengal, Puducherry, and other states and union territories. “The latest is its misuse of the administration in Lakshadweep. Lakshadweep is an island and the majority of the population there is of Muslims. The administrator has started dictating what the people of the island should eat. The people are annoyed, angry and upset over the happenings,” it said. The CPI urged President Ram Nath Kovind to take note of the “misuse of official machinery” by the BJP government and recall Patel, the administrator of India’s smallest union territory. “President must take steps to end anti-constitutional moves. The party demands immediate recall of the administrator,” the statement said. Earlier, CPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem had written a letter to Kovind urging that Patel be recalled. Patel, the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, was given additional charge of Lakshadweep in December last year following the demise of Dineshwar Sharma. Sharma, who earlier headed the Intelligence Bureau, was appointed administrator of Lakshadweep in October 2019. The new policies introduced by Patel, a former Gujarat minister, include norms for mandatory acquiring of private property for development, giving police powers to detain anyone, removing beef from mid-day meals, cutting trees for road expansion projects, and introducing two-child norm for those contesting in local body elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpi-slams-authoritarian-policies-of-lakshadweep-administrator-989872.html
25-05-2021||National||SC stays HC order for advance bail on apprehension of Covid||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the Allahabad High Court's "sweeping" order which said that apprehension of death could be the valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused during the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai suspended operation of the direction, issued on May 10, saying each bail application should be decided on its merits. The court, however, declined to interfere with the relief granted to an accused Prateek Jain in the matter. The Uttar Pradesh government, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, said the accused who was granted anticipatory bail till January 3, 2022, has 130 cases pending against him.  Mehta added that the High Court order was relied on in many other states in matters connected with anticipatory bail.   The court sought a reply from the accused Jain and stressed, if he does not appear on the next date, it may consider cancelling his bail and posted the matter for hearing in first week of July.   The top court also appointed senior advocate V Giri, as amicus curiae in the matter to assist it. The HC's single judge, in the order, said "Extraordinary times require extraordinary remedy and desperate times require remedial remedy." It also cited the top court’s direction to decongest jails amid the pandemic.  "Keeping in view the inadequate medical facilities for treating the large number of persons getting infected day by day, common accused cannot be left unprotected from the threat to his life on account of his arrest by police or surrender before the court as per the normal procedure applicable to accused persons in normal times," it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-hc-order-for-advance-bail-on-apprehension-of-covid-989875.html
25-05-2021||National||Bengal, Odisha evacuate lakhs to safety as cyclone Yaas nears coast||West Bengal and Odisha have evacuated lakhs of people from vulnerable areas to safety as severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' is nearing the coast and is expected to make landfall near Dhamra Port in Bhadrak district early on Wednesday morning. Neighbouring Jharkhand has also sounded an alert and is preparing for the cyclone's impact. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that her administration has evacuated over nine lakh people to safe shelters. The Odisha government, on the other hand, said it has moved over 2 lakh people from vulnerable areas in coastal districts to safety. IMD Director-General Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said that 'Yaas' is likely to intensify into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm (VSCS) by Tuesday evening. He said the cyclone's impact will be severe for six hours before and after the landfall and Chandbali will witness the maximum damage. Dr Umashankar Das, a scientist at the Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar said that the landfall will most likely be between Dhamra and Chandbali in Odisha's Bhadrak district. Banerjee said over 74,000 officers and workers and over 2 lakh policemen and civic volunteers have been deployed to mitigate the natural calamity in West Bengal. She said that National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel have been deployed and Army's help will be sought if required. "We have evacuated at least 9 lakh people to relief and flood centres. There are 4,000 flood centres in the state. "We are monitoring the situation 24/7. Control rooms have been set up at every block to monitor the situation, apart from the one at state secretariat Nabanna," she said.  The chief minister said that senior IAS officers have been assigned to monitor the situation in different districts. "The chief and home secretaries are in touch with the district magistrates. I have spoken with the DMs of South and North 24 Parganas, Jhargram and Purba Medinipur districts. I will be at Nabanna to monitor the situation throughout the night," she said. Banerjee said adequate arrangements have been made for Kolkata. Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) Board of Administrators' Chairman Firhad Hakim is monitoring the situation from home, she said. Special Relief Commissioner of Odisha, P K Jena, said that over 2.10 lakh people residing in kutcha houses in low-lying areas have been moved to cyclone shelters. The highest number of evacuees are from Balasore district (74,132), followed by Bhadrak (73,103). Evacuation of people is also underway in Cuttack, Kendrapara, Keonjhar, Khurda, Jagastinghpur, Jajpur, Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Ganjam, Mayurbhanj, Nayagarh, Puri and Angul districts, he said. Around 5,000 pregnant women expecting delivery by June 1 have been admitted to hospitals, a health official said. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has rushed Odisha's Minister of State for Home, D S Mishra to Balasore to monitor the situation in the northern parts of the state. Jena said the four coastal districts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore are in the high-risk zone, while the impact of 'Yaas' will also be felt in Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Sundergarh, Dhenkanal, Angul, and parts of Puri and Khurda districts. He said large-scale destruction is anticipated in the coastal region during landfall. "We have started preparation accordingly after the IMD predicted that the cyclone will hit the coast anywhere near Bhitarkanika, Dhamra and Chandbali," Jena said. Also, 404 rescue teams including 52 from the NDRF, 60 from the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), 205 Fire service teams and 86 groups of tree-cutters have been deployed in the vulnerable districts, he said. Around 50 mm rainfall has been recorded across all the 30 districts since Monday night, with Jagatsinghpur receiving the maximum downpour, Jena said. He said over 10,000 Energy Department employees have been deployed in the vulnerable districts to restore power and 2,000 more will reach by Tuesday night. Jajpur district administration has prohibited the movement of vehicles, barring the emergency ones, on National Highway 16 from Chandikhole to Balasore from Tuesday midnight till landfall, Collector Chakravarti Singh Rathore said. 'Yaas' is likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify further into a VSCS during the next 12 hours, the IMD said. The system has been moving north-northwestwards at a speed of 10 kmph. Wind speeds will increase to 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph over northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Odisha and adjoining West Bengal coasts during landfall, it said. The system is likely to cause heavy rain over large parts of West Bengal and Odisha on Tuesday and Wednesday. 'Yaas' is also expected to cause a storm surge of 2-4 metres along the coastline of Purba Medinipur and 1-2 metres in South 24 Parganas, and may cause inundation of several low-lying areas.   Sanjib Bandopadhyay, the Deputy Director of the Regional Meteorological Centre in Kolkata said there is no possibility of Amphan-like situation in the eastern metropolis. The city was severely affected due to the impact of the super-cyclone last year. He said Kolkata will experience a maximum windspeed of 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph during landfall. The weatherman advised fishermen against venturing out into the sea till further information. It warned of destruction to thatched houses, extensive damage to kutcha dwellings and some damage to pucca buildings in coastal and adjoining interior districts of West Bengal. The MeT Department also warned of bending or uprooting of electric poles and disruption of railway services due to snapping of power lines and signalling systems. The South Eastern Railways has announced the cancellation of several passenger special trains till Wednesday. Jharkhand has evacuated people from vulnerable areas in East and West Singhbhum districts near the borders of West Bengal and Odisha and moved them to safety, a senior official said. The cyclone is likely to hit the Kolhan division comprising East and West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts, besides Bokaro and Khunti, Disaster Management Secretary Amitabh Kaushal told PTI. He said eight NDRF teams have been deployed in areas of the Kolhan division bordering the two neighbouring states. Hospitals have been asked to ensure alternate arrangements for electricity, oxygen and other essential supplies. Officials concerned have been told to ensure restoration of water and power supply at the earliest. Director-General of Police Neeraj Sinha said the police machinery is also ready to deal with any exigency. "This is the first time in the history of Jharkhand that it is facing such a severe cyclonic storm. We are ready to deal with its impact," he said. IMD senior scientist Dr R K Jenamani said that Jharkhand is likely to witness wind speeds of up to 110-120 kmph.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-odisha-evacuate-lakhs-to-safety-as-cyclone-yaas-nears-coast-989879.html
25-05-2021||National||Vaccination or cancellation: Delhi govt's suggestion to Centre on class 12 board exams||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Tuesday reiterated his demand of "vaccination or cancellation" in his suggestions sent to the Central government on conducting class 12 board exams. Sisodia, also Delhi's Education Minister, recommended the tabulation of results taking into account the marks students scored in class 10, class 11 and assessment during class 12 so far. In a letter to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Sisodia said if experts suggest against giving Covishield or Covaxin jabs to class 12 students, the Centre government should procure Pfizer vaccine which has been approved for children above the age of 12 years. "If Centre and state government get on the task together all class 12 students and teachers involved in the examination process can be vaccinated within three to four weeks," he added. "If the government feels it's not feasible to vaccinate students at present then I strongly advocate that the exams should be cancelled and results should be tabulated as per scores obtained in last three years by students — class 10, 11 and 12. Sisodia has also noted in his letter that the government should call a high-level meeting next month to start discussing the examination format for the 2022 exams. "We should start preparations already for next year keeping all circumstance in mind," he said. The Central government had sought detailed suggestions from all state and Union Territories by May 25 following a high-level meeting on conducting the class 12 board exams which were postponed in view of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE has proposed conducting the exams between July 15-August 26 and the result to be declared in September. The board also proposed two options: conducting regular exams for 19 major subjects at notified centres or conducting shorter duration exams at respective schools where students are enrolled. Sisodia said in his letter on Tuesday, "The two options proposed by the centre are not an answer to the challenges posed by the new strain of coronavirus. To ask students to be ready to write exams is not only insensitive but also fatal. Hence, we should consider either vaccination or cancellation." He has made this demand on earlier occasions as well. According to the Ministry of Education, there is broad consensus among states about conducting the examination and a final decision will be announced by June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-or-cancellation-delhi-govts-suggestion-to-centre-on-class-12-board-exams-989883.html
25-05-2021||National||Ramdev-IMA row turns murkier as Yoga Guru's supporters accuse IMA chief of supporting Christian conversion||The row between IMA and Yoga Guru Ramdev is back with a vengeance with Ramdev's supporters hitting out at the practitioners of modern medicines and taking veiled jibes at Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, whose strong-worded letter forced Ramdev to withdraw his contentious remarks regarding Allopathy. The charges flying on social media from the Yoga Guru's supporters vary from a Congress campaign to a Christian conspiracy behind what they call is the "attempt to silence" Ramdev. What in particular raised many eyebrows was Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij taking to Twitter on Monday to announce that one lakh Coronil kits of Patanjali will be distributed free among coronavirus patients in the state, half of whose cost will be borne by Covid Relief Fund of Haryana government. A buoyed Ramdev said the central government as well as other state governments should come forward like the Haryana government for "freedom from Corona". In June last, Patanjali had clarified that they never said that Coronil kit was a cure for the Covid-19 outbreak and had described it as immunity building medicine.   The timing of Vij's announcement was not missed. A number of junior level leaders of BJP also followed suit. While the Yoga Guru bounced back raising 25 questions to practitioners of modern medicine, asking them if they have therapy for a large number of diseases, his aide Acharya Balkrishna hurled conversion charge on IMA president Johnrose Austin Jayalal, tweeting some reports related to it. "Bravo, #IMA doctors and scientists! Evidence-based ayurvedic medicines and ancient yoga science appears pseudo science for you. However, to cure #Corona pandemic you do not trust your own progressive pathy, but show more faith on supra-fogey mind-set involving communal solicitation! Pity for such people, May God enlighten them!," Balkrishna tweeted, tagging a news item which claimed the IMA chief as saying that he sees IMA as a platform to spread the word of Jesus Christ. On Twitter, the hashtag #ShameOnIMAPresidentJayalal was trending. Balkrishna further tweeted, "As part of the conspiracy to convert the entire country into Christianity, Yoga and Ayurveda are being maligned by targeting Yogi Ramdev..."   Varun Puri, whose Twitter bio described him as State Executive Member of BJP, said, using the hashtag #India_With_Ramdev, "every one who talks of Hindu or Hindu culture is a target of Congress. Entire world today knows Ayurveda due to the efforts of Yogi Ramdev but Congress hates him." Gaurav Goel from Chandigarh, whose Twitter profile says "BJP state spokesperson", tagged a website post to tweet, "now please understand why IMA is after Swami Ramdev.  The IMA president wants to convert young medical students to Christianity. #ShameOnIMAPresidentJayalal" Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who wrote a strongly-worded letter telling Ramdev to "withdraw his objectionable statement" saying it had hurt the sentiments of the entire nation and insulted the "Corona warriors", was also panned on social media by Ramdev's supporters. Meanwhile, the Resident Doctors Association of AIIMS carried out a protest against Ramdev on Tuesday evening, asserting that disrespect to Covid martyrs will not be tolerated. Former MP Shahid Sidiqqui said, "All those who believe in Ramdev & think Allopathic has failed , should not get vaccinated, Let those who believe in doctors get vaccinated as there is huge shortage of vaccines due to the wrong policies of central govt."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramdev-ima-row-turns-murkier-as-yoga-gurus-supporters-accuse-ima-chief-of-supporting-christian-conversion-989894.html
25-05-2021||National||SC stays Rajasthan HC order to not arrest accused in offences with 3-year jail||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a Rajasthan High Court's order which issued a "blanket" direction to its registrar general and district courts not to list pre-arrest bail in cases with maximum punishment of three years jail term. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai suspended the operation of the High Court's single judge passed on May 17. Senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, representing the HC's registrar general questioned the validity of the High Court order also giving a blanket direction to state DGP not to arrest an accused for offences where the maximum sentence extended up to three years jail term, till July 17, 2021. The petition, supported by the state government, contended that the HC's order "with glaring defects" would create a situation of lawlessness, besides affecting the general administration of the High Court and the people at large in Rajasthan. It claimed the single judge by passing the order exceeded his jurisdiction and illegally and erroneously interfered with the exclusive administrative domain of the Chief Justice of the High Court. The plea said the order was liable to be struck down as such a general direction in the nature of power exercisable under Article 226 (writ jurisdiction) can be issued by the division bench as per the High Court Rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-rajasthan-hc-order-to-not-arrest-accused-in-offences-with-3-year-jail-989896.html
25-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas: Vessels moved, oil and gas installations in survival mode||Ships at anchorage have been asked to move to a safer area in the sea while oil and gas installations will go into 'survival' mode as they brace for cyclone Yaas to make landfall at north Odisha-West Bengal coast. Cyclone Yaas, equivalent to a category 3 hurricane, is the second severe storm in the span of about 10 days to hit Indian coasts. The cyclone is set to make landfall sometime Wednesday evening. A major contingency plan has been put in place to mitigate the impact of the cyclone on oil and gas installations, an official statement said. Odisha coast has two major ports at Dhamra and Paradip and a huge oil refinery at Paradip. West Bengal hosts a major port at Haldia. Oil and gas exploration and production installations are designed to withstand cyclones. There are also smaller ports along the coast.  "The oil and gas industry has made all arrangements to maintain adequate petroleum product, CNG, LPG stock at all the dealerships in the area expected to be hit by the cyclone," it said. "Disaster Control Room at Corporate and Divisional level has been set up by the oil and gas companies." The contingency plan drawn includes suspending all critical operations once the cyclone intensity increases, shutdown of identified oil and gas installations before wind speed exceeds 60-80 kph, and all vessels at anchorage moved to safe areas away from the path of the cyclone. Offshore oil and gas installations will go into what is called a 'survival' mode -- halting movements and going into a cocoon. Ports, refineries and plants are on high alert. Indian Oil Corp (IOC), the nation's biggest oil firm, stopped unloading crude oil at Paradip in Odisha and asked all ships to move 250 nautical miles away from the path of the cyclone. Both Paradip Port Trust and Dhamra Port have asked all vessels at anchorage to move to a safer area in the sea, while those alongside berths have been asked to keep their main engines ready to move to sea at a short notice. "Oil industry officials are in close coordination with Paradip and Haldia Port authorities on the berthing and de-berthing of vessels/barges at jetties. "Activities at all project sites have been temporarily suspended, and the workers have been moved out to ensure their safety. All ships carrying petroleum products and crude oil have been advised to keep a safe distance from the cyclone's path," the statement said. However, the industry is geared up to ensure a continuous supply of petroleum products and other essential commodities, including medical oxygen, for continued Covid-19 management. "All-out efforts are underway to ensure that the supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) from the eastern part of India to the rest of the country doesn't get affected by the cyclonic storm," it noted. Installations have been asked to follow standard operating procedures as per the Emergency Response Disaster Management Plan. "All stormwater drains have been checked and cleaned," it said, adding electrical/diesel pumps for removal of water from electrical trenches and other places have been arranged. All high mast towers light fixtures have been lowered and all temporary connections removed. Transporters have been advised to park vehicles at a safe place en route to the destination in heavy rains/winds. At aviation fuelling stations, provisions are in place to provide mobile refuelling near to calamity site for meeting rescue/relief air operations, it added. At oil loading and unloading arms of ports, no crude oil tanker is allowed at the Single Point Mooring (SPM) in the run up to the landfall of the storm. SPM hoses and hawsers have been secured to prevent damage. Maintenance and support vessels have returned to shore. At ONGC drilling sites, all supply vessels have been moved to safe locations. At the oil storage cavern at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, barring essential operational activities, all work has been suspended until the cyclone subsides to minimise the number of staff present at the terminal. Also, pipeline transfer of LPG has been suspended. At IOC's Haldia and Paradip refineries, additional workforce in each shift have been kept for effective manning and emergency handling. Also, hospitals have been adequately manned and ambulances kept ready in standby condition for handling any medical emergencies. First aid kits have been replenished at all locations. Other humanitarian efforts to help people in distress include stocking enough LPG cylinders at all cyclone shelters in close coordination with district authorities, making arrangements for standby diesel generators for hospitals as well as stocking diesel at the major hospitals in anticipation of power failure. All fuel stations have been topped up with sufficient stocks to prevent any fuel shortage. Also, all LPG cylinder bookings are being cleared on priority in the areas likely to be affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-vessels-moved-oil-and-gas-installations-in-survival-mode-989898.html
25-05-2021||National||PM Modi to address 'Buddha Purnima' event on May 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address on the occasion of "Virtual Vesak Global Celebrations" on 'Buddha Purnima' on Wednesday, his office said.  The event is being organised by the culture ministry in collaboration with the International Buddhist Confederation (IBC) and will witness participation of all the supreme heads of the Buddhist Sanghas from around the world, the Prime Minister's Office said.  Over 50 most prominent Buddhist religious leaders from around the world will address the congregation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-buddha-purnima-event-on-may-26-989905.html
25-05-2021||National||Moderna's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India likely next year; Pfizer ready with 5 cr doses for 2021||Moderna is expecting to launch a single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India next year and is in talks with Cipla among other Indian firms, while another US giant Pfizer is ready to offer 5 crore shots in 2021 itself but it wants significant regulatory relaxations including indemnification, sources said on Tuesday. While Moderna has conveyed to Indian authorities that it does not have surplus vaccines to share in 2021, there are limited prospects of Johnson & Johnson exporting its jabs from the US to other countries in the near future, the sources privy to discussions added. Two rounds of high-level meetings chaired by the Cabinet Secretary were held last week on the availability of vaccines in the global as well as domestic markets as it was felt that there is an urgent need to procure the jabs at a time the country is reeling under an unprecedented second wave of Covid-19 and a widening gap between supply and requirement. Currently, the country is using two 'made-in India' jabs -- Covishield and Covaxin -- to inoculate its billion-plus population and has administered 20 crore doses since launching the world's largest vaccination drive in mid-January. A third vaccine, Russian-made Sputnik V, has been approved by the government and is being used on a smaller scale at present. In the high-level meeting officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, NITI Aayog, Department of Biotechnology, Law Ministry and Health Ministry were present. It was discussed that Moderna doesn't have surplus vaccines to share in 2021 and that it plans to launch its single-dose vaccine for the Indian market only in 2022, for which, they are in discussion with Cipla and other Indian companies, a source said. It is learnt that Cipla has already evinced interest in procuring 5 crore doses from Moderna for 2022 and has requested confirmation from the central government in respect of stability in regulatory requirements/policy regime.      The Health Ministry has also been asked to take an early decision on Cipla's request regarding support required by them for procurement of Moderna vaccines. In the case of Pfizer, the US pharma giant has indicated availability of 5 crore vaccine doses -- 1 crore in July, 1 crore in August, 2 crore in September and 1 crore in October --for supply to India in 2021 and that it will deal only with Government of India and payment for vaccines will have to be made by GOI to Pfizer India. The central government will make its own arrangement for further channelisation of procured vaccines in the domestic market.    According to another source, for the supply of vaccines to India, Pfizer has asked for indemnification from the Government of India and a document in this regard has been received from Pfizer Inc. Further, Pfizer has also sought certain relaxations in the regulatory regime, including relaxation in the requirement of post-approval bridging trials and dispensing the requirement of testing their vaccines in CDL (Central Drugs Laboratory). Taking into consideration the track record of the company, similar arrangements done with other countries in the world and the current pandemic situation, an overall view may be taken to indemnify the company by the government, officials said but flagged that in case a view is taken to indemnify the company, similar demands may be made by other companies. As per the information furnished by Pfizer, around 116 countries in the world including the USA have signed the indemnification document. Further, considering that over 14.7 crore doses of Pfizer had been administered worldwide without any significant reports of adverse effects, a view needs to be taken to indemnify the company in order to supplement the availability of vaccines in India, officials discussed at one recent meeting. It was suggested that a decision on the issue of Pfizer Inc may be taken at the earliest and that NEGVAC (National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19) may hold a meeting immediately on these issues. At a press conference on Monday, in response to a question on states being unable to procure vaccines directly from Moderna and Pfizer, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal had said, "Whether it is Pfizer or Moderna, at the Centre-level, we have been coordinating with them."    "Also, the order book of both Pfizer and Moderna is full so it depends on their surplus that how much they can provide in India... they will come back to the Centre and we will help in facilitation to states," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modernas-single-dose-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-likely-next-year-pfizer-ready-with-5-cr-doses-for-2021-989910.html
25-05-2021||National||Gujarat board exam for class 12 students from July 1||The state board exam for class 12 students of both general and science streams will be conducted from July 1 with all Covid-19 protocols in place, the Gujarat government announced on Tuesday. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who chaired a high-level meeting on the issue, took the decision in the larger interest of over 6.83 lakh students, said Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama. A detailed exam schedule will be announced in the next few days, an official said. As many 1.40 lakh students of science stream and 5.43 lakh pupils of general stream (arts and commerce) of the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) are expected to write the exam commencing from July 1, said the minister. To maintain social distancing in view of the coronavirus outbreak, only 20 students will be accommodated in one exam hall, said Chudasama, adding all SOPs related to the pandemic will be strictly followed during the test. Since only 20 students will be accommodated in one hall, the state government will increase the number of exam centres as well as rooms for this year's exam, he said. Moreover, students will be allotted exam centres that are nearer to their residence to avoid travel, the minister said. If a student misses the exam due to coronavirus, he/she will be allowed to reappear after 25 days with a new set of question papers, he said. Notably, the state government had earlier cancelled the state board exam for Class 10 students in view of the recent surge in coronavirus cases and granted them mass promotion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-board-exam-for-class-12-students-from-july-1-989919.html
25-05-2021||National||Over 1.77 crore Covid-19 doses still available with states, UTs: Union Health Ministry||More than 1.77 crore doses of anti-coronavirus vaccines are still available with the states and Union Territories, while seven lakh doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The Government of India has so far provided more than 21.89 crore vaccine doses to states and Union Territories. Of this, the total consumption, including the wastage, is 19,93,39,750 doses, according to data available at 8 am on Tuesday. "More than 1.77 crore Covid vaccine doses (1,77,67,850) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. Furthermore, seven lakh vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days," the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the central government has been supporting the states and Union Territories by providing the vaccines free of cost. In addition, it has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the states and Union Territories. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the Centre for containment and management of the pandemic, along with test, track and treat strategy, and Covid-appropriate behaviour. The implementation of the liberalised and accelerated phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination has started from May 1, 2021. Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the government. It would continue to make these doses available to the state government totally free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-177-crore-covid-19-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-union-health-ministry-989923.html
25-05-2021||National||Goa govt challenges Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in sexual assault case in HC||The Goa government on Tuesday challenged the acquittal by a sessions court of Tehelka magazine founder editor Tarun Tejpal in the sexual assault case by the Bombay High Court. On May 21, a sessions court in Goa had acquitted Tejpal of the charge of sexually assaulting a former woman colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in the state in 2013. Goa Advocate General Devidas Pangam told PTI that the state government has challenged the order before the Goa bench of the Bombay High Court. He said the HC is yet to assign the date for hearing the appeal. Tejpal had faced the trial under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control) of the Indian Penal Code. He was acquitted of all the charges by Additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant had said his government would file an appeal against Tejpal's acquittal in the High Court as it was confident that there was evidence against the journalist. The alleged incident had taken place on November 7, 2013. Tejpal stepped down as editor-in-chief of Tehelka in the wake of sexual assault allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-govt-challenges-tarun-tejpals-acquittal-in-sexual-assault-case-in-hc-989924.html
25-05-2021||National||'Is Lakshadweep being turned into a mini Kashmir?' Local narrates plight||Narrating the situations in Lakshadweep, a native of the island has expressed concerns that apart from anti-people measures, administrator Praful K Patel is also implementing unscientific decisions as if he wanted to force people to leave the island. A contract worker, the youth preferred to maintain anonymity fearing vindictive measures from the administration citing many such instances. He shared his plight with DH through an audio message sent by his close relative. The youth said that the biggest problem of the island was that whatever was happening was not known outside the Union Territory. "As the '#SaveLakshadweep' campaign got triggered on social media, many Twitter accounts have been blocked and people are fearing that even mobile phone communications might be stopped. Is Lakshadweep being turned into a mini Kashmir? That is the main concern of the people," he said. He added that most of the controversial orders were being issued late at night with the knowledge of only a couple of officials. After the Goonda Act was enforced, which was the first controversial decision of Patel, many who protested against the CAA were arrested. Thereafter steps like issuing bar licences and imposing a beef ban were being initiated. "At least 4,000 contract employees may have been already thrown out of jobs... Moves to bring in business lobbies from Gujarat to Lakshadweep is being feared. "Steps were being initiated to widen roads even when traffic on the island is very low. Already many islands are small strips of lands and widening the roads would further take away the land. In the name of cleaning roads, trees on roadsides were being painted red and white. We really don't know what are his intentions and are hence genuinely concerned, said the youth who is settled with family on the island.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-lakshadweep-being-turned-into-a-mini-kashmir-local-narrates-plight-989930.html
25-05-2021||National||Mythological content viewing on TV goes up again as states go under lockdown||With a majority of states under lockdown, it is a repeat of last year's trend for television networks, with viewers showing a greater proclivity to watch mythological shows, Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) said on Tuesday. During the nationwide lockdown last year, re-launching mythological fiction shows like Ramayana and Mahabharat had paid rich dividends for the national broadcaster DD, keeping it ahead of all in viewership ratings. It can be noted that many states have been under a lockdown since mid-April due to arrest for the spread of the second wave of infections. However, there has not been a nationwide lockdown this year. For the week ended May 14, viewership of mythological content on Hindi general entertainment channels increased to 15.2 billion minutes, which is a 73 per cent growth over the 8.8 million billion minutes recorded for the week ended April 9, BARC said. “We had witnessed a spike in viewership for mythological content last year during the onset of the pandemic as well. Given the current environment - with partial lockdowns and limitations on movement in several parts of the country - this trend is once more clearly visible,” a spokesperson for BARC said. At the start of last year's lockdown, the overall viewership for mythology-based content stood at 25.7 billion minutes for a week, which hit a high of 119.1 billion within three weeks and declined from there. In April 2020, reliance on the mythological content was so high that 43 per cent of Hindi GECs' airtime was dominated by such shows. In August last year, the 207-minute event of Bhoomi Pujan for a new temple for Lord Ram in Ayodhya was broadcast on 198 channels and garnered over 7.3 billion viewing minutes from 163 million people who watched it, as per BARC.    Meanwhile, the body said viewership of comedy content is also going up steadily over the last month of the lockdowns, rising 36 per cent on the Hindi GECs to 31.8 billion minutes for the week ended May 14, when compared to the 23.3 billion minutes for the week ended April 9||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mythological-content-viewing-on-tv-goes-up-again-as-states-go-under-lockdown-989959.html
25-05-2021||National||Fact-check: WhatsApp hoax claims Nobel laureate said all vaccinated people will die within 2 years||Readers should note that Montagnier is known for his anti-vaccine stance. Founding editor of Alt News Science Dr Sumaiya Shaikh opined, “It’s the opposite of what Montagnier said. The virus transmission is reduced with vaccines. In order to multiply in the body, viruses make an enormous amount of copies of each other. This process allows the genetic material of the virus to replicate itself several times. This replication can cause random ‘mistakes’ in the genetic material, called mutations. When the mutated virus replicates further to create copies of each other, the mutation spreads in the person. The person with the mutated virus infection can then infect others. Thus, by vaccinating, and inhibiting the spread of the infection, the virus spread is halted and thereby, the new mutations, if at all, have fewer chances to spread in the community. Vaccines prevent widespread replication across a large population which ultimately reduces the creation of new variants.” Assam police posted an alert on Facebook about the misleading WhatsApp message.  French virologist Luc Montagnier did not say “there is no hope and no possible treatment for those who have been vaccinated already. We must be prepared to incinerate the bodies.” However, he is known for expressing anti-vaccine sentiments in the past as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-whatsapp-hoax-claims-nobel-laureate-said-all-vaccinated-people-will-die-within-2-years-989965.html
25-05-2021||National||India's foodgrain output to rise 2.66% to record 305.43 MT in 2020-21: Govt||India's foodgrain production is estimated to rise 2.66 per cent to a new record of 305.43 million tonnes in the current crop year 2020-21, on better output of rice, wheat and pulses amid good monsoon rains last year, the agriculture ministry said on Tuesday. In the 2019-20 crop year (July-June), the country's foodgrain output (comprising wheat, rice, pulses and coarse cereals) stood at a record 297.5 million tonnes. Releasing the third advance estimates for the 2020-21 crop year, the agriculture ministry said foodgrain production is projected at a record 305.43 million tonnes. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar attributed the rise in production to efforts of the farmers and scientists as well as policies of the central government. As per the data, rice production is pegged at a record 121.46 million tonne in the 2020-21 crop year as against 118.87 million tonne in the previous year. Wheat production is estimated to increase to a record 108.75 million tonnes in 2020-21 from 107.86 million tonnes in the previous year, while output of coarse cereals is likely to increase to 49.66 million tonnes, from 47.75 million tonnes a year ago. Pulses output is estimated at 25.56 million tonnes, a rise as compared with 23.03 million tonnes in 2019-20 crop year. In the non-foodgrain category, the production of oilseeds is estimated at 36.56 million tonnes in 2020-21 as against 33.21 million tonnes in the previous year. Sugarcane production is pegged at 392.79 million tonnes from 370.50 million tonnes in the previous year, while cotton output is expected to be higher at 36.49 million bales (170 kg each) from 36.07 million bales in the previous year. Production of jute/mesta is estimated to drop slightly to 9.62 million bales (180 kg each) in 2020-21 crop year, from 9.87 million bales in the previous year. The ministry said the foodgrains estimates have been made based on the inputs from states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-foodgrain-output-to-rise-266-to-record-30543-mt-in-2020-21-govt-989971.html
25-05-2021||National||India worried as Mehul Choksi goes missing despite A&B govt's promise to keep him under watch||As Mehul Choksi went missing from Antigua and Barbuda, New Delhi has conveyed its concern to the island nation’s government, which had promised to keep the fugitive diamantaire under watch as long as he would continue to explore legal options to prevent his extradition to India. New Delhi requested Prime Minister Gaston Browne’s government in Saint John’s to keep it updated about the investigation launched into the disappearance of the billionaire, who allegedly colluded with his nephew and jeweller Nirav Modi to defraud the Punjab National Bank of about Rs 14,000 crore. Choksi was reported missing at Johnson Point Police Station in Antigua on Sunday. He went missing after leaving his home at the Jolly Harbour township on the west coast of Antigua last Sunday. He was last seen at 5:15 p.m. (local time in Antigua and Barbuda) that day. His car was later found abandoned by the police. The Antigua and Barbuda (A&B) government already informed the Interpol, which had issued a Red Corner Notice against him. The A&B police issued a press-release stating that they had conducted “numerous searches” based on “additional information”, but “to no avail”. Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal also confirmed to the PTI news agency that his client had gone missing in A&B. The cops of A&B sought assistance from local residents to trace Choksi, whom they described as a 62-year-old man of “Indian descent, brown in complexion, five feet six inches (5’ 6”) in height, heavily built with a balding hairline”. The High Commission of India in Guyana is tasked with managing New Delhi’s diplomatic relations with A&B too and it is in the process of obtaining further details from the authorities in Saint John’s about the disappearance of Choksi.    The A&B government conveyed to New Delhi that its police investigators had so far found no specific information to suggest that the diamantaire might have fled the nation, according to a source DH spoke to. The issue was also raised in A&B Parliament where the Prime Minister of the country informed the lawmakers that his government had been in touch with the Interpol. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also got in touch with the Embassy of Antigua and Barbuda in New Delhi to seek further details about the probe into the disappearance of Choksi, whom the government of the island nation had granted citizenship in November 2017 taking into account his investment in that country. Choksi had taken oath as a citizen of A&B in January 2018 – just days after he and Nirav Modi fled India. The Ministry of External Affairs had in February 2018 revoked the passports issued to both Choksi and Modi. A source said that New Delhi had specifically requested the A&B Government to stop him from fleeing the country by sea, land and air. The A&B Government had assured New Delhi that he would be kept under watch till the local high court would pronounce verdict on his lawsuit, challenging any move to strip him of his citizenship of the tiny country and to extradite him to India. India had in August 2018 sent to the A&B Government two separate requests seeking extradition of Choksi. The owner of Gitanjali Gems, however, had by then already moved the A&B High Court to bar the government of the country from detaining him for extradition on the request of India. India and A&B have no bilateral extradition treaty. But New Delhi and St John's are of the view that since India, like A&B, is also a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Section 7 of the country's Extradition Act 1993 does provide a scope for acting on the request for sending back the jeweller even in the absence of a bilateral treaty. Sources in New Delhi, however, said that even if the A&B government was keen to cooperate with the Government of India, the extradition would not be possible unless the courts in the island nation cleared it. Choksi’s nephew Modi had been arrested in London in March 2019. His extradition to India was cleared by British Home Secretary, Priti Patel last month after the Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London had ruled in favour of it. Nirav Modi, however, still has options to challenge it in the High Court and the Supreme Court of the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-worried-as-mehul-choksi-goes-missing-despite-ab-govts-promise-to-keep-him-under-watch-989980.html
25-05-2021||National||MP surgeons remove part of jaws to save lives of 4 'black fungus' patients||Surgeons in Indore had to remove half of the upper jaws of four patients infected by mucormycosis or 'black fungus' over the last one week to save their lives, a senior surgeon said on Tuesday. "A team of surgeons from our college operated on 50 patients of 'black fungus' during the last one week. For the prevention of the infection, we had to surgically remove half of the upper jaws of four patients,” said Dr Amit Rawat, Associate Professor, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeon, Government Autonomous College of Dentistry. Rawat said if the spread of the fungal infection is stopped in the mouth of the patient through proper treatment, it cannot reach the eyes and brain, which saves these vital organs. According to officials, over 350 mucormycosis patients, including some from other districts and some from Indore, remain admitted to local hospitals. The 'black fungus' infection is found in some of the Covid-19 survivors. Experts blame sugar and high use of steroids as some of the causes for the spread of the infection in patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-surgeons-remove-part-of-jaws-to-save-lives-of-4-black-fungus-patients-989984.html
25-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: As India Covid-19 vaccine shortage rises, daily jabs plunge over 35% ||Newly-appointed Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that the Covid-19 situation in Kerala was under control.  A Delhi court adjourned to May 28 the hearing on the bail application filed by businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the oxygen concentrator black marketing case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-as-india-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-rises-daily-jabs-plunge-over-35-989985.html
25-05-2021||National||Yaas intensifies into very severe cyclonic storm: IMD||Cyclone Yaas intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm on Tuesday evening, India Meteorological Department Director-General M Mohapatra said.   The IMD has also issued a red-coded warning alert to the Odisha and West Bengal coasts. "The severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' (pronounced as 'Yass') over northwest and Bay of Bengal intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm," Mohapatra said. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Odisha coast close to Dhamra port by the early morning of Wednesday. "It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Islands close to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore, during noon of Wednesday, May 26 as a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. The cyclone is being tracked by Doppler Weather Radar at Paradip, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yaas-intensifies-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-989989.html
25-05-2021||National||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal is the new CBI Director||Senior IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal was on Tuesday night appointed as the new Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation. The appointment came a day after a high-powered committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi shortlisted three candidates -- CISF Director General Jaiswal, his SSB counterpart Ramesh Chandra and Special Secretary (Internal Security) VSK Kaumudi. From this, the Appointments Committee of Cabinet chose Jaiswal for the top post in the CBI, the country's premier investigating agency. Jaiswal (59), a 1985-batch Maharashtra cadre IPS officer, has been given appointment for two years from the date of assumption of charge of the office or until further orders whichever is earlier, according to the order by Department of Personnel and Training. He will succeed Rishi Kumar Shukla who retired in February. Since then, Additional Director Praveen Sinha has been holding the additional charge of CBI Director. Jaiswal, a 1985-batch officer from Maharashtra cadre, has been the Director General of Police in Maharashtra. He was also in the team that probed the infamouse fake stamp scam. He had also a stint in the Anti-Terror Squad of the Maharashtra Police during which he was part of the investigation team that probed the 2006 Malegaon blast case. He also served the Research and Analysis Wing for nine years and for three years, he was Additional Secretary, one of the top posts in the external intelligence agency. On Monday, the high-powered committee of Modi, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had shortlisted three officers -- Jaiswal, his SSB counterpart Ramesh Chandra and Special Secretary (Internal Security) VSK Kaumudi. From this, Jaiswal was chosen by the government. Serving Indian Police Service (IPS) officers of the senior-most batches -- 1984, 1985, 1986 and 1987 -- were considered for the post . The panel was initially given a list of 109 officers who are in the 1984-1987 batches and eligible for the post. Out of this, ten were further chosen and then pruned to six before the meeting. The other officers who were considered included NIA chief Y C Modi and BSF Director General Rakesh Asthana, both considered close to Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah as well as Kerala DGP Loknath Behra and BCAS Director General MA Ganapathy among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/subodh-kumar-jaiswal-is-the-new-cbi-director-989990.html
25-05-2021||National||Delhi HC asks Ganga Ram Hospital to give number of 'black fungus' patients admitted||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital to give details of number of patients of 'black fungus', primarily those affected by the disease after recovering from Covid-19 and method of distribution of the medicines to them. The high court was informed that the hospital has been provided with 360 vials of Amphotericin B, the injection administered to patients for treating Mucormycosis (black fungus), by the Delhi government last night. The hospital, however, claimed it has distributed all the vials to the patients and now left with no medicine, which is already in shortage in the country. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked the hospital to explain on Thursday how it is using and distributing the medicine among the patients and file a report by May 26. The bench took up the matter after a woman advocate mentioned about the condition of her 80-year-old grandfather, who is admitted at the Ganga Ram Hospital and fighting 'black fungus'. The woman, who had yesterday said they had not received a single vial of the medicine for last five days due to which he has undergone two surgeries and possibly the third one might take place on Tuesday, informed the court that with the efforts of counsel for Centre and Delhi government, the patient got six vials and they were administered the medicine but they still need more. On court’s direction, one of the doctors of the hospital joined the proceeding and informed that they don’t have only one patient but many and they have to administer the medicine as per the patient’s condition and requirement and that they have distributed all the 360 vials. The doctor said currently he was not having the data of patients being treated at the hospital, however, he will give the details on Thursday. The court said if any more vial is available with the hospital, it be given to the woman lawyer’s grandfather, whose eye has swollen since morning and is in great pain. After hearing the submissions of Delhi government’s counsel that there could be few unallocated vials left with the state, the court said in case there is any unallocated stock of the injection lying with the drug controller, it be used for the treatment of this man. Delhi government’s counsel told the court that on Monday they had 670 vials of the medicine and after distributing to hospitals, four were remaining. Out of today’s stock of 400, the state has distributed 396 and four are left. As of Monday, there were 475 cases of 'black fungus' in Delhi, the court was informed yesterday. According to the Union Health Ministry, mucormycosis or 'black fungus' is a complication caused by a fungal infection. People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other type of skin trauma. The disease is being detected among patients who are recovering or have recovered from Covid-19. Moreover, anyone who is diabetic and whose immune system is not functioning well needs to be on the guard against this, the ministry has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-ganga-ram-hospital-to-give-number-of-black-fungus-patients-admitted-989994.html
25-05-2021||National||Jayant Chaudhary appointed new RLD president||Jayant Chaudhary was on Tuesday appointed as the new national president of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), according to a party statement.  His elevation to the post comes following the demise of party president and his father Ajit Singh who succumbed to Covid-19 on May 6.  The decision to elevate 42-year-old Chaudhary, who was till now the party vice president, was taken during a virtual meeting of the party's national executive, the RLD statement read.  "During the meeting, party's general secretary Trilok Tyagi proposed Jayant's name for the post of national president which was approved by former MP and national general secretary Munshiram Pal and unanimously supported by all members of the national executive," it added.  Upon his appointment as the new RLD chief, Chaudhary expressed gratitude towards party members and called on them to follow the footsteps of party ideologues Chaudhary Charan Singh and Ajit Singh. "I am honoured and mindful of challenges ahead. I will try my best to strengthen our organisation and will value inputs as we collectively take our core issues forward. I'm drafting an open letter to express my condolences and solidarity with all Covid-impacted families as a first step," he later tweeted.  His father Ajit Singh had served as Union minister and was a multiple-time parliamentarian, while grandfather Chaudhary Charan Singh, a leader of the farmers, was the fifth prime minister of the country. Jayant Chaudhary, a former Lok Sabha MP, graduated from Delhi University and in 2002 completed masters in accounting and finance from the London School of Economics and Political Science. The RLD held sway in parts of northern India, especially western Uttar Pradesh, that were dominated by the Jat community until 2014 when it suffered a rout in the Lok Sabha polls. It further suffered losses in the UP elections in 2017. However, the scion of the Jat family this year started an aggressive campaigning against the BJP-led central and UP governments on the back of the massive farmer protests that began in November 2020 over the contentious new farm laws. In Tuesday's national executive meeting, the senior RLD office-bearers condemned the Centre's handling of the pandemic and also resolved to work hard for the UP elections which are due next year, according to the party statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jayant-chaudhary-appointed-new-rld-president-989996.html
25-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas: Army deploys 17 relief columns in West Bengal||The Indian Army has deployed 17 integrated relief columns, comprising specialised personnel with necessary equipment and inflatable boats, in West Bengal as cyclone Yaas approaches the country's eastern coast. "The deployment of the Army columns is based on a requisition and is in close coordination with the government of West Bengal," the Army said in a statement. Cyclone Yaas is likely to make landfall near Dhamra Port in Odisha's Bhadrak district early on Wednesday morning and it can have a speed of 155 kmph to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) had said on Monday. The Army columns are equipped to undertake casualty evacuation of stranded or marooned persons, medical treatment, road clearing or tree cutting, and distribution of relief material, as would be required by the local district administration, the statement said. "Columns have been pre-positioned at Purulia, Jhargram, Birbhum, Bardhaman, West Midnapur, Howrah, Hoogly, Nadia, 24 Parganas North & South," the Army said. Nine cyclone relief columns have also been kept on standby at Kolkata for redeployment, as necessary in West Bengal, at a short notice, it said. The cyclone is likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours, the IMD said in its latest bulletin issued at 9.10 am on Tuesday. Yaas has been moving north-northwestwards at a speed of 10 kmph during the past six hours. It lays centred around 320 km south-southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 430 km south-southeast of Balasore (Odisha) and 420 km south-southeast of Digha (West Bengal) at 5.30 am, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-army-deploys-17-relief-columns-in-west-bengal-989998.html
25-05-2021||National||Centre asks states to plan for scaling up vaccination through stocks, supplies till June-end||The Centre on Tuesday advised states and UTs to plan for scaling up vaccination coverage through available stocks and anticipated supplies till the end of June, while private hospitals were advised not to allow offline vaccine registration as all registrations should be online.  The Union Health Ministry, which held a review meeting through a video conference with administrators from states and UTs on the progress of vaccination, urged the states and UTs to make complete use of the available flexibilities on CoWin to enhance the pace of vaccination drive, a Health Ministry statement said. The visibility of anticipated supplies of each tranche with expected date of delivery up till June 15 for free supply by Government of India and till June 30 for directly procured vaccine doses by states has been provided by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs, the statement said. They were advised to constitute a two or three member dedicated team to regularly coordinate with vaccine manufacturers for timely supplies of vaccine through 'other than Government of India channel' which also includes private hospitals (the list of private hospital along with doses contracted and supplied is being shared daily with states and UTs).  Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a review meeting through video conference with administrators from states and UTs on the progress of vaccination, modifications on CoWin software that will provide more flexibility to vaccine administrators, along with the effective implementation of SoPs for containment and management of Covid (particularly in areas underserved by health infrastructure). A detailed presentation on the progress of the countrywide vaccination drive was presented, with a focus on states and UTs that are lagging behind in providing coverage to the vulnerable population groups.  The coverage of first and second doses to healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) state-wise was reviewed. The scope to substantially speed up vaccination in this category was stressed, the statement said. "Whereas states have been urged repeatedly to keep vaccine wastage below 1 per cent, many states such as Jharkhand (37.3%), Chhattisgarh (30.2%), Tamil Nadu (15.5%), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8%), Madhya Pradesh (10.7%) are reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3%)," the statement said. States and UTs were advised to prepare a district-wise, Covid Vaccination Centre (CVC)-wise plan for administration of Covid-19 vaccine till June 15 and use multiple media platforms for dissemination of such a plan, the statement said.  They were also advised to prepare and quickly implement decentralised communication strategy to address vaccine hesitancy in rural, tribal or hard-to-reach areas. Lactating women among healthcare and frontline workers who have not received vaccination are to be prioritised, the statement said. States and UTs were advised to make proactive efforts for engagement of private sector hospitals in Covid-19 vaccination and ensure monitoring for pace of vaccination and strict adherence to SOPs of vaccination shared by Government of India.  It was re-emphasised that both government and private CVCs are required to publish their calendar on CoWin in advance and should desist from publishing single day calendars to ensure that there is no overcrowding at the CVCs and the process of booking appointments on CoWin is hassle-free, the statement said. States were also informed that Russian vaccine Sputnik has now been added to CoWin portal. It was reiterated to the states that as per the latest advisory shared with them regarding workplace Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs), family members as defined by the employers will henceforth be covered for vaccination. Furthermore, there will be special sessions for 'Persons Without Identity Cards', the statement said. Another flexibility added on CoWin is that there will be a provision for separate sessions for 18-44 years and 45+ years categories. Sessions can now be rescheduled instead of cancelled while recording the reason for the same. Private hospitals were advised not to allow offline vaccine registration as all registrations should be online. It was also clarified that industrial organizations and corporate entities that don't have a hospital are required to tie up with a private hospital. Private hospitals were also advised to publish adequately longer schedules of vaccination in terms of days. Regarding the publication of schedule, states have been advised to fix a time duration in a day for publishing the schedule (e.g. between 8 am and 9 am, 9 pm to 10 pm etc.) to make it easier for citizens to see availability and book appointments in a simple and easy manner, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-plan-for-scaling-up-vaccination-through-stocks-supplies-till-june-end-990000.html
25-05-2021||National||Fundraiser on Clubhouse raises $50,000 for Covid-19 relief in India||United4India, an audio-only fund-raiser initiated by WeTheFuture on social-networking platform Clubhouse has raised $50,000 within a week towards Covid-19 relief works in the country. WeTheFuture, a social impact organization, has planned fundraising activities throughout the month with a live music event on June 5, which is marked as World Environment Day. “The fund is dispersed via pledge to the vetted NGOs, including GiveIndia, Oxygen for India, Chopra Foundation, Desai Foundation, UNICEF, and SeeSchool, using charity navigator and trusted sources on the ground," a statement from ‘WeTheFuture’ said. The proceedings are expected to help the individuals in need of services such as oxygen, hospital beds, medicines, Covid-19 home care and doctor consultations, it said. “With United4India campaign, we are supporting NGOs, using real-time help on CH by taking help from disruptive startups,” said Kunal Sood of ‘We The Future’ organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fundraiser-on-clubhouse-raises-50000-for-covid-19-relief-in-india-990008.html
25-05-2021||National||Aggressive campaign being run in UP against Covid-19: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asserted that an aggressive campaign is being run in the state against Covid-19 on the lines of the drive against encephalitis disease. He said the recovery rate is increasing and the Covid positivity rate is decreasing in the state. In Gorakhpur, more than 75,000 people in the 18-44 age group have been inoculated so far and a widespread vaccination drive for this category will start all over the state from June 1, Adityanath told reporters here. "We are running an aggressive campaign against the third wave of Covid-19 on the lines of the encephalitis campaign as we were able to bring down the encephalitis death rate to a minimum level during the last three years," he said. "Preparation in each district is in full swing. Preparation is underway for 100-bed PICU ward at each medical college. We were successful in facing the second wave of Covid and we have started making preparations for the third wave on war footing," he said. The chief minister made the remarks when he had gone to inspect a dedicated Covid hospital on AIIMS campus here, PICU ward at the district hospital and the encephalitis ward at BRD Medical College. During his visit to the district hospital, Adityanath interacted with children admitted in the PICU ward. At BRD Medical college, he asked patients if they are satisfied with the facilities at the hospital. "We faced a high demand of oxygen during the second wave and keeping this in view, in Gorakhpur alone, we have started the process of installation of 25 oxygen plants and each district will become self-sufficient in terms of oxygen supply," he said. After successfully curbing the annual spurt of Japanese Encephalitis and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome among children during the last four years of his stint, Adityanath in March had launched a month-long, state-wide vaccination drive for children to prevent recurrence of the fatal malady.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aggressive-campaign-being-run-in-up-against-covid-19-yogi-adityanath-990011.html
25-05-2021||National||Facebook, Google working on complying with India's social media rules as deadline looms||With just hours to go before the new IT rules for social media companies take effect, large digital platforms Facebook and Google on Tuesday asserted they are working towards meeting the compliance requirements. The new rules, announced on February 25, require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer.  'Significant social media intermediaries' -- defined as those with over 50 lakh registered users -- were given three months to comply with the additional requirements.  Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and specified immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for action. A Google spokesperson said the company has consistently invested in significant product changes, resources and personnel to ensure that it is combating illegal content in an effective and fair way, and to comply with local laws in the jurisdictions it operates in.  "We realise that our work in keeping our platforms secure is never done and we will continue to refine our existing approaches, and evolve our policies and be as transparent as possible about how we make decisions,” the spokesperson said. A Facebook spokesperson noted that the company is working to implement operational processes and aims to comply with the provisions of the IT rules. The social media giant -- which also owns photo-sharing platform Instagram -- said it continues to discuss a "few of the issues which need more engagement" with the government. Facebook and Google, however, did not clarify on the new level of compliance being met as of Tuesday. However, according to sources close to the development, Facebook has put in place provisions around voluntary verification, 24-hour timeline to remove content flagged for nudity etc and setting up a process and time-bound grievance redressal mechanism. Process is underway for compliance with requirements like generation of monthly compliance reports and appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Notably, Twitter has not commented on its compliance status. The microblogging platform had drawn flak from the government recently after it put 'manipulated media' tag on tweets by BJP leaders on an alleged toolkit used by the Opposition to target Centre over its Covid-19 handling.  Confronting Twitter on the issue, the government had, last week asked the microblogging platform to remove the tag, saying the social media platform cannot pass a judgment on a matter under investigation. There were no immediate comments from WhatsApp on the IT rules compliance. Last week, Koo -- the Indian rival of Twitter -- had said it has complied with the requirements of the new rules and its Privacy Policy, Terms of Use and Community Guidelines now reflect the changes. Koo has close to 6 million (60 lakh) users, making it a major social media intermediary under the new guidelines. Recently, various industry bodies, including the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the US-India Business Council (USIBC), had written to the government seeking up to a one-year extension for compliance, particularly in the view of the pandemic. However, so far there is no word on any extension. IT Ministry sources said that appointment of a grievance officer would be a key requirement from day one of the rules coming into effect, given the importance of public interface for complaints, and need for an acknowledgement system for requests. On February 25, the government had announced tighter regulations for social media firms, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a robust complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country.  Significant social media companies will have to publish a monthly compliance report disclosing details of complaints received and action taken, as also details of contents removed proactively. They will also be required to have a physical contact address in India published on its website or mobile app, or both. As per data cited by the government, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram users, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. The new rules were introduced to make social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram -- which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India -- more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform. Social media companies will have to take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint. Notably, the rules require significant social media intermediaries -- providing services primarily in the nature of messaging -- to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp. The rules also state that users who voluntarily want to verify their accounts should be given an appropriate mechanism to do so, and be accorded a visible mark of verification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-google-working-on-complying-with-indias-social-media-rules-as-deadline-looms-990014.html
25-05-2021||National||Jaishankar meets UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday held a comprehensive in-person meeting with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and discussed the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and underlined the need the importance of finding urgent and effective global vaccine solutions. In his first face-to-face interaction with the UN chief since India entered the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member in January this year, Jaishankar also deliberated on regional challenges in India's neighbourhood and said that countering terrorism and radicalisation remain priorities for the entire region. "A warm & comprehensive meeting with UN Secretary-General @antonioguterres. Discussed the Covid challenge, underlining the importance of finding urgent & effective global vaccine solutions. Critical to ramp up the vaccine supply chain to ensure greater production & fairer distribution,” Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting that lasted almost an hour. Exchanged views on climate action. Greater resources are essential for larger ambitions. Financing will determine our seriousness and credibility. The minister also exchanged views on climate action. "Greater resources are essential for larger ambitions. Financing will determine our seriousness and credibility,” he said in a series of tweets. He also highlighted India's constructive role in UNSC and conveyed priorities of its Presidency in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres-990017.html
25-05-2021||National||Jharkhand wastes 37% of its Covid-19 vaccines; 30% in Chhattisgarh||More than 37 per cent of Covid-19 vaccines in Jharkhand goes waste, while such wastage in neighbouring Chhattisgarh is in excess of 30 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday, asking the States to bring down the vaccine wastage level to just 1 per cent. Other states with a high level of vaccine wastage are Tamil Nadu (15.5%), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8%), and Madhya Pradesh (10.7%) as all are reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3%). The Centre had repeatedly told the States to reduce the wastage to ensure that the maximum number of people are vaccinated. But as the central data shows, nearly 15 lakh doses in Jharkhand are wasted amidst a serious shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. During one of his meetings with the chief ministers in March, Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged the issue of vaccine wastage, asking the chief ministers to find out ways to reduce the loss. At that time, Modi highlighted Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh as states where more than 10 per cent of Covid-19 vaccines were wasted. Meanwhile, the ministry on Tuesday said more than 1.77 crore Covid-19 cvccine doses (1,77,67,850) are still available with the states. Another seven lakh vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states within the next three days. Cumulatively, more than 20 crore doses have been administered so far. The states have been asked to prepare a district-wise vaccination plan as the states have been informed on how much vaccine they would receive from the Centre till June 15. The states also know how much vaccine would be received till June 30 under the direct procurement plan.    Amidst the ongoing crisis on vaccine supply, the states have been advised to constitute a two-three member team to regularly coordinate with vaccine manufacturers for timely supplies of vaccine through the direct procurement route to private hospitals. The list of private hospitals along with doses contracted and supplied is being shared daily with the states, the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-wastes-37-of-its-covid-19-vaccines-30-in-chhattisgarh-990020.html
25-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Majority states favour shorter duration for Class 12 board exams, a few want students vaccinated||A majority of states have chosen the option of conducting shorter duration class 12 board exams in home schools for major subjects while few have stressed on the need to vaccinate students and teachers before going ahead with the exercise, according to sources. The Ministry of Education had asked the states and union territories to submit detailed suggestions till Tuesday on the two proposals discussed in a high-level meeting on Sunday. The CBSE has proposed conducting the exams between July 15-August 26 and the result to be declared in September. The board also proposed two options: conducting regular exams for 19 major subjects at notified centres or conducting shorter duration exams at respective schools where students are enrolled. Meanwhile, as the hashtag "cancelboardexams" continued to trend on Twitter, over 300 students wrote a letter to Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana to quash the proposal regarding physical conduct of examination and provide for alternative assessment scheme similar to last year. "We have received the suggestions and feedbacks from more states. There was broad consensus among the states that exams should be conducted. As stated by the minister earlier, an informed and collaborative decision will be announced by June 1," a senior MoE official said. The Delhi government has reiterated its stand of "vaccination or cancellation" maintaining that if the exams are conducted after vaccinating students, the state is in favour of the option B, which includes conducting short duration exams in home schools of students. Maharshtra's Education Minister had said post the Sunday meeting that the state is still in favour of the "non examination route". The Punjab government has also chosen the second option, however, it reiterated that the students need to be vaccinated before exams. Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar, Karntaka are among the states which have also advocated the second option. Kerala had also raised the vaccination issue in the MoE meeting. A large section of students and parents have been demanding the cancellation of exams. "In view of the unprecedented health crisis, it will be a disastrous decision in case students are made to appear physically in the examination. The students are ready to be evaluated in any other mode including online exams or alternative evaluation. The Supreme Court may take suo motu cognisance and quash the decision to hold physical examination in middle of a raging crisis," the letter sent by students to the Chief Justice read. The first option proposed by CBSE includes conducting exams at designated centres for 19 major subjects. Under this option, for minor subjects assessment can be based on performance in major subjects. "This can be done if three months of time period is clearly and safely available to the board. August could be a likely month for holding the exams and the whole process is likely to go on till September end," a CBSE official said. Elaborating on the second option, the official said, "the exams can be conducted twice by the board depending upon the conducive situation. If a student is not able to appear due to any Covid related matter, he or she will be provided another opportunity to sit for exams." "The exams will be of 90 minutes duration instead of three hours and will be conducted in same schools where students are enrolled. The questions will be objective and very short answer type. Students will have to appear in one language and three elective subjects," the official added. The tentative timeline for this option is the first phase of exams from July 15 to August 1 and the second phase from August 8-26. Exams are proposed to be conducted on Sundays also under this option. The exams were scheduled to be conducted in May-June and were postponed in view of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE has already cancelled class 10 board exams and announced an alternative marking policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-majority-states-favour-shorter-duration-for-class-12-board-exams-a-few-want-students-vaccinated-990021.html
25-05-2021||National||Air India unions seek forensic audit of provident fund trusts, alleges 'huge losses'||Air India Joint Action Forum of Unions on Tuesday sought an independent forensic audit into the operations of the airline's provident fund trusts, alleging "huge losses" due to "questionable investments". In an e-mail to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, the forum sought his intervention in the matter related to the two trusts -- one each of the erstwhile Indian Airlines and Air India. "We have been compelled to write to you to seek your guiding light and help, in regard to the crisis that has engulfed our Provident Fund trusts, both AIEPF & IAEPF trusts, which together are one of the largest in the Country. "It has come as a shock to all of us unions, many of whom were not involved or aware of the day to day functioning of the Provident Fund trusts of Indian Airlines and Air India that huge losses have been incurred by both trusts, due to questionable investments in companies like ILFS and Dewan Housing, among others, which collapsed," the unions said in the e-mail, accessed by PTI. The Forum claims representation of over 10,000 Air India staff members comprising pilots, engineers, cabin crew and ground staff. "We have also learnt that even though the subsidiary companies had become separate legal entities almost 14 years ago, incorporated in 2007/08, they continued in the main AIEPF/IAEPF trust, with payouts on retirements from these trusts, without the PF trusts receiving the corresponding timely contributions from these companies in some cases for years," the Forum stated. Alleging that there are also some "advisory third party consultants" on whose advice and reportedly through whom most of these investments have been done, the Forum said "there seems to be more than meets the eye and we feel a independent forensic audit of both the trusts operations of the last decade is necessary and overdue (as well)." Thousands of Air India employees have their entire life savings in these two provident fund trusts and such huge losses would erode their capitalised value leading to collapse, it said. "We have only learnt of the magnitude of these losses allegedly incurred through some questionable investments, by means of a MOCA letter...which is in public domain, wherein the figure of losses mentioned is Rs 1085 crore," the unions stated. The employees are not to blame for this shortfall and the costs as a consequence of transfer of the provident fund trusts to the EPFO due to the proposed privatisation, which will add to PF trust losses / capital erosion due to the EPFO demand to liquidate our assets, apart from transition expenses and entry load, the forum said. "It is in the light of this that we seek your intervention and support so that the Government assist us to cover these losses and may subsidize the transition of the Air India / Indian Airlines PF trusts to the EPFO as exempted trusts under the 1952 Act, without any loss to any employee," the Joint Forum said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-unions-seek-forensic-audit-of-provident-fund-trusts-alleges-huge-losses-990025.html
25-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Bosch provides insurance cover of Rs 70 lakh for deceased staffers; steps up relief efforts||Auto components major Bosch group on Tuesday said it has provided insurance cover of average Rs 70 lakh in case of demise of any of its employees in India due to Covid-19, while it steps up efforts to aid the pandemic relief measures.  The group, which had pledged Rs 50 crore last year through its companies in India towards implementing various community welfare initiatives to combat Covid-19, also said it is continuing to extend medical insurance coverage for dependents of deceased employees for a period of three years from the date of demise. In view of the oxygen supply issues and need for healthcare support during the second wave of the pandemic, Bosch has converted dedicated structures in its Bengaluru and Pune campuses into Covid Care Centres (CCC), the group said in a statement. The company will also invest in an in-house oxygen generation unit. These captive units will serve a dual purpose -- to support business continuity and serve society by aiding healthcare infrastructure, it added. "These are unprecedented times, and every section of the society must show solidarity, empathy, possess the right knowledge, and support one another in exercising safety. "Bosch India remains committed to helping the government fight the social disruptions caused by the second wave of the pandemic in a reliable and stable manner," Bosch Limited Managing Director and President, Bosch Group in India, Soumitra Bhattacharya said.   On employee welfare, Bosch said,"In case of an unforeseen event like employee fatality, Bosch offers insurance cover with an average insured amount of Rs 70 lakh which will be handed over to the legal heirs of deceased employee. This is in addition to the existing Rs 7 lakh employee deposit linked insurance scheme." The company further said it has also availed of end-to-end insurance cover for Covid-19 treatment with a special coverage designed for its blue-collar associates and it "continues to extend medical insurance coverage for dependents of deceased employees due to Covid-19, for a period of 3 years from the date of demise." It has also internally implemented flexi-work policies, easy PF withdrawal and cash flow support, and interest-free emergency loans to cover Covid-19 medical expenses of all its employees and their families beyond those already insured. As part of its community support programme, Bosch said it has upgraded 10 primary healthcare centres (PHCs) around its plants in Jaipur, Bengaluru, Chennai, and Gangaikondan to conduct tests and vaccination drives for the public while providing functional support to government-assigned hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. Besides, the company has taken up repairing and refurbishing faulty ventilators in government-assigned hospitals free of charge. Till date, more than 45 ventilators have been fixed and made functional in hospitals, it added. Moreover, the company has designed, manufactured, and supplied over 40 lakh medical grade protective face masks. At present, two-thirds of these are being distributed free of cost to hospitals, Covid warriors, ASHA and Anganwadi workers and other needy people in the society, Bosch said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-bosch-provides-insurance-cover-of-rs-70-lakh-for-deceased-staffers-steps-up-relief-efforts-990027.html
25-05-2021||National||577 children orphaned due to Covid-19 since April 1, says Smriti Irani||As many as 577 children across the country were orphaned after their parents succumbed to Covid-19, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said citing reports of states and union territories from April 1 till Tuesday. She also said that the government is committed to support and protect every vulnerable child who lost both parents to Covid. "GOI (government of India) is committed to support and protect every vulnerable child due to loss of both parents to Covid-19. From 1st April 2021 till 2:00 pm today, the state governments & UTs across the country have reported 577 children whose parents succumbed to Covid-19," Irani said in a tweet. GOI is committed to support and protect every vulnerable child due to loss of both parents to Covid-19. From 1st April 2021 till 2:00 PM today, the State Governments & UTs across the country have reported 577 children whose parents succumbed to Covid-19. Asserting that these children are not abandoned and are under the watch and protection of district authorities, sources said that if such children need counselling a team at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) is ready. They said that there is no shortage of funds for ensuring the welfare of these children. "The Centre is in constant touch with states and districts about these children. There is no shortage of funds for their welfare. The women and child development ministry has held meetings with all stakeholders, including the UNICEF," a source said. It is "unfortunate and painful" that when the women and child development (WCD) ministry approached renowned activists who were talking about Covid orphans, they gave no details till date about the children orphaned due to the pandemic, the sources said. In another development, secretary in the WCD ministry Ram Mohan Mishra said that India is going to open 10 one-stop centres in 10 missions across nine countries. One-stop centres (OSCs) tackle cases of violence against women. "One OSC will be established each in Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, UAE, Australia, Canada and Singapore, while two will be established in Saudi Arabia," he said, noting that 300 more OSCs will be opened across the country. These centres will be supported by the WCD ministry and operated by the External Affairs Ministry, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/577-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-since-april-1-says-smriti-irani-990035.html
25-05-2021||National||India should harness potential of quantum technology: Department of Science and Technology secretary||Department of Science and Technology (DST) Secretary Ashutosh Sharma on Tuesday stressed the need for India to harness the potential of quantum technology and its applications to keep the country in league with the ones it competes and also cooperates with. Participating in 'India Quantum Technology Conclave' organised by Assocham, Sharma said quantum is the final frontier and it is one of the very few domains of knowledge where deep understanding lacks behind applications and technology. He said the government in Budget 2020 announced the National Mission on Quantum Technologies and Applications with a monetary allocation of Rs 8,000 crore over five years. The DST also mapped resources in the country that have the potential to work in this area and also the people. It also assessed whether some of them could be repurposed, he said. "We should harness the potential of quantum technology and its applications to keep the country in league with the ones that we compete with and also cooperate with," Sharma said. He said the US, Canada, Australia, China have made advancement and finding in these technologies which are fast evolving. As far as quantum technologies are concerned, the mission is addressing quantum computing, quantum communication and so on, Sharma said. He pointed out that areas of the mission will be fundamental science translation, technology development, human infrastructural resources, innovation, start-ups to address this in a seamless way. The future everyday applications of quantum technology may be in autonomous vehicle application, weather prediction, transportation, pharmaceutical, he added. Sharma said India "missed the bus" in semiconductor technologies in a big way. "We did not quite see the impact of that sector. But it should not happen with other technologies," Sharma said. Referring to the Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (ICPS), he said 25 hubs of CPS have been set up across the country. "I am adding (the reference of CPS) it that the architecture and the structure and the processes of that mission are radically different from the way we have been doing things in the past. And the best of the ideas would be duplicated in the Quantum Mission," Sharma said. Another aspect of technology hubs which would be similar in quantum mission is that all of them are empowered to sign MoUs with foreign entities to bring on board the scientists they want from abroad by paying them not the Indian government salary but whatever is found to be suitable, he said. Participating in the event, R Umamaheshwaran, Scientific Secretary to the Indian Space Research Organisation chief, said quantum communications is relatively more mature than others. Also, it is more relevant to ISRO in terms of long-distance communication. "ISRO also plans to develop quantum atomic clocks. They play a major part with respect to NaVIC constellation. "ISRO also plans to build a national quantum network by integrating satellite based quantum communication with optical fibre based terrestrial communication by joining hands with the Department of Telecommunications," Umamaheshwaran said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-harness-potential-of-quantum-technology-department-of-science-and-technology-secretary-990040.html
25-05-2021||National||Jal Jeevan Mission: Centre releases Rs 1,605-cr grant to 8 NE states||The Centre has released a grant of Rs 1,605 crore to the northeastern states under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) to provide 11 lakh tap water connections in 2021-22, the Jal Shakti ministry said on Tuesday. This is the first tranche of the four to be released in this financial year. "With the focus on faster development of North Eastern (NE) states, Government of India released Rs 1,605 crore to eight northeastern states for the implementation of JJM to provide tap water supply to rural homes in the financial year 2021-22," the Jal Shakti ministry said. During the financial year 2021-22, Rs 9,262 crore have been allocated as central grant for NE states under the Jal Jeevan Mission. The enhanced allocation as well as release of funds at this challenging time to provide tap water connections to rural homes in northeastern states will boost the economy of the region, it said. Out of the central fund allocated under the JJM, 93 per cent is to be utilised on developing water supply infrastructure, 5 per cent on support activities and 2 per cent on water quality monitoring and surveillance activities. The central funds are released based on the output in terms of tap water connections to be provided in the states/UTs and the utilisation of available central and matching state share. The states have to transfer the central fund released along with a matching state share to the single nodal account within 15 days of release of the central fund. The states have to make provision for matching state share and ensure that there is no shortage of funds to the implementing agencies. Proper expenditure plan prepared so that expenditure is evenly spread throughout the year. There are about 90 lakh rural households in all the northeastern states, with a maximum 63.35 lakh in Assam. In 2020-21, about 11 lakh new tap water connections will be provided in all these states. "As of today, 16.27 lakh households (18 per cent) in the region are getting tap water supply in these states in comparison to 3.2 lakh (3 per cent) households on 15 August, 2019, when the prime minister announced the Jal Jeevan Mission," it said. The Centre has allocated Rs 50,000 crore to the Jal Jeevan Mission which aims to provide tapped water connections to all rural households by 2024||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-jeevan-mission-centre-releases-rs-1605-cr-grant-to-8-ne-states-990045.html
25-05-2021||National||Publicise Covid-19 information like 'hum do hamare do campaign' family planning campaign: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Tuesday stressed on the need to spread awareness among public about the Covid-19 pandemic through advertisements more frequently saying it could be done on the lines of “hum do hamare do” campaign for family planning as it worked very well. The high court said there is a need to keep on “bombarding” valid information on public in relation to Covid-19 and directed the Centre and Delhi government to undertake publicising all relevant helpline numbers and information through audio, video and print medium continuously to educate people. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said there is lack of continuous and adequate publicity of most relevant and genuine information to the public at large and gave an instance that various helpline numbers have not been broadcast as frequently and efficiently as it should have been done. Mere publication on a few days on one or more medium will not work, the court said, adding that “even if you are in war, war needs propaganda”. Asserting that there is a need for being little pro-active and agile, the bench said the advertisement has to be a regular thing and a daily dose has to go out as it is like “a dose of medicine you have to give daily” and it has to be in people’s memory. “The amount of advertisement we used to see earlier on family planning ‘hum do hamare do’… it was there on DTC buses, radio, papers and everywhere it actually worked. We need something like that now for Covid-19. We need to keep on bombarding it on public,” the bench said, adding that even now if a person gets coronavirus, he or she does not know what to do so the helplines are required for them. The toll-free Covid-19 helpline is 1075, Covid-19 Helpline Delhi is 011-22307145, Child helpline is 1098 and senior citizen helpline is 14567. The court further said, “We direct the Centre and Delhi government to undertake publication of all relevant helpline numbers and information through all audio, video and print medium on a continuous basis as frequently as possible so as to educate people on facilities created by the state for testing and treatment of Covid-19 as well as other issues like mental health and issues arising in the society on account of the pandemic.” It said Doordarshan and All India Radio are the mediums of Central government which should give advertisements there daily. When one the Centre’s advocates said they have been broadcasting various programmes relating to Covid-19 on DD, the bench said it was talking about continuous bombardment of advertisements and helpline numbers. Another Centre’s advocate said when Aarogya Setu application was launched, everyone was hounded with messages to download it and perhaps that kind of aggressive campaign is required now and assured the court that it would be done. The counsel said the ringtone, which plays whenever a person makes a phone call, starts with warning that we need to be careful and take precautions and it also carries the helpline numbers. The bench, however, said the ringtone should start directly with the helpline number and it is high time that the government should now hit the nail on the head and “cut out the preface and come to the main point”. “It is like starting a writ petition with ‘most respectfully” and nobody is reading it and even not interested. You need to be little pro-active in your approach. People are aware of Covid-19 protocol. It is high time that you update them with Covid-19 helpline number which is the most important part of the message. You have to be agile on your feet on this,” the bench said, adding that the government can get the message recorded and circulate. It said a corner or column on a page could be dedicated for these helplines in the newspapers and remarked that the government was lagging behind on this aspect. “In newspapers, one does not find these inserts on a daily basis. These things should be there in the papers every day. Fix a corner or column, may be on page 1 or page 3. Some column on a page should be dedicated to it daily so that people know where to go when they need it. People would be habituated. This is where you are lagging behind,” the bench said. It added that helpline numbers don’t register in people’s mind immediately and they might forget so they should be publicised daily so that citizens know that even if they don’t need it today, they can find the helpline details at a particular place in the newspaper. The court’s observation came after the amicus curiae said if government could consider publicising more the helplines and other data in newspapers, it would be helpful. Delhi government’s counsel said they are advertising it and will do it more now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/publicise-covid-19-information-like-hum-do-hamare-do-campaign-family-planning-campaign-delhi-hc-990050.html
25-05-2021||National Politics||Toolkit case: Rahul Gandhi says 'truth remains unafraid'||"Truth remains unafraid," Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday after the Delhi Police sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged 'Covid toolkit'. After two police teams descended on Twitter's offices in Delhi and Gurgaon, the Congress on Monday had alleged that the "cowardly raid" on the microblogging site's offices by the Delhi Police "exposes lame duck attempts" to hide a "fraudulent toolkit" by BJP leaders. Using the hashtag 'Toolkit', Gandhi tweeted, "Truth remains unafraid." The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Monday sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged 'Covid toolkit', asking it to share information based on which it had classified a related tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as "manipulated media", officials said. The BJP had accused the Congress of creating a 'toolkit' that seeks to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the handling of the Covid pandemic. However, the Congress denied the allegation and claimed that the BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' to defame it. Last week, Twitter labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet by Patra on the alleged 'toolkit'. Twitter says it "may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/toolkit-case-rahul-gandhi-says-truth-remains-unafraid-989727.html
25-05-2021||National Politics||Toolkit row: Delhi Police sends notice to two Congress leaders||Two Congress leaders Rajeev Gowda and Rohan Gupta have been served a notice by Delhi Police to join the probe in the 'toolkit' case even as the party said on Tuesday that it was proceeding with the FIR filed in Chhattisgarh while no case has been registered in the capital. The notice was issued to the two leaders, who filed a joint complaint with Delhi Police, on May 21, three days after they filed a complaint in connection with BJP leader Sambit Patra tweeting a 'toolkit' on Covid-19 which he alleged was the handiwork of Congress. However, the Congress said it was "forged" and the party had no hand in it. Congress has responded to the notice on May 22 saying that Chhattisgarh Police has registered a case and they were proceeding with that case. The party also said Delhi Police has so far not registered a case. The Congress and the BJP were locked in a verbal duel after the latter accused its opponent of orchestrating a campaign to malign the Narendra Modi government over Covid-19 handling and tweeted a 'toolkit' blaming the party. "We caught the BJP with fraud. They are exposed. They are really angry and now targeting Twitter, which has called the tweet manipulated. In a democracy, it is really worrying that a ruling party goes to the extent of orchestrating such a campaign using fake documents," Gowda, who heads the AICC Research Department, told DH. Gupta heads the social media wing of the party. A senior police official also said these were not fresh notices, which were issued around a week ago. The official said the Congress leaders were asked to join the probe to take the probe forward. Congress has already approached Twitter seeking permanent suspension of Twitter accounts of BJP president JP Nadda, BJP Organisation Secretary BL Santosh, Union Minister Smriti Irani and Patra. On Tuesday, Congress stepped up the attack and shot off another letter urging it to classify the tweets on toolkit by 11 Union Ministers -- Tawarchand Gehlot, Ravishankar Prasad, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Piyush Goyal, Harsh Vardhan, Giriraj Singh, Irani, Prahlad Joshi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Mukthar Abbas Naqvi and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat -- as "manipulated media". On Monday, investigators from Delhi Police's Special Cell made an unusual visit to Twitter India's office in south Delhi and Gurugram to "serve notice as a part of routine process" and it was necessitated as the investigators wanted to ascertain who was the “right person to serve a notice” with replies by the Twitter India Managing Director “have been very ambiguous”. This action by Delhi Police was criticised by a section as an attempt in coercing the social media giant to fall in line after it did not comply with the government's order to remove the "manipulated media" tag to Patra's tweet on the toolkit on a complaint from the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/toolkit-row-delhi-police-sends-notice-to-two-congress-leaders-989750.html
25-05-2021||National Politics||Sack Shashi Tharoor from Parliamentary panel, BJP MP tells Lok Sabha Speaker||The ongoing spat between Chairman of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology Shashi Tharoor from Congress and panel member Nishikant Dubey from the BJP has kicked up a fresh storm on the "toolkit" issue with Dubey writing to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla accusing the panel head of "cantankerous, inane and rogue behaviour". He also sought not only his "sacking" from the position of panel Chairperson but also "disqualification from membership of Lok Sabha" under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution of India TMC MP Mahua Moitra hit back tweeting, "Higher likelihood of @BJP MPs getting disqualified for fake MBA degrees & lying on affidavits than of Opposition MPs for twitter nomenclature of virus variants!". Tharoor, who has not commented on social media on Dubey's letter, retweeted Moitra's comments. Higher likelihood of @BJP MPs getting disqualified for fake MBA degrees & lying on affidavits than of Opposition MPs for twitter nomenclature of virus variants! In his letter, Dubey is learnt to have said, "The Standing Committee is the extension of parliament but Mr. Shashi Tharoor has made this committee an extension of the Congress Party. Where he is more concerned about his party's and Rahul Gandhi’s agenda than the nation itself. Recently, on the Twitter toolkit controversy, he is asking for explanations from the Ministry of Information Technology when Twitter’s action is against this nation's IT law ... Tharoor is helping Twitter act against the government and the nation." Tharoor had reportedly sent a letter to IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad slamming the police probe against Twitter. The Congress leader has also shared many posts on his Twitter account severely critical of the government. Sources said that Dubey in a letter to Birla on May 24 drew his attention to the "recent jibes" of Tharoor on his Twitter account in which, according to the BJP MP, the Congress leader  "surpassed all the boundaries of decency" expected from the chairperson of a Parliamentary Committee. On May 24, Tharoor had tweeted, "Still baffling that someone who won two elections by projecting himself as a strong decisive leader needs to blame previous govts for all problems & shed helpless tears. Wasn't PM the mastermind who was supposed to fix everything? Where does the buck stop for the last 7 years? (sic)" Still baffling that someone who won two elections by projecting himself as a strong decisive leader needs to blame previous Govts for all problems & shed helpless tears. Wasn't PM the mastermind who was supposed to fix everything? Where does the buck stop for the last 7 years? Calling it a dangerous trend to allow such mischievous elements to continue to serve Parliament as a Chairperson of a Parliamentary Committee, Dubey accused Tharoor of "misusing his official position" to tarnish the image of the Central Government and raise issues in the panel that are outside its purview. The BJP leader also flagged the "responsiveness and sensitivity" of the Modi government towards the pandemic and rued how "some leaders of a political party were busy in launching a vicious campaign". Dubey was also peeved over Tharoor's remarks on the "Indian variant" of Covid-19 "when WHO has itself said that there is no such variant" and hence, "why would an Indian MP use language that is unscientific and derogatory towards Indians". The Dubey-Tharoor spat is not new. In August last year also, they had moved a privilege motion against each other over a row on summoning Facebook before the IT panel. Tharoor then wanted to take up the issue of a Wall Street Journal report that suggested how Facebook India turned a blind eye to the hate speech of a BJP leader and three others to ward off any damage to its business prospects. Back then, Tharoor was the first to write to the Speaker sending a privilege notice against Dubey, who had launched a full scathing attack on him, questioning Tharoor’s decision. Dubey was quick to retaliate with a counter privilege notice against Tharoor as well as Rahul Gandhi. A similar scene had played out in 2014 in the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) headed by Congress leader K V Thomas. Dubey was a key PAC member and headed some of its committees. He had written to then Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, seeking to move a privilege motion against Thomas after the latter kept insisting on calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi before the panel on the demonetisation decision. Mahajan called a meeting of the chairpeople of the PAC, the Public Undertakings Committee, the Estimates Committee and department-related standing committees of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to douse the fire and streamline the working of committees as similarly rows along political lines had erupted in other panels as well. Parliamentary panels are supposed to function in a non-partisan manner taking up issues of public importance before the Parliament or otherwise but political loyalties have always cast a shadow on their independent functioning. From the Land Acquisition Bill to the summoning of Facebook, from adopting a report on 2G to discussing Bofors, Rafale, AgustaWestland, Demonetisation, the PM-CARES fund and now the "toolkit," the divide along party lines has sharply come to the fore in the Parliamentary panels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sack-shashi-tharoor-from-parliamentary-panel-bjp-mp-tells-lok-sabha-speaker-989751.html
25-05-2021||National Politics||Toolkit row: Congress seeks 'manipulated media' tag on Twitter posts by 11 BJP ministers||Amid a raging debate over the ‘toolkit’ controversy, Congress on Tuesday knocked on the doors of Twitter, seeking a ‘manipulated media’ tag on the posts by 11 Union ministers, including Smriti Irani, Piyush Goyal and Prahlad Joshi. In a letter to Twitter's Lead for Legal, Policy and Trust and Safety, Vijaya Gadde and its Deputy General Counsel and Vice President (Legal) Jim Baker, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala sought stern action against 11 Union ministers for allegedly spreading false and forged documents. Earlier, Twitter had labelled posts by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra and senior leaders C T Ravi as ‘manipulated media’. The tweets by the BJP leaders included a document, described as “Congress toolkit’ to defame the Modi government. In the letter to Twitter, Surjewala has demanded similar action against Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Giriraj Singh, Prahlad Joshi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Thawarchand Gehlot, Harsh Vardhan, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Surjewala claimed that the “forged, fabricated material” and the claims made under the hashtag ‘CongressToolkitExposed’ by the ministers were identical to the material that has already been tagged as ‘manipulative media’ by Twitter. “It is reasonable to expect that the aforementioned individuals will be dealt with the same yardstick as applied in other cases where the Twitter platform is misused to broadcast forged and fabricated material...,” he said. Surjewala alleged that the "forged toolkit" document was created by certain BJP leaders to gain undue and wrongful political advantage by spreading "potentially dangerous, false and fabricated" material through their Twitter handles against the Congress and its leaders. In a separate statement, Surjewala slammed the police action against Twitter claiming that it was a “reverse investigation” of “innocent” by the “guilty”. “Crime is committed by BJP leaders. Fake toolkit is put up by BJP leaders. Raid should be on BJP office, but Twitter India is raided,” Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/toolkit-row-congress-seeks-manipulated-media-tag-on-twitter-posts-by-11-bjp-ministers-989833.html
25-05-2021||National Politics||Who is responsible? asks Priyanka as Congress steps up attack on Modi govt over Covid handling||With Uttar Pradesh elections looming on the horizon, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday stepped up attack on the Modi government demanding to fix accountability for the shortages of vaccines, oxygen and hospital beds during the second wave of Covid-19. Priyanka, who is in charge of Congress in Uttar Pradesh, launched the ‘Zimmedar Kaun’ (who is responsible) campaign on her Facebook page, and said that she would ask questions from the government on its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “How did we come to such a pass? The biggest vaccine manufacturer in the world, the biggest oxygen producer, our doctors are famous the world over. How did we reach a point where our people had to give their lives for lack of beds, oxygen and vaccines,” the Congress leader said.  “It is important to ask these questions as several lives have been lost due to the negligence of the government,” she said. Congress has been targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the “mishandling” of the response to Covid-19 that has claimed over three lakh lives so far in the country. Early next year, elections are due in five states – Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur – and the results could set the tone of political discourse for the Lok Sabha elections in 2024. “When the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic struck the country and people struggled for hospital beds, oxygen, vaccines and medicines, they expected the government to make efforts to save lives... However, the government remained a mute spectator causing immense pain across the country,” she said. She slammed the Modi government for “irresponsible actions” of “exporting vaccines and oxygen” and delay in placing orders for vaccines in proportion with the country’s population. “And today, when this wave is ebbing naturally, suddenly the government is reappearing through its media and machinery, again our Prime Minister and his ministers have come forward and started making statements,” Priyanka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/who-is-responsible-asks-priyanka-as-congress-steps-up-attack-on-modi-govt-over-covid-handling-989915.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana govt to distribute 1 lakh Coronil kits among Covid patients||One lakh Coronil kits of Patanjali Ayurved will be distributed among coronavirus patients in Haryana free of cost, state Health Minister Anil Vij said on Monday. The announcement comes amid a row over Yoga guru Ramdev's comments against allopathy. In a strongly-worded letter to Ramdev, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said his remarks on allopathic medicine were "extremely unfortunate", following which the yoga guru withdrew his statements. Vij said half of the cost of these kits has been borne by Patanjali and the other half by the Haryana government's 'Covid Relief Fund'. The kit contains three items-- Coronil tablets, Swasari Vati and Anu Taila. Ramdev had introduced Ayurveda-based Coronil on June 23 last year, when the pandemic was at its peak. "One lakh Patanjali Coronil kits will be distributed free of cost among the Covid patients in Haryana. Half of the cost of Coronil has been borne by Patanjali and half by Haryana government's Covid Relief Fund,” Vij said in a tweet in Hindi. हरियाणा में कोविड मरीजों के बीच एक लाख पतंजलि की कोरोनिल किट मुफ्त बांटी जाएंगी । कोरोनिल का आधा खर्च पतंजलि ने और आधा हरियाणा सरकार के कोविड राहत कोष ने वहन किया है। Meanwhile, he said pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants will be set up in eight districts of the state in collaboration with the central government. This work, which is being done by the DRDO, will be completed by June 30, he said. The state health minister said setting up of these plants will help in supplying oxygen to 6,210 beds, including 550 beds at Government Aided Medical College Maharaja Agrasen Medical College Agroha, Hisar, 550 beds in Military Hospital (MH), Ambala, 750 beds at AIIMS Jhajjar, 550 beds at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College Karnal, 652 beds at SHKM Government Medical College Nalhar, 658 beds at Western Command Chandimandir, Panchkula and 2,000 beds at PGIMS Rohtak. PSA plants will be installed at all these locations and will have capacity of producing 1,000 litres per minute (LMP) of oxygen. Vij said Covid care centres have been constructed by the DRDO in two districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-govt-to-distribute-1-lakh-coronil-kits-among-covid-patients-989705.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Ladakh's daily Covid-19 recoveries outstrip new infections||Ladakh recorded more Covid-19 recoveries on Tuesday than new infections as 184 people got discharged from hospitals after battling coronavirus, while 125 new cases were added. Officials said the latest update takes the Union Territory's overall tally of cases to 17,532, while the number of active infections stands at 1,463 with 1,249 in Leh district and 214 in Kargil. A total of 178 people have died due to Covid-19 in the union territory so far which includes 130 in Leh, 48 in Kargil. Of the new cases reported during the past 24 hours, the officials said 92 were detected in Leh and five in Kargil. They said a total of 184 patients -- 147 in Leh and 37 in Kargil -- were also discharged during the period after successful treatment, taking the number of recoveries to 11,891 or over 90 percent of the total cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakhs-daily-covid-19-recoveries-outstrip-new-infections-989737.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||No examination without vaccination, says Akhilesh Yadav||The Samajwadi Party said on Tuesday that students should be inoculated against the coronavirus before board exams are conducted, with its president Akhilesh Yadav asserting "no examination without vaccination". As the government is in the process of taking a decision on the Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance tests that were postponed due to the second wave of Covid-19, a demand has been made from some quarters that if the exams are to be held, the students be vaccinated first. "Pahle tika, fir pariksha (first vaccination, then examination). No Examination Without Vaccination," Yadav tweeted. पहले टीका फिर परीक्षा No Examination Without Vaccination. Demanding vaccination of students, Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said, "The central government should not play with lives of students." At a high-level meeting called by the Ministry of Education earlier this week, Delhi, Kerala and some others demanded vaccination of students before the exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-examination-without-vaccination-says-akhilesh-yadav-989763.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Punjab Kings join initiative to provide oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients||Indian Premier League side Punjab Kings have joined forces with private entity Round Table India (RTI) and crowdfunding platform ketto.org to help provide oxygen concentrators to Covid-19-affected patients. Punjab Kings will fund the procurement of oxygen concentrators which will then be provided to patients for their use, a release from the IPL franchise said. "RTI will verify the need upon which an oxygen concentrator will be given for use at the patient's house or via a charitable medical institution. Post its return, the concentrator will be sanitised and disinfected and provided to the next person in need," it said. "These machines are portable and can be shifted to meet areas of maximum need. The machines also reduce the need for oxygen cylinders and hospital beds for mild to moderate cases. "Post the crisis the machines will be donated to hospitals where they are needed to treat patients with asthma and other breathing difficulties." Punjab Kings co-owner Ness Wadia said, "There is much to be done to save the lives and livelihoods of millions of people who have endured this tragic suffering. Punjab Kings joining forces with Round Table India is yet another small step towards battling this unprecedented crisis."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-kings-join-initiative-to-provide-oxygen-concentrators-to-covid-19-patients-989770.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi International Airport handled 100 Covid-19 relief flights in last month||GMR group-run Delhi International Airport has handled 100 Covid-19 relief flights in the last one month, which have carried 1,750 metric tonnes (MT) of relief cargo from over 36 international destinations. During the second wave of the pandemic, the airport ensured efficient and swift handling of medical aid being received from across the world, with active support from its stakeholders, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) said in a release on Tuesday. The country's busiest airport is the largest cargo hub airport of south Asia region, with two integrated cargo terminals having an annual handling capacity of 1.8 million MT, which is scalable to 2.3 million MT. With the handling of 100th relief flight on Tuesday, the airport recorded the highest movements of Covid relief aid among all domestic airports amid the pandemic, DIAL said. Delhi International Airport handled 100 Covid-19 relief flights between April 27 and May 25 this year with 1,750 metric tonnes of relief material from over 36 countries. The 100th flight carrying 10 metric tonnes of medical aid from Russia arrived on Tuesday, DIAL said. During this period, the airport successfully handled some of the largest military and commercial aircraft, which include Antonov-124, C-130 Globemasters, C-5, C-17, and IL-76 among other freighters, it said. These planes brought in consignments of various relief materials such as oxygen generating plants, oxygen generators, concentrators and cylinders, ventilators, Remdesivir injection, patient beds, and medicines like Veklury/Toclizumab, among others. These flights arrived from several countries such as the US, UK, Canada, Ireland, Germany, France, Austria, Belgium, Russia, Spain, Italy, Ireland, Denmark, Switzerland, The Netherlands, Australia, DIAL said. Relief material was also transported from Czech Republic, Romania, Singapore, Mauritius, Hong Kong, Japan, Uzbekistan, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Oman, Doha, Kazakhstan, China, Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar, Taiwan, Kuwait and Dubai, it said. “Delhi Airport has been proactively working as a frontline warrior in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Handling of 100 Covid relief flights in less than a month has been possible due to the airport's largest cargo network in the country with different parts of the world and the airport's state of the art cargo handling facilities,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO-DIAL. The private airport operator said that for handling these relief flights, the airport has set up a 3,500 sq. meters dedicated interim storage and logistic facility, JEEVODAY warehouse. In terms of airside infrastructure, Delhi Airport is the first and only airport in the country to have 12 dedicated freighter parking bays, providing ample capacity for the airlines to move cargo to and from the Airport, DIAL stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-international-airport-handled-100-covid-19-relief-flights-in-last-month-989785.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Northern Railway suspends wrestler Sushil Kumar over arrest in murder case||The Northern Railway issued an order on Tuesday suspending wrestler Sushil Kumar following his arrest by the Delhi Police in a murder case. Olympic medallist Kumar was arrested, along with his associate and co-accused Ajay, from outer Delhi's Mundka area on May 23 for his alleged involvement in the death of a 23-year-old wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium. A senior commercial manager with the Northern Railway, Kumar had been on deputation with the Delhi government since 2015 and was posted as an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium for development of sports at school level. His deputation was extended in 2020 and Kumar had applied for an extension for 2021 as well, which had been rejected by the Delhi government and he was sent back to his parent cadre — Northern Railway — officials said. "A case against Sushil Kumar, (Adhoc)JAG/ IRTS, on premature repatriation to Northern Railway from NDMC, in respect of a criminal offence is under investigation. He was detained in police custody on 23rd May, 2021 for a period exceeding forty-eight hours. "Now, therefore Sushil Kumar JAG/ (Adhoc) IRTS is deemed to have been suspended with effect from the date of detention i.e. 23rd May, 2021 in terms of Rule 5 (2) of (D&A) Rules, 1968 and shall remain under suspension until further orders," Northern Railway spokesperson Deepak Kumar said. Senior officials have said that if a government servant is found involved in grievous crimes, he or she is usually suspended while the case is ongoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/northern-railway-suspends-wrestler-sushil-kumar-over-arrest-in-murder-case-989805.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu hoists black flag at his house in support of protesting farmers||Congress legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday put up a black flag at his house in Punjab's Patiala district in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws. “Hoisting the Black Flag in Protest ... Every Punjabi must support the Farmers !!,” said Sidhu in a tweet. In a short video clip posted on his Twitter handle, Sidhu, who was accompanied by his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu, said the flag is a sign of rejection of the farm legislations. He said Punjab is fighting against the three “black” laws which will completely destroy the farming community. Farmer bodies have given a call to observe May 26 as a “black day” to mark six months of the agitation against the laws. Farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 protesting farmer unions, on Friday had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging for the resumption of talks. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-hoists-black-flag-at-his-house-in-support-of-protesting-farmers-989810.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Minor girl gangraped, father changes statement a day after lodging complaint||A detailed investigation has been ordered in the alleged gang-rape of a 16-year-old girl in Rajasthan's Karauli district after her father changed his statement, police said. According to the complaint lodged on Sunday at Mahila Thana, three men raped the minor girl and threw her into a well, they said. Following the complaint, the accused were detained for interrogation, they added. "The officer, investigating the case, went to record her father’s statement on Monday and he denied that she became victim to any such crime," Superintendent of Police (SP) Mridul Kachawa said. The victim also withdrew the rape case and claimed that she jumped into the well after an argument with her sister, police said, adding they were waiting for her medical report for further investigation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-gangraped-father-changes-statement-a-day-after-lodging-complaint-989813.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Centre plans stimulus package to support economic growth||By Siddhartha Singh, India is preparing a stimulus package for sectors worst affected by a deadly coronavirus wave, aiming to support an economy struggling with a slew of localised lockdowns, people familiar with the matter said. The finance ministry is working on proposals to bolster the tourism, aviation and hospitality industries, along with small and medium-sized companies, the people said, asking not to be identified as the deliberations are private. The discussions are at an early stage and no timeline for an announcement has been decided, they said. A finance ministry spokesman declined to comment. The latest wave of Covid-19 infections has made India the global hotspot for the pandemic and has decimated travel since the second wave picked up in March even though Prime Minister Narendra Modi has refused to implement a strict nationwide lockdown. With nearly 2 lakh daily cases many local governments, including India’s most industrialised states -- have imposed curbs against the spread of the virus. That’s prompted many economists to cut their forecasts for the financial year that began April 1, as rising unemployment and dwindling savings among consumers dim the chances for double-digit growth. While the International Monetary Fund expects India’s economy to expand 12.5 per cent this year to March -- and will be revisiting the forecast in July -- the country’s central bank projects 10.5 per cent growth. Modi’s administration doesn’t have enough fiscal room to maneuver even though it received about Rs 99,122 crore from the Reserve Bank of India as a dividend. That will mean, the stimulus will most likely be in the form of tax breaks, according to Teresa John, an economist at Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. “The government doesn’t have too much leeway, although the recent RBI dividend provides some cushion,” said John. “The stimulus may be mostly additional guarantees and tax concessions, maybe demand boosting measures once opening up starts. All these may not involve a large government spending.” Flagging growth prospects put the onus on policymakers to support activity, especially once the virus caseload eases. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who said last month she’s monitoring the economy in a “very detailed fashion,” has held discussions with economists in recent days about a stimulus package, the people said. “We expect the government to stick to its overall budgeted spending, while shifting its expenditure composition more in favor of health services and food subsidies,” said Bloomberg Economics’ Abhishek Gupta. The proposals are being drawn up at time when the rupee has emerged as Asia’s top-performing currency from its worst on signs that India’s virus crisis may be easing after infection numbers hit a record 414,118 on May 7 due to localised lockdowns. India’s stock benchmark is also approaching a record-high close reached in February. In April, the finance ministry eased rules for capital expenditure by government departments to try to boost spending in the economy. It also decided to allocate five kilograms of free food to the poor per month as the lockdowns saw millions of migrant laborers flee urban areas and back to their rural homes. But Sitharaman’s hands are restrained given India aims to lower its budget gap to 6.8 per cent of gross domestic product in the financial year to March 2022, from an estimated 9.5 per cent last year, signaling little legroom for New Delhi to ease purse strings in a significant manner. Pressure also is building on the central bank -- which serves as the banking sector regulator -- to ease loan repayment rules, especially for sectors badly hit by this virus wave. --With assistance from Anirban Nag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-plans-stimulus-package-to-support-economic-growth-989820.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||NHRC seeks report from three states on alleged flouting of Covid appropriate behaviour at farmers' protests||Ahead of farmers' Black Day protest, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday sought reports from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments on a complaint alleging the protesters were flouting Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.  The NHRC asked the states to submit action taken reports regarding the steps taken to control the spread of Covid-19 infection at the protest sites of the farmers. The report is to be submitted within four weeks, a statement said.  Issuing the notices, the statement said, "the Commission has observed that the country is passing through an unprecedented and scary second wave of Covid-19, which has already claimed more than three lakh human lives and is still raging virulently in different parts of the country." "The Central and State Governments are struggling against all odds to save lives in the face of inadequate health facilities. Measures like lockdowns, containment zones and Covid protocols are employed to somehow overpower the deadly Covid, which is now leading to other serious diseases like black fungus, white fungus etc. In these extraordinary circumstances, our sole aim has to be saving human lives," it said.  The complainant claimed that over 300 farmers have died during these ongoing protests due to several reasons including Covid-19.  "The Cases of black fungus etc are also rising. He has sought intervention of the Commission apprehending that situation may become more worrisome as the farmers, in large numbers, are planning for observing 26th May, 2021 as the Black Day," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-seeks-report-from-three-states-on-alleged-flouting-of-covid-appropriate-behaviour-at-farmers-protests-989825.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 1,568 new Covid-19 cases, 156 fatalities; positivity rate drops to 2.14%||Delhi recorded 1,568 fresh cases of coronavirus and 156 fatalities on Tuesday, while the positivity rate came down marginally to 2.14 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin. This is the third day in a row when the daily cases in the national capital have remained below 2,000. According to the latest health bulletin, the 156 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 23,565. On Monday, the national capital had recorded 1,550 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 207 fatalities and the positivity rate 2.52 per cent. On Sunday, 1,649 cases and 189 deaths were recorded, while the positivity rate had dipped to 2.42 per cent. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 2, the city registered a record 407 deaths, according to the official data. A total of 73,406 tests, including 47,494 RT-PCR tests and 25,912 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Tuesday. The number of cumulative cases on Tuesday stood at 14,19,986. Over 13.7 lakh patients have recovered from the virus so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-1568-new-covid-19-cases-156-fatalities-positivity-rate-drops-to-214-989837.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Haryana, Himachal Pradesh authorities seal unit manufacturing fake Remdesivir injections||Police in Haryana on Tuesday said they along with Himachal Pradesh authorities have sealed a "pharmaceutical unit", located at Nalagarh in the hill state, which was allegedly manufacturing large quantities of fake Remdesivir injections. The unit was sealed on Monday in the presence of drugs control department officials of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, a Haryana police spokesperson said here on Tuesday. The spokesperson said an FIR was registered at Ambala police station in Haryana on April 21 after the police seized 24 vials of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug used in the treatment of Covid patients, from the possession of four accused. "Eleven accused have so far been arrested during the course of investigation. They were selling the injections, used in treatment of Covid-19 patients, to the desperate people at an exorbitant rate," the spokesperson said in a statement. He said that during investigations, the Haryana Police traced the manufacturing unit in Nalagarh. After the four accused were arrested in April, a total of 673 fake Remdesivir injections have been recovered so far of which 423 vials were seized from the 11 arrested accused, he said, adding the remaining were seized from the unit in HP which was sealed. The arrested accused were also found linked to the recovery of fake Remdesivir injections which were seen floating in the canal near Rupnagar in Punjab recently, the spokesperson said. He said further probe is underway and police are trying to arrest the other members involved in the racket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-himachal-pradesh-authorities-seal-unit-manufacturing-fake-remdesivir-injections-989839.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi receives maximum rainfall for May in 13 years||Delhi received 144.8 mm rainfall in May this year, the highest for the month in 13 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). "No rain is predicted in the next four to five days. So, this is the highest rainfall in May since 2008," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said on Tuesday. The Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, had recorded 21.1 mm rainfall last year, 26.9 mm in 2019 and 24.2 mm in 2018. It had gauged 40.5 mm precipitation in 2017; 24.3 mm in 2016; 3.1 mm in 2015 and 100.2 mm in 2014, according to IMD data. The observatory recorded nine rain days in May this year, the maximum since 2014, when it had received rainfall on 10 days. It had recorded seven rain days last year and five such days in 2018. A record 119.3 mm rainfall had pounded Delhi under the impact of cyclonic storm Tauktae and a western disturbance between 8.30 am on Wednesday and 8.30 am on Thursday last week, breaking all the previous records for May. This was double the previous record rainfall of 60 mm on May 24 in 1976, according to the IMD. Since the maximum temperature is predicted to remain below the 40 degrees Celsius-mark till May 31, this is likely to be the first time since 2014 that Safdarjung did not record a heatwave in the pre-monsoon period. First, frequent Western Disturbances kept the mercury in check and later Cyclone Tauktae led to "record" rains, Srivastava said. No heatwave has been recorded even at Palam this year so far, he said. For the plains, a "heatwave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A "severe" heatwave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. The capital has recorded a mean maximum temperature of 37.02 degrees Celsius this May so far against a 30-year-average of 39.5 degrees Celsius. Till Tuesday, the mean minimum temperature stood at 22.93 degrees Celsius. The long-term average minimum temperature for May is 25.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-receives-maximum-rainfall-for-may-in-13-years-989861.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 positivity rate drops to 3.39% in over 10 days||The Covid-19 positivity rate in Madhya Pradesh has dropped to 3.39 per cent from 13.8 per cent on May 13, according to the state government. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra, who is also the state government's spokesperson, said the positivity rate in 11 districts of the state is less than one per cent, while the rate in four districts is above five per cent. "The positivity rate has come down to 3.39 per cent in the state," he said. On May 13, he had said the Covid-19 positivity rate in the state was 13.8 per cent. "On Tuesday, the total number of positive cases reported is 4,222 while the count of those who recovered is 7,873. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state is 92.6 per cent," Mishra said on Tuesday. On May 23, the recovery rate was 91.45 per cent, according to the minister. The positivity rate is less than one per cent in 11 districts - Bhind, Alirajpur, Mandla, Jhabua, Agar, Dindori, Khandwa, Barwani, Singrauli, Kanti and Narsinghpur, while it is above five per cent in Indore, Bhopal, Sagar and Neemuch, Mishra said. "Considering this, the corona curfew is gradually being relaxed in a number of districts in the state," he said. The state government on Monday allowed "restricted relaxations" in the 'corona curfew' in districts where the positivity rate was less than five per cent. Mishra also alleged that those part of the (Congress-led) United Progressive Alliance (UPA) had earlier spread false information about vaccines against Covid-19, but now they are saying that they are not getting doses for inoculation. On Monday, a war of words broke out between Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state Congress president Kamal Nath following registration of an FIR against the latter for allegedly creating panic over the Covid-19 pandemic through his remarks. Chouhan asked Congress president Sonia Gandhi to take action against Nath for his "Indian variant" and other remarks related to the pandemic.   On the other hand, Nath said an FIR cannot suppress his voice and asserted he will keep fighting for people and raise issues of public interest. To a question on the attack on a vaccination team in Ujjain district on Monday, Mishra urged citizens to cooperate with the health teams and police personnel who were enforcing the Covid-19 norms for their benefit. The state government has also made the facility for on-the-spot registration of people in the 18 and above age category for vaccination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradeshs-covid-19-positivity-rate-drops-to-339-in-over-10-days-989863.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Modi's trusted aide may become UP Deputy CM as Yogi to rejig cabinet||Former IAS officer and BJP MLC Arvind Kumar Sharma, who was considered to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, could join the Uttar Pradesh ministry as deputy chief minister. Sharma, a Gujarat cadre ex-bureaucrat, had joined the BJP in January this year, days before the state legislative council polls. He was later nominated as a BJP candidate in the poll. The speculations about Sharma being inducted in the cabinet as Dy CM gained grounds after he met chief minister Yogi Adityanath a couple of days ago. The meeting between Sharma and Adityanath came soon after Modi heaped praise on the former for "efficiently" managing Covid 19 in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of the Prime Minister. ''Sharma has a long experience of working in different departments....he has been a very capable officer....whether he is inducted in the cabinet or not is something which can be decided by the party leadership only,'' remarked a senior UP BJP leader. Sharma was secretary in the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) at the centre and had taken voluntary retirement before joining the BJP. Sharma, who hailed from UP's Mau district had worked with Modi, when the latter was the chief minister of Gujarat. He was later shifted to the centre, when Modi became prime minister in 2014.    It was, however, not clear if one of the two Dy CMs - Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma - would be dropped or UP would have three deputy CMs. According to the sources in the BJP, the UP cabinet could soon be reshuffled, inducting some new faces and dropping some old ones, especially those, who were found to be 'inactive' during the peak of the Covid 19 pandemic in the state. Sources said that the ministers in whose areas the saffron party-backed nominees lost in the recently concluded panchayat polls could also be shown the door.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modis-trusted-aide-may-become-up-deputy-cm-as-yogi-to-rejig-cabinet-989873.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Minor thrashed, his head shaved for meeting girl||A 17-year-old boy was allegedly thrashed and his head shaved by a group of people after his female friend went to meet him at his house in Punjab's Muktsar district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took on Monday when the victim's 16-year-old friend visited his house in Ravidas Nagar, Malout town, they said. When the girl's family got to know, they took her back to their home, police said, adding, people in the locality later attacked the boy. A video capturing the incident was posted on social media. Police said they rescued the boy and got him admitted at a civil hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-thrashed-his-head-shaved-for-meeting-girl-989880.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh to procure 1 crore Covid-19 doses through global tender||The Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to float a global tender for procuring one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines which will be used to inoculate people in the age group of 18 to 44 years. “Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed the state Health Department to float a global tender for the procurement of Covaxin and Covishield after assessing their demand and requirement,” Mishra told reporters after attending the meeting of the council of ministers. Mishra said the CM has also decided to constitute five groups of ministers to look after various aspects related to the pandemic such as unlocking the "corona curfew", vaccination; spreading awareness related to the pandemic among others. Meanwhile, the state government has issued a release stating that the Cabinet has authorized the Madhya Pradesh Health Corporation to purchase one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, which will be used to vaccinate people in the age group of 18 to 44 years. A decision has been taken to form a high-level committee that will examine the technical aspects of the tendering process for the purchase of vaccines and approve the financial proposal, the release said. "After the technical examination, the financial proposals of parties will be examined. A proposal for fixing the rate at which the vaccines should be purchased will be presented before the council of ministers for approval," it said. Meanwhile, Chouhan, in a video shared on Twitter, said the number of Covid-19 cases is on the decline in Madhya Pradesh. "On Tuesday, 2,422 new Covid-19 cases were recorded while 7,373 persons recovered from the infection. The recovery rate has improved to 92.68 per cent in the state," the chief minister said. He said 15 districts have reported less than ten cases while only one case each is reported in Bhind and Agar Malwa districts. The CM, however, didn't specify the exact period of reporting of the above cases. "It is a big achievement that the case positivity rate in 34 districts in the state is less than five per cent. If the district administration and crisis management groups continue to work like this, Madhya Pradesh will be able to control the coronavirus by May 31. Our efforts are to bring down the cases by May 31. After that we will be able to start unlocking from June 1,” he added. Chouhan said that irrespective of unlocking, the testing for coronavirus will remain in the range of 75,000-80,000 tests (per day). As of Monday, Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 tally stood at 7,67,274 while the overall death toll was 7,618, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-to-procure-1-crore-covid-19-doses-through-global-tender-989901.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Farmers to mark 'black day' from home on Wednesday||Amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic, farmers' unions agitating on the borders of the capital have decided against crowding at protest sites here and asked supporters to put black flags atop their homes to mark six months of their agitation demanding repeal of the three farm laws. “Farmers are present at the protest sites and we will mark Buddha Poornima on May 26 and also observe ‘Black Day’ against the seven years of the oppressive Modi government,” Kulwant Sandhu, leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, told DH. He said the farmers have decided to avoid getting any undue attention to the three protest sites against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and have asked supporters to put up black flags on their homes. “We will also burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a mark of protest,” said Sandhu, who leads the Jamhuri Kisan Union, which is part of the SKM, the umbrella body of farmers’ agitation. Farmers have been protesting at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of the national capital since November 26 last year demanding repeal of the three farm laws. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar have appealed to the farmers to suspend their protest citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Sandhu said there has been no fresh attempt by the Modi government to repeal the farm laws or re-start the negotiations. Twelve opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool, DMK, NCP, Shiv Sena, RJD, Left parties, have declared support to the SKM call to observe Black Day on May 26. “We extend our support to the call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) to observe a countrywide protest day on May 26 marking the completion of six months of the heroic peaceful Kisan struggle,” read the joint statement issued by 12 major opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-to-mark-black-day-from-home-on-wednesday-989932.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||CM Nitish Kumar chairs meeting on cyclone Yaas, tells officials to remain alert||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday held a review meeting on impending cyclone Yass and instructed officials to remain alert to deal with the calamity. Chairing a virtual meeting with officials of disaster management and other departments and also district magistrates, the chief minister told them to make all arrangements in advance to meet the challenges of the very severe cyclonic storm likely to make landfall near Dhamra Port in Odisha's Bhadrak district early Wednesday morning. Kumar said as per the information Bihar will also be affected by the cyclone and so the officials should remain prepared in advance, an official statement said here. He directed officials to make alternative arrangements in hospitals, government as well as private, in the event of power getting snapped due to cyclonic impact and asked them to make a dry run of the optional preparation. Additional chief secretary of disaster management and health departments Pratyaya Amrit briefed about the information received from the Indian Meteorological department on cyclone. He said there is a possibility of rain and thunderstorm in Bihar from May 27 to May 30 and the district magistrates have been told about it. Power, Agriculture, Health, Water Resources, Minor Irrigationb, Road Construction and Rural Works department have been specially asked to be on alert, Amrit said. He said NDRF and SDRF teams are also prepared for the situation arising due to the cyclone. Urban Development Principal Secretary Anand Kishore and secretary of Power and Water Resources department Sanjeev Hans gave presentatoon on arrangements made by them to deal with the situation. Deputy chief ministers-Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi- Powerminister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and his cabinet colleagues in education, health and water resources Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, Mangal Pandey and Sanjay Jha respectively besides chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, Development Commissioner Amir Subhani and DGP S K Singhal attended the online meeting among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-nitish-kumar-chairs-meeting-on-cyclone-yaas-tells-officials-to-remain-alert-990015.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||AAP Punjab extends support to farmers' May 26 'black day' call||Punjab's main opposition party AAP on Tuesday said it fully supports the decision of farmers, who are protesting against the Centre's new farm laws, to observe 'black day' on May 26. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and Leader of Opposition in the Punjab assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema, urged the Centre to repeal the three new farm legislations. Cheema accused the BJP-led government of forcibly enforcing the laws on the farming community. "The central government should not insist on imposing such black laws in the country," he said in a statement here. Farmer bodies have given a call of observing May 26 as 'black day' to mark six months of their agitation against the Centre's farm laws. Farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 protesting farmer unions, on Friday had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging for the resumption of talks. Several rounds of talks between farmer leaders and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-punjab-extends-support-to-farmers-may-26-black-day-call-990031.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||At 156, Delhi's daily Covid-19 deaths lowest since April 16; positivity rate at nearly two-month low||Delhi recorded 156 Covid fatalities on Tuesday, the lowest since April 16, while 1,568 new cases were reported as the positive rate dipped to nearly two-month low of 2.14 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin. This is the third day in a row that the daily cases in the national capital have remained below 2,000. According to the health bulletin, the 156 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 23,565. The number of deaths reported on Tuesday (156) is the lowest since April 16 when the national capital had witnessed 141 fatalities. The positivity rate of 2.14 per cent is also the lowest since March 27, when it stood at 1.70 per cent, according to the data made available. On Monday, the national capital had recorded 1,550 fresh Covid-19 cases and 207 fatalities. The positivity rate was 2.52 per cent. On Sunday, 1,649 cases and 189 deaths were recorded, while the positivity rate had dipped to 2.42 per cent. Before they started coming down a few days ago, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up since April 19, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20, rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 2, the city registered a record 407 deaths, according to the official data.  A total of 73,406 tests, including 47,494 RT-PCR tests and 25,912 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Tuesday. Out of 25,035 beds in hospitals, 17,163 are vacant. The number of active cases stands at 21,739, of which 11,915 are under home isolation, while the number of active cases decreased to 21,739 on Tuesday from 24,578 the day before, the bulletin said. The number of home isolation patients dipped to 11,915 from 13,806, while the number of containment zones dropped to 39,640 from 45,483 a day before, the bulletin said. The number of cumulative cases on Tuesday stood at 14,19,986. Over 13.7 lakh patients have recovered from the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-156-delhis-daily-covid-19-deaths-lowest-since-april-16-positivity-rate-at-nearly-two-month-low-990039.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi caps oxygen cylinder transportation charges||The Delhi government has capped the charge of transportation of oxygen cylinders, an official order said on Tuesday. According to the order, the maximum transportation cost of a B-type oxygen cylinder has been fixed at Rs 50, while for D-type and Jumbo-type, it has been capped at Rs 150 and Rs 250 per unit, respectively. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemical and Fertilizers, had capped the maximum price of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) through an order issued on September 25 last year which will remain in force till September 30, 2021. The NPPA order had also said that the governments of state and Union Territories may be required to fix the transportation charges that would be in addition to the maximum price fixed for LMO by the ministry body. The Delhi government had constituted a committee under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner (Transport), GNCTD to examine the price-capping of oxygen cylinders in the city by the refillers and supply of filled cylinders by dealers. The committee submitted its report on May 22 and recommended the rates to be charged as maximum transportation cost per oxygen cylinder, the order said. The order directed Drugs Controller, Delhi and district magistrates to ensure compliance of this order by refillers and suppliers. The Delhi High Court had also asked the city government to look into the aspect of controlling the price of oxygen cylinders, so that the price at which the cylinders are to be supplied to the consumer is fixed/capped. The HC had said that the cost should be capped after taking into account the price of the gas and other aspects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-caps-oxygen-cylinder-transportation-charges-990041.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||AAP, BJP spar over distribution of books in MCD schools||The AAP on Tuesday claimed that textbooks have not been provided to seven lakh students in the BJP-led municipal corporation schools, a charge described by the Delhi BJP as a "bunch of lies". Addressing a press conference, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak alleged that the BJP-ruled MCD has not yet started the tendering process or begun the procurement of books for these students. "Seven lakh students were deprived of books in the BJP-led MCD schools because of no provision," Pathak claimed. He alleged that in 2020, the BJP-ruled MCD provided books to their students after nine months of delay and there was a delay of eight months in 2019 as well. "The Aam Aadmi Party demands that the BJP-ruled MCD immediately, within 15-20 days, start the tendering, procuring and distribution process of the books for the seven lakh students," Pathak said. "The BJP should stop playing with the future of these students during the time of a pandemic," the AAP leader said. Responding to this, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor described the allegations levelled by the AAP as a "bunch of lies". "Pathak should know that MCDs never take out a tender for procuring textbooks, the books are procured and provided to MCDs by the Delhi government's Delhi Bureau of textbooks which has not delivered books till date," he said. Kapoor said the money for textbooks also comes from the Delhi government's Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan which came last week after a delay of 46 days. "It will be better if Pathak asks the Delhi government why it gave Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan Fund after a delay of 46 days and why its Delhi Bureau of textbooks has not provided books to MCDs till date,” the spokesperson said. "Before levelling baseless allegations on MCDs, he should tell why textbooks have not been distributed in Delhi government schools till date," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-bjp-spar-over-distribution-of-books-in-mcd-schools-990043.html
25-05-2021||North and Central||Farmers' stir: Ahead of 'black day' protest, Delhi Police warns against gatherings during lockdown||With farmer unions observing 'black day' on Wednesday on completion of six months of their stir against the Centre's agri laws, the Delhi Police has urged people not to hold gatherings due to the Covid situation and the ongoing lockdown and said it is keeping a tight vigil to deal with any situation at the protest sites on the city's borders. Action will be taken against those who try to take the law into their hands, Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said, adding that the force is already present at all borders points, including the protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, and will not allow any illegal activity or entry. Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, had announced that farmers will observe May 26 as 'Black Day' to mark the completion of six months. Last week, twelve major opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Left parties, SP, NCP and DMK had extended their support to the protest. In the wake of the SKM's announcement, the Delhi Police on Tuesday urged the people to follow Covid guidelines and not to come out of their houses and gather unnecessarily due to the ongoing coronavirus situation in the national capital. "In last over one month, we have witnessed a severe situation in the national capital due to the coronavirus in which several people lost their lives. Police and administration took several steps to control the situation.    "With the help of people, the lockdown was successfully followed in Delhi due to which the situation is gradually getting better in the national capital," he said. Biswal said, "We urge people not to gather as the virus could spread and the cases escalate. We appeal to the citizens to observe Covid- appropriate behaviour and lockdown which is still imposed in the city. There is no permission of gathering and demonstration due to the ongoing situation". According to a statement released by the Samkyukt Kissan Morch on Tuesday, this farmer’s movement "is running on truth and non-violence and will be completing six months of its historical struggle on Wednesday". "SKM requests all Indians to celebrate and mark Buddha Poornima tomorrow, so that truth and non-violence find a strong place back in our community, at a time when attempts are being made to erode these basic values in our society," the statement said. Meanwhile, the National Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments over allegations of flouting of Covid safety norms by farmers protesting at the borders against the farm laws. It has asked them to file within four weeks action taken reports regarding the steps taken to control the spread of Covid-19 infection at the protest sites. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the NHRC said that India is reeling under a "scary" second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and these protesters are not only putting their lives in danger but also posing a risk to the others in rural areas as "potential carriers" of the virus. "The complainant has also stated that more than 300 farmers have died during this ongoing protests due to several reasons, including Covid infection. The cases of black fungus, etc, are also rising. "He has sought the intervention of the Commission apprehending that situation may become more worrisome as the farmers, in large numbers, are planning for observing May 26, 2021 as 'Black Day,'" the rights panel said. On Tuesday, SKM also appealed to all citizens to mark the ‘black day’ by hoisting black flags from their homes, vehicles and other places. Farmer leaders said that farmers should wear black turbans and black chunni on this day. Kulwant Singh, a farmer leader, said that they will fix black flags at every border. "On Wednesday, there will be black flags fixed at the three borders of the city where farmers are protesting. The protesting farmers will observe the black day at the borders and no one will try to enter the national capital. It will be very peaceful and we are urging the citizens across the nation to support the farmers by putting black flags at their homes and other possible places,” Singh said. Thousands of protesting farmers reached Delhi borders on November 26 last year to protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws. On Republic Day, a tractor parade that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. More than 300 policemen were injured in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-stir-ahead-of-black-day-protest-delhi-police-warns-against-gatherings-during-lockdown-990046.html
25-05-2021||Oasis||Spirituality and psychology ||A seeker, perplexed by the unprecedented circumstances prevailing due to the pandemic wrote, “what is the use of satsang? People are dying due to inadequate medical infrastructure. Does satsang help us any which way in overcoming the problems we are facing now?” Her question mirrored how unstable and shaken youngsters are feeling in the current circumstances. It was also a reflection on the common perception that people have about satsang. I replied, “Satsang does what it is. It keeps us with the truth. Moreover, the solution to any problem begins by knowing its true nature and shouldering our share of responsibility in solving it truthfully.” She was not amused. That stirred my mind. Was she looking for some peppy story or high sounding words with sprinkled quotes from exotic thinkers instead of a solution? Was she really looking for satsang? Unfortunately, people equate spiritual gurus to motivational speakers while they are as different as chalk and cheese. But how has this perception come into being in society? Has it come because some spiritual gurus have reduced discourses to motivational speeches or even to entertainment? Who is responsible for this adulteration? The idea behind asking this question is to remind ourselves of the responsibility of spiritual discourses. The purpose is to provoke ourselves to ask this question instead of blaming others. Therefore, ‘how to correct it’ becomes the more important question. First of all, the field of spirituality should not be confused with the field of psychology. Psychology limits itself to the study of the mind. Psychology does not acknowledge the existence of any other higher field of consciousness than the mind. While spirituality asserts, acknowledges and reiterates the existence of four fields (stages) of consciousness: the body, the mind, the self and the soul, respectively. Satsang aims to realise the truth and become one with it. Interestingly, inspired by the data which emerged from number of case studies, some psychologists began to study para normal phenomena like extra-sensory perception, psychokinesis and out of body experiences and named it para-psychology. Para-psychology may be seen as the twilight zone between psychology and spirituality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/spirituality-and-psychology-989667.html
25-05-2021||Opinion||Anti-Zionism isn’t anti-Semitism? Someone didn’t get the memo||By Bret Stephens In recent years it has become an article of faith on the progressive left that anti-Zionism is not anti-Semitism and that it’s slander to assume that someone who hates Israel also hates Jews. Not everyone got the memo. Not the people who, waving Palestinian flags and chanting “Death to Jews,” according to a witness, assaulted Jewish diners at a Los Angeles sushi restaurant. Not the people who threw fireworks in New York’s diamond district. Not the people who brutally beat up a man wearing a yarmulke in Times Square. Not the people who drove through London slurring Jews and yelling, “Rape their daughters.” Not the people who gathered outside a synagogue in Germany shouting slurs. Not the people who, at a protest in Brussels, chanted, “Jews, remember Khaybar. The army of Muhammad is returning.” Also not getting the memo are the people who have tweeted the hashtag #HitlerWasRight (including someone who now works for the BBC), along with the hashtag #Covid1948, a suggestion that Israel is a virus that needs the cure of Hamas’ rockets as a “vaccine.” Apparently, these hashtags count as legitimate political speech at Twitter, a company whose objections to bigotry are otherwise so strong that it once banned a Canadian feminist for the sin of tweeting remarks about transgender women like “men aren’t women.” In this storm of hate, political leaders such as Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles, President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain have issued appropriate statements of condemnation. On CNN, correspondent Bianna Golodryga called out the anti-Semitism of Pakistan’s foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, when he cited “deep pockets” and “control (of) media” in terms of Israel’s influence on public opinion. Good for her. But if there’s been a massive online campaign of progressive allyship with Jews, I’ve missed it. If corporate executives have sent out workplace memos expressing concern for the safety of Jewish employees, I’ve missed it. If academic associations have issued public letters denouncing the use of anti-Semitic tropes by pro-Palestinian activists, I’ve missed them. It’s a curious silence. In the land of inclusiveness, Jews are denied inclusion. One response to the attacks that I have seen coming from the Left is that attacks on Jews are wrong because an American or British or German Jew should not be held responsible for the actions of the state of Israel. That’s true, and fine as far as it goes. But it doesn’t go far enough. Would the assaults in Los Angeles and New York have been more justifiable if the victims had been Israeli citizens — even, say, Israeli diplomats? Is hatred of an entire country and threats or violence to its people acceptable as long as the hate is untainted by some older prejudice? It is especially despicable when Israel is singled out in ways that apply to no other country. To take just one example, when was the last time you heard of a campus demonstration or a call for boycotts and divestment in response to Turkey’s 47-year occupation of northern Cyprus or its routine bombardment, using U.S.-made jets, of Kurdish militants in Iraq? But, again, this doesn’t go far enough. The accusations made against Israel — stealing Palestinian land (despite the fact that Israel vacated the territory from which it was subsequently attacked) and wanton violence against Palestinian civilians, particularly children (despite the fact that Israel regularly warned its targets to vacate buildings before targeting them) — can’t help but make me think of ancient libels about Jewish greed and bloodlust. Also echoing ancient libels is the idea that 11 days of fighting between Israel and Hamas somehow constitute a unique global horror, even as the world barely takes notice of the Taliban’s murder this month of 85 people at a school in Kabul. The anti-Semitic worldview is always Judeocentric, in the sense that it is obsessed with Jewish behaviour as the supreme factor in domestic and international political life. The Left has lately been awfully Judeocentric. This ought to be whistling loudly in the ears of progressives who claim to be horrified by every form of prejudice. Instead, they have indulged an anti-Israel movement that keeps descending into the crudest forms of anti-Semitism. They remind me of a certain kind of Trump voter who would occasionally voice disgust at his most outrageous behaviour, only to come back into alignment with him a few days later. After a while, it becomes clear that the outrage is cheap, if it isn’t simply fake. Progressives will have to come to their own reckoning about what to do about the burgeoning anti-Semitism in their midst. As for Jews, they should take the events of the last few days less as an outrage than as an omen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/anti-zionism-isn-t-anti-semitism-someone-didn-t-get-the-memo-989696.html
25-05-2021||Opinion||Tone-deaf politics of the BJP in West Bengal||Priorities change, sometimes fast and sometimes slowly. In politics, priorities shift as a reaction and a response to events that overtake earlier concerns. And events have rushed past the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s political agenda in West Bengal, leaving it looking increasingly more irrelevant, at least for now. The inflexibilities of a rigid hierarchy with control vested outside West Bengal shaped the election campaign and affected the outcome. If the BJP was tone-deaf in the campaign for the 2021 state Assembly elections in West Bengal, further proof of that is its current preoccupations with political violence and with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)’s interminable wrangling over house arrest or bail, that has progressed from the High Court to the Supreme Court over a week, of four politicians. The four politicians arrested include two ministers from the Trinamool Congress, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, one legislator from the same party, Madan Mitra, and one spent leader without a party, Sovan Chatterjee, in the Narada case, a sting operation that recorded on video bribes being given and taken by not just these politicians but ten others. The prolonged legal battle over the modalities of incarceration of the two ministers has been already judged on social media as “revenge politics” by the BJP using the power it has to nudge the CBI into insisting that they remain locked up. In the public perception, ministers Hakim and Mukherjee have been stopped by the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah regime from dealing with the Covid surge and now the cyclone. Confirming the popular view that the BJP is intent on destabilising the Mamata Banerjee government, both the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have condemned the arrests as “politically motivated” and a move to divert attention from the Centre’s “mismanagement” of the second surge of the pandemic. Illustrative of the disconnect between the BJP’s politics and the priorities of the people is the dramatic demands by a defeated candidate, Locket Chatterjee, for withdrawal of central security detail because she cannot protect her “workers” from the ongoing violence by the Trinamool Congress. The BJP’s persistence in shooting spent arrows from its limited quiver reveals why it got it all wrong in the elections. If the BJP was politically savvy in West Bengal, it would have focused on the cyclone, exerting the pressure it possesses as the only Opposition party in the state assembly to hound Mamata Banerjee on her handling of the impending disaster. The BJP made the siphoning of relief material and rehabilitation funds an election issue, even though it did not yield the wins it expected. She, on the contrary, is perfectly aware of the imperative to erase the mistakes of the past and create a new record of corruption-free and effective governance, in the context of a super cyclone, because her political antenna is tuned to pick up signals that could sink her whenever the overdue municipal and panchayat elections are held. During the campaign and eight-phase polling, the BJP was singularly oblivious of the pandemic, its nature and its deadly effects as the larger context in which the elections were being held. For the party, the Trinamool Congress’s alleged sponsorship of violence against the BJP, which began before the elections and continues post the results, has been the most urgent issue. The party’s call for President’s Rule even as the ballots were being counted, its glee when Governor J P Dhankar unleashed a Twitter attack on the lawlessness in the state that indicated a near breakdown of constitutional machinery, his visits to the districts where BJP workers were attacked, the prime minister’s intervention and the visit of a high-powered central team, suggest that the BJP is even more clueless now. The primary concerns of the public are not unearthing dirt on an old bribery and corruption case, nor is it political violence by the Trinamool Congress against the BJP. People are concerned about scarce resources – hospital beds, doctors, oxygen, ventilators, medicines and vaccines – to cope with the enormity of the second surge. And as of last Friday, there is panic that the cyclone could devastate an already crippled economy. The BJP’s current tactics in West Bengal are a classic case of how not to be grounded in reality and to have no sense of either time or place. The price of living in a different reality is the plunging credibility of the party and its leadership. For the voter in West Bengal, the BJP’s leadership is not the local boss of the party; it is Modi. The command-and-control structure of the BJP allows for no alternative. The inability to get over the bad and to remain stuck in the past, however recent it may be, is politically suicidal. It has wrecked the CPI(M)’s efforts at retrieving political ground in West Bengal. In contrast, Mamata Banerjee is remarkably nimble, adroitly skipping over the failures of her leadership by apologising to aggrieved voters on the one hand and promising to do better in the future. As the official opposition, the BJP could do itself some good if it tracked her performance and grounded itself in local realities, instead of following a playbook that is useless in the culturally complex and very different political landscape in West Bengal. (Shikha Mukerjee is a Kolkata-based senior journalist.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/tone-deaf-politics-of-the-bjp-in-west-bengal-989769.html
25-05-2021||Panorama||India's environmental misadventures||Climate change impacts and impending environmental catastrophes are looming across the globe. Nations are beginning to take positive steps to limit greenhouse gas emissions and promoting programs to safeguard the planet. The Covid-19 pandemic has stalled India’s environmental protection projects. The Jal Jeevan Mission was inaugurated in 2019 to manage socio-environmental issues, including waste management, Ganges pollution, deforestation and clean water supply. However, these projects have a limited impact on India’s environmental landscape, particularly on the nation’s role in addressing climate change-related issues. India is ranked 177 amongst 180 nations with a low baseline score of 30.59 in the transnational environmental performance index (EPI). The anthropocentric policies of the centre seem to disregard environmental values totally. In 1994, the environmental impact assessment (EIA) notification was formulated under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. The government’s recent EIA amendment drive is to ease the clearances of industries even if such clearances destroy the fragile and already polluted environment. The Centre has already diluted the environmental clearance process, giving more power to State Environment Impact Assessment Authorities (SEIAAs). Environmental approvals for polluting industries are now easier to get than under the EIA 2006 notification. Polluting industries can now operate within 5 kilometres of eco-sensitive zones, contrary to the 10-kilometre margin given in the 2006 notification. The environmental regulations for coal tar processing, sand mining and paper pulp industries are also eased. An earlier policy that banned the setting up of industries in eight ‘critically-polluted’ industrial belts was revoked in 2014. The Bhopal disaster in 1984 that resulted in 3,784 deaths and impacted countless lives seems to have faded in the memories of policymakers. Last year a styrene gas leak at LG Polymers Company plant in Vizag resulted in 12 deaths. At the same time, 2,000 people fell sick from inhaling the toxic gas. Investigation revealed that this plant, operating between 1997 and 2019, did not have the required environmental clearance. We need to revisit the importance of a robust EIA framework instead of the central policy of diluting even the existing norms.The number of independent members on the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) was recently reduced from 15 to just 3. This seems to reduce the board to a mere puppet in the hand of policymakers. The result of this policy level change is apparent within the last five year period. NBWL approved 99% of all industrial projects in contrast to 80% in the previous UPA-2 government. The government has launched several schemes in the energy sector, including the National Action Plan on Climate change (NAPCC). These schemes talk about popularising renewable energies and distributing power to the remotest corner of the nation. However, the environmental reality is somewhat different. On 11th December 2017, the Central Pollution Control Board allowed over 400 thermal power stations to release pollutants that exceeded the 2015 limit set by the government. One report also suggested that 16 newer units that started operating in 2017 failed to install clean technology systems to limit pollution. In 2018, 15 Indian cities were listed amongst the world’s 20 most polluted cities. In 2017, the Centre even tried to dilute the National Green Tribunal's (NGT) efficiency, one of the world’s most promising environmental tribunals. By manipulating the provisions of a money bill, a committee has been set up to select the chairperson of the NGT. In this five-member committee, four are governmental nominees. Previously, the NGT was headed by a former Supreme Court judge or the chief justice of a high court. Under the new policy, anyone with at least 25 years of experience in law can head the NGT. This evidently reduces the autonomy and effectiveness of the NGT. There is a danger that environmentally degrading mining projects may creep into the pristine forests of the Western Ghats, the Himalayas and the northeast, which are all designated biodiversity hot spots. State and Central governments of the nation must work hand in hand, sidelining their political differences to protect India’s environment and not forsake it for short term monetary gain. (The authors are associate professor and dean, respectively, at Jindal School of Environment & Sustainability, O.P. Jindal Global University, Haryana, India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/indias-environmental-misadventures-989666.html
25-05-2021||Right in the Middle||The day the past zoomed in on me||"Old friendships are like old wine. They get better and better as they age." This is an age-old saying that I had heard time and again but never took it seriously. That is until middle age set in. Suddenly, I am reminiscing a lot more. Going back to my carefree childhood days, the times when I climbed trees and laughed over pickled mangoes. My locked down body in a wandering mind sometimes travels to the corridors of my catholic college. It brings back memories of friends, laughter, crushes and good times. And then, this happened - a bunch of friends from my college WhatsApp group got together and decided to have a Zoom reunion after twenty-three long years. It was an evening that I had longed for, somewhere in the quiet recess of my mind. My heart was filled with anticipation. I woke up that morning excited, like it was my first day in college. I got on with my online work schedule like clockwork, but my heart eagerly awaited the 07:00 PM rendezvous on Zoom. I spent the evening tea-time talking about the shenanigans of my college days to my barely-interested daughter. She kept commenting that I was getting too old and boring! After a futile attempt to impress my son with my college stories, I started to dress up and get ready for the call. Finally, it happens. I get into the Zoom meet and see my buddies screaming over a lousy network. They are all there. A bit older, a bit pixelated, but alive, thriving and giggling as ever. Yes, a bunch of 40-year-olds behaved like teenagers. The initial round of conversations was all about catching up. It was like twenty-three years in three minutes. "Where do you live?", "what do you do?", "how many kids?", "you look good!", "you too!". Our class representative from back then had not forgotten her responsible position and soon took over as the session’s moderator steering conversations along certain paths. As the evening wore on, we time-travelled to the revered halls of our beloved institution, afternoon lectures, our wonderful teachers, lunch hour and canteen time, fests and more. I laughed so much through the evening that my husband checked on me twice to see if I was alright. A friend played to us our favourite song from our college days to end on a lovely note. As we waved and smiled our way through the beautiful number about friendship and memories, I could see some of us tear up through those Zoom box screens. We waved our goodbyes, vowed to meet frequently. Reluctantly, all of us left the meeting and went back to the world of late-night dinners, hungry teenagers and unwashed dishes; but with a twinkle in the eye that only old friends can bring.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-day-the-past-zoomed-in-on-me-989662.html
25-05-2021||Second Edit||Do not dent India’s image any further||The filing of a case by Cairn Energy in a US court for seizure of the assets of government-owned Air India to recover dues of $1.2 billion that India owes it after losing a tax arbitration award by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague in December last year has again put the focus on India’s controversial retrospective tax policy. Worse, it holds the prospect of damaging the country’s reputation at the international level in many respects. The Cairn case shows the country not only as sticking to a wrong and irrational tax policy but also as refusing to honour international awards. The case relates to a financial transaction made in 2007, when Cairn Energy transferred its assets in India to a company incorporated in the country. Tax authorities claimed that it had resulted in capital gains for the British company and made a tax demand in 2015. This was similar to the Vodafone case, which also involved a retrospective levy. In both cases, the government has challenged arbitration judgements -- in Singapore in the Vodafone case and in the Dutch court of appeals in the Cairn case. Cairn has moved courts in other countries also, including the UK and the Netherlands, to get the award enforced and to recover the money. Apart from Air India, the company is said to have identified other assets owned by the Indian government or its entities, including ships owned by the Shipping Corporation of India and the properties of public sector banks operating in some countries. If the company succeeds in its efforts, India will be in the company of countries like Pakistan and the Republic of Congo who had their assets seized after failing to meet international obligations. The government should consider whether it wants to subject the country to such humiliation. The government does not seem ready to relent. It has maintained that its sovereign right of taxation goes beyond the scope and jurisdiction of international awards. But the courts in India and the international tribunals have not disputed this. They have only held that India’s actions were violative of the ‘fair and equitable treatment’ guaranteed to foreign investors under relevant bilateral investment protection treaties. The government’s stand will not only hurt the country’s image but also affect its standing as a place where the rule of law holds. The government’s disinvestment plans will also be affected. Following Cairn’s move, Vodafone and Devas Multimedia may also consider launching similar processes for the seizure of India’s assets abroad. The BJP had criticised the UPA government’s retrospective tax legislation as “tax terrorism.’’ What is it doing now?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/do-not-dent-india-s-image-any-further-989659.html
25-05-2021||South||Covid-19 situation in Kerala under control: Veena George||Newly-appointed Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that the Covid-19 situation in Kerala was under control. George said the state government was focussing on increasing the supply of Covid-19 vaccines as soon as possible. "Kerala has received 91 lakh doses. This includes supply from the centre as well as recent arrivals directly from companies. We are pressuring (the centre) for more," she said. "We have vaccinated 49 per cent of those above 45 with at least one dose each. Twenty per cent have got both doses. We are in desperate need of vaccines. The state is ready to buy vaccines and has floated tenders for three crore doses. June 2 is the last date for vendors to apply," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-situation-in-kerala-under-control-veena-george-989689.html
25-05-2021||South||CPI(M)'s MB Rajesh elected as Kerala Assembly Speaker||Former MP and CPI(M) member M B Rajesh has been elected as Speaker of the 15th Kerala Assembly. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpims-mb-rajesh-elected-as-kerala-assembly-speaker-989716.html
25-05-2021||South||Jobseekers, students wanting to go abroad in priority vaccination list in Kerala||The Kerala government has included those who are going abroad for studies and employment purpose, in the prioritised group under the 18-45 years age category for the Covid-19 vaccination. An immediate decision has been taken in this regard as many foreign countries have made vaccination compulsory for those arriving there for study and job purposes, Health Minister Veena George said here on Tuesday. Besides them, 10 other categories were also included in the prioritised group and an order was issued for the same, she said. Field staff of various government departments including food and civil supplies, postal, social justice, Women and Child Development, Fisheries and teachers assigned for the valuation of SSLC, Higher Secondary and Vocational Higher Secondary examinations were among those newly added to the prioritised group. As many as 32 categories of people belonging to the age group were earlier included in the priority category after considering them as frontlinefighters against Covid-19. "However, there was a demand to include more categories in the priority group. Based on the recommendation of a state level committee, 11 more categories have been added," the minister said. Vaccination for the prioritised groups in the 18-44 years age category began in Kerala on May 17. People with comorbidities, belonging to this age group, were included in the first priority group. The state government had already issued detailed guidelines for the vaccination of this age group and released the list of comorbidities to determine the eligibility. Eligible people had been directed to register in the government website concerned to be included in the priority list , health department sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jobseekers-students-wanting-to-go-abroad-in-priority-vaccination-list-in-kerala-989781.html
25-05-2021||South||Major fire breaks out at HPCL refinery in Visakhapatnam, no casualties reported||A fire broke out at Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd's oil refinery in the city on Tuesday afternoon but it was doused within hours and there were no casualties. The fire was noticed in a pipeline outside the primary unit that processes crude oil for conversion into fuel at around 15.00 hrs. It is to confirm that there is no casualty. All people are accounted and are safe. Fire is extinguished completely. Except the particular unit where fire occurred, all other process units of Visakh Refinery are operating normally. "Safety measures and firefighting was activated immediately," Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) said. "The fire has been extinguished. There is no casualty and no risk to the public." The fire may lead to shutting down of the crude distillation unit (CDU) for a few days. "Fire at HPCL refinery at Visakhapatnam has been doused. There is no report of any casualty," the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas also tweeted. HPCL runs a 8.3 million tonnes a year oil refinery at Visakhapatnam. The unit turns crude oil into value added fuels like petrol and diesel. Emergency sirens were sounded immediately after the fire broke out, and employees and workers rushed out of the unit. "There was a deafening sound like a blast and there was a ball of fire. The siren sounded and we all came running out to safety," a worker said, coming out of the plant. Fire tenders at the plant and also from outside were rushed to the spot to put out the blaze. "Fire has been extinguished. Cooling operations are in progress," a company official said. "There are no casualties and there is no risk to the public. The other refinery operations are continuing as normal." Visakhapatnam District Collector V Vinay Chand said the fire was doused quickly, averting major damage. "There were no casualties nor was anyone injured in the mishap," he told reporters here. Besides teams from HPCL, personnel from the Eastern Naval Command and the AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department swung into action and put out the blaze in a swift operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/major-fire-breaks-out-at-hpcl-refinery-in-visakhapatnam-no-casualties-reported-989801.html
25-05-2021||South||Have utmost respect towards Tamil people, say 'The Family Man 2' directors amid boycott calls in Tamil Nadu||The Family Man creators Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK say they respect the sentiments of Tamil people and have come up with "a sensitive, balanced, and riveting story" in the second season of the show, which is facing controversy over its alleged depiction of Eelam Tamils. Fronted by Manoj Bajpayee, The Family Man season two was scheduled to return earlier this year on Amazon Prime Video but got postponed following controversies around the streaming platform's shows Tandav and Mirzapur. Now, the sophomore season, set in Chennai, is scheduled to be released on on June 4. It will see Bajpayee's Srikant Tiwari pitted against a new and powerful adversary, Raaji, played by South star Samantha Akkineni. There have been calls for the boycott of the series in Tamil Nadu, with IT Minister T Mano Thangaraj writing a letter to Centre over the show's depiction of Eelam Tamils in a "highly objectionable manner". In their statement, Nidimoru and DK said they respect the sentiments of the Tamil people and stressed that assumptions should not be made based on the trailer. "Some assumptions and impressions have been made based on a couple of shots in the trailer. We are very cognizant of the sentiments of the Tamil people and Tamil culture and have nothing but the utmost love and respect towards our Tamil people," the filmmaker duo said. Nidimoru and DK insisted that they have presented a "sensitive, balanced, and riveting story", which they are hopeful the audience will appreciate. "We have put in years of hard work into this show, and we have taken great pains to bring to our audiences a sensitive, balanced, and riveting story – much like we did in season one of the show. "We request everyone to wait and watch the show when it releases. We know you'll appreciate it once you watch it," they added. Thangaraj, in his letter to Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday, claimed the show "intentionally undermined" the historical struggle of the Eelam Tamils. "A serial loaded with insults and insinuations against the glorious Tamil culture could never be considered as the one having any broadcasting value. "Branding Tamil speaking actress Samantha as a terrorist in the serial is directly an attack on the pride of Tamils living around the world and no one will tolerate this kind of motivated and mischievous campaign," he said. Earlier, Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) Founder Seeman has also demanded a ban on the show for portraying Tamils in the negative light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/have-utmost-respect-towards-tamil-people-say-the-family-man-2-directors-amid-boycott-calls-in-tamil-nadu-989802.html
25-05-2021||South||Special rebate for milk cardholders in Tamil Nadu||Seeking to boost its customer patronage, state-run milk supplier Aavin is now providing an additional discount of Rs 3 per litre for blue packet and Rs 2.50 for orange and green ones, apart from that already announced by the Tamil Nadu government, Milk and Dairy Development Minister S M Nasar said on Tuesday. Coimbatore has a total of about 15,000 cardholders and steps are being taken to increase the number and sales, Nazar told reporters after reviewing various Aavin centres in and around the city. The department has also planned to give a discount of Rs 2 for those buying 1,000 litres in cans and Rs 2.50 for those buying about 1,000 litres for special occasions, he said. The Coimbatore Milk Producers Cooperative Society is procuring 1.78 lakh litres of milk daily from 349 primary milk producers societies and selling 1.65 lakh litres in 250ml, 500 Ml and 1,000 ML packets through 707 agents, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/special-rebate-for-milk-cardholders-in-tamil-nadu-989803.html
25-05-2021||South||BJP MLA requests Union Health Minister to set up high level panel to help Tamil Nadu fight Covid-19||All India BJP Mahila Morcha President and MLA, Vanathi Srinivasan, on Tuesday requested Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to constitute a high level team to assess and assist the Tamil Nadu government in handling the pandemic. In a letter to the Union minister, a copy of which was released to the media, she said that Coimbatore district in the state was facing unprecedented increase in the infection with the coronavirus cases crossing 4,000, putting huge strain on the resources to combat the pandemic. Being an industrial hub and more than 70 per cent of those testing positive belonging to industrial sector, there is an immediate need of vaccination in Coimbatore to prepare the region for the anticipated third wave, the BJP leader, representing Coimbatore South in the State Assembly, said. It should also be noted that the rising number of cases has seriously hit the economic activity and many families have lost their sole bread winners, she said. Coimbatore is facing acute shortage of vaccine and the people in the age group of 45 plus, the most vulnerable population due to comorbidities, are unable to get vaccinated, she said. Considering the situation, she requested the minister to release more vaccines to Tamil Nadu, earmarking a portion to Coimbatore specifically. In view of this, the minister should constitute and designate a high level committee of Health and Family Welfare to Tamil Nadu to assess and assist the State government in resource allocation and help it handle the crisis effectively, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-mla-requests-union-health-minister-to-set-up-high-level-panel-to-help-tamil-nadu-fight-covid-19-989812.html
25-05-2021||South||Newly-elected Puducherry MLAs to be sworn-in on May 26||The swearing-in of newly elected MLAs in this Union Territory will be held on Wednesday but the AINRC-led NDA coalition cabinet is yet to take shape, although its leader N Rangasamy has taken oath as the Chief Minister. Besides the elected legislators, three nominated BJP MLAs will also take oath on May 26, three weeks after the results of the April 6 polls in the UT were declared. AINRC MLA K Lakshminarayanan would be sworn in as pro-tem Speaker tomorrow with Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan administering the oath of office to him. He would induct the new legislators in the 30-member Assembly and together with the nominated members, the strength of the House is 33. Elections were held here on April 6 and the counting of votes taken up on May 2. The AINRC-led NDA won the polls. The NDA emerged victorious from 16 of the 30 seats, with AINRC coming out trumps in 10 and the rest going to its saffron ally. Another constituent AIADMK drew a blank. A majority of the six independents are said to be favourably disposed towards Rangasamy. Opposition DMK and Congress have six and two seats, respectively. The immediate task before Rangasamy would be the expansion of his ministry. Usually, Puducherry would have a six-member cabinet including the chief minister. The strength could be increased to seven this time, even as AINRC sources pointed out at BJP's preference for three cabinet posts, including the deputy CM itself. Having witnessed a spike in its daily coronavirus cases earlier before witnessing a dip recently, Puducherry awaits the new government to handle key issues including Covid management, although Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundaarajan is presently addressing related issues, including holding meetings with officials to chalk out programmes to battle the pandemic. A full-fledged budget is also required to be passed for the fiscal 2021-2022 although an interim allocation has been made through Vote on Account passed in Lok Sabha with Puducherry being under President's rule since February after the fall of the V Narayanasamy-led Congress government then. The government fell after it failed in the confidence vote in the wake of a spate of resignations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/newly-elected-puducherry-mlas-to-be-sworn-in-on-may-26-989844.html
25-05-2021||South||Selection of new police chief in Kerala draws much curiosity||The selection of a new state police chief in Kerala is raising eyebrows this time as some of the frontrunners to the post have a tainted track record but enjoy the support of the ruling party. Incumbent police chief Loknath Behera is superannuating from service next month and the selection process of his successor is already on with the state government reportedly sending a list of 12 seniormost officers to the UPSC for screening. SPG director Arun Kumar Sinha, who is a 1987 batch IPS officer, is learnt to be topping the seniority list. But he is unlikely to return to state service. Next to him are his batchmates Tomin J Thachankary and Sudeshkumar, who are serving as Kerala Financial Corporation managing director and Kerala vigilance director respectively. Thanchankary was known to be very close to the CPM leadership and was said to have played a key role in setting up the CPM-controlled Kairali channel. He however is believed to have a shady track record. While an illegal wealth case is pending against him, he has also faced serious allegations of meeting people with terror links during a visit to Qatar in 2010. Though Sudeshkumar did not face any allegations, his daughter faced a case of allegedly manhandling a police personnel in Kerala in 2018 following a verbal duel over a delay in bringing a car to collect the officer's daughter after her morning walk. As a result of this, a large section of the police are unlikely to favour Sudeshkumar's appointment as police chief. Moreover, he has only less than two years of service left, while the guidelines prescribe two-year service for State police chief. Woman IPS officer B Sandhya of the 1988 batch is next in the pecking order. However, she has only completed 23 months of service, while the guidelines prescribe not less than 24 months of service. If an exemption is given to her, Kerala may have a first woman police officer as state police chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/selection-of-new-police-chief-in-kerala-draws-much-curiosity-989852.html
25-05-2021||South||Explained | Why are people in Lakshadweep protesting?||Over the last few days #SaveLakshadweep has been trending on social media. Alongside, protests have broken out in the Union Territory. All of this is in response to a series of administrative reforms that have been introduced since December 2020 after the administration was changed. Who is the administrator in-charge of Lakshadweep? Praful Patel is a BJP leader who has been appointed as the administrator of Lakshadweep since December 2020. He was the former home minister of the state of Gujarat. What are the administrative reforms he has introduced? On an island where crime rate is already low, Patel introduced a proposal to implement the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act. Under this act anyone can be arrested without a trial for a period of up to one year. A draft on the Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation 2021 (LDAR) has been another bone of contention. The draft gives the administrator powers to remove or relocate islanders from their property, for town planning or any developmental activity. The draft bill gives the government and its bodies arbitrary and unchecked power to directly interfere with an islander’s right to possess and retain their property. The new proposal also includes introduction of liquor shops on the islands, to fuel tourism, which thus far have been restricted owing the majority Muslim population.  A change is also being brought about to the Panchayat regulations wherein those people having more than two kids would be unable to contest for any panchayt elections. Among a string of changes, a beef ban has been proposed and non-vegetarian meals have been scrapped from the midday meals. As for Covid norms, earlier on the islands a mandatory 14-day quarantine was put into place, however now a negative RT-PCR would suffice to enter the islands. This has caused concern for the locals. Who is protesting? Alongside the islanders and people on social media, opposition leaders in Lakshadweep and neighbouring Kerala have raised cause for concern. Kerala lawmaker Hibi Eden, wrote a letter to to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Modi. In the letter, he claimed that the many government contract employees in the tourism sector were terminated without any reason. "Majority of the 70,000 people in this Island depend on fishing and government services, but the new administration demolished huts of fisherman accusing Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) violation," he wrote. Lakshadweep lawmaker and NCP's Mohammed Faizal and his colleagues from neighbouring Kerala—TN Prathapan (Congress), Elamaram Kareem (CPI-M) and ET Mohammed Basheer (Muslim League) have urged the Centre to recall Patel. In a letter to the President, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal alleged that the current administrator of Lakshadweep Praful Patel had taken "authoritarian measures" and demanded his recall. However, the Centre has said that these changes would bring about development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/explained-why-are-people-in-lakshadweep-protesting-989864.html
25-05-2021||South||Malayalam actor Unni Dev held for wife's death by suicide||Actor Unni Dev, son of popular Malayalam actor and late Rajan P Dev, was arrested on Tuesday over the death of his wife Priyanka, police said here. A physical education teacher in a local school, Priyanka was found hanging in the bedroom of her home at Vembayam near here on May 12, a day after she filed a police complaint of domestic violence against her actor-husband. The Aadu actor was taken into custody from his home in Ernakulam district this morning after ensuring that he was Covid-negative. A team of police personnel under Nedumangadu DYSP later brought Dev here as the case was registered in the capital district. "As he was Covid-positive, we were waiting for him to recover from the disease. We went to his home this morning and took him in an ambulance to the hospital concerned and ensured that he turned negative for the virus infection. A medical certificate was also collected in this regard," a senior police officer told PTI. Besides the deceased, the 26-year-old woman's family also lodged a complaint against Dev for alleged domestic violence and harassing her physically and mentally and demanding more dowry. Though the relationship between them was smooth initially after their marriage in 2019, issues started cropping up later on as Dev and his family began demanding more dowry, Priyanka's family alleged. Subsequently, she was brought back to her maternal home, where she allegedly ended her life, they said. Cruelty by husband or relatives and abetment of suicide were the main charges against the actor, who is in his 30s, police added. Unni Dev is known for his roles in movies including Rakshadhikari Baiju, Janamaithri, Mandaram, and so on. His father Rajan P Dev was a celebrated actor who had played the role of villain as well as essayed comedy roles in over 200 movies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-actor-unni-dev-held-for-wifes-death-by-suicide-989878.html
25-05-2021||South||Chennai school teacher accused of sexual harassment arrested under POSCO Act||A teacher of a prestigious school in this metropolis, who was accused of sexual misconduct by his students, was on Tuesday sent to 14-day judicial custody after he was arrested by the police on various charges including under the stringent POSCO Act. G Rajagopalan, who teaches accountancy and business studies and was placed under suspension by the school on Monday, was shown as arrested by the All Women Ashok Nagar Police Station in the city on Tuesday morning. After the arrest, he was produced before a magistrate who sent him to judicial custody till June 8. Even as he was lodged in Puzhal Central prison, police sources said several students have come forward to lodge complaints against Rajagopalan on charges of sexual harassment and sexual misconduct. Many students have accused the 59-year-old Rajagopalan of conducting online classes by just draping a towel over his waist. Some of them even shared screenshots of Rajagopalan taking online classes with just a towel around him. Police said Rajagopalan was booked under Section 11 and Section 12 of the POSCO Act. While Section 11 deals with sexual harassment upon a child, Section 12 says whoever commits sexual harassment upon a child shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to a fine. Sections 354 (a) (Sexual Harassment and punishment for sexual harassment) and 509 (intending to insult the modesty of any woman, utters any words, makes any sound or gesture, or exhibits any object) under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 67 and 67(a) (Punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) under the IT Act have also been slapped on the teacher. Meanwhile, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) sent summons to the principal and dean of the school to appear before it for an enquiry on the issue on May 31. Several students, who are minors, are understood to have narrated their harrowing experiences with an alumnus who uploaded some of the screenshots of her conversation on Instagram on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-school-teacher-accused-of-sexual-harassment-arrested-under-posco-act-989899.html
25-05-2021||South||Political row over unrest in Lakshadweep; Kerala HC stays transfer of prosecutors||While the unrest in Lakshadweep is snowballing into a political row with BJP leaders justifying  the decisions of the administrator Praful K Patel, the Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed an order of Lakshadweep additional district magistrate directing an assistant prosecutor to attend to legal work at the secretariat. A bench of the Kerala High Court comprising justice K Vinod Chandran and M R Anitha stayed the additional district magistrate's order considering a public interest litigation alleging that the prosecutors were being called away to do legal work at the secretariat at Kavaratti, the island's capital. Assistant prosecutors of Amini and Andrott islands were transferred to the secretariat. This had affected the functioning of the courts, the petitioners maintained. The court also made a mention about the issues at Lakshadweep. The court asked the standing counsel whether he knew what was happening in Lakshadweep and further said that the court was not mentioning about media reports only. Even as more Congress leaders including former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Rajya Sabha MP K C Venugopal condemened the decisions of the administrator, who was a BJP leader, saffron party leaders in Kerala alleged that a misleading campaign was going on against the Lakshadweep administration's decisions. BJP Kerala state president K Surendran and BJP national vice president A P Abdullah Kutty said that the allegation that the Lakshadweep administrator was trying to cause difficulties to the people of the island was baseless. Surendran alleged that the Kerala government was ignoring the repeated pleas of Lakshadweep administration for improving facilities of Beypore port in Kerala and it was due to the lack of adequate facilities at Beypore that Lakshadweep was considering operations to Mangalore. Meanwhile, there were reports that the BJP leaders at Lakshadweep had written to the centre urging that decisions against the larger interest of the people of the island should not be implemented. Patel was widely criticised for various decisions like relaxing the Covid protocols on the island and thereby, causing a Covid surge, implementing Goonda Act, imposing beef ban and moves to disqualify those with more than two children from contesting local body elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-row-over-unrest-in-lakshadweep-kerala-hc-stays-transfer-of-prosecutors-989928.html
25-05-2021||South||K M Abraham new chief principal secretary to Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Former bureaucrat K M Abraham has been appointed as the Chief Principal Secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Abraham is currently the CEO of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Board (KIIFB), the development arm of the state government. The new posting would be in addition to the existing charges, a Government Order said here on Tuesday. Abraham had earlier retired as the Chief Secretary during the tenure of the previous Vijayan government before subsequently being appointed as KIIFB CEO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-m-abraham-new-chief-principal-secretary-to-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-989929.html
25-05-2021||South||Telangana to vaccinate 'super spreaders'; allows Covid-19 vaccination in private sector||The Telangana government has decided to launch a special drive to vaccinate all the people engaged in jobs, professions involving public interaction. The state has categorised all the LPG delivery staff, fair price (PDS) shop dealers, petrol pump workers, auto and cab drivers, vendors in fruit, vegetable and flower, meat markets, operators of grocery stores, liquor shops, etc. as potential super-spreaders of Covid-19 infection. On Tuesday, a meeting chaired by the state finance minister Harish Rao deliberated on the issues like identification of all such “super-spreaders” and other logistical arrangements to ensure a smooth vaccination process. Meanwhile, the Telangana public health directorate has permitted all the designated private hospitals to carry out Covid-19 vaccination for the 18 years and above population. It has also allowed vaccination in corporate companies, institutions and gated communities. All these private bodies should register on the CoWin portal and follow the norms. The Tuesday notification was according to the guidelines issued by the union health ministry over a month ago for vaccinations in the private sector. On Monday, reviewing the Covid-19 situation, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed the officials to continue the process of fever survey and distribution of the medical kits to those with symptoms while ramping up the tests to curtail the virus spread in the state. Telangana has been reporting a decline in Covid-19 infections, with the new daily case figures remaining below the four thousand-mark for over a week now. On Tuesday, when 81,203 samples were tested, the positive cases recorded were 3,821 only. The active cases, as per the official figures, stood at 38,706.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-vaccinate-super-spreaders-allows-covid-19-vaccination-in-private-sector-989937.html
25-05-2021||South||TN to form committee to look into sexual harassment complaints from students: Minister||The Tamil Nadu government is mulling constituting a separate committee to look into complaints of sexual misconduct and harassment from school students, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Tuesday. His comments came as a 59-year-old teacher of a prestigious school in Chennai was arrested under POSCO Act for sexually harassing his students. Speaking to reporters at the Secretariat here, the minister said the government will also send a reminder to all schools asking them to strictly follow the guidelines for online classes. The arrested teacher is also accused of conducting online classes by just wrapping a towel around his waist. “We are considering forming a (separate) committee to look into such complaints and ensure all genuine complaints are acted upon. We will do it...But we also want to make sure that this is not used against the teaching community. It is a very sensitive issue, and we will act on it,” Anbil Mahesh said. He refused to comment further on the teacher's case, saying the police is already investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-to-form-committee-to-look-into-sexual-harassment-complaints-from-students-minister-989939.html
25-05-2021||South||Triaging, fever camps, car ambulances: How Chennai is fighting Covid||After her swab samples returned positive for Covid-19, 35-year-old Banu was taken to a Covid Screening Centre run by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) near her residence in Chennai's Ayanavaram. Since she had taken her six-year-old along, Banu was given priority – her oxygen levels were checked, X-ray of the chest taken, blood samples collected, and she was taken to a doctor for assessment. The doctor suggested Banu get herself checked in to a Covid Care Centre due to low haemoglobin levels, though the Covid-19 infection was “very mild.” But the 35-year-old requested the doctor to allow her quarantine at home since she did not want to leave her two minor children, who also tested positive for Covid-19. Within two hours, Banu was back home. She has now completed the quarantine period, and is waiting for her exit swab test.  This triaging method of categorising patients immediately after they test positive for Covid-19 has won laurels from many as this reduces the load on hospitals and doctors who can focus all their energies on patients needing their attention. The city, which was witnessing a high number of cases for about a month, is currently showing signs of reduction. Triaging helps rational allotment of beds “Triaging has helped in rational allotment of hospital beds, and patients getting appropriate treatment as per their condition. The distribution of patients has ensured that the patient whose conditions warrants get hospitalised, and those who do not need admission, quarantine at home. This has prevented overcrowding at hospitals,” Dr K Kolandaswamy, former Director of Public Health, Tamil Nadu Government, told DH. When Banu left the screening centre, she was given the mobile number of a temporary staff member who could be reached in case of an emergency or doubt. “The woman picked my call all the time and answered my questions very patiently. And she came home to check my oxygen levels every day. I panicked at one point, but the assistance from the woman helped me calm down,” Banu told DH. When the oxygen levels of 64-year-old Karunanidhi dipped below 95 on the fourth day of his home quarantine, he was shifted to a nearby government hospital in Tiruvallur district within a few hours where he was put on oxygen support for a couple of days. 21 triaging centres in Chennai Dr Alby John, Deputy Commissioner (Health), GCC, told DH that 21 triaging centres, including a 24/7 facility at the sprawling Island Grounds, functions in Chennai to ensure that the beds available for Covid-19 patients are optimally utilised. As many as 251 doctors and 500 nurses are involved in the triaging process. “We have now begun doorstep triaging for patients who are below 45 years of age. Health care staff go to their place and check their vitals including oxygen level and conduct a single breath test among others. Those above 45 years of age are taken to triaging centres where we take x-rays and conduct blood investigations,” the bureaucrat said. The triaging method reduced pressure on hospitals in the city and helped patients who needed admission the most get bed in health care facilities. Besides the triaging method, the fever camps and field supervisors helped reduce the number of cases in the city. “Fever camps are conducted across the city, while field supervisors visit every household and check for symptoms. We have now launched tele-counselling facilities to get in touch with those who are under home quarantine. On Monday alone, 51,000 calls were made,” John added. Car ambulance facility Another initiative of the GCC that has caught the attention of other cities is the 'car ambulance facility' that is used to transport stable patients from their homes to hospitals or Covid Care Centres. 186 of the 251 'car ambulances' planned are already on the roads helping hundreds of patients, leaving 108 ambulances for the needy. “108 ambulances have oxygen support, and with even patients who do not need oxygen support using them, we thought it was time to ensure that there was a separate mode of transport for stable patients. The car ambulance facility is now a success,” John said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/triaging-fever-camps-car-ambulances-how-chennai-is-fighting-covid-989972.html
25-05-2021||South||Ex-Kerala Mahila Congress leader Lathika Subash joins NCP||Over a month after former Congress leader P C Chacko joined the NCP, another leader has followed in his footsteps. Former Kerala Mahila Congress state president Lathika Subhash, who had tonsured her head in protest against the poor representation of women in Congress's candidate list, joined NCP on Tuesday. She is likely to be made head of NCP's women wing. Lathika had tonsured her head at the Kerala PCC office when the candidates for the election was announced. She was also expecting a seat. She later contested as an independent candidate from Ettumanoor in Kottayam district, but was unsuccessful.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-kerala-mahila-congress-leader-lathika-subash-joins-ncp-989999.html
25-05-2021||State||Launch dedicated TV channel for continuous learning: Teacher organisations||Several teacher organisations have suggested the department of public instruction to launch a dedicated television channel for continuous learning in rural places. The representatives of various organisations explained this while taking part in the virtual meeting called by the commissioner for public instructions. "It is not possible to reach rural kids through online classes and it is necessary to have an alternate option and we suggest the department open a dedicated TV Channel," said H K Manjunath, president of Karnataka State High School Assistant Masters' Association. The representatives also advised the department to reduce the syllabus by 50% and release it during the beginning of the academic year. They said that the department should make it mandatory for students to attend classes --- if it is online or via television. "To monitor students' attendance, the department should have a toll-free number where students should give a missed call and register their attendance," Manjunath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/launch-dedicated-tv-channel-for-continuous-learning-teacher-organisations-989952.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fulfill our demands or we'll stop online classes, schools tell Karnataka govt||The private school managements in the state have threatened the state government of stalling the commencement of the coming academic year if it fails to address their demands. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Co-Ordination Committee (KPMTCC) on Monday. The government's ignorance of the plight of private school teaching and non-teaching staff has forced the KPMTCC to take this decision. The members of the committee have placed their demands before the government, which includes a long-pending financial aid for teaching and non-teaching staff working with private schools.  Other demands include directions to parents to compulsorily enroll kids in schools, mandatory attendance even in case of online classes and vaccination for all teaching and non-teaching staff. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, D Shashi Kumar, convener of the Committee, said, "We have decided not to resume classes for the 2021-22 academic year if the government fails to fulfill our demands." "We have lost some of our management members, teachers and non-teaching staff due to Covid-19 and some died of suicide due to financial crisis. We demand justice for the entire community," said Committee members.  The second demand was the compulsory enrolment of children in schools. "During 2020-21 academic year many children were not enrolled to schools, but attended online classes and did not pay the fees. This causes injustice to those who have enrolled and paid fees. This year, we demand the government to ensure that an order is issued, directing parents to enroll children compulsorily," said Shashi Kumar. Third demand of the Committee was making attendance mandatory during classes. Online or offline, the government should make it mandatory for children to attend classes. "For continuous learning, it is important for children to attend classes and participate in the assignments given by schools, online or offline," Kumar said. The committee requested member schools not to yield to pressure from the officers at the local level to promote children between grades 1 and 9. According to members, local officers of the department of public instruction are putting pressure to promote all children, even without bridge courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fulfill-our-demands-or-well-stop-online-classes-schools-tell-karnataka-govt-989627.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cancel registration of hospitals refusing to hand over bodies of Covid-19 victims due to pending bills: Karnataka govt||Cracking the whip on private hospitals that are refusing to release bodies of Covid-19 victims citing pending treatment bills, the state government on Monday directed all district administrations and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to cancel the registration of such hospitals under the provisions of the KPME Act, 2007. After reports emerged of several private hospitals across Karnataka insisting on clearing bills before handing over the bodies of Covid-19 deceased, the Health and Family Welfare department has instructed all the Deputy Commissioners, CEOs of Zilla Panchayats and Chief Commissioner of BBMP to initiate action against these hospitals for violating rules. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-infections-fall-to-196-lakh-lowest-since-mid-april-989709.html Additional Chief Secretary Jawaid Akhtar, in his order issued on Monday, said, “As per sub-clause 6 and section 11 of the KPME Act 2007, no hospital shall insist on payment of the hospital bill at the time of handing over of the body of the deceased, neither can they withhold the body of the deceased citing pending dues.” Akhtar further said, “In case of such cases reported in any parts of the state, the district administration shall immediately cancel the registration of the hospital and initiate further action.” The department has also sought a weekly report on compliance with the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cancel-registration-of-hospitals-refusing-to-hand-over-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-due-to-pending-bills-karnataka-govt-989717.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka receives 3 lakh Covishield vaccine doses from Centre||Karnataka has received three lakh additional Covishield doses from the Centre, for the over 45 age group, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. In a tweet, the minister said, "Karnataka received 3 lakh doses of Covishield today under the Central quota. Total Covishield doses received from the Centre is 1.05 crore. Total Covishield purchased directly by the state is 13.54 lakh." Karnataka received 3️⃣ LAKH doses of Covishield TODAY under the Central quota.◾Total Covishield doses received from the Centre is 1.05 crore.◾Total Covishield purchased directly by the State is 13.54 lakh.◾Total Covaxin doses received by the State is 13.10 lakh. According to Sudhakar, the state government has received 13.1 lakh Covaxin doses so far. The state government has placed an order of 3 crore vaccines comprising two crore Covishield and one crore Covaxin. In addition, the state has decided to float a global tender for two crore vaccines. There is an acute shortage of vaccines in the state which forced the government to suspend the vaccination drive for 18 to 44 except the frontline workers and a select group of people. In order to meet the requirement, the government invited Bharat Biotech to set up its Covaxin manufacturing unit at Malur in Kolar. The unit under construction is likely to have four to five crore doses a month by the end of August. The state has set a target to vaccinate all the eligible groups by the year end. Karnataka is among the states with high COVID prevalence. The state on Monday reported 25,311 new infections and 529 fatalities. There are 4.40 lakh active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-receives-3-lakh-covishield-vaccine-doses-from-centre-989758.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Neriya panchayat to go for full Covid-19 lockdown||The Neriya gram panchayat will go for voluntary full lockdown for four days from May 25 to 29 to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19. Except the supply of milk, newspapers and hospital, all other services will remain suspended. Even banks, shops and business establishments will remain closed. In the backdrop of the rise in Covid-19 cases in Neriya in Belthangady taluk, the elected body of the gram panchayat in consultation with public have taken a decision to enforce full lockdown, said Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) Gayathri P. Through full lockdown, the authorities aim to check the spread of Covid-19 and thereby work towards freeing the village from Covid-19, said GP president Vasanthi. The Neriya village has seen 273 people contracting with the virus. At present, there are 199 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-neriya-panchayat-to-go-for-full-covid-19-lockdown-989790.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||12 Karnataka government hospitals nominated for NQAS certification||A total of 12 government hospitals in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have been nominated for National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS) certification from the Centre. The NQAS certification is given after verifying the quality in eight categories - service provision, patient rights, input, supportive services, clinical services, infection control, quality management and outcome. The nominated hospitals are 10 departments of District Wenlock Hospital, six departments of Lady Goschen Hospital, Community Health Centres in Mulki and Moodbidri, Primary Health Centres in Shirthadi and Naravi, and Urban Health Centre at Jeppu in Dakshina Kannada district. In Udupi, District Hospital, Women and Child Hospital and PHCs at Shankaranarayana, Brahmavar and Kota have been nominated. The certification helps to instill confidence in the public on the services provided in government hospitals. The nomination process was carried out at state level by considering the criteria of quality service, infection control, maintenance of documents and others, said sources in the health department. In 2019-20, a state-level team had nominated two PHCs in Dakshina Kannada and one in Udupi for the NQAS certification. Now, National Health System and Resource Centre is making final preparations for the verification. In 2018-19, the NQAS certification was received by Wenlock Hospital’s five departments, including Blood Bank and ICU. A total of 44 government health centres in Karnataka had availed the certification in 2018-19. In the past, 11 hospitals were selected for state-level certification. The certification is valid for three years, sources said. After the district-level and state-level scrutiny, experts from the NQAS will inspect the nominated hospitals for the certification, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/12-karnataka-government-hospitals-nominated-for-nqas-certification-989796.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka theatre artiste Krishne Gowda dies of cardiac arrest||Theatre artiste and Kannada film actor B M Krishne Gowda, who shot to fame with his role as a party president in the drama 'Mukhyamantri', died due to cardiac arrest on Tuesday, his family sources said. The 80-year-old artiste, who had contracted Covid about a month ago and remained in hospital for treatment for about 20 days, had completely recovered from the disease. However, he again developed a respiratory problem and was admitted to a private hospital. Gowda had also worked in television soap operas and films, mostly playing character actor roles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-theatre-artiste-krishne-gowda-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-989858.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt warns private hospitals of stringent action over holding back Covid-19 victims' bodies until bills are cleared||The Karnataka government has warned of stringent action against private hospitals, including cancelling the licence, if they hold back bodies of those who succumb to coronavirus till the bills are cleared by the relatives. An order to this effect was passed by the Additional Chief Secretary of Health and Family Welfare, Jawaid Akhtar. According to the order, the government has taken a serious view of reports of hospitals holding back bodies of those who died of Covid-19 till the bills are cleared by the kin. The officer said under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act, 2007, no hospital can refuse to hand over the body of the deceased to relatives after his/her passing away. "The deputy commissioners of the districts have been directed to cancel the licence of the hospital and initiate appropriate action under the KPME Act-2007 if such instances come to light. Further, the district authorities have to report on a weekly basis about any such incident coming to light," Akhtar said in his order. Sources in the health department said the step has been taken to stop private hospitals from harassing relatives and dumping bodies in the open as has been reported in some parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-warns-private-hospitals-of-stringent-action-over-holding-back-covid-19-victims-bodies-until-bills-are-cleared-989931.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RUPSA submits suggestions on Karnataka II PUC exams||The Recognised Unaided Private Schools' Association (RUPSA) has submitted a set of suggestions to the department of pre-university education about conducting the second PUC examinations. After a virtual meeting with representatives of over 250 PU colleges, the RUPSA submitted the suggestions to the department on Tuesday. Some of the major suggestions by the Association are to reduce the examination duration to 90 minutes; give at least three to four days gap for each subject during exams; revisit the question paper and decrease the questions to 50%; strictly adhere to the SOP- Increase one and two marks questions; try to conduct concept based open textbook exams via online and allow students to write exams at the colleges near to them. "After three days of meetings with all our members, we have submitted these suggestions to the department. We understand it is necessary to conduct the exams. But it should be in the interest of the students and their safety is important," Lokesh Talikatte of RUPSA said. The second PUC examinations have been postponed recently due to a spike in Covid-19 cases across the state and in a recent meeting called by Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar batted for holding the second PUC examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rupsa-submits-suggestions-on-karnataka-ii-puc-exams-989940.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 4,000 students missed recently-held VTU exams||As many as 3,917 engineering students have missed their examinations held recently by the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), but the university has decided to give fresh chances only to the first semester students who have missed exams due to Covid-19 reasons. Now, the first semester students who have missed their exams have to write both first and second semester together in the coming days and as clarified by the university authorities, those who were having backlog subjects will not be allowed in fresh chance. The data available from the university shows that the total number of students enrolled for the exams was 2,23,087 of which 2,19,170 attended the examinations and around 150 students who were tested positive for Covid-19 have appeared for the exams with separate arrangements made by the examination centres and respective colleges. “Of this, around 700 to 800 are first semester students, who will get second chance to appear for exams,” said a senior official from the university. Considering the increase in Covid-19 cases across the state and the inconveniences for some students to appear for the exams, the university had earlier issued a circular stating, “Due to unavoidable circumstances arising out of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, if any student misses examinations, he/she will be allowed to to move to the second semester and will be permitted to take the missed examinations during the even semester exams conducted next and the same will be treated as his/her first attempt only.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-4000-students-missed-recently-held-vtu-exams-989941.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||445 acres of government land for PMAY housing in Bengaluru, says Somanna||Housing Minister V Somanna on Tuesday held talks with Revenue and BBMP officials to hand over 445 acres of government land under Bengaluru's municipal limits to build houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Under the scheme, the government has set a target of building one lakh houses for the poor. Of this, 46,000 houses are in different stages of construction. On August 15, the chief minister will hand over 5,000 houses to the poor, the Housing minister said on Tuesday. For construction of the rest, the government has identified land in different parts of Bengaluru and the acquisition process is yet to happen. According to the minister, at present they have received about 48,000 applications under the scheme. However, many are from well-to-do families. "We have to sort through the applications to ensure that only those who are eligible and are in need avail the benefit," the minister said. All legislators in Bengaluru Urban will be given an opportunity to allot 50 per cent of the houses in their constituencies to the poor. However, the legislators will have to ensure that the houses are sanctioned only to those eligible, the minister added. The government is providing houses to the poor at a nominal cost of Rs 5 lakh. For those belonging to the SC, ST communities, the government is also thinking of reducing this price to Rs 4.20 lakh, Somanna told media persons. Further, the government is also in the process of constructing 1.8 lakh homes through the Karnataka Slum Development Board. Majority of the work will be completed in one year from now, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/445-acres-of-government-land-for-pmay-housing-in-bengaluru-says-somanna-989944.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Horticulture crisis will put farmers in jeopardy: Deve Gowda||Flagging a brewing crisis in the horticulture sector, JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking the Centre to immediately focus on the falling prices for vegetables, fruits and flowers. With no MSP for the horticulture sector, farmers are resorting to throwing their produce on the streets, he said.  In the letter, the former PM has pointed out how the crashing price of horticultural produce is delivering a twin blow to rural masses, amidst the second wave of the pandemic. Since the horticultural products are not served by the MSP, farmers are more vulnerable to the falling prices. State governments are focusing on pandemic and do not have enough resources to help the small and medium horticulture farmers. Agriculture and horticulture departments in states should find a solution to this problem, he said, urging Modi to deliberate the issue and ask the governments to take measures at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/horticulture-crisis-will-put-farmers-in-jeopardy-deve-gowda-989945.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Diksha app to help students preparing for II PUC exams||The department of pre-university education has launched Diksha app for students preparing for the second PUC examinations. Diksha is a digital initiative of the Union government through which the department has uploaded over 9,000 Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) concentrating on both second PUC and other competitive examinations like NEET, JEE, and KCET. Launching the app in the city on Tuesday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "This is a unique initiative in the country where the pre-university department has utilised the Diksha app for the benefit of students." The students can access the app by sitting anywhere across the state just by downloading the Diksha app from Google Play store or they can download by clicking the link http://bit.ly/KA-diksha. The students can even access any content of any subject across all the boards by visiting the Diksha app. "There are even question banks, short answers, very short answers, MCQs available on the app which will be beneficial for students during this pandemic as they are preparing for board exams," said a senior official of the department. During the launch, the minister applauded the students of RV College of Engineering who have helped in uploading the contents provided by the department on the Diksha platform. As many as 200 students of the college have put their efforts into this process. Meanwhile, the minister mentioned that the Department of Education Research and Training has also uploaded a programme called 'Focus' for the benefit of SSLC students where two model question papers for each subject are available on the Diksha app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/diksha-app-to-help-students-preparing-for-ii-puc-exams-989950.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka boys writing JEE exams launch portal for Covid info||Two friends, class 12 students in Lourdes Central School, have launched a website - www.covidwarzonedk.com - that aggregates useful information on Covid-19. This, after realising that details pertaining to Covid-19 was scattered and not readily available. Adhvik Hegde and Amol Mendonca started work on the website on May 1 and launched it on May 15. The website has had around 10,000 views. It has a list of hospitals, laboratories, ambulance services, food delivery services and more. “The website aims to provide people of Mangaluru city a well-organised, easily accessible Covid-19 resource database,” Adhvik told DH. He said, “we realised that Dakshina Kannada district lacked an easily accessible and user-friendly database. There was not much data available online for citizens. To help people get details of food delivery or ambulance service at one site, we came up with the website. We managed to work on the website by compiling, all details while preparing for the Board examinations, along with attending coaching classes for JEE. We worked till late night.” “Our parents were happy and excited as it was something innovative. They are proud that people are using and benefiting from the website,” he said. “As we wanted to launch the website as quickly as possible, we opted for partial coding and took up already available designs. We reached out to a few doctors and got them onboard for free consultation. Amol has already spoken to a few more doctors who have promised to help us,” said Adhvik. He said, “We are also looking at improving and adding more data to the website. We have given contacts of food delivery services so that those in home isolation can access them.” Adhvik is the son of businessman Sitharam Hegde and Smitha Hegde, while Amol is the son of architect Ashok Mendonca and homemaker Surbhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-boys-writing-jee-exams-launch-portal-for-covid-info-989954.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC extends deadline fixed to dispose of certain cases||The Karnataka High Court has extended the time schedule issued to district and trial courts for disposing of certain categories of cases. The direction was passed considering the Covid-19 situation prevailing in the state. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, noted that in view of the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the High Court, district and trial courts will find it difficult to meet the deadline fixed for disposal of the cases. “We, therefore, direct that wherever this court has issued the direction to the district and trial Courts in the state to dispose of cases within a specified time schedule, for the time being, the time shall stand extended by a period of three months from today,” the court said. The court has also directed the agencies and bodies, under both the state and central governments, to pass orders directing those bodies to accept service of notice by email. The additional advocate general will file a list of such entities/bodies along with their addresses and email id. The court will take up the issue on June 2. The bench said the directions are issued for ensuring that the functioning of the court does not contribute to the spread of Covid-19 as per the order of the apex court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-extends-deadline-fixed-to-dispose-of-certain-cases-989957.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Kingpin' in Bengaluru bed allotment scam arrested||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths investigating the bed-allotment scam have arrested the suspected kingpin, said to be an aide of Bommanahalli BJP MLA Satish Reddy, and have taken him into custody till May 31. According to the police, the arrested has been identified as Babu (34), a resident of Roopena Agrahara. Sources in the CCB revealed to DH that Babu acted as a broker. Babu had contacts with doctors and war room staff. The MLA’s name had surfaced soon after the scam came to light. However, officials are yet to confirm if the MLA had any role in the issue. Another suspected kingpin in the case is in hospital with Covid. Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime), said, “We will interrogate him on his contacts with doctors and war room staff.” Babu is an associate of Nethravati, who claims to be a social activist, and Rohit Kumar, her neighbour. The two have already been arrested. A senior officer said Babu had dealings with Nethravati and Rohit. “Babu is also a BJP worker and used to go around the Bommanahalli constituency claiming to be the personal assistant of the MLA. We have collected evidence to prove that he has earned several lakhs by selling blocked beds. He had tested Covid-19 positive and was admitted to the hospital. We waited for his recovery and detained him on Monday,” the officer said. Babu regularly visited the war room. “While Satish Reddy was trying to find beds for people, Babu gained access to the war room claiming to be Reddy’s close aide. We have gathered CCTV footage of his movements in the war room,” a CCB official said. When IAS probationer V Yeshwant questioned his presence at the war room on April 30, Babu and his aides assaulted Yeshwant. A case was registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kingpin-in-bengaluru-bed-allotment-scam-arrested-989958.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NGT appoints joint panel to inspect Mekedatu dam site||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Tuesday constituted a four-member committee to visit Mekedatu where Karnataka has proposed to build a reservoir across the Cauvery, to check whether any construction activity was on there, without obtaining necessary permission from departments of the union government. In their order, Justice K Ramakrishnan and expert member Dr K Satyagopal, a retired IAS officer of the Tamil Nadu cadre, said the committee will inspect the area in question and submit a factual as well as action taken report, if there is any violation found. The report should be submitted on or before July 5. The bench was hearing a suo motu case based on a newspaper report dated April 15, 2021, which said 'Construction activity near Mekedatu dam evokes unease in TN'. It appointed a joint committee comprising of a senior member from the Integrated Regional Office, Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change (MoEF&CC), Bengaluru, a senior officer from the Cauvery Water Management Authority, a senior officer from the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited and a senior officer from the Forest department not below the rank of additional conservator of forests, Karnataka. “The committee is also directed to go into the question as to whether any construction activity as alleged in the newspaper report has been started without obtaining necessary clearance from the Forest Department as well as from the MoEF&CC under the Forest Conservation Act as well as the EIA Notification, 2006,” the order said. If there is any construction made and if any damage has been caused to the environment, they are directed to assess the damage caused to the environment and environmental compensation payable by the respective authorities who are responsible for the same, the order said. The proposed construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu is yet another source of friction between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. While Tamil Nadu says no reservoir can be built without its concurrence and that it is against the orders of the Supreme Court, Karnataka says the project is aimed at fulfilling drinking water needs of Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ngt-appoints-joint-panel-to-inspect-mekedatu-dam-site-989960.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 22,578 new Covid-19 cases; total recoveries top 20 lakh||A total of over 20 lakh Covid-19 related recoveries have been recorded in Karnataka so far, as the state on Tuesday reported 38,224 new discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, which was at 22,758, the health department said on Tuesday. The state logged 588 more deaths, taking the toll to 26,399, while the caseload stood at 24,72,973. Of the fresh cases reported today, 6,243 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 13,210 discharges and 350 deaths. As of May 25 evening, cumulatively 24,72,973 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 26,399 deaths and 20,22,172 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. Total number of active cases in the state stood at 4,24,381. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 21.13 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.58 per cent. Belagavi reported 24 deaths today, Ballari (20), Shivamogga (19), Mysuru (17), Uttara Kannada (15), Tumakuru (14), followed by others. Mysuru accounted for 2,241 deaths, Tumakuru 1,312, Hassan 1,285, Belagavi 1,260, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,31,496, followed by Mysuru 1,31,656 and Tumakuru 96,740. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 9,00,081, followed by Mysuru 1,14,998 and Tumakuru 73,178. A total of over 2,89,23,718 samples have been tested so far, of which 1,07,675 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-22578-new-covid-19-cases-total-recoveries-top-20-lakh-989961.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress launches video campaign on Covid vaccination||The Karnataka Congress on Tuesday launched a campaign called 'Let Congress Vaccinate' to create awareness on the importance of vaccination against Covid-19 and also build pressure on the government to allow the party to directly procure doses.  The party has announced its plan to set aside Rs 100 crore from the Local Area Development (LAD) funds of its legislators to procure vaccines.  As part of the campaign, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, state party president D K Shivakumar, working president Eshwar Khandre, former minister R V Deshpande, among others, shared video messages. This comes at a time when the BJP is attacking the Congress saying that the party had discouraged people from taking the vaccines when they were introduced.  The Congress claimed that more than 20,000 people had extended support to the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-launches-video-campaign-on-covid-vaccination-989963.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Second Covid-19 wave, extended lockdown hit home buying in Karnataka||While builders and realtors saw a revival of the real estate market towards the end of 2020, the sector remains sluggish amidst the second wave of Covid-19 and an extended period of lockdown. Growth has been limited to certain pockets and to a small section of the population. While there is much in the market to offer, there are not many buyers, those in the industry say. Even as several big brands are making efforts to woo home buyers by reducing the booking amount by half and giving additional time to complete the legal procedure, there are not many takers. "I would say home buying has come down by about 60%. The sales were good between October and December 2020. However, once the second wave hit, only a few big builders have been able to sustain the sales," Bengaluru-based realty professional Gautam M said. The industry representatives told DH that the home buying in Karnataka during the pandemic was more or less limited to Bengaluru and that too in localities surrounding the IT hubs. While localities in the east and north Bengaluru, such as Whitefield, Sarjapur, and Yelahanka, saw more buyers, the rest of the city failed to elicit the same response. Also, only those working in jobs that assured them of an income during the pandemic are investing. During the pandemic, people are no more buying houses for investment. The demand has been more for completed projects. "The rentals have come down and obviously people do not want to invest. Only those buying for personal use are making the purchase," Skydealz India Property Services managing director Satish Bangalore N explained.  "Typically, buyers have a good amount of savings to begin with. We rarely see people making a purchase largely dependent on the loan. There is definitely a downtrend," he added. To sustain sales in the lockdown, the builders are also offering virtual tours, apart from going online with the booking process. "Even though there is a demand, we're unable to close deals because of the lockdown," CEO Residential at Brigade Enterprises Rajendra Joshi said. Larger units like 3 bedroom houses and premium properties are seeing traction, according to Joshi. "This is probably owing to the work-from-home situation," he said. "Many have realized that they need a bigger space."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-covid-19-wave-extended-lockdown-hit-home-buying-in-karnataka-989973.html
25-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Follow discharge protocol for black fungus, says Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||The state government is expected to come out with some sort of discharge protocol for mucormycosis, which Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa discussed on Tuesday during his meeting with ministers and officials. "It was decided to follow a protocol to prevent the black fungus infection before the patient gets discharged from the hospital, now that we have some experience in this," Yediyurappa's office said in a statement. "Going forward, hospitals should be asked to follow a protocol at the time of a patient's discharge." Yediyurappa said the protocol should be followed in consultation with the ENT experts.  On Covid-19, Yediyurappa noted that cases were decreasing in the urban areas and asked the officials to keep up with stringent implementation of rules. "But we need to step up vigil in villages where cases are rising," the statement said. "Some villagers are hesitating to get tested. They should be convinced," the CM said.  On Wednesday, Yediyurappa is scheduled to hold a video conference with presidents of gram panchayats to review the Covid-19 situation in villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/follow-discharge-protocol-for-black-fungus-says-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-989979.html
25-05-2021||West||No response to global tender on Covid-19 vaccines: Maharashtra Health Minister||Struggling to meet the shortage of vaccines in the state, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said that the state's global tender for Covid-19 vaccines had not received any responses. "We are requesting the Central govt to float tender and provide us vaccines," Tope said. In a briefing, Tope said that the current positivity rate is 12% and the recovery rate is 93%. There are 2,245 cases of 'black fungus' in the state. Under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, mucormycosis patients will receive free treatment at state-run hospitals, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-response-to-global-tender-on-covid-19-vaccines-maharashtra-health-minister-989743.html
25-05-2021||West||'Maharashtra to get 60,000 vials of Amphotericin B from June 1 through global tender'||Maharashtra would get 60,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, the key drug for the treatment of mucormycosis patients, from June 1 onwards through the global tender floated by the government in addition to the allocation made by the Centre, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday. There are 2,245 patients of mucormycosis, also known as the 'black fungus', in Maharashtra, Tope told reporters after attending a review meeting on the mucormycosis and Covid-19 cases in the state. "The state has floated a global tender for procuring Amphotericin-B vials for the treatment of mucormycosis. The state would get 60,000 vials of the medicine from June 1 onwards. It will be an additional supply apart from the current allocation of the medicine by the Centre," he said. The minister said there are 2,245 patients of black fungus in the state and out of them, 1,007 are already covered under the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). “The entire cost of the treatment of mucormycosis patients under the MJPJAY will be free, including the cost of the medicine. The state is also trying to cap the cost of the treatment of mucormycosis patients who are admitted in private hospitals,” he said. Tope said the Maharashtra government has issued a GR (government resolution) regarding such treatment and the finance department has allocated Rs 30 crore for the same. There have been several cases of mucormycosis, a rare but serious fungal infection, among Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra and some other states. Speaking about the pandemic scenario, Tope said Maharashtra currently has 3,27,000 active Covid-19 cases while the case recovery rate has improved to 93 per cent. Maharashtra's current case positivity rate is around 12 per cent while the case fatality rate is 1.5 per cent, he said. Tope said the case positivity rate in 18 districts is higher than the average positivity rate of the state. “The state government has decided to stop home isolation completely in these 18 districts. The collectors are asked to set up more Covid Care Centres (CCCs) and admit all the active patients there,” he said. It is also decided to use 25 per cent funding of the 15th finance commission for erecting CCCs and similar facilities for isolation of Covid-19 patients in villages and rural areas, the minister said. The collectors have been directed to use the premium charged for the minor mineral auction for setting up the CCC in the villages, he said. “Testing has to be done in a focused manner. Once a person tests positive for coronavirus, all the high and low risks persons should be tested diligently. The state has also asked the collectors of the 18 districts to avoid random testings in a large number to artificially lower the positivity rate,” the health minister said. He said all the collectors in the state have been directed to complete the fire audit in their respective areas at the earliest. "The Asha workers, who work as an extension to several government schemes, will now be trained with (to operate) RAT and self-testing kits of Covid-19," Tope said, adding these workers will be asked to encourage villagers to undergo testing as well as sensitize people about vaccination. Responding to a question on global tenders issued for vaccine procurement, the minister said, “There has been no response to our global tender by any vaccine producers. We have sent email for Sputnik-V but yet to hear from them. The state is of the opinion that the Centre take an initiative to float a tender on the behalf of the state and procure vaccines.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-get-60000-vials-of-amphotericin-b-from-june-1-through-global-tender-989822.html
25-05-2021||West||ACB recovers Rs 3.4 crore from house of Maharashtra official held in bribery case||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday recovered cash worth more than Rs 3.4 crore from the house of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Mumbai's Aarey milk residential colony who, along with a security guard, has been arrested in a bribery case, an official said. According to the official, a search by the ACB at the residence of the CEO, Nathu Vitthal Rathod, resulted in recovery of Rs 3,46,10,000 in cash. The search came a day after Rathod was arrested in a Rs 50,000 bribery case. On Monday, the ACB had caught Rathod (42), and a security guard at the colony, Arvind Tiwari, after the anti-graft agency laid a trap on receipt of a bribe complaint against them. The complainant had approached Rathod seeking permission for repairing his house in the colony in suburban Goregaon, the ACB had said. Rathod asked the complainant to meet Tiwari, who allegedly demanded Rs 50,000 as a bribe to facilitate permission for house repair, it said. The complainant approached the ACB, which in turn, laid a trap at the CEO''s office and nabbed Tiwari while accepting the bribe money, the anti-graft agency said, adding Rathod was apprehended later. Rathod holds the additional charge of Deputy Commissioner (Administration) at the Worli Milk Dairy, the ACB added. The Aarey milk colony, located in an eco-sensitive zone on land given to the dairy development department, houses hamlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/acb-recovers-rs-34-crore-from-house-of-maharashtra-official-held-in-bribery-case-989888.html
25-05-2021||West||Goa geared up to tackle Covid-19 third wave: CM Sawant||The Goa government on Tuesday said the infrastructure required to tackle the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is ready, while a group of paediatricians is being trained to adhere to the treatment protocol prescribed by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Talking to reporters, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the infrastructure is ready and training will be completed between June 5 and 10. "A common standard operating procedure has been worked out for private and government hospitals to treat children infected with coronavirus,” the chief minister said. The department of paediatrics of the Goa Medical College and Hospital will be training paediatricians about the SOP recommended by AIIMS, he said. Counsellors from the State Education Department, Goa State AIDS Control Society and Women and Child Welfare Department will also be roped in as a part of programme to tackle the third wave, he said. The plan will also involve strict monitoring of Covid-19 infected children, who are placed on home isolation, he said. Sawant further said that the state government has also decided to vaccinate lactating mothers with children below two years of age and also mothers with co-morbid conditions as priority to fight the third wave. For this, the state government has moved a proposal to the Centre to loan vaccine doses from the stock meant for people above 45 years of age. “The state government is left with 6,000 vaccine doses for the age group of 18 to 44 years after the first round,” he said, adding that the second lot of 36,000 vaccines will be arriving in June. The chief minister said the state government has also approached two vaccine manufacturing companies to get 5 lakh and 10 lakh vaccine doses respectively. Of the total infected population, 11 per cent were below 17 years of age and seven patients under 18 years, who had co-morbidities, have died of the infection in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-geared-up-to-tackle-covid-19-third-wave-cm-sawant-989907.html
25-05-2021||West||Political parties demand ban on book on Maharashtra||A new controversy has erupted with political parties and organisations demanding a ban on a new book on Maharashtra penned by veteran journalist, writer and commentator Girish Kuber. The book – ‘Renaissance State: The Unwritten Story of the Making of Maharashtra’ was released on May 6. The book equates legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj with Peshwa Baji Rao at one place. “If anyone in history who matches up to Shivaji, it is Peshwa Baji Rao. He was one of Maharashtra’s greatest generals and can be compared with the likes of Napoleon Bonaparte or the Duke of Wellington. In his short life of less than 40 years, Baji Rao fought as many as forty-one battles and won them all... it is unfortunate that the lion-hearted Baji Rao is identified today more with his escapades with Mastani than his valour and statesmanship,” Kuber has written. The book also suggests that it was Shivaji’s son Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj, who killed his step-mother Sorayabai. “Finally, Sambaji put an end to the succession issue by killing Sorayabai along with those loyal to her, some of whom had been prominent members of Shivaji’s Ashta Pradhan Mandal. The bloodshed also took away an invaluable talent pool that Shivaji had groomed. Later, Sambaji would pay a heavy price for it,” the book states. Leading the charge against the book is Sambhaji Chhatrapati, the 13th descendent of Shivaji Maharaj, who is a President-nominated Rajya Sabha MP. In a letter to CEO and Editor, Harper Collins Publishers India, Sambhaji Chhatrapati demanded that they should withdraw copies of the book from the market. Besides, he appealed to the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in Maharashtra to pay attention to the sensitive issue and take appropriate legal action as early as possible. “The contribution of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj is well known to the nation. Some imposter writers are doing this to gain publicity. The whole writing is referenceless, this is an act of repugnance… the book should be permanently banned in Maharashtra and across India,” he said. The opposition BJP and the ruling parties NCP and Congress have demanded a ban on the book. BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar demanded a ban on the book and called for an apology from Kuber.   “Kuber has written objectionable content against Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj,” he said. NCP MLC Amol Mitkari too demanded a ban on the book. “He has written objectionable things against Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj…what does he want to prove by equating Shivaji Maharaj with Baji Rao,” he said. Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole said that the book has hurt the sentiments of the people of the state. “If writing such things to boost the sale of the book, then it is far more serious,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/political-parties-demand-ban-on-book-on-maharashtra-989909.html
25-05-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra bans home isolation in 18 districts||In a major move to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has decided to prohibit home quarantine in 18 districts across the state. This means that nearly 50 per cent of the districts would be following the new norm – as the state is divided into a total of 36 districts. “These are the districts where the positivity rate is higher than the average,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday. These districts are Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg (Konkan), Pune, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur and Ahmednagar (Western Maharashtra), Nashik (North Maharashtra), Osmanabad, Beed, Latur and Hingoli  (Marathwada), Akola, Wardha, Amravati and Gadchiroli (Vidarbha). Normally asymptomatic patients or those who have mild symptoms of coronavirus infection are advised home isolation. “The state has 3,27,000 active Covid-19 cases and the recovery rate has improved to 93 per cent. The case positivity rate, that is the proportion of positive cases in tested samples, is around 12 per cent while the case fatality rate is 1.5 per cent,” Tope said. The government has taken a decision to stop home isolation in the 18 districts with higher than the state’s average and the District Collectors have been asked to set up Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for asymptomatic patients. Relief & Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar had said that these districts — which account for half the state’s 36 districts — were showing a rising number of cases and are unlikely to get any relaxations in the Covid-19 restrictions currently imposed in the state. “These districts are now in the Red Zone and the curbs are expected to be made even more stringent after 1 June,” he hinted. The current lockdown comes to an end at 7 am on 1 June and the state may extend it with some relaxations in areas where the positivity rate is less.  The call on the lockdown and possible relaxations would be taken in the next weekly Cabinet meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-bans-home-isolation-in-18-districts-989992.html
25-05-2021||West||Goa only has 6,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for 18-44 years age group: CM ||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that Goa had only 6,000 vaccine doses for those in the age group of 18-44 years, while a fresh batch of 36,000 vaccines would be received only in the first week of June. Addressing a press conference in Panaji, Sawant also said that the Goa government would open up spot registration for lactating mothers and persons with comorbidities in the age group of 18-44 on priority. "Right now, we only have 6,000 vaccine doses for the 18-44 year age group. The second lot of 36,000 vaccines will arrive in the first week of June. Besides that, we have sought permission from the Government of India to loan some of the vaccines that are allocated for the above 44 year age group," Sawant told reporters on Tuesday. The Chief Minister also said that an expert committee appointed by the Goa government to formulate Covid treatment protocol had recommended prioritising vaccination of lactating mothers and persons with comorbidities in the age group of 18-44 years. "The expert committee has recommended and the government has agreed to have spot registration for vaccination of lactating mothers, whose children are less than two years old and those who are between the 18-44 years age group and those with comorbid conditions," the Chief Minister said. "In the coming eight to ten days, we will start the vaccination for the priority groups in the 18-44 age group," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-only-has-6000-covid-19-vaccine-doses-for-18-44-years-age-group-cm-989997.html
