26-05-2021||Comment||Action on Twitter reeks of partisanship, hypocrisy||On May 18, Patra shared screenshots of an alleged “toolkit” claiming that the Congress party had plans to defame the Union government and its leadership. This was also shared by several other ministers of the Union government. This claim was countered by fact-checking sites Alt News and WebQoof (The Quint’s fact-checking initiative) who found discrepancies and errors in the “toolkit” that Patra had shared. Congress spokesperson Rajeev Gowda claimed that the alleged “toolkit” was forged by editing a Congress party document related to the Central Vista. The Congress party filed a complaint with the police. Twitter labelled the controversial tweet by Patra as containing manipulated media. This wasn’t the first time Patra’s tweets had been labelled. In January this year, Twitter had labelled another tweet sharing a video on Arvind Kejriwal by Patra as manipulated media. The matter should have ended here or at the most by a complaint by Patra to Twitter appealing this labelling. But the Union government decided to get involved in a matter between a private platform company and its user. Subsequently, it was reported by various news agencies that the government has objected to the use of manipulated media tag by Twitter and has asked them to remove the tag. The government reportedly took the view that the action of labelling diluted the credibility of Twitter and puts a question mark on its status as an intermediary. This claim has no legal basis and the reasoning is baffling. Twitter, so far, has not removed the label. Fighting Misinformation The spread of misinformation is a growing menace on social media platforms. The issue is compounded when accounts with a large number of followers post misleading information. Social media platforms now employ various content moderation methods, including removal and labelling to minimise the harm caused by such posts. World over, demands to do more have been steadily increasing. When in the spring of 2020, Twitter first labelled content by the then US president Donald Trump, it provoked a massive response in the form of an executive order targeting social media companies. Before permanently banning Trump from its platform in January this year, Twitter had labelled a third of his tweets. Labelling content as manipulated by Twitter is not a new phenomenon in India either. In December 2020, the company had labelled a tweet by BJP leader and its IT cell head Amit Malviya relating to farmers’ protests as manipulated media. Whether these labels are effective or not, we don’t know yet but they are a start to addressing this problem. Social media platforms and the law In most jurisdictions across the world, social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook enjoy safe harbour protection from liability arising out of user-generated content. That means, the companies are not responsible for what you and I may post on their platforms. India follows a conditional safe harbour regime where Twitter, Facebook (called “intermediaries”) get protection, provided they follow conditions laid out under the Information Technology Act and the Intermediaries Guidelines Rules. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) claiming that the problem of misinformation on social media needs better laws, notified the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 to govern the conduct of intermediaries on February 25, 2021. These rules have also created a new classification of intermediaries called Significant Social Media Intermediaries, which are defined as social media intermediaries that have more than 50 lakh registered users in India. Twitter, obviously falls under this category. A part of these rules requiring the appointment of a ‘compliance officer’ applicable to Twitter comes into force on May 26. Failure to comply with these rules does not result in any ban but more legal headaches for Twitter and its ilk as they lose the safe harbour protections. The rules specifically require such companies to inform users not to publish or share any information that is patently false and untrue with the intent to mislead or harass a person, entity or agency for financial gain or to cause any injury to any person. According to the rules, if a user violates the terms of service, their account can be removed. The labelling of a tweet as “manipulated media” does not take away the Intermediary status of Twitter as threatened by the government. Users of Twitter are bound by the terms of service of the platform which says that the user may not deceptively share synthetic or manipulated media that are likely to cause harm. The rules also provide that Twitter may label Tweets that contain synthetic and manipulated media. This policy of Twitter explains how the determination is made about the authenticity of the content and whether it needs to be removed or labelled. Now, for the government to turn around and punish Twitter for doing exactly what its rules require when a BJP functionary is involved reeks of partisanship and hypocrisy. What is sauce for the goose must also be sauce for the gander. Government’s power to regulate content The power of the government to regulate content on social media platforms or any other intermediary flows from Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The government can issue orders to block access to any content in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence related to these. Such a power to regulate content cannot be extended to interfere and ask an intermediary to remove a label or flagging of any content. The argument that the matter is under investigation by law enforcement does not hold water as Twitter’s action cannot pose any hindrance to that. This arbitrary exercise of power not only raises serious concerns about censorship by proxy but also threatens any serious investments in India. No investor wants to put their money where the law is unpredictable and used to serve political motives. The Central government’s uncalled for interference to shift focus from the pandemic to a non-issue involving the Opposition flouts democratic values. Instead of using the law to threaten businesses, the ruling party should discipline its functionaries and school them in honestly dealing with legitimate criticism. (Prasanth Sugathan is a Technology Lawyer and Legal Director, SFLC.in) (Mishi Choudhary is Legal Director, Software Freedom Law Center and Founder, SFLC.in) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/action-on-twitter-reeks-of-partisanship-hypocrisy-990186.html
26-05-2021||First Edit||Do not drag Tamil Nadu's temples into politics||The campaign to free temples in Tamil Nadu from government control, launched by self-proclaimed spiritual leader Jaggi Vasudev, is an attempt to use the emotive value attached to temples for political purposes. Jaggi Vasudev started his campaign in February, weeks before the state was to go in for Assembly elections, and in what seemed like opportunistic, perhaps even coordinated, action, the BJP included the demand in its election manifesto. The leaders of the campaign and its supporters claim that the temples are mismanaged and there is corruption in their administration. Many of the temples have large assets and properties and high income, and the charge is that these are not used for their upkeep and maintenance. The campaign wants the temples to be handed over to the devotees who, its leaders say, only have the right to administer them. The political nature of the campaign is clear from Jaggi Vasudev’s call before the election to the people to vote for only those who promised to hand over the temples to devotees.  But the facts about the management of temples do not support these claims and contentions but disprove them. There are 44,121 temples, including some Jain temples and several mutts, which are administered under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act by the government. Whenever there are complaints of irregularities there are provisions under the law to handle them. Who are the devotees and how are they to be identified if the management is to be transferred to them? What legal and administrative system will be put in place? Some temples are very rich and there will be more scope for corruption and mismanagement if they are handed over to individuals and private bodies. It is better that government continues to manage them but does so in a transparent and accountable manner. The ruling DMK and the Tamil Nadu government have opposed the proposal and the state’s Finance Minister Palanivel Thiagarajan has called Jaggi Vasudev’s campaign a publicity stunt. The government has said that all records and documents relating to temples will be uploaded online. This will bring transparency to the management. Different states have different systems of temple management. The Tamil Nadu model has worked well in the state, and the demand for change could only have come from those who have political, financial or other motives. Temples are public institutions and private managements can harm them in many ways. Nepotism is not uncommon in privately-run temples. Power arising from the patronage of temples and the privileges associated with them could be put to political use. Temples are places of worship, and they should not be misused for politics. The country has suffered much from temple politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/do-not-drag-tamil-nadus-temples-into-politics-990066.html
26-05-2021||In Perspective||Covid-19 vaccine pricing: Modi has got it wrong||Under the ‘Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy’ (LPANCVS), which kicked off on May 1, the Centre has plans to vaccinate all adults aged 18 and above — about a billion people. Given the mammoth task ahead, the vaccine pricing strategy has to be guided by two overarching considerations, namely (i) People should have absolutely no hesitation whatsoever in coming forward to get vaccinated, which, among other things, requires that this be done ‘free of charge’; and (ii) Manufacturers and suppliers should be willing to arrange for supplies of at least two billion doses within the shortest possible time frame, say, not extending beyond December 2021. During the first phase of the inoculation drive launched on Jan. 16 (which covered healthcare and frontline workers and persons over 45 years of age), the Centre did it free for those who went to government vaccination centres (GVCs) even as it paid Rs 150 per dose to the manufacturers. However, those who went to private hospitals had to pay Rs 250 per dose to get vaccinated. Involving private hospitals was a good move but charging for inoculation done there acted as a deterrent. No wonder, only 20 million people out of a total of 300 million got both the shots (even as other factors such as the initial vaccine hesitancy as also supply constraints were equally responsible). Under LPANCVS, of its total supply, the vaccine manufacturers would give 50% to the Centre for Rs 150 per dose and make the remaining 50% available to state governments, private hospitals, industrial establishments at a price to be declared in advance. The system of private hospitals inoculating those above 45 years for Rs 250 per dose ceased to exist as they no longer got any supplies from the GoI quota and have to procure directly from vaccine manufacturers at prices notified by the latter. The manufacturers have since announced prices. The Serum Institute of India (SII), the maker of Covishield, charges Rs 300 per dose for supplies to state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals; Bharat Biotech, the maker of Covaxin, charges Rs 400 per dose for states and Rs 1,200 per dose on supplies to private hospitals. The Russian Sputnik V vaccine, licensed for manufacture to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, has recently got approval and is available for close to Rs 1,000 per dose.  As for fresh supplies to the GoI for its 50% quota, even as the government continues to insist that the old price of Rs 150 per dose should continue, SII is insisting on Rs 300 per dose, the same as applicable on supplies to the states. The dual pricing under the erstwhile regime was bad enough. The new system has brought in a multiplicity of prices— zero, Rs 300, Rs 400, Rs 600, Rs 1,000, Rs 1,200, depending on the vaccine type and who is buying it. More vaccines, like Nasal Covaxin (from Bharat Biotech), Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, etc., are expected to get approval soon. Those are likely to be priced even higher. So the price points will increase further. Out of nearly two billion doses needed to vaccinate one billion adults, one billion to be given from the states and private hospitals’ quota will have different price tags sufficient to destabilise the budget of even a middle-class family. For instance, a family of four taking Covaxin at a private hospital will have to shell out nearly Rs 10,000. So, a big chunk of these people will gravitate towards GVCs, where inoculation is done free. A break-down of the GVC network is almost inevitable. The announcement by some states of making vaccination free for all won’t improve things. First, this will require them to give a subsidy on doses other than what they get from the GoI quota. Considering states’ precarious finances, it won’t be easy for them to fund it. Second, sans private hospitals (people won’t go there, thanks to the price barrier), states’ own healthcare centres can’t take the entire load. As for manufacturers, given the uncertainties with regard to the ability of states to pay for their direct purchase (out of states’ 50% quota) and the Centre’s unwillingness to pay the higher price of Rs 300 per dose for Covishield— as sought by SII – for its own quota will come in the way of India securing timely supplies of the much-needed two billion doses. The extant policy is neither conducive to users nor producers. Modi should effect course correction. The Centre should make vaccination ‘free for all’ and conduct centralised purchases from the manufacturers for all two billion doses at a good price. All stakeholders— GVCs, state health centres, private hospitals, industrial establishments, etc — should be involved in the vaccination drive. The budgetary allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for 2021-22 (with additional appropriation, if needed) should be used to meet the cost. (The writer is a policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-vaccine-pricing-modi-has-got-it-wrong-990062.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||34 children at Chamarajanagar's Deenabandhu Trust test positive for Covid||A total of 34 children, housed at the Deenabandhu Seva Trust have tested positive for Covid 19 and are recovering. According to G S Jayadev, honorary secretary of Deenabandhu Trust, there are 70 children in the institution. Out of this, 34 have tested positive for Covid in the last week. All of them are being treated at the Ashram, and are recovering, he said. Two government doctors visit the institution every day and examine the medical condition of the children. The students have been kept in isolation. All are on the path of recovery, Jayadev said. He also explained that fake messages are being circulated that there is a need for money for the treatment of the children. It is not true. We have not sought financial help from anyone. People should not yield to the false message and donate money, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/34-children-at-chamarajanagars-deenabandhu-trust-test-positive-for-covid-990251.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Newborn dies, delay in admission alleged||Tension prevailed for a while at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), alleging that the delay in admission claimed the life of a newborn, in Mandya on Wednesday. It is alleged that the staff denied admission to a pregnant woman for not furnishing Covid-19 negative report. The woman went into labour on the labour ward premises and the baby died immediately. Ismail and Sonu couple came to the hospital on Wednesday morning after Sonu developed labour pain. As they did not have Covid negative report, the hospital staff refused admission. As there was a delay in conducting Rapid Antigen Test, Sonu went into labour and the baby fell down and died instantly on the spot, it is alleged. Sonu was admitted after the incident. Alleging negligence of the staff, the parents of the woman and relatives staged a protest in front of the MIMS hospital. The police brought the situation under control. When contacted MIMS Director Dr M R Harish clarified that the woman was admitted at the right time. During scanning, it was found the baby had died in the womb. The woman had come out of the ward to remove her earring, when she went into labour, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/newborn-dies-delay-in-admission-alleged-990339.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gopalaiah launches ‘Vaidyara Nade Halliya Kade’ programme||District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah launched Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's ambitious programme 'Vaidyara Nade Halliya Kade', in Hassan on Wednesday. The unique programme has been planned to combat the spread of the pandemic in rural areas. The doctors will visit the houses in the villages and identify the infected patients and ensure they are shifted either to the Covid Care Centres or hospitals, based on their health condition. Speaking after launching the programme, Gopalaiah said, "Already 47 vehicles have been arranged to help the doctors visit each and every village in the district. A team, comprising 75 doctors and 150 nurses have been formed. If required more vehicles will be provided." The doctors will visit the houses in the villages to prevent the Covid from spreading. The public should cooperate, he appealed. MLA Preetham J Gowda, Deputy Commissioner R Girish, ZP CEO B A Paramesh distributed medical kits to the team members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gopalaiah-launches-vaidyara-nade-halliya-kade-programme-990341.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vishwanath slams party leaders over Covid management||MLC A H Vishwanath slammed his own party leaders and the state government for its failure in tackling Covid and said that lockdown should not be continued after June 7. In press conference here, Vishwanath alleged that the state government failed to manage the Covid situation. “Now, the people are dying of Covid, and the common people will die if the lockdown is extended,” he opined. A few ministers are talking about extending the lockdown, which should not be done. The government, which failed to announce a proper package is now again claiming of another package, he said. Highlighting about the change in leadership in state BJP, Vishwanath said, “Political developments have started and the matter of changing the leader is left to the party high command.” “The state is registering highest Covid deaths in the country. The Heath department was divided into five. Two ministers for beds, one for oxygen supply. But, no beds and oxygen are available to the people,” he slammed. Coming in support of Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri in managing Covid, Vishwanath said, “The task force has no legal sanctity and the DC has been left out from it. It is the district in-charge minister’s illegal task force. The task force has no value. It is like Dasara committee. Don’t do anything unnecessarily.” “The minister is creating differences among the officials. All officials are doing a good job, including the DC and Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner. He is firing the DC placing gun on the shoulders of MCC Commissioner,” he said. “Are you fighting against Covid. What do you want to do,” he questioned District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vishwanath-slams-party-leaders-over-covid-management-990342.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Regret helping BJP come to power: A H Vishwanath||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath continued his tirade against his party leaders and the state government, opposing the sale of 3,667 acres of land to Jindal Group at a throwaway price. The MLC also demanded the cabinet members to reject the government’s decision. In a press conference here, on Wednesday, Vishwanath said, “B S Yediyurappa had opposed the sale of land when he was the Opposition leader in the coalition government and protested in the house. But, now he has decided to sell it. I regret for supporting the BJP to come to power.” According to Vishwanath, one acre land costs Rs 1 crore but, the government quote is Rs 1.12 lakh per acre of land. The cabinet members must oppose the government’s decision in the session on May 27, he demanded. He also suggested the government to lease the land instead of selling it. Condemning the Leader of Opposition party Siddaramaiah and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, Vishwanath asked, “Why you are quiet over the issue. Have you taken any kick back? Is it the way to protect the land of the state?” BJP MLAs Uday Garudachar, Basavanagouda Yatnal, Aravinda Bellada, Poornima and others have expressed objection and also brought the issue to the notice of Union government, he said. Vishwanath also alleged that Yediyurappa continued the lockdown to protect his position.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/regret-helping-bjp-come-to-power-a-h-vishwanath-990343.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tribals reluctant to get Covid-19 vaccine||People living in the tribal hamlets of the district are reluctant to get vaccination for Covid-19 as hardly a few people from the community have been infected with Covid. There are 219 tribal hamlets (haadis) in Hunsur, H D Kote, Sargur, Nanjangud and Periyapatna taluk and 12,560 families reside here. There are approximately 60,000 people in the district. H D Kote taluk alone has 119 haadis and 19,000 people in the taluk. However, only three persons tested positive for Covid and a few persons have complained of fever. But, they are not ready to get vaccinated, it is said. Tribal community leader Shylendra of N Begur said, "Ddespite having Covid symptoms, the residents are reluctant to undergo test. The officials must convince the people to undergo test and get vaccination." In Hunsur taluk, nearly, 6,000 people are residing in 52 haadis. However, tribals of Nagapur and Shettyhalli hamlets have got vaccination administered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tribals-reluctant-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-990344.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Black fungus to be treated in respective districts: CS||Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said, "A team of experts that has been constituted to tackle the possible third wave have opined that the second wave would subside by June 15." Speaking to reporters during his visit to Hassan, on Tuesday, he said, "The patients suffering from black fungus will not be sent to Bengaluru or other cities as treatment for the same has been started at all the district medical hospitals." Commenting on the vaccination, he said, "Those above 45 years are being given free vaccination. But, the vaccination for those above 18 years will have to wait as there is shortage. In an effort to prevent shortage of oxygen in the district, measures have been taken to supply 100 cylinders from Mangaluru to Hassan every day." As the rural areas continue to report a surge in Covid cases, the officials have been told to keenly monitor the situation at villages, Ravi Kumar said. He also visited the War Room, vaccination centres and Covid Care Centres in Hassan and supervised the functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/black-fungus-to-be-treated-in-respective-districts-cs-990346.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 hampers Issaq’s library rebuilding||The Covid-19 second wave has hampered the rebuilding works of Syed Issaq’s library in Rajeev Nagar, which was destroyed in fire, on April 9. The Department of Public Libraries, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) have taken up the responsibility of rebuilding the library with a permanent structure. The library had a collection of more than 11,000 books, including 3,000 Kannada books, 3,000 copies of Bhagavad Gita, 1,500 copies of Bible and 1,000 Urdu books. Initially, it was suspected miscreants set fire to the library. But, the police investigation proved that it was the negligence of a person, who threw a matchstick after lighting a beedi that resulted in a massive fire. As per the plan, the authorities decided to commence the works on April 23, ‘World Book Day’. But, due to the outbreak of Covid-19 second wave, it has been postponed. The authorities will take up the works once the Covid situation eases. The officials, including MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag, MUDA Commissioner D B Natesh and Library department Deputy Director B Manjunath visited the spot when the library was gutted and decided to rebuild it. The old tent like library developed by Issaq was on an unauthorised site belonging to MUDA. Now, the MUDA has handed over the site to Libraries department to develop a public library. Though his library was destroyed it did not deter the 62-year-old Issaq, who erected a small shed using old sheets of the gutted library and ensured newspapers and a few books were available for the public. “I managed to provide service to the readers for 23 days after my library gutted, but due to Covid second wave, I had to close it. I never closed my library on any other occasion, including Ramzan,” he said. Issaq said, "Several people came forward to extend financial help. MP Pratap Simha, pro-Kannada organisations, government employees and others provided funds. In all, he has received Rs 2.80 lakh and it has been deposited in a bank. I will hand it over to the authorities concerned once the works commences.” Manjunath said, "It has been decided not to raise donation from the public, but we accept books, furniture and other items needed for library. We are keen to rebuild the library, but works have been delayed due to the pandemic." It has to be noted that help poured in from parts of the country for Issaq as the news of fire accident spread. An individual launched an online campaign and more than Rs 20 lakh was raised. Manjunath said that in order to maintain accountability, no funds will be raised from the public. "The site on which Issaq established library was a civic amenity site and there was no provision to allot it for any individual and thus, we decided to open a new Public Library at the same place,” said Manjunath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-hampers-issaq-s-library-rebuilding-990347.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri thanks industries, companies for Rs 12 crore CSR funds||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri thanked the industries and corporate companies that extended help to the district administration to tackle the Covid-19 crisis by providing funds under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). In a virtual meeting on Tuesday, the DC said that various companies in the district provided Rs 12.53 crore under CSR fund in less than 20 days, which were utilised for Covid management. Around 41 companies have extended help so far and have donated ICU beds, oxygen concentrators, ambulances, medical kits, oxygen plant, PPE kits, ventilators and other medical equipment, she said. She also thanked Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Shilpa Nag, Additional DC B S Manjunathaswamy, District Industries Centre Joint Director D K Lingaraju, MCC Executive Engineer Mruthyunjaya and a team of other officials for being successful in collecting funds. She also appealed to the companies and industries to continue their help to the district administration and provide medicines and equipment to tackle the black fungus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dc-rohini-sindhuri-thanks-industries-companies-for-rs-12-crore-csr-funds-990350.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister assigns responsibilities of Covid management among BJP leaders||People’s representatives, mainly of the ruling BJP, are given major responsibilities in Covid-19 management in Mysuru district, as per the directions of District In-Charge Minister S T Somashekar. An MP, a MLA, chairpersons of boards and corporations have been nominated as non-official in-charge, with various responsibilities, to manage the crisis. Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha has been given more responsibilities. He is in-charge of supply and management of oxygen and also Remdesivir injections; Rural Task Force to check the spread of the Covid infection in rural areas; and the committee for taking precautionary measures against the imminent third wave of Covid. MLA S A Ramadass is honorary advisor to the District Covid Task Force. R Raghu, Chairman of D Devarj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation, is in-charge of the District War Room. Chairman of Mysuru Urban Development Authority H V Rajeev is in-charge of allocation and management of beds in private hospitals. L R Mahadevaswamy, Chairman, Zoo Authority of Karnataka, is in-charge of management of ambulances, to facilitate transportation of patients in need for hospitalisation. M Appanna, Chairman, Jungle Lodges and Resorts, is in-charge of facilitating hassle-free cremation of Covid victims in crematoriums under Mysuru City Corporation limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-assigns-responsibilities-of-covid-management-among-bjp-leaders-990351.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police nab five for killing CMC staff in Bhadravathi||Bhadravathi police, on Wednesday, nabbed five persons on charges of murdering city municipal council staff Sunil. According to police, the arrested have been identified as Sabeeth (20), a resident of Bhadravathi town, Idayath (20), Nishad Pasha (21), Mohammed Zubed (20) and Tabreez Pasha (21), residents of Shivamogga. Sources said that Sunil and his friend Srikanta, residents of Jai Bheem Nagar, Bhadravathi town, were outside their house on Tuesday evening. Nishad Pasha and Mohammed Zubed came on a bike to purchase gutka from a shop in the area. Sunil asked them to go to their home as police would seize their vehicle for violating lockdown guidelines. This led to an argument between them. Later, Mohamed called three more of his friends to come to the spot. The group attacked Sunil with a knife and also assaulted Srikanta and fled the spot. Later, Sunil succumbed to injuries in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-nab-five-for-killing-cmc-staff-in-bhadravathi-990382.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 positive woman delivers baby girl||A woman, who was tested positive for Covid-19, delivered a baby girl in taluk general hospital in Hosanagar. The hospital staff, led by Dr Lingaraj conducted the medical procedure on the woman successfully.  The woman, resident of Sampekatte, Hosanagar taluk, complained of labour pain and was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 24. She was shifted to taluk general hospital immediately. The baby girl, weighing 3 kg, has been kept separately from the mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-baby-girl-990394.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||'Have not yet decided on contesting from Chamarajpet'||Karnataka Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said Wednesday he was undecided on contesting the next election from Chamarajpet in Bengaluru, confirming publicly that the incumbent legislator BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan had offered to vacate the constituency for him. “I’m the MLA from Badami and there’s still two years to go for the next election,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. “I haven’t said anywhere that I’ll contest from Chamarajpet. But Zameer has been asking me to contest from here. I haven’t decided,” he said.  Siddaramaiah had said that the 2018 Assembly election would be his last. He contested from Chamundeshwari and Badami. He lost Chamundeshwari by a big margin. There is pressure on Siddaramaiah from his loyalists within the party to contest the next election. In March this year, he told the Legislative Assembly that he will contest the next election. It is no secret that Siddaramaiah, 72, is nursing his ambition to become chief minister for a second term. On Wednesday, Siddaramaiah gave away 20 kg ration and Rs 3,000 to auto drivers affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in Chamarajpet. He has frequented Chamarajpet of late for similar welfare initiatives.  Commenting on the rumblings in the BJP, Siddaramaiah said the clamour for Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s removal had increased within the saffron party. “Yediyurappa has failed as CM. He’s the worst CM that Karnataka has ever seen. Not only is he weak, he’s also corrupt,” he charged. “But anyone who comes in his place will also be weak.”  The Congress leader also hit out at the BJP over Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy’s alleged link to the bed-blocking scam. “I had said earlier that Satish Reddy’s aides were involved. Now, Reddy’s assistant Babu has been arrested,” he said.  Congress deletes pro-DKS tweet The Karnataka Congress' official Twitter handle deleted a tweet supporting its president DK Shivakumar's candidature as the chief minister. "If DK Shivakumar would have been CM today, things would have been under control in Karnataka," the Congress had tweeted.  Choosing between Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for the CM's post, should the party come to power, is a contentious issue within the Congress as both leaders are seen to have a game of one-upmanship. The tweet was deleted as the party believes in "collective leadership," a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/have-not-yet-decided-on-contesting-from-chamarajpet-990330.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP MLA takes out 'Agnihotra procession' to fight Covid-19||Amid a lockdown to check coronavirus spread in Karnataka, a BJP MLA has taken out an 'Agnihotra procession' in Belagavi, claiming that smoke emitted from the ritual fire would ward off Covid-19. The MLA, Abhay Patil, accompanied by several followers, dragged a pushcart with smouldering cow dung cakes, neem, camphor and other herbs which forms 'Agnihotra' on Tuesday. The lockdown and Covid-19 protocols were allegedly flouted and police too reportedly did not interrupt the procession taken out with a purpose to defeat the pandemic. Speaking to reporters later, Patil said the Agnihotra procession was a reminder of the ancient medicinal practices of India. He added that he would continue performing the ritual till June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-mla-takes-out-agnihotra-procession-to-fight-covid-19-990337.html
26-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP top brass refuses to meet Karnataka tourism minister C P Yogeshwar, MLA Arvind Bellad||BJP top brass on Wednesday warned Karnataka tourism minister C P Yogeshwar and Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad not to come to the national capital to pressurise the top brass to unseat Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Despite repeated attempts, BJP National President J P Nadda and National General Secretary (Karnataka in-charge) Arun Singh refused to meet both the leaders. After waiting for two days in Delhi, Yogeshwar and Bellad left for Bengaluru on Wednesday, sources said. The party's top brass also communicated to both the leaders to not bring any MLAs to Delhi to pressurise the leadership to remove the CM, sources revealed. "The party is aware of every development in Karnataka. It will take the right decision at right time, including changing Chief Minister," said a leader, adding that the same has been communicated to the two MLAs. The party through state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel communicated to these two leaders to instead focus on controlling the spread of Covid-19 in their respective constituencies. Both the Centre and state government are busy fighting against Covid-19. At this juncture, leaders coming to Delhi to do political activities will not be tolerated, said the leader, adding that "lobbying is not BJP culture." This is the second time in the last 15 days that both Yogeshwar and Bellad have come to Delhi to pressurise the high command to remove Yediyurappa. During their first meeting with the party top brass, they complained against Yediyurappa for handing over land to JSW in Bellary. Yediyurappa, however, defended the decision saying it was done as per the Karnataka High Court order. Sources said that Yogeshwar and Bellad were also pressurising the party top brass to make Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi the Chief Minister. Bellad is learnt to have been lobbying for the deputy chief minister post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-top-brass-refuses-to-meet-karnataka-tourism-minister-c-p-yogeshwar-mla-arvind-bellad-990388.html
26-05-2021||Main Article||In Sunderlal Bahuguna's passing, we lost a Rishi||India has a tradition of Rishis, the learned men with wisdom and compassion not only for human beings, but for all beings on Earth. Rishi literally means one who studies and understands the ruth, nature as it changes, and passes on that knowledge. Sunderlal Bahuguna was one such modern Rishi, a spokesperson for mother nature throughout his life, till Covid took him away from us last week. I first met him in late 1970 at his Navjivan Ashram, an idyllic place on the hillock overlooking Bhilangana, a tributary of the Ganga. His first question was, “Why are you here? If you aspire for a career, then I am sorry, this is not the place for you. We train people to become activists, so that they can become spokespersons for those who do not have voice— nature, forests and rivers.” The routine and discipline of ashram life, combined with the physical labour in the fields, helped us to maintain a balance between mental and manual labour as an essential quality to become an activist, adhering to the ideology of ‘simple living, high thinking’. Inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, he launched a movement against the king in Tehri, Uttarakhand, and the British Raj at the age of 14, and was expelled. He studied in Lahore and participated in the anti-colonial movement. He was with the Congress party at the time of Independence and could have become a successful politician. But Vimla, his wife-to-be, set the condition that she would marry him only if he quit politics and took up social work. That is how they came to jointly establish Navjivan Ashram in the Himalayas, inspired by Mira Ben, Gandhi’s disciple. Since the last 40 years, I have been practising what Bahuguna taught me— to stand up against the destruction of forests, against dams and pollution of rivers; to convey the message that “ecology is the permanent economy.” I am one among the innumerable youths he has inspired throughout his life. He always said he was “a messenger of the Chipko women, seeking protection of the natural forests to protect the basic capital of humankind— soil, water and air.” During the early 1980s, he undertook a march on foot, or Padyatra, of 4,800 km across the Himalayas— from Kashmir to Kohima. It took him three years. I was fortunate enough to join him in the North-East region and Bhutan. At that time, I was an energetic youth, but I still could not walk at his pace in the hilly tracks. And he walked this arduous path carrying a rucksack, weighing almost 40 kilos, on his back! At the end of the day, during the meetings in the villages, there was no trace of tiredness in him. He was full of energy and humour, sharing stories and listening to them. That is when I learnt the basics of grassroots action. When he learnt that the people of Uttara Kannada had launched Appiko, a movement similar to Chipko, he came and participated in the movement. He took me to the then chief minister Ramakrishna Hegde, to whom he said, “These people are protesting against the policy of your government to destroy forests to establish teak plantations. We hope you will change the forest policy.” There was not a trace of anger in him, he was full of humility and compassion. His appeal touched Hegde. The forest policy changed. His influence extended far and wide, from interior Bastar region in India to far-off places like Switzerland, Sweden, the US and Japan. In Bastar, a movement similar to Chipko was launched by tribal women to save the Sal forests. In Odisha, the movement against mining in Gandhamardhan was inspired by Chipko. He visited many places across India when there was a need to save forests and rivers. He played a significant role in the struggle to save Silent Valley. What surprised me most was the way Japanese housewives and youth used his non-violent struggle to launch Chipko in Japan against the expansion of a highway that would have taken a toll of forests. I had the rare opportunity to participate in this movement, although the forests could not be saved. Similarly, I took part in the Chipko Padyatra organised in Switzerland. Bahuguna was instrumental in spreading the message of Chipko, of ecological conservation, in different parts of the world. Ironically, in our own country, the land where Chipko has become a legend, we are razing forests, polluting rivers and, through our actions, damaging our basic capital— air, water and soil— that are essential for the survival of humans and other forms of life. Prime Minister Modi said that Bahuguna’s death is a “monumental loss” and that he “manifested the ethos of living in harmony with nature.” But his government’s Char Dham highway project to link pilgrimage centres and other infrastructure projects contradict those words of tribute and will destabilise the entire Himalayas. This is a clear indication from our rulers that they will not heed the wisdom of our Rishis. Many will pay rich homage to Bahuguna in words, but the best way to pay tribute is to practise what he taught us— to become the voice of voiceless nature. Bahuguna’s long innings of 94 years was a life well-lived, propagating the principles of non-violent action. He gave a new lease of life to the Gandhian philosophy of living in harmony with nature as the roadmap to attain sustainable development. Vimla, his lifelong companion who inspired him to his path and in his struggle, is also unfortunately afflicted by Covid. They were hospitalised together. Let us hope she recovers and continues the legacy for many more years. (The writer is a well-known environmental activist and leader of the Appiko and Save Western Ghats movement)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/in-sunderlal-bahugunas-passing-we-lost-a-rishi-990063.html
26-05-2021||National||Telangana’s youngest Covid-19 survivor, a newborn is finally home||A newborn baby in Telangana has become the youngest Covid-19 survivor in the state after a 30-day-long battle with the infection. The baby was born to a Covid-19 infected woman and he tested positive for the same on the eighth day after his oxygen level started falling. He was born preterm on April 17 with prematurity-related respiratory distress. His first Covid-19 test, conducted within 24 hours of his birth, came out negative. Eight days later when he experienced breathing difficulty along with reducing oxygen level, he tested positive through the RT-PCR test. Doctors believe that he could have contracted the virus after his birth.   The hospital announced on Sunday that the boy was discharged last week and is under supervision at home. The baby’s parents were constantly updated about his health through video calls by the hospital staff. After his recovery, he was taken out of the ICU isolation ward and nurses took appropriate care. The boy’s father, B Rahul told the publication, “At a time when we could not physically meet the baby, the doctors and their teams made video calls and kept assuring us that the baby will soon be with us. We are grateful to them.” KIMS Cuddles hospital has conducted delivery of 35 pregnant women who were Covid-19 positive and only two babies tested positive for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-s-youngest-covid-19-survivor-a-newborn-is-finally-home-990060.html
26-05-2021||National||DH Toon | 'In a total disconnect with mainland'||As resentment brews against the Lakshadweep administration over a series of decisions of administrator Praful Patel, political party leaders and other known personalities are condemning the decisions and demanding his removal. A 'Save Lakshadweep' campaign has gone viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-in-a-total-disconnect-with-mainland-990070.html
26-05-2021||National||Leverage Edu launches Rs 5 crore study abroad scholarship programme||With 60% of students seeking help for studying abroad coming from non-metro areas, higher education admission platform Leverage Edu has announced Rs five crore scholarship for them to meet at-campus expenses. The scholarship could help students to get waivers on their tuition fees, living expenses, win laptops, waiver on costs to cover excursions, and a lot more at-campus stuff – which would get them closer to their dream of being a global citizen in a borderless world, said Akshay Chaturvedi, Founder & CEO, Leverage Edu. “The scholarship program is meant to ease pressure on students, and is going to see some landing up offers that will bring down their tuition fees, while for others it will indirectly cover their other at-campus expenses, that can help them be successful at University,” Chaturvedi said. The scholarship has a rolling application and the winners will be announced every fortnight. The Rs five crore scholarship is expected to benefit hundreds of students. This became more apparent as our customer base has grown to be over 60% from non metro parts of India, a Leverage Edu statement said. The scholarship is open for all students applying through the Leverage Edu platform for seeking admissions to foreign universities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leverage-edu-launches-rs-5-crore-study-abroad-scholarship-programme-990092.html
26-05-2021||National||Indonesia's acting envoy to India dies of Covid-19||Indonesia’s acting ambassador to India, Ferdy Piay, died in Jakarta on Tuesday after battling with Covid-19 for weeks. Piay was the Chargé d'Affaires of the Embassy of Indonesia in New Delhi. He was the first head of a foreign diplomatic mission in India to die after being infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus Piay underwent treatment for Covid-19 in a hospital in New Delhi before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Indonesian Government arranged for airlifting him to Jakarta, where he breathed his last on Tuesday, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indonesias-acting-envoy-to-india-dies-of-covid-19-990114.html
26-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 26||India on Wednesday reported 2,08,921 Covid-19 infections, pushing the overall tally of cases to 2,71,57,795, as the country conducted 22,17,320 coronavirus tests, its highest-ever in a day, according to Union Health Ministry data. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,71,57,795 as of May 26, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 3,11,388 as of May 26, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 2,43,50,816       Total Vaccination: 20,06,62,456   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-26-990121.html
26-05-2021||National||Track Live position of Cyclone Yaas here||Cyclone Yaas, the second major tropical cyclonic storm to hit India in one month, will be making landfall in the country's Eastern coast later on Wednesday. Here is how you can track the position of Cyclone Yaas live:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/track-live-position-of-cyclone-yaas-here-990128.html
26-05-2021||National||WhatsApp takes govt to court, says new media rules mean end to privacy||WhatsApp has moved the Delhi High Court against the Social Media Intermediary rules 2021, which came into force from Wednesday, contending these provisions were likely to break users' right to privacy and end-to-end encryption on its messaging service. The petition filed by the Facebook-owned company on Tuesday questioned the validity of new rules to "trace" the origin of messages sent on the service, on an order by court or the government, and criminal liability enforced upon its employees on failure to do so. "Identification of the first originator of a message under the new rules infringed upon the fundamental rights to privacy and free speech of the hundreds of millions of citizens using WhatsApp to communicate privately and securely," its petition said. “It is equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp," the company spokesperson said in a statement. WhatsApp claimed it "enables government officials, law enforcement, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, scholars, teachers, students, and the like to exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression without fear of retaliation."  It also pointed out the company banned about two million WhatsApp accounts per month globally for violations of its Terms of Service. The company sought a direction of the court to declare Rule 4(2) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 as unconstitutional and ultra vires of the IT Act, 2000, for violating the fundamental rights to equality, freedom of speech and carry on occupation. It relied upon the landmark ruling by apex court's nine-judge bench in the right to privacy case (K S Puttaswamy) among others to support its plea.  The company spokesperson said it has consistently joined civil society and experts around the world in opposing requirements that would violate the privacy of our users.  "In the meantime, we will also continue to engage with the Government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to us.” the company spokesperson said.  The new rules, announced in February, required large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance report and removal of objectionable content. The new rules also specified that social media firms adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. WhatsApp also filed a petition before the Supreme Court of Brazil in a similar matter. With the news rules, social media platforms no longer can claim legal immunity from what is posted on their site. Though Facebook said it "aims to comply" with the new rules, the US-based firm maintained it wanted to discuss some "issues which need more engagement". Google on Tuesday claimed "long history" of managing content according to local laws, while Koo, Indian rival to Twitter, said it has already complied with new rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-takes-govt-to-court-says-new-media-rules-mean-end-to-privacy-990135.html
26-05-2021||National||Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp to face ban? What we know so far||Social media platforms and streaming services could be staring at a halt in operations in the country unless they comply with new rules drawn up by the government that come into effect on Wednesday. Users fretted over an imminent ban on social media platforms in the country as the deadline to new information technology (IT) rules approached. As of Wednesday morning, however, all social media platforms were still operational. Here’s everything we know so far about a possible ban and how the companies are dealing with the challenge: Why is there talk of a ban? The Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MEITy) introduced new guidelines to regulate social media companies on February 25 and gave the internet platforms three months to enforce them—a deadline that ended on Tuesday, May 25. What are the new regulations? The new guidelines bring in a host of new requirements for social media companies in the country, which includes the appointment of a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and resident grievance officer in the country. The platforms will also have to scrub any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours, double the time they store user data, facilitate faster cooperation with law enforcement and provide information to regulators on where certain posts or messages originated. What happens if the companies do not comply? According to the guidelines, if the social media companies fail to comply with the new rules, they lose the protection they are afforded as “intermediaries” and could face severe action against them, going up to even criminal prosecution. Are the companies willing to comply? Koo, the Indian version of Twitter is the only social media platform in the country that has claimed to have complied with the new guidelines so far. Facebook and Google have hinted at their intention to comply with the new rules. However, Facebook-owned Whatsapp, which has the largest number of Indian users among the platforms, has filed a legal complaint in Delhi against the Indian government, saying the new rules would force it to breach privacy rights in the Indian constitution, according to a Reuters report. Twitter, whose Indian headquarters were recently raided by the Delhi police after failing to take down a “manipulated media” tag on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson’s tweet, has so far remained silent on the issue of complying with the new regulations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-twitter-whatsapp-to-face-ban-what-we-know-so-far-990142.html
26-05-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 infections cross 2.08L; 4,157 fatalities recorded||India on Wednesday reported 2,08,921 Covid-19 infections, pushing the overall tally of cases to 2,71,57,795, as the country conducted 22,17,320 coronavirus tests, its highest-ever in a day, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll also climbed to 3,11,388 with 4,157 fatalities reported in a 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 22,17,320 tests, the highest in a day, were conducted on Tuesday taking the cumulative number so far in the country to 33,48,11,496, while the daily positivity declined to 9.42 per cent, the ministry said. This is the second day in a row that the case positivity rate has remained below 10 per cent, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also declined to 11.45 per cent. The updated data showed that the number of active cases have further come down to 24,95,591, with a net decline of 91,191 in a span of 24 hours. The active cases now constituting 9.19 per cent of the total infections. The data also showed that 2,95,955 patients recovered from the virus in a span of 24 hours, pushing the total recoveries so far to 2,43,50,816. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 89.66 per cent, it showed. The case fatality rate was 1.15 per cent, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4. The 4,157 new fatalities include 1,137 from Maharashtra, 588 from Karnataka, 468 from Tamil Nadu, 177 from Kerala , 174 from Punjab, 157 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 156 from Delhi, 128 from Haryana, 106 from Andhra Pradesh, 105 from Rajasthan and 104 from Bihar, according to the ministry data. A total of  3,11,388  deaths have been reported so far in the country including 90,349 from Maharashtra, 26,399 from Karnataka, 23,565 from Delhi, 21,340 from Tamil Nadu, 19,519 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,674 from West Bengal, 13,642 from Punjab and 12,723 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities or preexisting health conditions. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-infections-cross-208l-4157-fatalities-recorded-990148.html
26-05-2021||National||Had no option left other than seeking opinion of courts: WhatsApp on new media rules||WhatsApp, which has moved the Delhi High Court against the provisions of the Social Media Intermediary Rules 2021, on Wednesday said that the new guidelines will violate its end-to-end encryption policy. With the government threatening criminal penalties for companies that do not comply with the new social media rules coming into effect today, WhatsApp stated it had no option left other than seeking counsel from the courts. The Facebook-owned company said that the new guidelines that require digital media companies to disclose the identity of the first originator of messages breach the right to privacy. "Requiring messaging apps to “trace” chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people’s right to privacy," a WhatsApp spokesperson said. "We have consistently joined civil society and experts around the world in opposing requirements that would violate the privacy of our users. In the meantime, we will also continue to engage with the Government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to us,” the spokesperson added. Stressing the dangers of traceability, the company said that because of it, "innocent people could get caught up in investigations, or even go to jail, for sharing content that later becomes problematic in the eyes of a government" even if they did not mean any harm by sharing it.  WhatsApp has filed a petition before the Delhi High Court against the provisions of the Social Media Intermediary rules 2021, which require digital media companies to disclose the identity of the first originator of message in a bid to curb misinformation. The new rules, announced in February — which come into force from Wednesday (May 26) — requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer and monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance report and removal of objectionable content. The new rules also specify that social media firms adopt features that allow traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. The new IT rules, in addition to calling for “traceability” risk criminal penalties for non-compliance. WhatsApp has said that it consistently opposes legal action that would break end-to-end encryption. The social media platform also filed a petition before the Supreme Court of Brazil on a similar matter. Facebook on Tuesday said it aims to comply with the provisions of the Social Media Intermediary rules 2021 and working on to implement operational processes. "We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. Pursuant to the IT rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies," spokeperson of the Facebook said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/had-no-option-left-other-than-seeking-opinion-of-courts-whatsapp-on-new-media-rules-990158.html
26-05-2021||National||Mumbai, Bengaluru police are back with more quirky tweets and Twitterati can't get enough||Bengaluru and Mumbai Police are making headlines again with their unique Twitter posts about Covid-19 rules and appropriate behaviour during lockdowns, keeping up with the younger generation and impressing users with their wit. Among their most recent quirky memes and trendy posts, Mumbai Police’s witty reply to a Twitter user’s comment has became the favourit of Netizens. Mumbai Commissioner of Police urged people through Twitter to stay at home in the pandemic, saying that it’s too hot to go outside. When he tweeted a photo showing the sunny weather in the city, a man named Sunny replied, “Sir, my name is Sunny. Can I go outside?” Not resisting the opportunity to have some fun, the Mumbai Police replied, “Sir, if you are truly that star at the centre of the solar system, around which Earth & the other components of solar system revolve, we hope you realise the responsibility you are shouldering! Don’t compromise it by exposing yourself to the virus please!” They further added, “Be the #SunshineOfSafety.” Twitter users are loving the wordplay and the use of the hashtag, with the tweet receiving many likes and retweets. One user even asked to promote the social media manager, tweeting, “This person needs a raise, kudos.” Along the same lines, Bengaluru Police turned to some punny captions to make citizens aware of Covid appropriate behaviour. In a recent tweet with a picture of famous comic character Mr Bean, they wrote, “We’ve Bean doing this for some time now. There’s no excuse for not wearing the mask right. #StaySafe #ArrestCorona.” In the past few months, both police departments have used social media with the most trendy memes and pictures, crafting clever wordplays and tickling ribs while raising awareness about various issues. Mumbai Police also used some Bollywood star references in posts and fans loved the use to spread Covid-19 awareness. Pushpa, we hate rule-breakers! Be 'Zyada Saavdhan' today to ensure everything’s ‘Shubh Mangal’ everyday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-bengaluru-police-are-back-with-more-quirky-tweets-and-twitterati-cant-get-enough-990171.html
26-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas pounds Bengal, Odisha, claims 4 lives||The very severe cyclonic storm Yaas pounded the coastal districts of Odisha and West Bengal on Wednesday. After making a landfall at the north of Dhamra port in Odisha’s Bhadrak district with a wind speed of 130 kmph to 145 kmph at around 9 am, the cyclone caused heavy rainfall and severe storm surge for about four hours. The storm affected nearly one crore people in West Bengal and damaged three lakh houses, said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee adding that one person “accidentally” died during the storm. As for Odisha, although locals said that three persons died, one each in Keonjhar, Balasore, and Mayurbhsnj, so far there has not been any official confirmation.   Seawater rushed into the coastal town of Digha in East Medinipur district almost inundating it completely. The state government called in the Army for rescue operations. Other coastal towns such as Mandarmani, Tajpur, and Shankarpur also experienced severe inundation with seawater flooding hotels, roads, and damaging shops and kutcha houses. The cyclone raked havoc in South 24 Paraganas district where severe flooding took place in areas such as Fraserganj, Maipith, Gosaba, and Kakdwip in the Sundarban region. The seawater rushed in with such force in Fraserganj that it easily toppled a payloader on the street. In some areas, the waves even touched the top of coconut trees. The surging seawater along with gale wind damaged thousands of kutcha houses, rendering lakhs of villagers homeless. Several areas in Sagar Island located at the confluence of the river Hooghly and the Bay of Bengal in the South 24 Paraganas district were also flooded. “West Bengal has been the most affected state. The state government has evacuated 15,04,506 people in Bengal. So far 134 embankments have been breached in Bengal. We have sent relief materials worth about Rs 10 crore to the affected areas,” Mamata said. She also said that she will soon be conducting an aerial survey of affected areas in North and South 24 Paraganas and East Medinipur districts. Rivers in the delta region swelled due to the rise in water level caused by the storm surge and astronomical high tide. The seawater flooded scores of villages in Odisha’s Balasore district. Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said that the affected villages are located in Balasore district’s Remuna and Bahanaga blocks and Bhadrak district’s Dhamra and Basudevpur. Jena said that one person was injured in the Balasore district after a tree fell on him. The Odisha government has evacuated 5.8 lakh people to shelters. “It is likely to move northeastwards and weaken gradually into a deep depression cyclonic storm during the next three hours,” the IMD stated in a bulletin issued at 7.30 pm. The Army, NDRF, and SDRF along with State Police were pressed into service for rescue operations in Odisha and Bengal. Several districts in West Bengal and Odisha are expected to face heavy to very heavy rainfall. A high alert has been issued in Jharkhand which would be hit by the cyclone at around midnight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-pounds-bengal-odisha-claims-4-lives-990187.html
26-05-2021||National||IMA serves defamation notice on Ramdev||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has served a defamation notice on Ramdev for alleged disparaging remarks against allopathy and allopathic doctors, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said it will demand a compensation of Rs 1,000 crore from the yoga guru. The six-page notice served on behalf of IMA (Uttarakhand) secretary Ajay Khanna by his lawyer Neeraj Pandey describes the remarks by Ramdev as damaging to the reputation and the image of allopathy and around 2,000 practitioners of it who are part of the association. Terming the remarks of the yoga guru a "criminal act" under section of 499 of the Indian Penal Code, the notice demanded a written apology from him within 15 days of its receipt, saying a compensation of Rs 1,000 crore will be demanded from him at the rate of Rs 50 lakh per member of the IMA if he failed to do so. The notice has also asked Ramdev to make a video clip contradicting all his allegations and circulate it on the social media platforms where he had uploaded his earlier video levelling them. It further asked the yoga guru to withdraw a "misleading" advertisement from all platforms endorsing "Coronil kit", a product of his firm, as an effective medicine for Covid-19, failing which an FIR and a criminal case will be lodged against him by the IMA. On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which he is heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". The remarks were met with vociferous protests from the doctors' association, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. A day later, the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the IMA in an 'open letter' on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension and type-1 and 2 diabetes. He went on to list modern day ailments such as Parkinson's disease and wondered if allopathy had any painless cure to treat infertility as well as to reverse ageing and increase hemoglobin. Soon after, Ramdev's close aide Acharya Balkrishna took to Twitter, saying the yoga guru and Ayurveda were being targeted by allopathic practitioners under the IMA as part of a conspiracy. "As part of the conspiracy to convert the entire country into #Christianity, #Yoga and #Ayurveda are being maligned by targeting @yogrishiramdev jee. Countrymen, wake up now from the deep slumber otherwise the generations to come will not forgive you," Balkrishna said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-serves-defamation-notice-on-ramdev-990188.html
26-05-2021||National||Time we educate ourselves: Varun Dhawan, others slam YouTuber for racial remarks on Arunachal MLA||Bollywood stars Varun Dhawan, Rajkummar Rao and Kriti Sanon have criticised a YouTuber for his racially abusive remarks towards Arunachal Pradesh MLA Ninong Ering. Paras Singh, who goes by the name 'Paras Official' on his YouTube channel, had in a video posted on Sunday termed Congress MLA Ninong Ering a non-Indian and claimed the "state was a part of China", sparking furore among Arunchalees as well as people from other parts of the country. Singh, who was arrested in Ludhiana on Tuesday, was apparently incensed with Ering after the Congress MLA wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking for a ban on the re-launch of PUBG Mobile India's new avatar Battlegrounds Mobile India. Filmmaker Amar Kaushik, known for movies "Stree" and "Bala", was the first from film industry to criticise Singh for his remarks. "Being ignorant about your country and its region is stupidity in itself, but when that ignorance is expressed in an offensive manner, it becomes toxic. "We all need to call out and condemn such ignorance in one voice and make all idiots understand that IT IS NOT ACCEPTABLE ANYMORE," he wrote on his Instagram Stories. Dhawan and Sanon, who stars in Kaushik's upcoming movie "Bhediya", which was shot in Arunachal Pradesh, shared the filmmaker's post on their respective Instagram Stories. "Having spent so much time in Arunachal Pradesh, it's time we educate ourselves and others about how wrong this is," Dhawan wrote. Sanon said it is high time people start respecting every individual of the country with "equal respect". "What's wrong with people!! It's high time we treat every individual and every region of our country with equal respect. A Thank you for talking about this @amarkaushik," she wrote in her post. Rao, who worked with Kaushik for 2018 horror comedy "Stree", simply shared the filmmaker's post. "Totally Unacceptable," wrote "Pataal Lok" star Abhishek Banerjee on his Instagram account alongside Kaushik's post. Singh had apologised for his remarks in yet another YouTube video on Monday. Ludhiana Police, under close monitoring of Arunachal Police, arrested him after tracing his whereabouts. He was also charged with inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of the northeastern state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-we-educate-ourselves-varun-dhawan-others-slam-youtuber-for-racial-remarks-on-arunachal-mla-990190.html
26-05-2021||National||Internal matters of Nepal: India on political developments in Kathmandu||India on Wednesday said the recent political developments in Nepal are its internal matters and it is for the country to deal with them under its own domestic framework and democratic processes. The Ministry of External Affairs said India (MEA) remains unwavering in its support for Nepal and its people on their journey toward peace, stability and development. Nepal witnessed fresh political turmoil last week after President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved Parliament following unsuccessful attempts to obtain a majority to form a new government by caretaker Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and opposition leader Sher Bahadur Deuba. The Nepalese president has also ordered the holding of general elections in November. "We have taken note of the recent political developments in Nepal. We view these as internal matters of Nepal to be dealt by them under their own domestic framework and democratic processes," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He was responding to media queries on fast-paced political developments in Nepal. "As a neighbour and friend, India remains unwavering in its support for Nepal and its people on their journey toward progress, peace, stability and development," Bagchi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/internal-matters-of-nepal-india-on-political-developments-in-kathmandu-990199.html
26-05-2021||National||Covid-19: Is mucormycosis contagious?||In the second wave of Covid-19 in India, the country has witnessed a sudden surge in the number of mucormycosis cases. The infection that’s causing people to go blind has been categorised as an epidemic in several states.  There are a lot of questions about this rapidly spreading infection and we've put together some answers: What causes mucormycosis? Mucormycosis, also known as 'black fungus', is an infection caused by a group of fungi called mucormycetes. It's also called black fungus infection because it's characterised by black nasal discharges and black patches of skin around the nose in the initial stages. These fungi can be easily found in our surroundings like soil, compost piles, leaves, cow dung.  How does mucormycosis spread? Mucormycosis is not contagious, and it cannot spread from people and animals. However, one can get infected by 'black fungus' through inhalation, inoculation or ingestion of the fungal spores. It can also spread through bandages, linen, unsterilised water, poor air filtration, non-sterile instruments and open wounds. When the fungal spores are inhaled, they infect the lungs or sinus. If it enters through a skin cut or any other open wound it spreads on the skin. Slowly, the infection spreads into the blood and reaches the brain, heart, and spleen.  How can you avoid getting infected? People with low immunity are more likely to get infected from mucormycosis and it can be life-threatening for them. Hence, it is advisable for them to wear masks in construction sites and be fully clothed with gloves and shoes while gardening.   How can we detect mucormycosis?  Initial-stage symptoms include sinus headache, facial pain, stuffy nose, nasal bleeding, blurring of vision, double vision, dental pain, tooth pain and loosening of teeth. Later symptoms are one-sided facial swelling, skin colouration, Ptosis (closure of eyelids), Proptosis (swelling of the eyeballs), restricted eye movements, palatal blackish discolouration and brownish nasal discharge.  Mucormycosis is diagnosed through a range of blood tests and scans, including complete blood count, blood sugar test, renal function test, deep nasal swab, KOH staining to detect the fungus, nasal endoscopy and biopsy, MRI of the brain, CT scan of the nose and paranasal sinuses.   What is the treatment?  Early diagnosis of the disease is key to minimising the damage. The treatment might continue for four to six weeks. Mucormycosis is treated with antifungal medication, injection of liposomal amphotericin B, surgical debridement, controlling blood sugar, discontinuing immunomodulating drugs, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-is-mucormycosis-contagious-990204.html
26-05-2021||National||Meet Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, the new CBI chief who took the reins today||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, the chief of Central Industrial Security Forces (CISF), has been appointed the new director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for a two-year period. The ex-Maharashtra police chief was picked for the top job out of a pool of three candidates shortlisted by a high-level panel headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India’s premier law enforcement agency had been working without a regular director for more than three months after Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his two-year tenure on February 3. Jaiswal has had a long and illustrious career across several of the country’s law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Mumbai top cop The 58-year-old Jaiswal belongs to the 1985 Indian Police Service (IPS) batch of the Maharashtra cadre. In 2018, he was handpicked by then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to be the Mumbai police commissioner and went on to become the Maharashtra director-general of police (DGP) before seeking central deputation. In December last year, Jaiswal took charge as director-general of the CISF. Spying and intelligence Jaiswal has also held positions in the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and worked with the country’s foreign intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) for nine years. Major cases and roles Jaiswal led the Maharashtra police’s 2003 investigation that probed Abdul Karim Telgi's multi-crore fake stamp paper scam that was later transferred to the CBI. He was also part of the Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad that investigated the 2006 Malegaon bombings. Jaiswal worked with the Special Protection Group (SPG) that guarded former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He also oversaw the investigation of the Elgaar Parishad and Bhima Koregaon violence cases as Maharashtra DGP until they were transferred to the CBI in 2020. Run-ins with MVA government Towards the end of his tenure as Maharashtra DGP, Jaiswal reportedly had disagreements with the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) state government over lobbying for posts by some senior police officials. Jaiswal was also unhappy with some transfers of IPS officers and had even refused to sign on a transfer list put forward by the government before seeking central deputation last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-subodh-kumar-jaiswal-the-new-cbi-chief-who-took-the-reins-today-990209.html
26-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas: Six flights cancelled at Mumbai Airport||The flights to other regions, however, continue to operate as per schedule, CSMIA said a statement. In light of the developments around Cyclone Yaas in the Bay of Bengal, the airport witnessed the cancellation of flights between Mumbai to Kolkata and Bhubaneswar, CSMIA said. Approximately six flights, three arrivals and departures each, have been cancelled so far, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-six-flights-cancelled-at-mumbai-airport-990210.html
26-05-2021||National||WhatsApp case fuels fears over India's new social media rules||New rules governing social media companies in India will make it hard for the firms to operate and give authorities the power to censor internet users, campaigners warned after WhatsApp filed a suit against the Indian government. WhatsApp, a unit of Facebook, filed a legal complaint in Delhi against the Indian government, seeking to block regulations taking effect on Wednesday that experts say would compel the firm to break privacy protections. The lawsuit asks the Delhi High Court to declare one of the rules a violation of privacy rights in India's constitution since it requires social media firms to identify the "first originator of information" when authorities demand it. "This is probably the most significant privacy case in India," said Nikhil Pahwa, founder of technology publication Medianama. "Yes, platforms need to be regulated. But in a manner that gives users power over platforms. Not in a manner that empowers government and allows them to use platforms to control user speech," he said in a tweet. WhatsApp, which has nearly 400 million users in India, said it will "continue to engage with the government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to us". "Requiring messaging apps to 'trace' chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people's right to privacy," WhatsApp said in a statement cited by NDTV news. The lawsuit comes amid clashes between Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government and tech giants including Facebook, Google parent Alphabet and Twitter, in one of their key markets. The government has demanded that the firms remove what it has said is misinformation on the Covid-19 pandemic ravaging India, as well as criticism of the government's response to the crisis and to farmers' protests earlier. The new Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code, which was unveiled in February, requires that big social media firms appoint Indian citizens to key compliance roles, remove content within 36 hours of a legal order, and set up a mechanism to respond to complaints. The firms stand to lose protection from lawsuits and criminal prosecution if they fail to comply. "This means they will find it very difficult to operate in India as they will be liable in all types of legal cases which will include claims of monetary fines or even criminal prosecutions," said Apar Gupta, executive director of Internet Freedom Foundation, a digital rights groups in Delhi. "This will have a chilling impact on internet users in India as platforms will censor more speech under the threat of enforcement," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Across Asia, several countries have introduced a slew of internet and data-use legislation in recent months, with human rights group warning that these measures raise the risk of mass surveillance and violations of free speech. At least six other petitions have been filed in Indian courts challenging the new social media code, according to the Internet Freedom Foundation. The code has raised "major concerns around freedom of speech and expression and will be detrimental to the principle of free and open internet", said Prasanth Sugathan, legal director of digital rights group SFLC.in, which has filed a petition. "It is possible that more social media intermediaries will approach the courts," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-case-fuels-fears-over-indias-new-social-media-rules-990212.html
26-05-2021||National||Antigua searches for missing fugitive jeweller Mehul Choksi||Police in Antigua and Barbuda said they had intensified a search for fugitive jeweller Mehul Choksi, who went missing on Sunday and have requested international police coordination agency Interpol to issue a global alert. Police have filed fraud charges against Choksi, his nephew, Nirav Modi, and others in connection with their suspected involvement in fraudulent transactions that led to losses of about $2 billion for Punjab National Bank (PNB). PNB in 2018 alleged that a few rogue employees had issued fake bank guarantees over several years to help jewellery groups - controlled by Modi and Choksi - raise funds in foreign credit. Modi and Choksi left India before the fraud came to light but have denied any wrongdoing and have said in letters and statements they were innocent. Modi was arrested in London in 2019 and is fighting extradition to India. Choksi has been living in the Caribbean nation. Investigators have interviewed several relatives and associates of Choksi for information on his "sudden disappearance" and asked regional counterparts for assistance, the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda said in a statement late on Tuesday. Choksi was last seen on Sunday evening before leaving home in a car, which has since been recovered, the police said, in a notice seeking information from the public. The police said they had shared Choksi's details with Interpol for a "yellow notice", a global police alert for a missing person, to be circulated. Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne told Parliament there was no reliable information to confirm that Choksi had left the country, according to a video posted by media outlet Antigua Newsroom. "It is likely that he may still be here," Browne said, adding that Choksi was fighting two cases in the country relating to his extradition and his citizenship. Choksi's family members are worried and are co-operating with the investigation, his lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, told Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antigua-searches-for-missing-fugitive-jeweller-mehul-choksi-990213.html
26-05-2021||National||JEE (Advanced) 2021 postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced scheduled for July 3 has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 situation, according to officials at IIT-Kharagpur, the institute which is conducting the exam this year. "Considering the prevailing pandemic situation due to Covid-19, JEE (Advanced) 2021 which was scheduled to be held on July 3 stands postponed. The revised date of examination will be announced at an appropriate time," an official said. JEE-Advanced is an exam for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology and National Institutes of Technology. While the JEE-Mains is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country, it is considered as a qualifying test for the JEE-Advanced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-advanced-2021-postponed-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-990215.html
26-05-2021||National||MP: MLA alleges blackmailing by woman after video call, files complaint||A Congress MLA in Madhya Pradesh has lodged a police complaint alleging that an unidentified woman made a video call to him and performed obscene acts, and later tried to blackmail him with the clip, a police official said. Based on the complaint of legislator Neeraj Dixit, who represents the Maharajpur Assembly seat in Chhatarpur, the police have registered a case, Deputy Superintendent of Police Shashank Jain told reporters on Tuesday. “MLA Neeraj Dixit has submitted an application at Garhi Malehara police station that an unidentified woman recently made a video call on his personal number. The woman allegedly performed obscene acts and recorded the video call. Later, she started blackmailing him on the basis of the video,” Jain said. He said the MLA in his complaint mentioned that he received the video call from an unidentified number, but he attended it thinking someone from his constituency had called him to share a problem. Dixit earlier also received SMSes from the number, the official said. Asked how much money the woman demanded, the official said such details are yet to come out and an investigation into the case is underway. Based on the complaint, a case was registered under section 385 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act, he said. The official said such cyber crimes were very common these days. The MLA could not be contacted for his comments. However, his representative Bali Chaurasia said the legislator received the call four-five days back when he was sitting with his family. He took the call thinking it was from someone in his Assembly segment. But, when he saw the woman indulging in obscene acts, the MLA disconnected the phone immediately, Chaurasia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-mla-alleges-blackmailing-by-woman-after-video-call-files-complaint-990216.html
26-05-2021||National||SC issues circular for listing of cases before vacation benches||The Supreme Court has issued a circular on listing of cases before the vacation benches for hearing “extremely urgent miscellaneous matters”. The circular, issued on Tuesday, deals with the benches which would conduct hearing between May 26 to June 2 during the summer vacation Supreme Court is on annual summer vacation from May 10 to June 28. Constitution of the benches for the further part of vacation would be notified later. The directions were passed by the Chief Justice of India N V Ramana “in order to meet the demand of justice and for hearing of matters of extremely urgent nature during the rescheduled summer vacation”. Between May 26 to June 2 of the rescheduled summer vacation, two division benches will conduct hearing through video conferencing mode. The first bench will consist of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose. On the second bench, while justices B R Gavai and Surya Kant will hear the matters from May 26 to 28, Justice Krishna Murari will replace Justice Kant on the bench from May 29 to June 2, the circular said. The matters, whether fresh or after notice, mentioned by advocates/party-in-person requesting for listing during the vacation will be listed before the vacation benches.  “Those desirous of getting their matters listed before vacation benches may send their request for extremely urgent listing, incorporating reasons for extremely urgent listing online on the email address – HYPERLINK "mailto:mention.sc@sci.nic.in"mention.sc@sci.nic.in,” the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-circular-for-listing-of-cases-before-vacation-benches-990219.html
26-05-2021||National||CA Exam 2021: Intermediate, final, PQC examinations from July 5||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India on Wednesday announced that Chartered Accountants Intermediate, final & PQC examinations for May 2021 will be held from July 5, 2021. The schedule for the exams will be announced soon.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ca-exam-2021-intermediate-final-pqc-examinations-from-july-5-990223.html
26-05-2021||National||SC issues circular for listing of cases before vacation benches||The circular, issued on Tuesday, deals with the benches which would conduct hearing between May 26 to June 2 during the summer vacation Supreme Court is on annual summer vacation from May 10 to June 28. Constitution of the benches for the further part of vacation would be notified later. The directions were passed by the Chief Justice of India N V Ramana “in order to meet the demand of justice and for hearing of matters of extremely urgent nature during the rescheduled summer vacation”. Between May 26 to June 2 of the rescheduled summer vacation, two-division benches will conduct hearing through video conferencing mode. The first bench will consist of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose. On the second bench, while justices B R Gavai and Surya Kant will hear the matters from May 26 to 28, Justice Krishna Murari will replace Justice Kant on the bench from May 29 to June 2, the circular said. The matters, whether fresh or after notice, mentioned by advocates/party-in-person requesting for listing during the vacation will be listed before the vacation benches. “Those desirous of getting their matters listed before vacation benches may send their request for extremely urgent listing, incorporating reasons for extremely urgent listing online on the email address – HYPERLINK "mailto:mention.sc@sci.nic.in"mention.sc@sci.nic.in,” the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-circular-for-listing-of-cases-before-vacation-benches-990229.html
26-05-2021||National||1 crore people affected, 3 lakh houses damaged due to cyclone Yaas, says Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||At least one crore people were affected and three lakh houses damaged in West Bengal due to the rough weather conditions arising out of cyclone 'Yaas', Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. One person died "accidentally" when he had gone out fishing, she said. Cautioning people that high tide in seas, caused by the storm surge, would persist, Banerjee claimed that Bengal happens to be the "most-affected state". Cyclone 'Yaas' made its landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Odisha, at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, according to Doppler radar data. The chief minister further said that as many as 15,04,506 people have been evacuated from the vulnerable areas in the state and moved to safer places. "I will soon be undertaking an aerial survey of the affected areas in Purba Medinipur, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts," Banerjee said.  As of now, the government has a preliminary idea of the damage caused, by the reports provided by the district magistrates and other senior officials, the CM said. "We will be conducting field surveys to get a final estimate... It will take us at least 72 hours to get a clearer idea," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-crore-people-affected-3-lakh-houses-damaged-due-to-cyclone-yaas-says-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-990237.html
26-05-2021||National||Non-Covid patient services severely affected in Kashmir hospitals||As the entire attention of authorities is focused on combating the second wave of novel coronavirus, non-Covid-19 patient services have been severely affected in Kashmir hospitals. According to official figures, around 5,500 beds in J&K have been reserved for Covid-19 patients and more than 50 per cent of these are occupied currently. In Kashmir, nearly 1,600 Covid patients are admitted which is roughly the total bed capacity of SKIMS and SMHS - the two major hospitals in the tertiary care category - together. For close to a month now, outpatient department (OPD) and non-emergency services have been stopped in most of the tertiary-care hospitals in Srinagar as all resources have been diverted for combating Covid-19. “Since late April, patients are unable to access medical services, termed routine but life saving in nature as focus is on Covid-19 pandemic,” a senior medico at Srinagar’s super-specialty SMHS said. He said hundreds of cancer, tuberculosis, heart diseases and other patients are finding it difficult to visit hospitals due to the situation as focus is on emergencies and Covid-19 only. At tertiary-care In SKIMS hospital in Srinagar, there is an emergency USG and ECG room having a single machine for hundreds of patients admitted in emergency which results in overcrowding.    “The scale of disruption in routine health services in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in Kashmir is even larger than what is being projected.  Reduced access to both out-patient and hospitalisation services is proving to be fatal for several non-Covid patients,” Advocate Javeed Samad, who practices at J&K High Court, told DH. Quoting an example, he said, attendants of the severely sick non-Covid patients have to fight with each other to get a USG or ECG done at the SKIMS. “It was a duty of the hospital administration to ensure that there is no overcrowding for small tests. The SKIMS has no dearth of funds and they can easily afford to have multiple USG and ECG machines for emergency patients,” Advocate Samad said. “But alas they are least bothered about patient-care as there is a complete mismanagement in the hospital,” he alleged while adding that he was going to file a public interest litigation in the High Court in this regard. Not only in Srinagar, but across peripheral healthcare set-up – the district and sub-district hospitals, patient services have been badly affected, a health official said. “We have thousands of Covid-19 patients admitted across the hospitals in Kashmir, but have the same manpower as we had before. It is the common patient who is paying the price for it,” he said and added ailments besides Covid continue to take lives unseen and un-talked about.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-covid-patient-services-severely-affected-in-kashmir-hospitals-990242.html
26-05-2021||National||Ignorant bigots in power destroying Lakshadweep, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday threw his weight behind the people of Lakshadweep as he accused the "ignorant bigots in power" of destroying the islands. His statement came a day after the Congress demanded the immediate removal of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Patel, alleging he is not only destroying the peace and culture of the islands, but also "harassing" the people by imposing arbitrary restrictions. "Lakshadweep is India's jewel in the ocean. The ignorant bigots in power are destroying it. I stand with the people of Lakshadweep," Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday. Lakshadweep is India’s jewel in the ocean. The ignorant bigots in power are destroying it. I stand with the people of Lakshadweep. The Congress has also alleged that the Administrator is allowing liquor on the islands, which is prohibited till now, and has brought in the Prevention of Anti-Social Activity (PASA) Act with the objective of harassing locals, besides taking away powers of panchayats and is carrying out demolitions under new provisions brought in by him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ignorant-bigots-in-power-destroying-lakshadweep-says-rahul-gandhi-990243.html
26-05-2021||National||Come together in fight against Covid, says Dalai Lama||People must come together to overcome global threats, including Covid-19, Tibetan religious leader Dalai Lama has said. In his message for Buddhists on Buddha Purnima, the Nobel Peace Laureate said that by developing a sense of respect for others and a concern for their welfare, one could reduce their self-centredness, which is the source of many problems. “I started my Buddhist education as a child and although I am now nearly 86 years old, I am still learning. Even though our world has changed substantially since the time of Buddha, the essence of his teaching remains as relevant today as it was 2,600 years ago,” he said in a statement on Wednesday. “…Let us all join together in doing whatever we can to overcome the global threats we face, including the Covid-19 pandemic that has brought such pain and hardship across the world,” he added. He said Buddha's teaching was essentially practical not just for one group of people or one country but for all sentient beings. “People can follow this path according to their ability and inclination,” the spiritual leader said. He further encouraged Buddhists everywhere to discover what the teaching really means to be able to apply it in their life. “This entails listening and reading, thinking about what you have heard and read and making yourself deeply familiar with it." He stressed that Buddha's advice was to avoid harming others and to help them always in whatever way possible. “We can begin to do this by recognising that everyone else is just like us in that...they want happiness and dislike suffering. Seeking joy and freedom from suffering is the birth-right of all beings. But personal happiness very much depends on how we relate to others,” the Dalai Lama said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-together-in-fight-against-covid-says-dalai-lama-990246.html
26-05-2021||National||Government allocates additional 29,250 vials of Amphotericin-B to states, UTs||The government has allocated 29,250 additional vials of Amphotericin-B drug to states and Union Territories, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers Sadananda Gowda said on Wednesday. Amphotericin-B is used to treat Mucormycosis, also known as Black Fungus, which damages the nose, eyes, sinuses, and sometimes even the brain. "Additional 29,250 vials of #Amphotericin- B drug, used in treatment of #Mucormycosis, have been allocated to all the States/UTs today. The allocation has been made based on the number of patients under treatment which is 11,717 across the country," Gowda tweeted. The government has allocated 7,210 vials to Gujarat, followed by 6,980 vials to Maharashtra as part of the 29,250 fresh allocation. Gujarat and Maharashtra currently lead in Mucormycosis infections in the country with 2,859 and 2,770 cases respectively. Other states like Andhra Pradesh (1,930), Madhya Pradesh (1,910), Telangana (1,890), Uttar Pradesh (1,780), Rajasthan (1,250), Karnataka (1,220), Haryana (1,110) also received additional vials to counter the disease. The government had allocated 19,420 vials of Amphotericin-B to various states, Union Territories (UTs) and Central Institutions on May 24. Earlier on May 21, the government had allocated 23,680 vials of the drug to various states and Union Territories. Mucormycosis is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. The doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of Mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. They believe that Mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-allocates-additional-29250-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-states-uts-990247.html
26-05-2021||National||Four associates of Sushil Kumar arrested in murder case||Four associates of Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, who were involved in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of a 23-year-old wrestler at the Chhatrasal Stadium, have been arrested here, police said on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Bhupender (38), Mohit (22), Gulab (24), residents of Haryana's Jhajjar district and Manjeet (29), a native of Rohtak district, they said. They are active members of the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs and were arrested from Delhi's Kanjhawala area on Tuesday night, police said. The arrests were made by the team of Special Staff of Rohini district of the Delhi Police on a tip off. All the four arrested are associates of Kumar and were involved in the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl. Non Bailable Warrants were also issued against them in connection with the incident, they said. Wrestler Sagar Rana died and two of his friends were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Kumar and others inside the Chhatrasal Stadium. The incident occurred on the intervening night of May 4 and May 5 over a dispute related to a property located in the Model Town area. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini), Pranav Tayal, said the special staff of the district received information that four persons of the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs involved in the case were coming to Ghewra village to meet their associate Kala. "Acting upon the information, our team laid a trap near Ghewra railway crossing and apprehended all the four persons after their identification through a secret informer," he said. When interrogated, all the four accused narrated the sequence of events and details of other persons involved in the crime. They also said that they abandoned their vehicles and weapons at the spot of crime, the DCP said. Kumar and his associate Ajay were arrested on Sunday from outer Delhi's Mundka area by a team of Delhi Police''s Special Cell and the case was then transferred to the Crime Branch which is presently probing the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-associates-of-sushil-kumar-arrested-in-murder-case-990254.html
26-05-2021||National||Vaccines in India were a means for PM Modi's 'personal publicity' rather than to save people, says Priyanka Gandhi||In a scathing attack against the Centre over the shortage of Covid vaccines, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday alleged that vaccines in India were a means for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "personal publicity" rather than a tool to save people's lives. This was so from the beginning of the pandemic, the Congress general secretary said in posts on Twitter and Facebook. She also alleged that the Modi government has pushed the country into a "swamp of vaccine shortage" and left India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, dependent on vaccine donations from other countries. Accusing the Centre of shifting the onus of vaccination on to states, Priyanka Gandhi said there is now only Prime Minister Modi's photo on the vaccination certificate while the rest of the responsibility has been put on the states.   "Today, the chief ministers of states are sending messages to the Central government over the lack of vaccines," she said in Hindi. Her sharp attack on the government on the issue came as part of her 'Zimmedaar Kaun?' (who is responsible) campaign, asking questions of the government on behalf of the people over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. On August 15 last year, the prime minister said in a speech from the Red Fort that his government has prepared an entire plan for vaccination, she posted. Given India's history of vaccine production and the vastness of its vaccine programmes, it was easy to believe that the government would do this work in a better way, Priyanka Gandhi added. "After all, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru gave flight to India's vaccine programme by setting up a vaccine unit in Chennai in 1948 and the National Institute of Virology, Pune, in 1952.  We successfully defeated diseases like smallpox, polio etc. Later, India started exporting vaccines to the world and today it is the largest vaccine producer in the world," she noted. Knowing these achievements, the country was sure that the people of India would not face problems in vaccination against Covid-19, Priyanka Gandhi said. "But the bitter truth is that from the beginning of the pandemic, vaccines in India became a tool for the prime minister's personal publicity rather than a tool to save the lives of the common people," the Congress leader alleged. "As a result, India, the world's largest vaccine producer, has today become dependent on vaccine donations from other countries and has joined the ranks of the world's weakest countries in terms of vaccination." Why did this happen and who is responsible, she asked. Accusing the government of maintaining a slow rate of vaccination, Priyanka Gandhi said only 11 per cent of India's 130 crore population has received the first dose of vaccine against Covid and only 3 per cent have been fully vaccinated. According to her, "vaccination declined by 83 per cent in the last one month after the announcement of Modi's 'Teeka Utsav'." The government's "failed" vaccine policy appears to be behind the vaccine shortage, she alleged. Priyanka Gandhi said large countries of the world ordered vaccines many times their population last year, but the Modi government placed the first order in January 2021, that too for only 1.6 crore vaccine doses. Noting that between January-March this year, the Modi government sent 6.5 crore vaccine doses abroad, Priyanka Gandhi said the government also gifted free vaccines to many countries.  At that time, only 3.5 crore people had gotten vaccinated in India, she said. "From May 1, the government opened the doors to give vaccination to about 60 crore population in the age group of 18-44, but gave orders for only 28 crore vaccine doses, with which it is possible to vaccinate only 14 crore." She also posed a series of questions for the government, asking why it ordered only 1.6 crore vaccines in January 2021 when, according to the prime minister's statement, his government was ready with the complete plan for vaccination last year. "Why did Modi ji's government send more vaccines abroad, while vaccinating less people in India?" "Why is India, the world's largest vaccine producer, today in a position that it has to ask for vaccines from other countries, and why is this shameless government trying to present it as an achievement?" she said in another poser. Questions need to be asked so that the people in power understand their responsibility and accountability towards this country, Priyanka Gandhi had asserted while announcing her 'Zimmedaar Kaun' campaign on Tuesday. The Congress has been critical of the Centre's handling of the Covid situation in the country, but the government has dismissed the criticism of the Opposition party, accusing it of politicising the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccines-in-india-were-a-means-for-pm-modis-personal-publicity-rather-than-to-save-people-says-priyanka-gandhi-990259.html
26-05-2021||National||Centre dismisses WhatsApp objection to new rules, seeks compliance report from social media platforms||Countering Whatsapp's argument against the provisions of the Social Media Intermediary rules 2021, Centre on Wednesday strongly defended its new digital rules saying they do not violate privacy and sought a compliance report from social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram and WhatsApp with regard to the new rules applicable from Wednesday. The IT Ministry's statement came shortly after WhatsApp filed a lawsuit in the Delhi High Court, opposing the provision of the new digital rules that required the company to provide access to encrypted messages and said that this will break privacy protections. WhatsApp has filed a petition before the Supreme Court of Brazil on a similar matter. "The Government of India is committed to ensure the Right of Privacy to all its citizens but at the same time it is also the responsibility of the government to maintain law and order and ensure national security," Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad said. The ministry argued that the UK, US, Australia, New Zealand and Canada require social media firms to allow for legal interception and "what India is asking for is significantly much less than what some of the other countries have demanded". "Therefore, WhatsApp's attempt to portray the Intermediary Guidelines of India as contrary to the right to privacy is misguided," the official statement said. Prasad wondered that while on one hand, WhatsApp seeks to mandate a privacy policy in which it will share data of all its users with its parent company Facebook, on the other hand "WhatsApp makes every effort to refuse enactment of intermediary guidelines necessary to uphold law & order & curb fake news." Defending the guidelines, the Minister said “None of the measures proposed by India will impact the normal functioning of WhatsApp in any manner whatsoever and for the common users, there will be no impact." "As per all established judicial dictum, no fundamental right, including the right to privacy, is absolute and it is subject to reasonable restrictions. The requirements in the Intermediary Guidelines pertaining to the first originator of information are an example of such a reasonable restriction," said the statement. "The rules are framed after detailed discussion with all stakeholders. It is not only applicable to WhatsApp alone, instead all social media platforms have to follow," the Minister said, wondering why WhatsApp did not approach the government objecting to the first originator issue. The ministry stated that the guidelines were passed only for the purposes of prevention, investigation, punishment etc. of inter alia an offence relating to sovereignty, integrity and security of India, public order incitement to an offence relating to rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material punishable with imprisonment for not less than five years. "The Government of India respects the right to privacy and has no intention to violate it when WhatsApp is required to disclose the origin of a particular message. Such requirements are only when a particular message is required for prevention, investigation or punishment of serious offences such as sexually explicit content," the minister said. Separately, the Ministry of Electronics and Information and Technology also issued a circular asking the large social media platforms to immediately report their status of compliance with the new digital rules. The ministry has sought details and contact information of Chief Compliance Officer, Resident Grievance Officer and Nodal Contact Person who have been appointed by digital platforms under the new social media rules, as per the note issued to social media firms. The new rules, announced in February, have come into force from Wednesday (May 26). They require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance reports and removal of objectionable content. The new rules also specify that social media firms adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-dismisses-whatsapp-objection-to-new-rules-seeks-compliance-report-from-social-media-platforms-990279.html
26-05-2021||National||PM Modi says vaccine absolutely important to save lives, defeat Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday described Covid-19 vaccines as "absolutely important to save lives and defeat the pandemic", noting that this "once-in-a-lifetime" crisis has brought tragedy and sufferings to the doorsteps of many and caused a huge economic impact. Delivering the keynote address on the occasion of "Vesak Global Celebrations" on Buddha Purnima, he said the pandemic has impacted every nation, adding that the planet will not be the same after this and the events in future will be remembered as either pre or post-Covid. He, however, added that there have been many noteworthy developments which strengthen our strategy to fight it. "Most importantly, we have the vaccine which is absolutely important to save lives and defeat the pandemic," Modi said, asserting that the emergence of jabs within a year of the Covid-19 outbreak shows the power of human determination and tenacity. India is proud of its scientists for developing vaccines, he said, and also saluted healthcare and frontline workers for risking their lives to save others. Offering condolences to those who have suffered and lost near and dear ones in the pandemic, the prime minister said he grieved with them. In Covid-19, humanity has faced its worst crisis in decades and has not seen a pandemic like this for a century, he said. His comments came amid several states complaining of a shortage of vaccines and also reports of vaccine hesitancy in a section of the population. On the occasion, Modi also highlighted the issues of climate change and terrorism, saying one must not lose sight of the other challenges faced by humanity while fighting the pandemic. With the prime ministers of Nepal and Sri Lanka and the secretary general of International Buddhist Confederation in attendance at the virtual event, Modi gave a call for all those who believe in humanity to come together and defeat terrorism and radicalisation. The life of Gautama Buddha was about peace, harmony and co-existence, he noted, adding that there are still forces whose existence depends on spreading hate, terror and mindless violence. Such forces do not believe in liberal democratic principles, he added, according to a statement. Referring to the issue of climate change, Modi said the reckless lifestyle of the present generation is threatening future generations, and asserted our planet should not remain wounded. Buddha's emphasis was on a way of life where respect for mother mature is paramount, he said, highlighting that India is among the few large economies to be on track to achieve their Paris targets. For India, sustainable living is not only about right words but also about right actions, he said. Modi said Lord Buddha devoted his life to removing human suffering and noted that in the last one year, several individuals and organisations rose to the occasion and did everything possible to reduce human suffering during the pandemic. Generous contributions of equipment and materials were made by Buddhist organisations and followers of Lord Buddha from around the world, he said, adding these actions are in line with his teachings of "blessings, compassion and welfare of all".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-vaccine-absolutely-important-to-save-lives-defeat-covid-19-990280.html
26-05-2021||National||'Main zinda hu': Man in Madhya Pradesh runs around to convince officials he's alive, seek govt benefits||Shivkumar Ahirwar of Ashok Nagar district, Madhya Pradesh, has been exempted from receiving any benefits under Mukhyamantri Jan Kalyan Sambal Yojna as he has been officially declared dead due to an error in data entry in 2019. The 24-year-old registered under the scheme in 2018 and soon after his son’s birth, he received Rs 18,000 benefit from the government. He learnt that he has been declared dead only when he visited the branch in March 2021 after his daughter’s birth. “The officer told me that as per government records, I was declared dead in 2019. I was shocked. I tried to tell them that I was Shivkumar and I was alive but no one would listen. They asked me to get it rectified from higher authorities and only then can any benefits be transferred to me,” Shivkumar said told The Indian Express. Shivkumar has been visiting the office for the past two months with the letter issued from his village sarpanch stating that he is alive. An enquiry by the Janpad officer for Chanderi recently found out that it was an error made by Gourav Lodhi, the data entry clerk. A show-cause notice has been issued against him. Abhay Verma, Ashok Nagar Collector told the publication that "the error is being rectified and it will be fixed in the next one week". He assured that all benefits that Shivkumar is entitled to will be duly transferred. According to the report, an application of Shivkumar’s death was received by the panchayat secretary in March 2018, and Gram Yojna Sahayak Santosh Rao approved it in May 2018. Gaurav Lodhi updated it on official records in October 2019. Shivkumar claimed that Lodhi offered him monetary benefits for being declared dead last year. “He told me that I will get Rs 2  lakh from the government as benefits and I could keep half of the money. But I did not agree,” he told the publication. According to Chanderi tehsil SDM Devendra Singh, Shivkumar was not present in the physical verification of beneficiaries in October 2019 and hence he was declared dead. About the claims made by Shivkumar, Singh told the publication, “Prima facie, it does not appear that the clerk and the gram yojna sahayak was involved… However, we will initiate an inquiry into the allegation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/main-zinda-hu-man-in-madhya-pradesh-runs-around-to-convince-officials-hes-alive-seek-govt-benefits-990283.html
26-05-2021||National||Gujarat government's notification on distribution of mucormycosis medicine 'vague and defective': High Court||The Gujarat High Court on Wednesday said the state government's notification on the distribution of Amphotericin B injections to hospitals for the treatment of mucormycosis is "quite vague and defective". All districts should have their own expert committees to decide on the requirement of the medicine, the court said. Cases of mucormycosis, also known as 'black fungus', a serious infection, have been found in Covid-19 patients in various states. Gujarat has the maximum number of fungal infection patients in the country, as per data shared by Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda on Wednesday. A division bench of Justices Bela Trivedi and Bhargav D Karia said the Gujarat government needs to be more specific and precise with regard to the distribution of Amphotericin B injections to government, corporation (civic-run) and private hospitals where patients with mucormycosis are being treated. While hearing a PIL taken up suo motu (on its own) on Covid-19 and issues related to the pandemic, the court said more explanation is also required regarding the structure of the 'expert committee', on whose assessment of the "criticality and seriousness" of the patient the allocation of the injections will be made. "According to us, (the notification) is quite vague and defective," the court said.  The High Court also said the notification, issued by the Gujarat government on May 19 about the distribution of injections to private hospitals, only covers seven districts as the government or corporation hospitals from where the injections can be procured are based in these seven districts. All the districts should have their own expert committees to decide on the requirement of the medicine, the court said. It also said the notification only talks about the distribution of injections only to private hospitals and not government and civic-run hospitals. The court wondered how the decision was made as to how much should go to the government and corporation hospitals and how much to private hospitals from the available stock of the injections being supplied by the Centre. "The notification seems to be a little vague, in the sense that who will appoint the expert committee, when will it be appointed, and who will be the members of the expert committee? And what about the districts (other than seven where government hospitals have been named for the supply of the injections) for the distribution of Amphotericin B?" the court asked. There is no such mechanism provided in this circular about recommendations being sent by the government and corporation hospitals, it noted. "Probably, you (government) will have to be more specific and precise with regard to the distribution (of the injections) to the government, corporation and private hospitals," the court said. The court further asked the government to specify who will be the members of the expert committee to decide on the criticality of patients for the recommendation of these injections. "There has to be a pulmonologist, an ENT surgeon, a physician, an anesthesiologist in the committee. For each district there has to be a separate expert committee, and it has to go to them and they should decide," it said. Noting that the notification only talks about seven hospitals in as many districts from where injections can be procured, the court asked what will happen to the remaining districts. "Each district must have an expert committee, consisting of specialised doctors, and they will decide the criticality. Every government, as well as corporation hospitals, will have to send requisition," the court said. The government said in its affidavit that on May 19, it formulated a policy for "equitable distribution" of this medicine which is being used for the treatment of mucormycosis. Under the policy, a distribution system has been established for the Amphotericin B injections in all districts/corporations for the government as well as private hospitals. In his submission, Advocate General Kamal Trivedi said the government follows the same policy with regard to the distribution of Amphotericin B that it is doing with Remdesivir injections, being used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. He said like in the case of Remdesivir, the Centre has taken over the supply and distribution of Amphotericin B to states, and the state is distributing the injections on the basis of "criticality and seriousness" of patients, as per suggestions of the expert committee. He said the quota of the medicine, which is being supplied inconsistently to the state on a day-to-day basis, is not being bifurcated between government, civic-run and private hospitals, but decided on the basis of its urgent requirement for patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-governments-notification-on-distribution-of-mucormycosis-medicine-vague-and-defective-high-court-990286.html
26-05-2021||National||22-year-old lured with food, gang-raped in ambulance||A 22-year-old woman was allegedly raped here by an ambulance driver and his accomplice who lured her into the vehicle after promising to give her food, police said on Wednesday. The alleged incident took place on Monday, they said. The accused drove to a secluded area where they raped the woman, who is married, Moti Doongri Station House Officer (SHO) Surendra Pancholi said. He said based on the woman's complaint, a case has been registered against the accused under Section 376D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The ambulance driver and his friend have been taken into custody and are being interrogated, the SHO said. He said the woman's statement has been recorded and her medical examination has been done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-year-old-lured-with-food-gang-raped-in-ambulance-990287.html
26-05-2021||National||Centre plans to study effectiveness of AstraZeneca, Bharat Biotech vaccines||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will start a study next week to examine the effectiveness of AstraZeneca's vaccine and the homegrown shot Covaxin against coronavirus, a scientist said on Wednesday. The ICMR will review 3,000-5,000 people above 45 years of age, of which up to 80 per cent will be those who have taken the AstraZeneca vaccine made locally by the Serum Institute of India. The rest will have taken Covaxin jointly developed by local firm Bharat Biotech and ICMR. "The main objective is to find out whether the vaccine prevents severe disease," Tarun Bhatnagar told Reuters in a phone interview from the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) in Chennai, which will lead the study. "We will compare people who tested negative with people who tested positive with sub-groups to look for those who were symptomatic and those hospitalised or with severe disease," Bhatnagar said. The study will also compare the effects of one dose of AstraZeneca shot as against two shots administered, he said. In Britain, health officials last week said two doses of the vaccine were 60 per cent effective against symptomatic disease from the coronavirus variant B.1.617, first identified in India last year. The variant, B.1.617, is a dominant strain driving India's deadly second wave of Covid-19 cases, health experts say. India has inoculated only about 3 per cent of its 1.3 billion people, the lowest rate among the 10 countries with the most Covid-19 cases. India's total coronavirus infections crossed 27 million on Wednesday, swelled by 208,921 new cases over the last 24 hours, while daily deaths from Covid-19 rose by 4,157 to reach 311,388.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-to-study-effectiveness-of-astrazeneca-bharat-biotech-vaccines-990293.html
26-05-2021||National||Centre asks social media companies to give compliance report of new rules 'preferably by today'||The government on Wednesday asked large social media platforms to immediately report their status of compliance with the new digital rules. In a note to 'significant social media intermediaries', the IT Ministry said the additional due diligence required from such large digital platforms has come into effect from Wednesday. The ministry has sought details and contact information of Chief Compliance Officer, Resident Grievance Officer and Nodal Contact Person who have been appointed by digital platforms under the new social media rules, as per the note seen by PTI. "As you including your parent company or any other subsidiary, provide a variety of services in India some of which falls within the definition of SSMIs (significant social media intermediaries) in the context of the IT Act and the aforesaid Rules. Accordingly, as part of ascertaining the compliance to these Rules, you are requested to provide the following information...," the ministry said. Apart from details such as the name of the app, website and service falling within the scope of significant social media intermediary, the ministry has sought details of the three key personnel, as well as the physical contact address of the platform in India. It has asked the platforms to report on their status of compliance with the new rules. "If you are not considered as SSMI, please provide the reasons for the same including the registered users on each of the services provided by you. The Government reserves the right to seek any additional information, as may be permitted within these Rules and the IT Act," it said. The ministry has asked large social media companies to confirm and share their response at the earliest "and preferably today itself". The new rules require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. The new rules require them to take down any content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours, and set up a robust mechanism to respond to complaints. The new IT rules also require significant social media intermediaries — providing services primarily in the nature of messaging — to enable identification of the "first originator" of information that undermines the sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-social-media-companies-to-give-compliance-report-of-new-rules-preferably-by-today-990298.html
26-05-2021||National||IMA seeks sedition case against Ramdev; sends defamation notice to yoga guru||In a new twist to the row between IMA and yoga guru Ramdev, IMA on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking a case of "sedition" against the latter for his alleged misinformation campaign on vaccination and challenging government protocols for treatment of Covid-19. Accusing Ramdev of "viciously propagating the message of fear on vaccination" and "challenging the GOI protocols" for treatment of Covid-19, the IMA said, "this in our opinion is a clear cut case of sedition and such persons should be booked immediately without any delay under charges of sedition," in a letter issued by IMA President J A Jayalal and its Secretary General Jayesh Lele. This came a day after the yoga guru's aide Acharya Balkrishna levelled allegations of communalism against the IMA President and two days after the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the IMA in an 'open letter' on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for a list of ailments. "As part of the conspiracy to convert the entire country into #Christianity, #Yoga and #Ayurveda are being maligned by targeting @yogrishiramdev jee. Countrymen, wake up now from the deep slumber otherwise the generations to come will not forgive you," Balkrishna had tweeted. IMA Uttarakhand has also served a defamation notice to Ramdev for his allegedly disparaging remarks against allopathy and allopathic doctors, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said it will demand compensation of Rs 1,000 crore from the yoga guru. The body said the remarks of the yoga guru come under criminal act under Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The IMA, which had earlier taken objection to a video clip in which Ramdev was found saying "Allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalia science hai (Allopathy is such a stupid ineffective science)", has now brought to the Prime Minister's notice a viral video on social media where Mr Ramdev, owner of Patanjali products, claims that 10,000 doctors have died in spite of taking both doses of the vaccine, and several lakhs of people have died due to allopathic medicines. In its letter to PM Modi, the IMA said it was gratifying to note that only 0.06 per cent of people who received both doses of the vaccine got minimal infection by the coronavirus, and very rarely did vaccinated people have a severe lung infection. "We follow the guidelines and protocols issued by the ministry of health through ICMR or the National Task Force in our treatment offered to millions of people coming to our hospitals. If someone is claiming the allopathic medicine has killed people, it is an attempt to challenge the ministry which has issued the protocol for treatment to us," the IMA told the Prime Minister, adding that it is painful "to witness the great services rendered by nearly 10 lakhs of modern medical doctors in the forefront to work ridiculed and called as a stupid system." Ramdev was forced to issue a statement withdrawing his remarks in the earlier video clip after Health Minister Harsh Vardhan wrote to him a terse letter, calling it "extremely unfortunate" after the IMA asked the Health Minister to either act against Ramdev or disband allopathy. Timeline May 22: IMA demanded that the Centre should take strict action against yoga guru Ramdev for making "unlearned" comments and describing modern medicine as "stupid science". The Resident Doctors' Associations of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Safdarjung Hospital too condemned Ramdev's statement and demanded that "strictest steps" be taken against him. Delhi Medical Association (DMA) lodged a police complaint against Ramdev. Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust denied allegations saying the statement was taken out of context and Ramdev has "no ill-will against the modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine." May 23: Yoga guru Ramdev withdrew recent remarks on Allopathy following a letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. Ramdev obliged saying he wants to put the matter to rest. May 24: Ramdev asked the Indian Medical Association (IMA) if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension and diabetes. In an 'open letter' posted on his Twitter handle, Ramdev posed 25 questions to IMA, which had objected to his video clip running down allopathy treatment for Covid-19. May 25: Haryana Health Minister announces to distribute one lakh Coronil kits in the state; Ramdev asks Centre and other states to follow suit. Ramdev's aide Acharya Balakrishna took on IMA chief, alleging a Christian conspiracy by him, while many BJP junior leaders suspected a Congress conspiracy.  "We are not against any medicine promoted by the ministry and happy to share in most of our public health treatment centres, the drugs promoted by the AYUSH ministry. We opposed certain drugs promoted without the approval of ministry as a curative drug. "We are pained to witness the great services rendered by nearly 10 lakhs of modern medical doctors in the forefront to work...are ridiculed and called as a stupid system. We appeal to your highness, to take appropriate action against individuals viciously propagating the message of fear on vaccination and challenge the government of India protocols for treatment for their vested interest in their company products. This in our opinion is a clear-cut case of a sedition and such persons should be booked immediately without any delay under the charges of sedition," the body said.  On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in the viral video clip in which he is heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". The remarks were met with vociferous protests from the doctors' association, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. A day later, the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the IMA in an 'open letter' on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension and type-1 and 2 diabetes. He went on to list modern-day ailments such as Parkinson's disease and wondered if allopathy had any painless cure to treat infertility as well as to reverse ageing and increase hemoglobin. Soon after, Ramdev's close aide Acharya Balkrishna took to Twitter, saying the yoga guru and Ayurveda were being targeted by allopathic practitioners under the IMA as part of a conspiracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-seeks-sedition-case-against-ramdev-sends-defamation-notice-to-yoga-guru-990302.html
26-05-2021||National||Implement guidelines for utilising effluents in irrigation, NGT directs CPCB||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to implement its guidelines for utilising industrial effluents for irrigation and horticulture purposes. The principal bench of the NGT headed by Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the pollution control body to execute its 2019 directions. The bench also said that the CPCB can take up the matter with state pollution control boards for the implementation of the guidelines. The NGT passed the order while hearing an application seeking execution of its order directing remedial action for violation of environmental norms by AL-DUA Food Processing Pvt Ltd. The plea said despite the direction on September 2019 for the utilisation of treated effluents in irrigation it is not happening in various slaughter houses in Agra, Hapur, Bulandshahr, and Aligarh Districts. Blood mixed effluent waste water is being discharged into the drains while debris of meat factory is being dumped in villages, it said. The green bench in 2019 had said that no industry can be permitted to dispose of treated effluents on land for irrigation, plantation or horticulture/gardening by prescribing standards applicable without assessment of adequate availability of land and impacts of such disposal on agricultural/crops/plants and the recipient groundwater. Subsequently, the CPCB had formed an expert panel to lay down guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/implement-guidelines-for-utilising-effluents-in-irrigation-ngt-directs-cpcb-990309.html
26-05-2021||National||NGT asks Centre to issue SOP to states on environment norms in construction projects||Noting continuous violation of environment norms in construction projects, the NGT has directed the government to consider circulating standard operating procedure (SOP) to all State Environment Impact Assessment Authorities (SEIAAs) for such activities. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel passed the order while hearing a case against order of Maharashtra SEIAA granting environmental clearance (EC) to the “Ganga Altus” construction project in Pune. The plea filed by Tanaji B Gambhire alleged that Goel Ganga India Pvt Ltd was carrying out construction project illegally without the mandatory prior EC. "Since we are coming across the grievance of continuous violation of environment norms in construction projects being completed without prior EC and the SEIAA, Maharashtra is neither requiring demolition nor payment of assessed compensation to comply with the rule of law and protection of environment, it will be appropriate to require the SEIAA, Maharashtra to review its working in the light of the judgments of the Supreme Court. "A proper SOP be laid down for grant of EC in such cases so as to address the gaps in binding law and practice being currently followed. The MoEF may also consider circulating such SOP to all SEIAAs in the country," the National Green Tribunal said. The tribunal also formed a committee comprising officials of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), and Maharashtra State PCB to look into the present matter and suggest a remedial action plan for the present case, including the quantum of compensation to be recovered, as far as possible within three months.  "The CPCB and State PCB will be nodal agency for coordination and compliance. The Committee may conduct proceedings online but if possible, visit the site. The committee may also interact with the concerned parties. The report of the committee may be filed by e-mail," the bench said. The plea alleged that originally EC was granted in 2008 for office building and hotel for 40 rooms having total plot area of 20,072 sq mt but the project proponent changed the scope of the project in violation of the EC and raised construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-asks-centre-to-issue-sop-to-states-on-environment-norms-in-construction-projects-990316.html
26-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Doctors, nurses battle physical and mental exhaustion on front lines of second wave||It is the silent toll of our country's deadly second wave.   The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India announced that the CA Intermediate, final and PQC examinations for May 2021 would be held from July 5, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-doctors-nurses-battle-physical-and-mental-exhaustion-on-front-lines-of-second-wave-990322.html
26-05-2021||National||Record online classes, review them periodically: TN tells schools||Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday announced a slew of guidelines to be followed during online classes for students, including recording the session, launching a helpline for students to complain about sexual harassment or inappropriate behaviour. The announcement comes close on the heels of students of a prestigious school in Chennai accusing a teacher of conducting online classes by just wrapping a towel around his waist. Chairing a meeting attended by officials from the education and police departments, Chief Minister M K Stalin said the online classes should be recorded and reviewed periodically by the management and two members of the Parent Teachers' Association (PTA). A government release said the Chief Minister said a committee of officials from the School education and higher education departments, officers from the cyber crime cell, educationalists, and psychologists will be constituted to come out with fresh guidelines for conduct of online classes in a week's time. Stalin also warned that POCSO Act will be invoked against those who behave inappropriately during online classes. He also instructed the concerned to launch a helpline to facilitate students to lodge complaints against any harassment during online classes. The statement said the Chief Minister said an officer in the rank of Superintendent of Police (SP) in the cyber crime should handle complaints from students and ensure that they are acted against without any trouble to the children. The guidelines come amidst a massive controversy over inappropriate behaviour by a teacher during online classes. The teacher, G Rajagopalan, was arrested and jailed on Tuesday for sexual harassment and sexual misconduct with his students. The school has also placed him under suspension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-online-classes-review-them-periodically-tn-tells-schools-990325.html
26-05-2021||National||Trees uprooted, roads flooded: People living in darkness as cyclone Yaas batters Odisha||Trees and electric poles were uprooted, low-lying areas inundated while kutcha houses were badly damaged as cyclone Yaas left a trail of destruction in Odisha's coastal districts of Balasore and Bhadrak on Wednesday. Residents of several parts of the two districts, which bore the brunt of the 'very severe cyclonic storm', are staying without power since Tuesday night while many people have been evacuated to safer places by the government. The cyclone which hit the coast north of Dhamra in Bhadrak district and 50 km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, around 9 am, also blown away roofs of many kutcha houses in the districts. Officials are yet to assess the damages caused by the storm in the two districts but said that it appears that devastations have been less than previously feared. "There has been a lot of damage here. Many trees and electric poles have been uprooted and there was very heavy rainfall," Sritam Mahajan, a resident of Soro town in Balasore district, told PTI over the phone. After pounding the beach towns of north Odisha and neighbouring West Bengal with a wind speed of 130-145 kmph and storm surge in the morning, Cyclone Yaas has weakened to a 'severe cyclonic storm' in the afternoon. "Now, there is intermittent rainfall, though the winds have subsided," said Mahajan, 27, adding that his area was out of electricity since Tuesday night. He said he would try to arrange a generator so that he can continue working from home. Pradyut Mohapatra, a 60-year-old resident of Balasore town, also said that there has been no electricity in his house and was apprehensive that the power supply might not be restored anytime soon. "Strong winds started blowing early today. The wind speed reduced in the evening. Now, there is light rain," Mohapatra said. Sangram Tripathy, a resident of Chadabali in Bhadrak district, said that the tiled roof of his house got partly blown away in heavy wind and agricultural fields near his house got inundated due to the storm surge. He said that there had been no electricity in his house since Monday night. Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said that the administration is yet to assess the damages in Balasore and Bhadrak district. National Disaster Response Force Director General SN Pradhan, however, said that the devastation was less than what was feared earlier. Mayurbhanj district, which is away from the coastal belt, experienced heavy rain since Tuesday night. Siddhant Giri, a resident of Baripada town in the district, expressed concern over the possibility of flooding due to the swelling of the Budhabalanga river. "Every time it rains, the lower part of the town gets flooded. I'm lucky that we stay at the upper part," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trees-uprooted-roads-flooded-people-living-in-darkness-as-cyclone-yaas-batters-odisha-990331.html
26-05-2021||National||Covid-19 cases, deaths decline in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir’s second Covid-19 wave seems to have flattened as the deaths and positive cases in the union territory (UT) continue to remain more or less static in the last few days. On Wednesday, the UT reported 3,037 Covid-19 positive cases and 40 deaths, while the number was 2,964 cases and 53 deaths on Tuesday. Similarly, on Monday, 2,237 positive Covid-19 cases and 45 deaths were recorded, while the number was 3,271 cases and 51 deaths a day earlier. On May 7, J&K had reported the highest single-day positive cases at 5,443, while on May 17 the UT recorded the highest single-day deaths at 73. However, since May 20, the cases have been on the decline and the spike has not crossed the 4,000 mark.  A senior medico at tertiary care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said the curve may have flattened but the other side of the peak is not going to be easy. “It’s possibly going to be a more prolonged long-drawn-out process running possibly till early July, That means, even if the curve starts to decline, we will continue to have to deal with a large number of infections every day,” he said. The doctor said in the first wave last year there was a steady decline. “But this time we are starting from a higher number. Instead of 1,600 or 1,700 cases last year, we are starting from nearly 5,500 cases this time. So it will take that much longer. And during the process at every point of time, you'll have a lot of cases,” he explained.  Out of a total of 3,702 Covid-19 deaths, the UT has recorded 1,419 deaths in 26 days of this month which is over 38 per cent of its total Covid-19-related fatalities. Similarly, out of a total of 2,78,859 positive cases, J&K has recorded 1,02,776 cases in May alone, which is nearly 37 per cent of the total cases. Health experts believe that the mutant virus is the main reason for the higher number of fatalities in J&K during the second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-deaths-decline-in-jammu-and-kashmir-990348.html
26-05-2021||National||Vijay Mallya loses UK appeal for more funds to cover Indian legal fees||Vijay Mallya on Wednesday lost an appeal to gain further access to court-held funds to cover his costs for legal proceedings in India, as a High Court judge in London concluded that the 65-year-old businessman had failed to provide sufficient evidence in support of the over 750,000 pounds being sought. During a remote hearing of the Chancery Division, Justice Robert Miles handed down his judgment in favour of a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI). He also directed Mallya to cover 95 per cent of the costs of the appeal as the banks had been "very substantially successful" and the "overall winners" in fighting the case to prevent further sanctions from the court-held funds. "The amount being sought was substantial, being over 550,000 pounds in respect of incurred costs and well over 200,000 pounds in respect of the future," said Justice Miles. "There was no breakdown of the incurred costs between the various sets of proceedings, there was no attempt to justify the incurred costs by reference to steps already taken; no invoices, bills of costs, descriptive schedules or other evidence was provided in support of the amount of costs being sought,” he said, adding that the proceedings in India appear to be “stagnant”. The latest appeal follows Deputy Insolvency and Companies Court Judge Nigel Barnett’s February order that gave Mallya permission to use around 1.1 million pounds from the Court Funds Office (CFO) towards his living expenses and to meet legal expenses only related to the ongoing bankruptcy proceedings in the UK – the next hearing for which is scheduled for July 26. The expenditure incurred from the CFO could face further scrutiny at a later date on the conclusion of that petition, lodged by the banks in pursuit of a judgment debt which stands at over 1 billion pounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vijay-mallya-loses-uk-appeal-for-more-funds-to-cover-indian-legal-fees-990349.html
26-05-2021||National||Vaccine 'highly effective' on B.1.617.2 variant of Covid-19: Pfizer seeks to fast-track approval in India||Seeking a fast-track approval for its Covid-19 vaccine, US major Pfizer has told Indian authorities that its jab has shown "high effectiveness" against the SARS-CoV-2 variant prevalent in India and on people of Indian ethnicity or nationality, while it is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees, sources said on Wednesday. Pfizer, which is ready to offer 5 crore doses to India between July and October this year and has sought certain relaxations including indemnification, has held a series of interactions with the Indian government authorities recently including one this week, during which it shared the most recent data points regarding efficacy trials and approvals for its vaccine in various countries and by the World Health Organisation (WHO). "The current situation in India, and across the world, is not ‘business as usual’ and we must not respond to it with processes as usual too," a source quoted Pfizer as having communicated to the Indian government. Another source privy to the discussions said that following recent meetings between the Indian government and Pfizer's Chairman and CEO Albert Bourla, they have agreed to jointly work on three key issues to accelerate approval for the company's Covid-19 vaccine in India, namely procurement through a central government pathway; indemnity and liability; and the regulatory requirement for post-approval bridging studies. While India has administered over 20 crore doses so far since the launch of its vaccination drive in mid-January, it is still a long way to reach the vaccination for the entire population, more so in the backdrop of many states having flagged shortage of vaccines and the gap between supply and requirement widening amid the deadly second wave.  India is currently using mainly two 'made-in India' jabs – Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech – and Russian-made Sputnik V at a smaller scale to inoculate its population, all of which are approved only for those aged 18 years and above. In its latest communication to the government, Pfizer has also thanked the Government of India to have agreed to its request for procurement through a central government pathway and to discuss "the Indemnity and Liability protection". "The timely alignment and execution of the draft Heads of Terms will enable Pfizer to reserve the allocation of doses and pave the pathway for executing the Distribution and Supply Agreement," the company told the government while seeking fast-tracking the regulatory pathway to help it supply "Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine as expeditiously as possible to India". Pfizer has said India should "rely on the 44 authorisations, including WHO approval, facilitate a EUA (Emergency Use Authorisation)/Restricted Use pathway for the Pfizer vaccine in India,  and not seek a local PSA (Post Approval Commitment) study." The company is, however, open to considering safety surveillance of the first 100 subjects after understanding the process to be followed. It has also stated that the Pfizer vaccine has undergone significant development over the last six months which includes improvement in storage conditions at 208 degrees for over one month (31 days) at the site of vaccination. "Recent data points confirm the high effectiveness of BNT612b2 2-dose regimen against SARS-CoV-2 variants, and among individuals of Indian ethnicity," Pfizer has said. Providing data, it said UK’s Public Health England (PHE) has reported high vaccine effectiveness (87.9 per cent) against the B.1.617.2 variant, most reported in India, in an observational study (concluded on May 22, 2021). It further said  26 per cent of study participants overall were of "Indian or British Indian" ethnicity, and also included Bangladeshi (1.4 per cent), Pakistani (5.9 per cent) and any other Asian background (5.7 per cent), indicating that the observed vaccine effectiveness applies to these groups as well. Also, the data from Qatar's nationwide immunisation program demonstrated high vaccine effectiveness -– 89 per cent against B.1.1.7 variant (first detected in the UK) and 75 per cent against B.1.351 variant (first detected in South Africa). It said 24 per cent of study participants were of Indian nationality (more than 6,000), and others included Nepalese (6-12 per cent), Bangladeshi (4-11 per cent), Sri Lankan (3-4 per cent), Pakistani (4-6 per cent), indicating that the observed vaccine effectiveness applies to these groups as well. Pfizer has urged the Government of India to rely upon WHO's testing pathways of reliance on testing certificates from country of origin instead of mandating local testing and batch release stating will also help fast track vaccine introduction and prevent vaccine wastage. Pfizer has also shared the most recent data on BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine -- the phase 3 clinical trial showing vaccine efficacy six months after the second dose from the pivotal registration trial, as also for variants in vitro neutralization, clinically efficacy data and real-world vaccine effectiveness against emerging variants of SARS-CoV-2. The data shared with Indian authorities also include "real-world evidence of BNT162b2 vaccine effectiveness and safety from national immunization programmes". The shared data points include trials showing nearly 95 per cent effectiveness against Covid-19, 100 per cent efficacy against severe disease, and also 100 per cent vaccine efficacy in 12-15-year-old adolescents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-highly-effective-on-b16172-variant-of-covid-19-pfizer-seeks-to-fast-track-approval-in-india-990384.html
26-05-2021||National||Fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi captured in Dominica||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi was arrested from a beach in Roseau, the capital of Dominica, on Wednesday – three days after he went missing from Antigua and Barbuda. Choksi was apparently having a stopover in Dominica on his way to Cuba after fleeing from Antigua and Barbuda. But the billionaire was arrested by police when he was seen discarding some documents into the sea. He would be sent back to Antigua and Barbuda soon, according to the reports received in New Delhi so far. He was arrested from Canefield Beach in Roseau when he was destroying some documents by throwing them into the sea. India does not have a diplomatic mission in Dominica. The High Commission of India in Port of Spain, the capital of Trinidad and Tobago, manages New Delhi’s relation with Dominica and it has been asked to collect details about the arrest of the 62-year-old. The High Commission of India in Georgetown, the capital of Guyana, has also been in touch with the Government of Antigua and Barbuda, ever since he went missing last Sunday. When the cops spotted Choksi on the beach in Roseau and questioned him, he could not explain why and how he had travelled to Dominica. The West Indies and Caribbean News reported that scuba divers had been engaged to retrieve the documents the billionaire had thrown into the sea. Choksi is wanted in India, as he allegedly colluded with his nephew and jeweller Nirav Modi to defraud the Punjab National Bank of about Rs 13500 crore. The duo left India in January 2018. Choksi had taken oath as a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda (A&B) in January 2018. The Ministry of External Affairs had in February 2018 revoked the passports issued to both Choksi and Modi, stripping them of the citizenship of India. New Delhi had in August 2018 sent to the A&B Government two separate requests seeking extradition of Choksi. The owner of Gitanjali Gems, however, had by then already moved the A&B High Court to bar the government of the island nation from detaining him for extradition on the request of India. Prime Minister Gaston Browne’s government in St John’s had conveyed to New Delhi that he would be extradited to India as soon as he would exhaust all his legal options. Choksi had been reported missing at Johnson Point Police Station in Antigua on Sunday. He had gone missing after leaving his home at the Jolly Harbour township on the west coast of Antigua. He was last seen at 5:15 p.m. (local time in Antigua and Barbuda) that day. His car was later found abandoned by the police. The Interpol had issued a Red Corner Notice against him long back. The A&B authorities had also got the Interpol to issue Yellow Notice against him after he had been reported missing. The Browne’s Government conveyed to New Delhi that it was in favour of stripping Choksi of the A&B citizenship and might do so once he would exhaust all his legal options. India and A&B have no bilateral extradition treaty. But New Delhi and St John's are of the view that since India, like A&B, is also a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Section 7 of the country's Extradition Act 1993 does provide a scope for acting on the request for sending back the jeweller even in the absence of a bilateral treaty. Sources in New Delhi, however, said that even if the A&B government was keen to cooperate with the Government of India, the extradition would not be possible unless the courts in the island nation cleared it. Choksi’s nephew Modi had been arrested in London in March 2019. His extradition to India was cleared by British Home Secretary, Priti Patel, last month, after the Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London had ruled in favour of it. Modi, however, still has options to challenge it in the High Court and the Supreme Court of the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fugitive-businessman-mehul-choksi-captured-in-dominica-990386.html
26-05-2021||National||Wrestler Sushil Kumar spends birthday in police lockup||Two-time Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar spent his birthday in a lockup on Wednesday after being remanded to six days police custody in connection with the murder of a wrestler at the Chhatrasal Stadium here. Police said he remained quiet through the day. On Wednesday morning, police said four associates of Kumar, who were involved in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of the 23-year-old wrestler Sagar, were arrested by the Rohini district police and handed over to the crime branch. Two of Sagar’s friends were injured in the brawl at the stadium that took place on the intervening night of May 4-5 over a dispute related to the property in Delhi’s Model Town area. The accused were identified as Bhupender (38), Mohit (22), Gulab (24), residents of Haryana's Jhajjar district and Manjeet (29), a native of Rohtak district, they said. They are active members of the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs and were arrested from Delhi’s Kanjhawala area on Tuesday night. A senior police officer said the four accused were produced before the duty metropolitan magistrate who sent them to four days police remand. “We have got their custody and they are being interrogated by the team,” he added. Speaking about the interrogation of Kumar, the official said the wrestler comes up with new stories every day and keeps changing his statements. “But now we are cornering him because more people connected to him, including those at or near the scene of crime are being questioned,” the officer said. The police said people working at the stadium or nearby areas are also being quizzed. Kumar will also be cross questioned in front of his associates to ascertain the sequence of events and to probe what led to the brawl on the day of incident, the officer said. Kumar and his associate Ajay were arrested on Sunday from outer Delhi’s Mundka area by a team of Delhi Police’s special cell and the case was then transferred to the crime branch which is presently probing it. Police, meanwhile, are also probing if gangster Kala Jathedi was directly linked to the incident that unfolded at the Stadium. The investigating team is yet to recover the cell phone of Kumar and are working to track the device, police said, adding fingerprints collected from the spot have been sent for further examination. Meanwhile, Ashok Dhankad, father of the killed wrestler has asked the government to take back the awards given to Kumar. “We demand fair probe in the case and strict punishment should be given to him for the offence. No Guru should do this to his disciple. The government should also take back the awards which were given to him,” he said. Dhankad said his son’s wrestling career started from Pratap School in Kharkhoda and since 2013, he was practising at Chhatrasal Stadium. He has played world championship in Finland and Asian Championship in Taiwan. “Sagar was a former junior national champion and wanted to go to Georgia for practice as he told me that there is severe competition in senior category and he needed to prepare himself. But, due to Covid, he could not go there. He had 10 to 12 medals including four to five gold medals,” Dhankad said. PTI NIT/AMP RHL||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrestler-sushil-kumar-spends-birthday-in-police-lockup-990391.html
26-05-2021||National||India's Covid vaccination drive proceeding smoothly: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Wednesday said that India's vaccination drive against Covid is proceeding smoothly despite its large population of over 135 crore and heterogeneous character. The minister of state for personnel also said that India was the quickest to administer 100 million doses of vaccine and fastest to begin vaccinating those above the age of 18 years. "Instead of politicising the issue, we should all collaborate to make India’s vaccination drive a mass movement," Singh said. The initial hesitancy or apprehension about taking vaccine has also been overcome, he said. Singh said that in every part of the country today, all eligible age groups are turning out in huge numbers for inoculation. "India’s vaccination drive is unmatched in its scale and despite a large population of over 135 crore and heterogeneous character of the country, the vaccination drive is proceeding smoothly," he said. In Jammu and Kashmir alone, around 66 per cent of the population above 45 years of age have received their first dose of vaccine, the minister said. Singh said the second wave of the Covid pandemic has further reiterated the need to receive vaccines for all eligible persons. From the end of April and beginning of May, entire Jammu and Kashmir, particularly Jammu district, has shown increased positivity rate and increased mortality rate, he said. It became a matter of concern for the administration and also caused apprehensions in society, he said, adding that over the last one week, there has been a downward trend in these parameters. Singh said the mortality rate in Jammu and Kashmir peaked around May 17, but is now showing a progressive decline.  Referring to reports about the Northeast turning into a hot spot, he said that there is no doubt that in recent times north eastern states, which had remained unaffected in the first wave, have shown a steep rise in Covid positive cases. But preparedness and the infrastructural capability is in place along with satisfactory handling of the situation and tremendous amount of confidence, the minister said. Singh said that over 71 lakh persons have already been vaccinated in the north eastern region with the maximum number being from Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-vaccination-drive-proceeding-smoothly-jitendra-singh-990392.html
26-05-2021||National Politics||China could be behind second Covid-19 wave in India, says BJP leader Vijayvargiya||BJP General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya has said it is a "matter of discussion" if the second wave of Covid-19 in India was an outbreak or China had a hand in it. A video of Vijayvargiya's speech at a function here went viral on Tuesday. "There is a second wave of Covid-19. It was an outbreak, or was it sent? It is a matter of discussion, because if any country in the world has challenged China, it is India....Prime Minister Narendra Modi has challenged (China)," the BJP leader is heard saying in the video. "We think this is a viral `war' by China to harass our country, because the second wave of Covid-19 was reported only in India and not in neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Afghanistan," he said, speaking in Hindi.  It could not be ascertained if he said `war' or `vaar' which means `blow/attack' in Hindi. While the BJP leader could not be contacted for comment, some witnesses said he made these statements at an event organised by a trust to distribute oxygen concentrators on Monday. Opposition Congress said he should clarify what he wanted to say. "Does Vijayvargiya want to say that China has waged a biological war against India? He holds a responsible position in the BJP and he should make clear the intent behind his statement," state Congress spokesperson Neelabh Shukla said. The negligence of the BJP-led Union government was responsible for the second wave, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/china-could-be-behind-second-covid-19-wave-in-india-says-bjp-leader-vijayvargiya-990056.html
26-05-2021||National Politics||BJP's focus is UP polls instead of tackling Covid-19, claims Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday claimed the BJP, instead of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, was working on how to improve its image and win the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections due next year after it "did not do so well" in the panchayat polls there. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said after failing to win the West Bengal Assembly polls, the BJP leadership has shifted focus to Uttar Pradesh. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting to discuss 'Mission Uttar Pradesh'," the Marathi daily claimed. "It seems as if all issues in the country are resolved and there is only one work left of declaring elections and contesting them...holding massive rallies and roadshows to win polls," it said in taunting remarks. No doubt, elections are important in parliamentary democracy, but are polls a priority in the present situation? the editorial asked. "The BJP is working on how to improve its image and win the UP polls after it did not do so well in the panchayat polls there," it stated. Earlier, there were demands that elections in Assam, West Bengal and other states be postponed or held in a single phase. But, the polls in West Bengal were conducted in eight phases, because of which the coronavirus spread not just in WB, but the entire country, the editorial claimed. It further claimed that Covid-19 management has collapsed completely in UP and the BJP is likely to face trouble in the Assembly polls there and the Lok Sabha elections in 2024. "Covid-19 is a national calamity and it was bound to hit big states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Maharashtra. The floating bodies in the Ganga river in UP brought tears in the eyes of the world," it said. At present, the entire focus has to be on the Covid-19 pandemic, said the Sena, which shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. "Otherwise, the Ganga river will be a carrier of Hindu dead bodies and this is not good for the country's image," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-focus-is-up-polls-instead-of-tackling-covid-19-claims-shiv-sena-990165.html
26-05-2021||National Politics||PM Modi hails front-line health workers, doctors for 'risking their lives' in fight against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday profusely thanked front-line health workers, doctors, nurses and volunteers for "selflessly risking their lives to serve others" in need every day while fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Delivering a keynote address on the occasion of Vesak Global Celebrations on Buddha Purnima through video conference, Modi also recalled that he dedicated last year’s Vesak day programme to all the front-line workers leading humanity's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He also lauded the efforts of the scientists for developing the Covid-19 vaccines within a year and said this shows the power of human determination and tenacity. Modi's remarks, though not new, come days after a bitter spat between the Indian Medical Association and yoga guru Ramdev over the latter raising questions on the efficacy of allopathic medicines, and could help douse the row which saw many supporters of the yoga guru and some from BJP going hammer and tongs against the practitioners of modern medicine. Ramdev, who was asked to withdraw his statement critical of Allopathy after a strongly-worded letter to him from Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, later put 25 questions to practitioners of modern medicines. Modi said that this "once in a life-time pandemic" brought tragedy and suffering at the door-step of many and has "impacted every nation". "The economic impact left by the pandemic is huge and our planet will not be the same after Covid-19," he said. Flagging that even after a year, the Covid-19 pandemic has still not left us and several nations, including India, have experienced a second wave, Modi also chose to highlight "many note-worthy improvements as well over the last year", like having a better understanding of the pandemic, which strengthens  our strategy to fight it and having the vaccine, which is absolutely important to save lives and defeat the pandemic. Highlighting that the life of Gautama Buddha was about peace, harmony and co-existence, Modi said, "But today, there are still forces whose existence depends on spreading hate, terror and mindless violence." He said such forces do not believe in liberal democratic principles and thus gave a call for all those who believe in humanity to come together and defeat terror and radicalisation. He said Buddha's teachings and the importance given to social justice can become a global unifying force. He said that in the last year, several individuals and organisations rose to the occasion and did everything possible to reduce human suffering in the times of Corona and also generous contributions of equipment and materials were made by the Buddhist organisations and followers of Buddha Dharma from around the world.. The event was attended by Members of Venerated  Mahasangha, Prime Ministers of Nepal and Sri Lanka and Union Ministers Prahlad Singh and Kiren Rijiju among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-hails-front-line-health-workers-doctors-for-risking-their-lives-in-fight-against-covid-19-990183.html
26-05-2021||National Politics||Ashok Gehlot slams Harsh Vardhan on issue of availability of Covid-19 vaccines||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday accused Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan of making false statements on the issue of availability of Covid-19 vaccines in the country. Vaccination centres across the country are also being shut, he noted. "Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should refrain from making false statements. When the country was struggling with lack of oxygen, he was saying there is enough oxygen in the country," he said. "Today, when there is a shortage of vaccines in the country, he says there are enough one crore vaccines in the country. But if we take all the states together, one crore vaccines will be finished in just one day," Gehlot said in a series of tweets.  लेकिन सभी राज्यों को मिलाकर देखें तो एक करोड़ वैक्सीन महज एक दिन में ही खत्म हो जाएंगी। He said that on April 2, 42 lakh vaccines were administered across the country, but now only 16 lakh vaccines are being administered daily. Such statements by the Union Health Minister are creating "resentment" among the public, he claimed. Vardhan had said on May 19 that more than one crore doses are still in stock with state governments. Gehlot also demanded that the Centre issue guidelines on how bodies should be buried along the banks of Ganga and Yamuna rivers and also on immersion of ashes to prevent further spread of coronavirus. "If the infection spreads from these dead bodies during the rainy season, there may be a possibility of further spread of the pandemic," he said. There have been reports of bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims floating in the River Ganga||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashok-gehlot-slams-harsh-vardhan-on-issue-of-availability-of-covid-19-vaccines-990184.html
26-05-2021||National Politics||Top RSS leader holds 'strategy sessions' with UP leaders in Lucknow||Within days of his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale on Wednesday held ''strategy sessions'' with senior Sangh leaders in the state capital of Lucknow.  According to the sources in the state BJP, the UP Assembly election, which is scheduled to be held early next year, was on the agenda of Hosabale, who was here for the first time after being appointed the 'sar karyawah' of the RSS. ''UP Assembly polls were, of course, discussed at the meetings... the Sangh can play a crucial role in containing the damage caused by the perception of mismanagement of Covid situation in UP,'' a senior state BJP leader said. ''UP elections are very important for the party... we can not allow the opposition to create a negative perception about us,'' he added.  Sources said that some top state BJP leaders could meet Hosabale during his stay though the party leaders refused to give away names. Sources also said that the RSS leader sought feedback from the Sangh workers and local leaders on the Covid situation in the state and the help provided by the Sangh to the people during the pandemic. Hosabale also interacted with the doctors, who were associated with the RSS, and discussed the Covid situation, sources said. An RSS leader sought to downplay the visit saying that it was a routine one. ''No political meaning should be attached to the visit... he is here on a pre-scheduled visit,'' the RSS leader said. Sources in the BJP, however, said that Hosabale's visit, soon after his meeting with PM, Amit Shah and Sunil Bansal in Delhi, was indicative of ''major changes'' in the party organisation as well as in the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/top-rss-leader-holds-strategy-sessions-with-up-leaders-in-lucknow-990269.html
26-05-2021||National Politics||New social media rules draconian: Congress wants Modi government to shed its 'Big Daddy approach'||The Centre's insistence on implementing the new digital rules has kicked up a row with the Opposition Congress drawing its parallel with the totalitarian North Korean model of controlled media and accusing the central government of having adopted a "Big Daddy" approach and trying to "stifle free speech". "The new rules are a severe blow to the vibrant culture of discourse, deliberation and dissent in India. What the Modi government seeks to implement today, would make the North Korean model of the control of the media," said party spokesperson and senior lawyer Abhishek Singhvi. "End-to-end encryption is the technological backbone of privacy," he said, backing the WhatsApp contention before the Delhi High Court. Noting that Rule 4 of the Social Media Intermediary rules 2021 obliges all social media platforms to identify the first originator of the information and would result in "breaking the end-to-end encryption", Singhvi called the provision "draconian". He said free speech and expression which are like oxygen in a democracy will be stifled. Singhvi had invoked the North Korea imagery on Tuesday as well when a team of Delhi police had gone to Twitter headquarters to know why the microblogging site put BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra's tweets on the alleged "Congress toolkit" in the "manipulated media" category. "North Korea is trending after the Government sends police to the office of online intermediary which allows them to express their opinion. Remember this is the same BJP that used Twitter to wrest public sentiment in their favour & against Congress in 2014. Hypocrisy ki bhi seema (There is a limit to hypocrisy),' he had said. On Wednesday as the government made a strong defence of its new digital rules, asserting that it does not violate privacy, Singhvi alleged that the new rules are aimed at terrorising social media and strangulating free thought and expression. "This is complete censorship, complete thought control, complete terrorising of the social media and complete control freak. The new intermediary rules are dire, drastic and draconian in nature. The issuance of new guidelines reflects that the BJP government is suffering from the Big Daddy syndrome," Singhvi alleged. He said the new rules have meted out a severe blow to the vibrant culture of discourse, deliberations and dissent in a democracy like India. Indicating that new digital rules will be another campaign issue of the party in days to come, he said the Congress will educate society and tell people what this government is doing and what its thought process is, even as he was evasive when asked whether the Congress will approach the court over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-social-media-rules-draconian-congress-wants-modi-government-to-shed-its-big-daddy-approach-990327.html
26-05-2021||National Politics||Government suppressing Covid-19 death numbers, alleges Congress||The Congress on Wednesday accused the Centre of suppressing Covid-19 death numbers, with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying numbers do not lie but the government does. The party also said that the central government should have procured Covid vaccines globally and ramped their production in the country to improve access to vaccination. "Numbers don't lie... GOI (government of India) does," Gandhi said on Twitter while citing a New York Times estimate of the number of coronavirus deaths in India. The report said that "just how big could India's true Covid toll be" and cited the official count of 3,07,231 as on May 24 and it estimated 600,000 deaths in a conservative scenario, 1.6 million estimated deaths in a more likely scenario and 4.2 million estimated deaths in a worse scenario. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "We will never know the true number of Covid-related deaths as the government has worked harder on suppressing this data than they did fighting the pandemic." Congress leader Jairam Ramesh suggested: "What Modi government should have done but did not: procured vaccines globally, ramped up production locally (through compulsory licensing), issued vaccines to states fairly and transparently and improved access to vaccines by reducing exclusions." What Modi Govt should have done but did not:1.procured vaccines globally2.ramped up production locally(thro’ compulsory licensing)3.issued vaccines to states fairly & transparently4.improved access to vaccines by reducing exclusionsAtleast 2 Standing Committees suggested it! He said that "at least two Standing Committees suggested it". His party colleague Kapil Sibal tweeted, "Surat: Threefold spike in COVID cases amongst kids. Protect our children. Don't put them to risk by holding exams for class 12." Surat : Threefold spike in COVID cases amongst kids Protect our children Don’t put them to risk by holding exams for class12 Find an innovative solution to assess them Life is more important than exams ! "Find an innovative solution to assess them. Life is more important than exams," he said. The Congress party has been critical of the government's handling of the Covid pandemic and the vaccination policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-suppressing-covid-19-death-numbers-alleges-congress-990408.html
26-05-2021||National Politics||India cannot accept terrorism or accept it as legitimate diplomacy: Jaishankar||India cannot accept terrorism or it cannot accept that in any way as legitimate diplomacy or as any other aspect of statecraft, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday as he underlined that the recent agreement between the militaries of India and Pakistan on ceasefire is a "good step" but there are "obviously bigger issues”. Jaishankar made the comments during a conversation with former US National Security Advisor General HR McMaster in ‘Battlegrounds’ session on 'India: Opportunities And Challenges For A Strategic Partnership’ presented by the Hoover Institution. "Look what I can tell you at this point of time, is that we had an agreement some weeks ago between our Director General of Military Operations that we would not fire across at each other, across the Line of Control, which has seen a lot of that. And it’s seen a lot of that, mainly because there's been infiltration from their side,” Jaishankar said while responding to a question on Pakistan. "So, the basis for not firing is very clear because the reason for firing is infiltration so if there is no infiltration there's obviously no reason to fire. That's a good step. But I think there are obviously bigger issues," the minister, currently on an official visit to the United States, added. The militaries of India and Pakistan, in a surprise announcement on February 25, said that they had agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors. "At the end of the day, the two neighbours have to find ways. It's not a question of do we live with each other. You won't live with each other if you're agnostic about how you live with each other,” Jaishankar said. "And you also pointed out that since 1947, part of the problem has been cross-border terrorism... So, there also has to be perhaps appreciation of what the costs have been to themselves. What it has done to their own society and how that has impacted them. I mean, they need to reflect on it because they are doing it to themselves,” he added. "But I think it's important right now if there is thinking along the lines that there needs to be a better relationship with India. On our side there has been clarity of thinking, and the clarity of thinking is that we cannot accept terrorism, or we cannot accept that it is in any way legitimate as diplomacy or as any other aspect of statecraft. So let us see, you know where this progresses. Obviously everybody hopes for the best," the minister added. Ties between India and Pakistan nose-dived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country. Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship. The relationship dipped further after India’s war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed in the same month. The relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories in August, 2019. In March, Pakistan's powerful Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa said that it was time for India and Pakistan to "bury the past and move forward” as he asserted that the peace between the two neighbours would help to "unlock" the potential of South and Central Asia. The powerful army, which has ruled Pakistan for more than half of its 72 plus years of existence, has hitherto wielded considerable power in the matters of security and foreign policy. Gen Bajwa’s remarks came a day after Prime Minister Imran Khan made a similar statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-cannot-accept-terrorism-or-accept-it-as-legitimate-diplomacy-jaishankar-990416.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||Farmers observe 'Black Day' to mark 6 months of protest, vow to carry out agitation for long||With no sign of the government acceding to their demands for withdrawing three contentious farm laws, farmers' bodies on Wednesday observed "Black Day'' in various states to mark the six months of their agitation and send a message to the Modi government that is completing seven years this month. Farmers agitating at three Delhi border points raised black flags, shouted anti-government slogans, burnt effigies, and took out protest marches and their leaders vowed to continue the protest for long ('ye aandolan lamba chalega'). A ruckus took place at the Ghazipur protest site, which is one among three sites along with Singhu and Tikri, where farmers burnt effigies of the central government leaders and put up black flags amid heavy police deployment. "If laws can be made in coronavirus times, why can't they be withdrawn. The government has been trying to crush the agitation and will do so in the future as well but farmers are not going to leave the borders of Delhi unless the government nullifies the three laws and enacts a law on Minimum Support Price," Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said. Tikait led the protest at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, where several BKU leaders held black flags as well placards condemning the government. Amid uncertainty over the next course, Tikait highlighted, "I don't know what will be the fate of the agitation. But if the agitation fails, the government will start acting arbitrarily (Sarkar manmarji karegi). If the agitation is successful, coming generations of farmers will benefit." Amid concerns over Covid-19 spread due to large gatherings by farmers, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday issued notices to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana on the alleged flouting of norms by the protesting farmers. Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said farmers are prepared to end the protest today if the Centre agrees to our demands but we are also ready to continue our agitation so long our demands are not fulfilled. Black flags were hoisted also in villages in Haryana, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh, where villagers put up black flags atop their houses as well as on their vehicles. Farmer leaders said they have urged people to support farmers by putting black flags at their residences and other places. In Punjab, protesting farmers burnt effigies of the BJP-led government at many places including Amritsar, Muktsar, Moga, Tarn Taran, Sangrur, and Bathinda in Punjab.  Sukhbir Singh Badal from Shiromani Akali Dal, which had walked out of NDA last year protesting against the farm laws, also put up a black flag at his house. Badal tweeted, "As #KisanAndolan completes 6 months today, I again urge the Centre to deal compassionately with farmers & repeal the black laws. Have hoisted a #BlackFlag atop my Badal residence today & likewise @Akali_Dal_ leaders & workers have done the same observing #Black_Day_Of_Farmers." In neighbouring Haryana, farmers held protests in Ambala, Hisar, Sirsa, Karnal, Rohtak, Jind, Bhiwani, Sonipat, and Jhajjar. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said that their party stands shoulder-to-shoulder with the farmers while AICC Communication department chief Randeep Singh Surjewala accused the Centre of having adopted an adamant attitude towards their demands. Twelve Opposition parties, which had on May 12 written a joint letter to Modi demanding the repeal of the three farm laws passed by the government last year, have extended support to the farmers' nationwide call. "Modi government will have to withdraw three laws at all costs. Any conspiracy to destroy farmers will not be allowed to succeed," the Congress said on hashtag #NationalBlackDay". Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said, "Farmers who give blood for every food grain that reaches us are observing 'black day' today. Every citizen of the country is angry with the insult meted out to farmers due to the ego of the BJP government." He tweeted, "We are indebted to farmers for every single morsel we eat," with hashtags #Kisan and #KisanEktaMorcha. The protest happened five days after Samyukta Kisan Morcha sent a letter to the Prime Minister for restarting negotiations. But there was no forward movement. Modi had earlier said the government is just a call away. The last talk between the government and farmers had taken place on January 22, which was the 11th round of conversation between them. After the 10 rounds of talks with farmer bodies, the government had proposed to suspend the three contentious laws for one and half years and set up a joint committee to discuss them. However, the farmers' bodies rejected it. After January 26 violence during the farmer protest in Delhi, the government did not get back to the farmers for a talk saying it had already made the best possible offer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-observe-black-day-to-mark-6-months-of-protest-vow-to-carry-out-agitation-for-long-990180.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||Sputnik V-makers have agreed to supply vaccine to Delhi, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||As Delhi grapples with a shortage of coronavirus vaccines, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the makers of Sputnik V will supply anti-Covid jabs to the city but the quantity is yet to be decided. He also said there were around 620 cases of black fungus or mucormycosis in Delhi, but Amphotericin-B injections used in its treatment are in short supply. "Talks with the makers of Sputnik V are on. They will give us vaccines, but the quantity is yet to be decided. Our officials and the representatives of the manufacturers met on Tuesday, too," the CM told reporters at the launch of Delhi's first drive-through vaccination centre at Vegas Mall in Dwarka. The Centre has asked states to procure vaccines from the international market, but no state government has been able to purchase even "one additional vaccine" so far, he said. "All state governments have tried everything, they have (floated) global tenders and talked to all vaccine-manufacturers. All firms have declined to talk to us," he said. The Centre needs to demonstrate a sense of urgency and run the vaccination drive on a war-footing, he added. He said it is the Central government's responsibility to procure vaccines. "Today, we are at war against Covid-19, wherein the Centre and states have their share of responsibilities. The Centre cannot shirk its responsibility and ask states to fend for themselves. It is wrong," he said. "It is something like Pakistan declaring a war on India and then they ask if Delhi has manufactured a nuclear bomb and Uttar Pradesh bought a tank...It is the Central government's responsibility to procure and supply vaccines. Delhi can be held accountable if they (the Centre) give us vaccines and we do not open up centres," a visibly angry Kejriwal said. Asked if the Delhi government is going to lift the lockdown, he said, "A lockdown cannot be extended indefinitely. It has hit economic activity and businesses…we will decide how to go about reopening." While extending the ongoing lockdown till May 31, Kejriwal had on Saturday said his government will start the unlock process from next week if Covid cases keep declining. The CM also said that anti-Covid shots manufactured by Moderna and Pfizer are both suitable for children and the Central government should procure these vaccines in a large number to vaccinate them. The CM also said that a government-run drive-through vaccination centre is likely to be launched at Chhatrasal on Saturday. "Many more drive-through vaccination centres will be opened up soon, but the shortage of vaccines is a major issue. The inoculation drive has slowed down. Many vaccination centres have been shut not just in Delhi, but the entire country," he said. India was among the first countries to manufacture a vaccine for Covid-19, but "we are six months behind others because we did not make a plan in time for mass vaccination, distribution and to ramp up production", he said. "Forget what has happened, but there is no sense of urgency even now. All vaccines available in the international market can still be given approval for use in India within 24 hours," the chief minister added. The drive-through vaccination centre at Vegas Mall is an initiative by the Delhi government and Southwest Delhi District Magistrate, a hospital spokesperson said. Akash Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital has procured 30,000 Covishield doses for inoculation of the 18-44 age group at the centre, an official said. "We will go slow at the starting to avoid rush on the road and administer 40 to 50 doses for the initial few days," DM Naveen Aggarwal said. The number of doses administered per day will be increased gradually to around 300 per day, he said. Kejriwal had earlier said his government has written to Dr Reddy's Laboratories for the supply of around 67 lakh doses of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's Laboratories launched Sputnik V in India on May 14. Delhi had recorded 156 Covid fatalities on Tuesday, the lowest since April 16, while 1,568 new cases were reported as the positive rate dipped to nearly two-month low of 2.14 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin. It was the third day in a row that the daily cases in the national capital remained below 2,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sputnik-v-makers-have-agreed-to-supply-vaccine-to-delhi-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-990192.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||High alert in Jharkhand, evacuation on amid cyclone threat||Operations are being executed on war-footing in the vulnerable areas in East and West Singhbhum, besides some other districts, in view of the very severe cyclonic storm Yaas, Disaster Management Secretary Amitabh Kaushal told PTI. "We are witnessing high-speed wind and have evacuated about 6,000 persons from thatched houses and danger zones to shelter homes in safer locations," East Singhbhum Deputy Commissioner Suraj Kumar said. People are being shifted from low-lying areas near the two rivers in the district that is below the danger mark at present, he said. Many trees and electric poles were also uprooted in East Singhbhum due to high-speed winds, disrupting power supply, he added. Director-General of Police Neeraj Sinha told PTI, "Satellite phones are being provided to interior Naxal- affected police stations for emergent communications, besides batteries in police wireless systems have been readied in case of communication disruptions due to the storm." "We are ready to deal with the situation and have formed rescue teams," he added. East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts of the state are likely to witness "very high seas" situation with wind speed of 92-117 kmph, the weather office said. The districts of Sahibganj, Godda, Pakur, Garhwa and Palamu may witness "very rough seas" condition with a wind speed of 52-61 kmph. Rest of the state is likely to have "high to very high seas" phenomenon with a wind speed of 62-91 kmph, it said. This is the first time in the history of Jharkhand that it is facing such a severe cyclonic storm. Chief Minister Hemant Soren has asked officials to be on their toes to deal with any emergency situation. Covid vaccination drives have been suspended till Thursday in some parts of the state in view of heavy rainfall and lightning, besides high-speed wind which is likely to uproot trees, officials said. Door-to-door testing for Covid-19 has also been halted at many places, they said. The Disaster Management Department has alerted authorities to take immediate action as cities such as Ranchi are likely to be flooded due to heavy rainfall. Forest, Drinking Water and Sanitation, and Electricity officials have been asked to be on stand-by. They have been asked to chalk out alternative plans to deal with electric and water supply, besides clearing of roads in case of uprooting of trees, and ensuring satellite phones and wireless communication are ready as networks are likely to be hit badly. Cyclone Yaas pounded the beach towns in north Odisha and West Bengal as it hit the coast around 9 am with a wind speed of 130-140 kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge, officials said. It is likely to move to Jharkhand with a lesser intensity by midnight, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-alert-in-jharkhand-evacuation-on-amid-cyclone-threat-990194.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||Can’t undo sexual offence; can give psychological security with compensation to victim: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has awarded Rs 6 lakh interim compensation to a six-year-old victim of sexual assault, observing that though the system cannot undo the offence it can provide psychological security or empowerment with monetary help besides prosecuting the offender. The high court, which set aside the trial court’s order awarding Rs 50,000 interim compensation to the boy-child, enhanced the amount to Rs 6 lakh saying the previous sum was low, to say the least. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani said that while attempting to quantify the compensation payable to the victim even at the interim stage, the court’s effort should be to offer monetary recompense, to the extent possible, for atonement of the crime. The court noted that the boy-child was subjected to physical and mental trauma and emotional scar was left on his psyche. “Since the system cannot turn the clock back nor ‘undo’ the offence, there is little else the court can do other than prosecute the offender and provide to the victim whatever psychological security and sense of empowerment that monetary compensation can give,” the high court. The 6-year-old boy was allegedly subjected to sexual assault, abuse and sodomy by his uncle in his own house in 2020 and the prosecution of the accused is underway, at the stage of recording evidence. The court was informed that the victim belonged to extremely weak financial background with a mother who works as a housemaid and a bed-ridden father and the family’s monthly household income is about Rs 6,000 in which four members are to sustain. Advocate Prabhsahay Kaur, representing the child, contended that the additional sessions judge has failed to appreciate that even at interim stage the compensation is to be granted to a minor who is victim of sexual abuse to enable the him or her and the family to overcome the incident. She said the child needs to be compensated for the damaging effect on the victim’s psyche and to help rehabilitate him or her into the society, for relief and rehabilitation and not merely to cover for the expenses to be incurred for the time being. The high court directed the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to disburse the amount to the child forthwith and clarified that the interim compensation shall be subject to adjustment against the final compensation awarded by the trial court on conclusion of the trial. “It is not hard to see that apart from the actual expenses that would be incurred for the petitioner’s psychological counselling and treatment at a specialised institution like IHBAS, as recommended by the Child Welfare Committee in its report, it would also be necessary to put money in the hands of the petitioner’s family, to arrange for the petitioner to safely attend the school he was attending earlier or some other school and to cater to his educational needs,” it said. The victim’s counsel argued that taking the Delhi Victim Compensation (DVC) Scheme, 2018 as a benchmark, interim compensation awarded should have been somewhere between Rs 6 lakh and Rs 10.5 lakh. The Delhi government’s counsel said the DVC scheme was not a binding on the trial court and since no basis was provided in the application under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for calculating the compensation, the trial court awarded the minimum threshold amount of Rs 50,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/can-t-undo-sexual-offence-can-give-psychological-security-with-compensation-to-victim-delhi-hc-990244.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||Kashmir traders demand unlock from June 1 as Covid-19 cases decline||Voices for an unlock have started growing loud in Kashmir with traders' bodies suggesting to authorities to allow markets to reopen in a phased manner from June 1. Amid a huge surge in Covid-19 cases, Jammu and Kashmir administration had on April 29 imposed a complete lockdown in the Union Territory to contain the further spread of the virus. On the day the lockdown was imposed, the UT recorded 3,474 Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths. The cases and deaths continued to surge despite a lockdown, as just nine days later, on May 7, J&K reported its highest-ever 5,443 single-day cases. On May 17, the UT recorded the highest-ever 73 single-day deaths. However, the cases and deaths have started to come down since, with 2,964 positive cases and 53 deaths recorded on Monday. Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) president, Sheikh Ashiq, says weaker sections of the society have been impacted hugely due to the lockdowns in the Valley since August 2019. “We are going from one lockdown to another. This has wreaked havoc with the business in Kashmir and weaker sections of persons connected with trade and commerce require urgent assistance and attention,” he told DH. In recent days KCCI members have held a series of meetings with top officials of the administration and explained to them the issues faced by weaker sections of the society impacted by the lockdowns. They suggested to the authorities to unlock the market in a phased manner from June 1 while assuring that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour would be followed by all the stakeholders. Not only the KCCI, but Traders Coordination Committee of City Center Lal Chowk also appealed to J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to opt for unlocking “as otherwise many would be left to starvation.” In a statement, the president of the committee said the lockdown has badly affected the livelihood of lakhs of people “who along with their families have been left at the verge of starvation.” He suggested that the government should call a meeting of stakeholders and health experts to decide about the protocol for the unlock while assuring full support to the adherence of prospective protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-traders-demand-unlock-from-june-1-as-covid-19-cases-decline-990252.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||India delayed starting its Covid-19 vaccination programme by 6 months, claims Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Citing "massive" vaccine shortage in the country, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said India will lose the Covid battle if the Centre and states fail to combat the fatal virus together. Kejriwal appealed to the Centre and states to join hands as Team India to procure vaccines while he "assured" the prime minister that all chief ministers were ready to take any responsibility given to them. "Why is the country not buying vaccines? India is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, and in such a situation, state governments cannot be asked to look out for themselves. If tomorrow, Pakistan declares war on India, should UP buy its own tanks and Delhi its own weapons?” Kejriwal said in an online briefing. "In past many months, several big mistakes were made. At a time when other countries were vaccinating their citizen, we were exporting vaccines. Vaccination is already delayed by six months in the country," he said. Claiming India developed the first vaccine against Covid, Kejriwal expressed disappointment that the urgency towards vaccination was still missing. “India cannot lose this battle. If the central government loses, the BJP will not lose, India will lose. If the Delhi government loses, the Aam Aadmi Party will not lose, India will. If the Maharashtra government loses, the Shiv Sena would not lose, India will," he said. This is the time to work harmoniously and not engage in competition with state governments. This is the time when the governments of 36 states and Union Territories, along with the central government should work together as Team India, he stated.  Citing "massive" vaccine shortage in the country, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said India will lose the Covid battle if the Centre and states fail to combat the fatal virus together. Kejriwal appealed to the Centre and states to join hands as Team India to procure vaccines while he "assured" the prime minister that all chief ministers were ready to take any responsibility given to them. "Why is the country not buying vaccines? India is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, and in such a situation, state governments cannot be asked to look out for themselves. If tomorrow, Pakistan declares war on India, should UP buy its own tanks and Delhi its own weapons?” Kejriwal said in an online briefing. "In past many months, several big mistakes were made. At a time when other countries were vaccinating their citizen, we were exporting vaccines. Vaccination is already delayed by six months in the country," he said. Claiming India developed the first vaccine against Covid, Kejriwal expressed disappointment that the urgency towards vaccination was still missing. “India cannot lose this battle. If the central government loses, the BJP will not lose, India will lose. If the Delhi government loses, the Aam Aadmi Party will not lose, India will. If the Maharashtra government loses, the Shiv Sena would not lose, India will," he said. This is the time to work harmoniously and not engage in competition with state governments. This is the time when the governments of 36 states and Union Territories, along with the central government should work together as Team India, he stated. "I would like to assure the prime minister that all the CMs are with you and are ready to take any responsibility, but the Centre should also fulfill its responsibilities. The states cannot fulfill the responsibilities of the Centre," Kejriwal stated. The central government has assigned the responsibility of buying vaccines to the states but not a single state has been successful in procuring the doses, Kejriwal said citing his interaction with other chief ministers. "The Centre cannot abdicate its responsibilities and leave it to the state governments. It is responsible for procuring the vaccines and supplying them to the states," he said. Kejriwal claimed the country lacked a plan for vaccine distribution and mass-scale vaccination, saying many other countries in the world have successfully accomplished it and brought Covid under control.  Citing vaccine shortage in Delhi, Kejriwal said the doses for 18-44 years age group have finished and Covaxin stock for those aged 45 years and above has also run out. "This is not just the case with Delhi but across the country. In a pandemic situation, we should ideally be opening new centres every day, but that's not happening. We're facing a massive shortage of vaccines in the country," he said. If the people in India had been vaccinated at the right time, then possibly the effect of the second wave could have been reduced and many lives could have been saved, he said. “The second wave has proved to be extremely deadly for the country. Barely any family has remained untouched by Covid," he said. Despite all-out efforts, the states have so far failed to get even an extra dose of vaccine from any company while many of them issued global tenders but failed, claimed the chief minister. Kejriwal said foreign vaccine manufacturers have made it clear that they will deal with the Centre and not entertain the demands from individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-delayed-starting-its-covid-19-vaccination-programme-by-6-months-claims-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-990271.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||UP youth accuses cops of hammering nails into foot for not wearing mask, police say he did it to himself||Police in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly town, about 250 kilometres from here, were accused of ''hammering nails'' into the foot and hand of a youth for allegedly not wearing a mask. The mother of the youth, a resident of Joginavada locality in the town, said that the cops had picked up her son on the night of Monday while he was sitting outside his home and took him to the police outpost saying that he had not worn a mask. She said that she did not find her son at the police outpost when she reached there a little later. ''I was told that my son had been let go,'' she added. The mother alleged that a few hours later she found her son lying in a semi-conscious state a few hundred metres away from the outpost with nails hammered into his foot and hand. ''The cops threatened to send my son to jail when I asked them about the nails,'' she said. The police, however, rejected the allegations and said that the youth had himself hammered the nails into his foot and hand to avoid being arrested for not wearing a mask and misbehaving with the cops. ''A case was registered against him (youth) for not wearing mask and misbehaving with the cops,'' said a senior police official in Bareilly on Wednesday. Earlier also there had been reports of police brutality over the people after they were caught roaming without wearing masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-youth-accuses-cops-of-hammering-nails-into-foot-for-not-wearing-mask-police-say-he-did-it-to-himself-990295.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||Videos show shrouds being removed from bodies buried near river banks in Uttar Pradesh||As horrifying visuals of suspected Covid-19 victims' bodies floating in the Ganga and buried on the banks of other rivers are making headlines, videos where people are seen uncovering the orange shrouds and bamboos near these unidentified graves have surfaced. These burials and death rites, which garnered global attention, drew flak for the ruling Narendra Modi government and its mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The videos show workers removing shrouds and the bamboo poles that are used to mark graves. Reports claim that this is happening in in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj and Unnao. While reports by NDTV, quoting sources, say that this was a 'cleanup exercise,' there has been no official word by the government so far. “We have seen the video of shrouds being removed and had discussions on the same. We have formed a committee of two senior officials who will look at all the aspects and find out who did this and what was the intention behind it.” Goswami said. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had also issued notices to the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, after receiving complaints about several bodies found floating in the Ganga river in the two states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/videos-show-shrouds-being-removed-from-bodies-buried-near-river-banks-in-uttar-pradesh-990310.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||India administered 4.3 crore fewer doses of Covid-19 vaccines in May||India has administered 4.3 crore fewer doses of Covid-19 vaccines in May – as against April – despite expanding the target population by making everyone above 18 years eligible for the shots and registering more than 60,000 Covid-19 deaths in the last two weeks. While more than 8.7 crore doses were administered in April, the number dropped to just about 4.4 crore between May 1 and May 25 – a drop of 50 per cent from last month. In an affidavit submitted in the Kerala High Court on Monday, the Centre maintained that the Serum Institute of India, Pune (Covishield) and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad (Covaxin) currently have a monthly production capacity of 6.5 crore and 2 crore doses, respectively. There is no explanation from the government and the two vaccine manufacturers on the drop. Queries sent to Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Health Ministry spokesperson remain unanswered. The two manufacturers also did not respond. Asked what could be the reason behind the government's silence on the decline, a public health expert who doesn't want to be identified told DH, "How can the worlds largest programme declare that it's stopped in its tracks!" A top executive of Hyderabad-based pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratory – the Indian distributor of Russian Sputnik V vaccine - hopes for a turnaround after June 15 when the supply of Sputnik V vaccine is likely to improve. “We do not have a full schedule of all the 25 crore doses (needed to vaccinate 12.5 crore people) but I can say that the imports will accelerate after June 15. In September, we will have quite a sizable number of Sputnik V doses available in the country,” GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy's Laboratories told DH. The Hyderabad-based pharma major inked an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund to distribute 25 crore imported doses in India. In addition, the RDIF signed pacts with six firms - Hetero, Virchow, Panacea, Gland, Stellis, and Shilpa – for local production of Sputnik V, half of which are expected to be sold in the Indian market. The Centre hopes the availability of more than 15 crore doses of Sputnik V, which together with Covishield (75 crore) and Covaxin (55 crore) would constitute the bulk of the two billion doses that the government hopes to have by December 2021. According to the Health Ministry, over 34 per cent of the population above 45 years has received at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Also more than 42 per cent of people belonging to the 60 plus age group got at least one shot. But considering that everyone will need two doses of the vaccine and the target population is now 95 crore, it's a long way to go. “Currently available vaccines protect against severe disease so those at risk are to be protected. The current immunisation delivery system appears to disregard the risk-based protection approach,” observed Oommen John, a senior researcher at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-administered-43-crore-fewer-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-in-may-990402.html
26-05-2021||North and Central||Central Vista: CPWD to transplant 1,838 trees for construction of three new buildings||The CPWD has decided to transplant 1,838 trees from the campus of Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), which is proposed to be demolished for the construction of three new office buildings under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The Central Public Works Department has invited bids according to which the agency concerned will have to transplant trees in 60 days and 365 days will be for the maintenance of the transplanted trees. The CPWD said the entire project will be executed at an estimated cost of around Rs 1.86 crore. Last month, the CPWD had invited bids for three new office buildings under the Common Central Secretariat along Rajpath at a cost of Rs 3,269 crore and Rs 139 crore was set aside for five year's maintenance. These three new buildings will come on the plot where the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts is currently located. According to the bids for the transplantation of trees, there are 2,219 trees (approximately) on plot number 137, out of which 1,838 trees (approximately) are to be transplanted. There are 1,150 trees having girth up to 50 cm, which will be transplanted, the bids stated, adding that there are also 401 trees which have girth beyond 50 cm and up to 90 cm. In bid documents, the CPWD said it is proposed to avoid cutting of trees to the maximum extent and instead transplant the affected trees, within the site or in the vicinity, in a phased manner. The girth and height of the tree will be measured and recorded before the start of any activity, the CPWD said, adding that photographs of each tree before the start of the process of translocation will be submitted by the bidder. The tree will be geo-tagged before and after transplantation. "Lifting of trees shall be carried out or supervised by a qualified and/or suitably experienced person and crane operator using a crane and supports. It shall be ensured that there is no damage to the soil ball or any scratching and splitting of the root system. The tree should be kept intact without injuries to its root system, trunk and crown," it stated. The entire process of translocation will be video graphed and submitted fortnightly to the CPWD. Penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed if the agency fails to do so. The agency will carry out a social audit and get certified "survival assessment report" at the end of each maintenance sub-period (quarterly) to ascertain survival rate. The redevelopment of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3 km Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new prime minister''s residence and prime minister''s office, and a new vice president enclave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-cpwd-to-transplant-1838-trees-for-construction-of-three-new-buildings-990403.html
26-05-2021||Oasis||Readiness is all||In 'King Lear', the most pessimistic of Shakespeare’s tragedies, man is presented as that bare, forked animal, an accommodated thing, at the mercy of the buffetings of fate and nature. Throughout the play, King Lear, who himself is to blame for his foolish pride, mouths one-liners that bring down Man from the pinnacle of glory to the blabbering old creature wandering naked in the storm, arousing pity and awe at his vulnerability. Lack of foresight and blind disregard of the ground realities of life are Lear’s hubris. Filial ingratitude comes as a rude shock to the old man who in his childish impetuosity has given away his estate and possessions to his three daughters while we are told 'even the snail carries its home on its head'. What Lear does not realise is that old age is inevitable and that a man or woman should prepare for this oncoming event. In Bard’s words, readiness is all. Unpreparedness cost Lear his sanity and put him at the mercy of others. If only he had been wise enough to foresee what old age entails and had prepared for it by providing himself with the wherewithal of his needs, Shakespeare need not have penned such a pessimistic tragedy.  The Fool, who is the wise man of the play, harps on the truth that the white-haired king had hoped his daughters would care for him, but ingratitude sharper than a serpent’s tooth drives the first two daughters to banish the king into the wilderness to fend for himself while the kind-hearted youngest daughter comes too late. As a consequence Lear in his dotage suffers ignominy, misery, madness and death. Today we see old couples caught in the dilemma of packing up to leave their children’s homes, choosing to prepare for old age and death on their own. With their bank passbooks in their hands, they experience a sense of independence and preparedness. There are Elder Care Centres and old age homes which cater to the needs of those looking for help. As someone said the old man is no longer at sea or wandering in a storm anymore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/readiness-is-all-990073.html
26-05-2021||Opinion||The Apple tax is rotten, a costly drag for users||Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, is unflappability personified. When facing tough questions from investors, journalists or lawmakers, Cook tends to speak with the sparkling precision of an iPhone’s diamond-cut edges — slowly, commandingly, in an elegant Southern drawl that conveys exactly the sort of finality you’d expect from the head of a $2 trillion tech titan. Last week, though, Cook might have felt a bit like a spinning pinwheel under the polite yet relentless interrogation of a Federal District Court judge charged with deciding whether Apple is a ruthless monopolist. In the process, the judge, Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers in Oakland, California, highlighted a scourge affecting just about every Apple customer and the software developers who want to build apps for them. Call this scourge what it plainly is, the Apple tax — the billions of dollars a year that Apple collects from large swaths of the technology industry for the privilege of selling things to iPhone and iPad users. Once, in the early days of the iPhone, Apple’s 30% fee on app purchases, and its restrictive rules, could be defended on the grounds of its great innovation in the mobile market. Apple, after all, was the first to market the modern touch-screen smartphone and the simple, one-tap way of adding apps to it, and it seemed reasonable for the company to collect tremendous winnings from its creation. But for how many years should Apple get to milk billions of dollars of almost pure profit from an invention first released back when George W. Bush was president? What justification is there any longer for Apple’s severe restrictions on how users and software makers can do business with each other, other than that it has the market power to impose them? Isn’t it time we were all given a break from the Apple tax? Apple’s tax is a great boon to its bottom line. It is a costly drag for the users who spend enormous sums on its products and for developers looking to create apps to add tricks to your iPhone. And it can no longer be defended with a straight face. The present federal case came about last summer, when Epic Games, which makes the blockbuster video game Fortnite, sued Apple over the strict control the company maintains over software on iPhones and iPads. Unlike personal computers, which let users download software from anywhere online, Apple’s mobile devices allow only a single source for apps: Apple’s built-in App Store. (Google’s app store on its Android phones has similar rules and fees; Epic has filed a separate suit over those.) Apple says its restrictions are crucial to the iPhone’s safe, hassle-free appeal. Apple vets all the apps in its store for security, privacy and suitability; for instance, the company prohibits apps containing pornography. The catch is that in exchange for access to iPhone users, the company exacts a heavy toll from software developers. Almost any time you pay an app maker through Apple’s devices, the company takes a big cut of the transaction. Thus if you play Fortnite on your iPhone and decide to outfit your avatar with a $15 digital hamburger suit, Apple will happily bank $4.50 to send you pixels of beef, leaving $10.50 for Epic. There is an even more pernicious rule: Developers are not allowed to mention anywhere in their apps that users can pay through some other, often cheaper, non-Apple payment service. Epic, one of the biggest companies in the video game industry, says that in requiring developers to sell through its App Store and use its payment system, Apple “imposes unreasonable and unlawful restraints to completely monopolize” the market for mobile apps and digital payments within apps. Although the trial came to a conclusion on Monday, its true climax was late last week, when Gonzalez Rogers — who is not expected to render her verdict for months, peppered Cook with a series of pointed queries about Apple’s golden-goose business model. Apple has long maintained that it wants to empower users with control over their digital lives. So if it cares so deeply about users’ agency, the judge asked Cook, why not allow people to have a choice in how they pay for digital goods? The question seemed to catch the CEO off guard, and he answered with unusual frankness. If Apple allowed app developers to link to alternative payment methods, he said, “we would in essence give up our total return on our” intellectual property. Apple spends a lot of money building and maintaining the App Store, Cook said, and it’s also giving app developers access to a lot of customers. That’s worth the 30% cut, he suggested. The judge kept pushing. Even if Apple brings iPhone users to Epic’s yard, after that first interaction, isn’t Apple effectively just collecting an ongoing profit by virtue of its position as a middleman? Here’s where things get tricky. Apple argues that it isn’t really a restrictive monopolist because Fortnite can be downloaded on lots of different systems — Android phones, video game consoles and personal computers. Some of those platforms also charge developers a cut of purchases. For instance, gaming systems like Microsoft’s Xbox and Sony’s PlayStation take a 30% cut on purchases of digital games, though unlike Apple, they tend to sell their hardware at a loss. Apple makes a hefty profit on its hardware and in recent years has even raised its prices. In some ways, the problem with Apple’s App Store rules isn’t that they’re uniquely onerous; it’s that the store is so huge, its harms are more widespread. The App Store’s revenue in 2020 was $72 billion, according to Sensor Tower, an app analytics firm, nearly twice that of Google’s app store. Gonzalez Rogers also pointed out the various ways Apple seems inured to competition. It has maintained the 30% fee almost unchanged since the App Store’s launch in 2008. Only late last year did it offer a price break for small-time developers. But “that really wasn’t the result of competition,” the judge said. “That seemed to be a result of the pressure that you’re feeling from investigations, from lawsuits — not competition.” Other evidence in the case underlined the thesis that Apple acts with impunity in the app market, as if it has little to fear from competitors. In 2018, when Netflix was considering disallowing users to subscribe to its service from their iPhones, one Apple manager floated imposing “punitive measures” on Netflix for its temerity in looking to escape the Apple tax. (Netflix and other streaming services did eventually prevent users from subscribing through their iPhone apps.) And it’s not just the Epic case that ought to worry iPhone users. Rivals have accused Apple of imposing technical roadblocks that give its apps a leg up on competitors. European regulators have said Apple favours its music app over rivals like Spotify. Tile, a company that creates beacons that let you find your misplaced possessions, worries that Apple has given its own new finder device, AirTags, a technical advantage in working with iPhones. “We think it is entirely appropriate for Congress to take a closer look at Apple’s business practices,” CJ Prober, Tile’s chief executive, told The Times in April. I agree. Apple is one of the most creative companies in the world, and in general I think it watches out for its users’ privacy, security and well-being better than many of its rivals. (Well, other than its users in China, where Apple has become uncomfortably deferential to the government’s controls on freedom.) But the controls and fees it imposes on apps are indefensible. Apple has clear market power in the app business, and because its software tends to lock users into its ecosystem — once you choose an iPhone, going to some other kind of phone is arduous — there is effectively little competition in the market for smartphones. That power must be policed. If the courts fail to do it, lawmakers ought to step in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-apple-tax-is-rotten-a-costly-drag-for-users-990296.html
26-05-2021||Panorama||The macroeconomic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave||The official economic data for the first quarter will be published by the end of May. Last year, from October onwards, the mood was upbeat, anticipating a sharp V-shaped recovery. This was accompanied by a sharp drop in the official count of Covid infections, so much so that by the end of January, a victory was declared over the virus. In a speech to the World Economic Forum on January 28, describing India’s success in its fight against the virus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “In a country which is home to 18% of the world population, that country has saved humanity from a big disaster by containing corona effectively.” Unfortunately, the celebration proved to be premature as the second wave of the pandemic hit India viciously. In just a couple of months, the country’s unpreparedness was starkly exposed, as the number of daily infections rose about 40 times to reach nearly half a million per day. Fatalities mounted, caused by lack of oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators, medicines and emergency facilities. Even space in cremation and burial grounds ran out as dead bodies waited sometimes for days for the final rites. Topping it all has been the spectre of corpses hastily buried in the sandy banks of the Ganga or thrown into the water. Based on ground reports, the number of these unclaimed, unacknowledged, uncounted dead bodies are estimated to be several thousand. One of the reasons for the furtive dumping of bodies is that the poor cannot afford to even buy firewood for the funeral pyre; the other is the fear of the disease. Or perhaps there is the stigma associated with it. The fact is that the virus has spread to remote villages, even distant hilly areas of Uttarakhand, the deep forests of Chhattisgarh, and small towns across India. Since many rural areas are utterly lacking even in basic healthcare facilities, the illness and deaths are often not even attributed to Covid. So, the official count of infections and fatalities may be severely underestimated.  Thankfully, the second wave which rose steeply in the past two months, seems to be also coming down rapidly. At least in the major metro cities, the panic cries for oxygen, beds and ventilators are fewer now. But the situation in the rural areas is still precarious, at least in some states. Hence, many states are persisting with lockdowns, which curtail economic activity. Which brings us to an assessment of the impact on the economy. Back in November, many analysts believed that the growth rate this year (FY22) could be as high as 12-13%. But now, that assessment is being pared down, and the most optimistic estimate is around 8%. This would mean that after two years, the Indian economy’s size would still be a bit smaller than it was in 2019. Also, since tax collection is related to economic growth, lower growth this year would mean a further shortfall in tax revenue to the tune of Rs 1-1.5 lakh crore. This would make the fiscal deficit wider than projected in the Union Budget in February. That would mean an increase in borrowing by the central government, making it difficult to keep the interest rates (i.e., the cost of borrowing) low. The latest data on inflation shows wholesale price index (WPI)-based inflation to be at an 11-year high of 10.5%. Of that, the fuel and power subcomponent is at 20%. This high inflation is predicted to continue for the next few months. The non-food inflation captured in WPI is at 15.6%. These are alarmingly high numbers. The WPI inflation mainly reflects the input cost escalation experienced by producers. Sooner or later, this input cost pressure will be passed on to consumers. In that case even the consumer price index (CPI)-based inflation will start going up. Right now, consumer inflation is below 6%, which is the upper limit of the tolerable band. Consumer inflation has a very big food component. With a normal monsoon and a bumper crop expected later, the food grain inflation may not spike up. But meat, poultry, milk, pulses and other sources of proteins might become costlier. Ironically, some tomato farmers have chosen to destroy their current bumper crop, since prices have crashed much below their cost of production. The input costs like electricity, fertiliser, labour, etc., have gone up significantly. Maybe that is why the prime minister chose to keep fertiliser prices low and unchanged despite a big increase internationally, and hence allowed a bigger subsidy to farmers this year. Internationally, the Food and Agricultural Association says that the food price index is at a seven-year high. Edible oil prices have doubled from last year, and even sugar has gone up by 60%. In India at the retail pump, petrol prices have crossed Rs 100 a litre, which will hurt transportation costs, including that of food. Coupled with inflation is the worrying trend in unemployment. In April, unemployment shot up to 8% as per CMIE data. The labour force participation rate (i.e., that portion of workers who are either employed or looking for a job) is down to just 40%. That means, 60% of the able-bodied workforce between the ages of 16 and 60 are out. They have either given up on the prospects of finding a job, or are tending to homes or are in school, college or training. It is well known that the pandemic has caused a very large proportion of women to drop out of the workforce altogether. India’s female labour force participation rates are among the lowest in the world. With such grim unemployment and inflation prospects, the government has its work cut out. There must be a substantial fiscal injection in the form of enhanced food grain allocation to households from the PDS, free and universal rapid vaccination, much higher allotment to the rural employment guarantee (MNREGA), quick ramp up of infrastructure projects already sanctioned by the national infrastructure pipeline and filling up of all vacancies in government and government-owned bodies. Such fiscal action will of course be aided by the accommodative monetary policy of cheap money, and support for the government’s borrowing programme. Policymakers and administrators have their work cut out as we struggle to make our way out of the health and economic crises. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-macroeconomic-fallout-of-the-covid-19-pandemic-s-second-wave-990064.html
26-05-2021||Panorama||Billionaires like Bill Gates can't fix problems they helped create||Bill Gates hasn’t changed. His public image has. Mr Gates’s personal behaviour and his troubling comanagement of the Gates Foundation are being reported more openly. The question is why it took so long. For years, the Gates Foundation has been steered by an unusually small board of trustees, made up of Bill, his estranged wife, Melinda, and the billionaire investor Warren Buffett. The foundation was created in 2000, merging two charitable organisations that had been established in 1994, the year Bill and Melinda married. Its size roughly doubled in 2006, to $60 billion from $30 billion, when Mr Buffett announced he would give most of his Berkshire Hathaway fortune to the organisation, saying that he trusted Bill and Melinda’s expertise to use the money for good. A paradox emerged. The larger the foundation became, the less anyone seemed willing to ask tough questions about its secretive management structure or its penchant for giving money to lucrative pharmaceutical and credit card companies such as Mastercard, despite the fact that giving away billions to wealthy corporations set an unusual and troubling precedent in the philanthropic sector. I first reported this pattern of showering money on private corporations while researching my 2015 book, No Such Thing as a Free Gift: The Gates Foundation and the Price of Philanthropy. The main argument of the book was that billionaires who make their fortunes through corporate practices that undercut workers and deepen inequality— like corporate tax avoidance, insufficient sick pay and the immoral gap in pay between executives and low-paid workers— are not the solution to problems they generate. I put it this way: Asking Bill Gates to fix inequality is like asking an arsonist to hose down your house after he just set it on fire. Philanthropists might have the deep pockets to fund the fire engine and water hose, but the money is coming from making our houses unlivable in the first place. It wasn’t until five years later that the mainstream media took much interest in criticising the Gates Foundation, sparked by investigative journalist Tim Schwab’s important reporting on conflicts of interest there. Before then there was mostly silence. If large investment banks were seen as “too big to fail” in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, mega-foundations were too big to scrutinise. Especially in the post-2008 recession, the need for charity was more pronounced than ever, and so it seemed churlish, even Scrooge-like, to question whether the Gateses really knew as much about solving the world’s problems as they claimed. Anand Giridharadas’s 2018 book, Winners Take All, coined a new term for the market-led, corporate-friendly approach to philanthropy that donors like the Gateses have championed for years: “marketworld.” He sees it as misplaced faith in the ability of more markets to resolve poverty, when the richer investors in the market get, the poorer the rest of us become. Both of the Gateses live in marketworld, even though it’s sometimes conveniently forgotten that Melinda has prime property there too. In media coverage after the divorce announcement, she has been upheld as the more “humane” brake on Bill’s techno-solutionist approach to global health and development. But I don’t think there’s much evidence of any deep divide between them when it comes to seeing the market as a panacea. The best evidence that we do have is the observable track record of the foundation, both good and bad. Ultimately, any organisation’s most senior management is responsible for its operations — and that includes Melinda. So when the foundation pours nonrepayable, tax-privileged grants on the world’s wealthiest pharmaceutical companies, or when it defends a global patent system that makes lifesaving medicines needlessly expensive in both poor and rich nations, the buck doesn’t just stop with Bill, but with Melinda too. In April last year, the University of Oxford was reportedly considering offering a Covid vaccine developed by its scientists on a nonexclusive basis, which would have made it possible for manufacturers across the world to produce it more cheaply and widely. But then, as reported in Kaiser Health News, “Oxford — urged on by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation — reversed course. It signed an exclusive vaccine deal with AstraZeneca that gave the pharmaceutical giant sole rights and no guarantee of low prices.” This deal-making left many people aghast. It seemed to conflict with the Gates Foundation’s stated mission to improve global access to medicines, but it’s not surprising to those who’ve long followed the foundation’s proclivity to lend big pharma a helping hand. Recently, Melinda told The Times that vaccine makers like Pfizer and AstraZeneca “should make a small profit, because we want them to stay in business.” Define small. AstraZeneca paid nothing toward Oxford’s basic research on the vaccine, yet the company now has exclusive distribution rights, standing to make billions from the deal brokered by the Gates Foundation. Both of the Gateses seem to be feasting at the same table at big pharma, swallowing a core fallacy perpetuated for years. That’s the insistence that companies need to “charge astronomical prices to pay for research and development,” as Representative Katie Porter put it recently, even though “the amount they spend on manipulating the market to enrich shareholders completely eclipses what’s spent on R&D.” The best thing to come out of a sad event like this divorce is recognition that today’s global problems are ours to tackle, we the people — interdependent, global members of the public — through solidarity and shared science. We can’t relinquish this task to unaccountable philanthropists. The age of deference to them is over, and it’s about time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/billionaires-like-bill-gates-cant-fix-problems-they-helped-create-990067.html
26-05-2021||Panorama||Managing rheumatologic diseases during pandemic||The current Covid-19 pandemic has changed the equation of healthcare in India to a great extent. Patients with rheumatologic (autoimmune) diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, vasculitis, scleroderma, psoriatic arthritis and others, are facing many unique challenges. These patients have diseases that are chronic and need long-term care, frequent visits to the specialist, periodic laboratory tests to monitor disease activity and safety of medications. In addition, a majority of the patients are on immunosuppressive medications and some are on steroids, which may be a cause of anxiety for them. Social media is abuzz with misconceptions about the outcomes of Covid-19 infection in rheumatologic patients and the impact of arthritis medication on Covid-19 and the vaccines. The concern about worse outcomes on patients with rheumatologic diseases contracting the infection have been addressed through many clinical research studies. The mere presence of an underlying autoimmune disease does not predict worse outcomes for patients following Covid-19 infection. It emerged from the first wave that patients having other factors such as pre-existing co-morbidities like diabetes, age, presence of underlying lung disease (which is not uncommon in various rheumatologic diseases) and those who were taking steroids, such as prednisolone more than 10mg daily, were more likely to require hospitalisation for severe Covid-19. However, patients with rheumatologic diseases should still continue to practise strict precautionary measures such as social distancing, use of masks and sanitizers etc. especially more so in the wake of the second wave where younger people are being affected equally. It is advisable to withhold immunosuppressive drugs for a period of up to three weeks when arthritis patients contract Covid-19 and then safely restart their medications. Those with chronic rheumatologic diseases have faced numerous problems during the pandemic. The lockdowns, closure of out-patient services at hospitals and clinics, lack of transportation, unfamiliarity with online or teleconsultation, poor access to the internet and fear of visiting hospitals for scheduled appointments have left patients without follow-up on their disease and medications. In a recent study of scleroderma patients from the Indian Systemic Sclerosis registry, it was noted that 92.3% of the patients missed their scheduled out-patient appointments and 22.3% skipped their prescription drugs. 22.3% of the surveyed patients reported that a family member lost their job. Since a majority of patients with rheumatologic diseases are women in the child-bearing age group, a carefully planned pregnancy and ante-natal care is required. This has become a challenge in the current context. In addition, both pregnant and lactating mothers are not eligible for the currently available Covid-19 vaccines. This puts them at a higher risk of contracting the infection and the ensuing complications. During the pandemic, access to medications that are regularly used by patients with rheumatologic diseases has become difficult. Hydroxychloroquine sulphate (HCQS) is regularly used by patients with lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. During the first wave, it was widely believed that HCQS had an important role in the treatment andprophylaxis of Covid-19. This resulted in a major shortfall in the supply of this essential drug to a large number of arthritis patients, in turn, resulting in their disease flares. In the current wave, the focus is again on another drug called Tocilizumab (actemra), which is used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, arthritis in children (juvenile arthritis) and temporal arteritis. Tocilizumab (actemra) is currently being recommended for the treatment of Covid-19 patients with moderate to severe lung disease. The sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases and the ensuing increased demand for Tocilizumab (actemra) has created a shortage of the drug. This has in turn made it difficult to access the drug for many of the patients who were dependent on it for the control of their arthritis.  Baricitinib (Olumiant) is another arthritis drug that is also being used to treat severe Covid-19 infection. This has likewise created a difficult situation to procure the drug for patients with arthritis. Both these drugs are still not generic, hence are not manufactured in India and have to be imported. This in turn has compounded the problem of availability. Finally, arthritis patients who suffer from lung disease are facing a huge challenge with their regular supplies of oxygen or concentrators much like others. Women with long-standing arthritis may have joint deformities rendering them less capable to carry out their daily chores. Likewise, those with inadequately controlled disease are in constant pain. Inability to get domestic help, carers and support during the pandemic compounds their struggle to keep up with daily household chores, making it an arduous task. Vaccination is our only hope to contain the pandemic. Doubts were raised about the safety of vaccination in patients with autoimmune rheumatologic diseases especially for those who were on immunosuppressive drugs. Recent recommendations from the American College of Rheumatology suggest that it is safe for patients with rheumatologic diseases to receive Covid-19 vaccination irrespective of the underlying disease status. Minor alterations will be made to existing medications to facilitate vaccination. Drugs such as methotrexate, mycophenolate, baricitinib and tofacitinib are better withheld for a week after vaccination. This is done in order to facilitate a better immune response from the body post-vaccination. The timing of infusion of more potent drugs such as cyclophosphamide and rituximab are to be likewise modified. Although this temporary cessation of medications might cause a small flare of the underlying rheumatologic disease, it shouldn’t be difficult to manage them. (The writer is a Consultant Rheumatologist at a Bengaluru hospital)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/managing-rheumatologic-diseases-during-pandemic-990072.html
26-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Deaths are not in vain||My friend of 29 years passed away recently, taking the number of people known to me dying due to Covid-19 to 10. How many people do I know directly, I don't know the number. Does anyone count the number of people they know? Knowing someone is multifactorial. It is philosophical, statistical and probably a neurological question. British anthropologist Robin Dunbar suggested a cognitive limit to the number of people with whom one can maintain stable (positive or negative) social relationships. Dunbar's number of connections was first proposed in the 1990s by correlating primate brain dimension and its average social group size. It was conjectured that humans can stably maintain about 150 relationships. I knew the ten people who died of Covid personally but probably not enough to say they were all in my close circle of 150. Some were were close, but most were not. They were in the first and the second layer in a fuzzy mix. What is the average number of this mix in a population? I do not know. Let us assume it is ten times the Dunbar number. Then we could argue that the ten people I knew who died of Covid-19 were in a group of 1,500, which comes to about 0.6%. I am not an outlier. I made a few phone calls to friends and relatives to figure out how many people they knew had died of Covid-19. The number 10 seemed average. Long back, the brilliant physicist Richard Feynman had articulated a generic maxim that is apt for today's India. Science is a culture of doubt, and religion is a culture of faith, he mildly wrote. In contrast, we are told to believe what the government says without batting an eyelid as if "governance is a culture of faith". The number of deaths mentioned in the government database is close to 3 lakhs. Some epidemiology modellers say the number is ten times more, some even higher. About two-thirds of the Indian population is in the age group of 20 to 70. This number is about 90 crores. Admittedly, all of them do not have an extensive network like a city-bred person like me. Also, there are some overlaps between networks. With about 50% of the people living in large cities and towns, one can use a conservative number of 45 crores Indians with an extended interaction family of 1,500. If one uses the 0.6% death in a network, the total number of deaths is around 30 lakhs. Is this number valid? It may be an overestimate, but from images of floating bodies in Ganga and continuous burning pyres cremation grounds, it is apparent that something is seriously amiss. Death from Covid is secular and caste independent and probably somewhat gender-biased towards men. Probably nature and the soul of India has their way to tell us where we faltered. Our fragmented society divided by caste, religion and bigotry is crying for integration. Deaths from Covid-19 will not be in vain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/deaths-are-not-in-vain-990071.html
26-05-2021||Second Edit||Officers must remain civil, humane||Police brutality is nothing new in the country, but the latest trend of civil service officials menacingly wielding lathis and even assaulting hapless citizens is even more alarming. Be it the collector of Surajpur in Chattisgarh, Ranbir Sharma, who slapped a youth and smashed his mobile phone, or Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) staff who were caught on camera mercilessly assaulting a man who refused to undergo a Covid test, the officialdom seems to be convinced that they can get away with anything. And they have reason to. The guilty are rarely prosecuted, with the maximum punishment they suffer being suspension for a short period. BBMP Commissioner Gaurav Gupta’s response to the highhandedness of his team has been tepid, merely condemning the incident and ordering an inquiry. The accused should have been immediately arrested and terminated from service. Perhaps influenced by movies and egged on by regional television channels, many officers often try to ape Bollywood heroes and play to the gallery, forgetting their constitutional obligations and limitations. Recently, the district magistrate of West Tripura, Shailesh Kumar, had drawn condemnation after he roughed up guests at a wedding and got some of them arrested. Enforcing the lockdown is the job of the police, and even they are expected to do it humanely. IAS officers and district officials should be more worried about testing, tracking, hospital beds, oxygen and medicine supply for the infected. Even if a situation warrants the intervention of civil officers, they should act strictly in accordance with set procedure and not take the law into their own hands. Besides the inaction by government on such offenders, what has really emboldened officers is that the human rights commissions (HRC) at the Centre and in many states are in near coma. In every case of brutality, the government should immediately suspend the officers, launch criminal proceedings and later reinstate them in non-executive posts that do not involve public interface until they are evaluated and cleared by a board of psychiatrists. In serious cases, like the one in Chikkamagaluru where an inspector tortured a person and made another accused urinate on his face, summary dismissal should be the order of the day. While HRCs should cease to be mere post-retirement sinecures, the government should adopt a zero-tolerance policy towards inhuman behaviour by its officers. Unfortunately, even after seven decades of Independence, the colonial hangover remains, with many officers assuming that they are masters, rather than servants, of the people. Unless they mend their ways, the day is not far when the public which is fast losing patience may be forced to react and retaliate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/officers-must-remain-civil-humane-990065.html
26-05-2021||South||Custodial death of father-son: SC tells accused cop to remain in jail for some time||"You should remain in jail for some time," the Supreme Court on Tuesday told a Tamil Nadu police officer, while refusing to list early his bail plea in the custodial death of father-son duo Jayaraj-Bennix. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai noted this was a case where a father and his son were beaten black and blue to death in custody for merely violating Covid lockdown. "This is a very bad case. This is a case where you should be in jail for some time," the bench told senior advocate Anjana Prakash as she insisted for an urgent listing of bail plea of P Raghu Ganesh, who was the sub-inspector of the Sathankulam police station, where Jayaraj and Bennix were subjected to custodial torture in June 2020. The bench, which issued notice to the CBI on the plea, declined to grant an urgent listing of the petition during summer vacation. The counsel contended her client was not present at the police station at the time of the incident. She also submitted that one of the accused died due to Covid while in custody. She urged the court to list the matter during the vacation. The court noted the records showed that there was an eyewitness for Raghu Ganesh's involvement in the crime. Ganesh approached the top court challenging the Madras High Court order of March 22, which dismissed his bail application. On June 19, last year, Jayaraj and Bennix were taken into custody on the allegation that they had kept their mobile phone shop open beyond the permissible hours during the lockdown. The Tamil Nadu government handed over the investigation to the CBI. The CBI filed a chargesheet against nine police personnel in the Sathankulam custodial death case of Jayaraj and Bennix at Tuticorin district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/custodial-death-of-father-son-sc-tells-accused-cop-to-remain-in-jail-for-some-time-990076.html
26-05-2021||South||Fishing boats capsize off Kerala coast, one dead||A fisherman, who went missing along with few others after their boats capsized off Vizhinjam coast near here, was found dead on Wednesday, police said. Rescue operation is progressing to trace two others who are still missing hours after their tiny boats overturned due to rough sea and strong winds on Tuesday night. The body of 55-year-old Davidson, a native of coastal hamlet Poonthura, was recovered from Adimalathura this morning, coastal police said. The missing persons were identified as Joseph and Shabariar, natives of Poonthura and Kottapuram respectively. "Four boats, carrying at least 17 people including the deceased man, capsized off the coast. A total of eight people have been rescued so far by the Indian Coast Guard (ICG). The coastal wardens of the state police also took part in the mission," Coastal Police CI, Elias P George told PTI. The exact number of people who had travelled in the capsized fishing boats was still not clear, he said, adding that many of them have already swum to safety. "Rescue operation is still on to trace the two missing fishermen. An ICG ship and Dornier aircraft are part of the mission," he added. Though fishing had been banned in the state for some days due to the Covid situation and the prediction of rough sea and strong winds was in place, the fishermen, who met with the accident, had gone to sea without informing any concerned person, police sources added. Meanwhile, several parts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta have been receiving widespread rains since Tuesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fishing-boats-capsize-off-kerala-coast-one-dead-990208.html
26-05-2021||South||4 arrested for transporting 200 kg of ganja||The police arrested four persons who were transporting ganja from Tuni in Andhra Pradesh to Kerala. Nearly 200 kg of ganja were seized from the arrested, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. The ganja was being transported in a fish transporting lorry and was waylaid at Talapady. The arrested are Mohammed Farooq (24) from Kasargod, Sayyed Mohammed (31) from Kushalnagar, Mohammed Ansar (23) from Mudipu and Moideen Nawaz (34) from Manjeshwara. The police have also seized one knife, four mobile phones and one Wi-Fi set from the arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/4-arrested-for-transporting-200-kg-of-ganja-990228.html
26-05-2021||South||Heavy rains lash Kerala; yellow alert sounded in 11 districts||Widespread rains and sea incursion were reported in several parts of Kerala on Wednesday and authorities have issued an alert to people living on the banks of water bodies. Except the northern districts of Malappuram, Wayanad and Kasaragod, several parts of the rest of the 11 districts have been receiving copious rains accompanied by strong winds since last night prompting the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to sound a 'yellow alert' there. As per the latest IMD update, a yellow alert, denoting the possibility of heavy rainfall, was issued in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur and Lakshadweep. Shutters of Kallarkutty dam in Idukki and Aruvikkara Dam here were opened in view of heavy rains. Authorities warned people living on the banks of various water bodies in Pathanamthitta district to be extra vigilant as the water level was steadily rising. Sea incursion was reported in various districts, including Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Ernakulam. Uprooting of trees and water-logging of low-lying areas were also reported across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-lash-kerala-yellow-alert-sounded-in-11-districts-990289.html
26-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to pass resolution against new farm laws||On the day the farmers' protest completed six months, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday said the DMK will pass a resolution against the legislation passed by the Parliament in the state Assembly. He nudged the Union government to repeal all the three farm laws immediately. In a statement on Wednesday, Stalin said it was sad that the Centre has not engaged the farmers in a constructive discussion. “Even after six months, the Centre has not come forward to talk to the farmers and fulfil their just demand. The Centre should heed to the farmers' demands and repeal the laws,” he said. The DMK president also recalled that the party had promised in its manifesto that it would pass a resolution in the Assembly against these laws. “The Centre should repeal the laws by giving into the demands of the farmers... The DMK will fulfil the promises made to the people on the farm laws,” he said. Meanwhile, farmers in the fertile Cauvery Delta region protested against the Centre by holding black flags outside their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-pass-resolution-against-new-farm-laws-990317.html
26-05-2021||South||Stalin withdraws cases against political leaders filed during Sterlite protests||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday ordered the withdrawal of 38 cases, including against political party leaders, filed during the anti-Sterlite protests in May 2018 in Thoothukudi. In a statement, Stalin said the cases are being withdrawn in line with an announcement made by him on May 21 after going through recommendations of the Justice Aruna Jagadeesan commission in its interim report. The Chief Minister had announced most cases except those handed over to CBI and those relating to damage caused to public properties will be withdrawn. The CM said cases against MDMK chief Vaiko, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam chief T T V Dhinakaran, DMDK's Premalatha Vijayakanth and Fisheries Minister Anitha Radhakrishnan, will be withdrawn. At least 13 people were killed and several others injured in the police firing on protesters who had gathered at the Collectorate in Thoothukudi. They were demanding that the government shut down the Sterlite Copper plant and revoke permission given for its expansion. Stalin had on May 21 said all cases except those handed over to the CBI and those relating to damages to public property will be withdrawn, while all cases filed against protesters before May 22, 2018, except those pending before the Supreme Court and few others will be withdrawn. The announcement came as relatives of those killed and anti-Sterlite protesters gear to observe the third anniversary of the police firing on Saturday. After the incident, the copper smelter was closed down by the Tamil Nadu government citing violations by the Vedanta-owned group, which appealed against the decision in the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Though the NGT allowed reopening of the plant, the Supreme Court struck down the order on the grounds of maintainability after which the company approached the Madras High Court. The court had on August 18 upheld the Tamil Nadu government’s order closing down the plant. Sterlite Copper has now approached the Supreme Court against the Madras High Court order. The plant has now been reopened for production of oxygen to be supplied to Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-withdraws-cases-against-political-leaders-filed-during-sterlite-protests-990333.html
26-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Minister P K Sekar Babu ticks off north Indian residents, says they didn't vote for DMK||Taking a dig at north Indian residents here, Minister P K Sekar Babu on Wednesday said over the years, including the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, they have not voted for the DMK. The party's elected representatives, however, have worked for them and would continue to do so as it considered them as "one among us," he said. His remarks came in for strong criticism from the BJP and some social media users. Babu, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, said though he used to be asked as to why he worked for them as they did not vote for the DMK, his answer was that they too were sons of this soil, which was also the party's stand. The work for the north Indian people by DMK is based on the principle that an elected representative, an MLA or the Chief Minister is common to all the people, irrespective of whether or not someone had voted in favour of a party that won polls, he said. Several areas of north Chennai, particularly a number of localities falling under the Harbour Assembly constituency, is home to a large number of people, who are natives of mainly Rajasthan and a section of them, Gujarat. Babu, a DMK district secretary (Chennai-East), was elected from Harbour seat. The party's elected representatives, him and the Lok Sabha MP (Central Chennai) Dayanidhi Maran fully worked to guard the interests of residents, who are natives of north India in matters including constraints in building houses, he said. "We have worked for you without expecting anything in return," Babu said addressing an event organised by Mahavir International Chennai Metro (MICM) here. Despite the work through the years, be it the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 or the Assembly elections including 2021, most people from the community did not vote for the DMK, he said. "We did not get remarkable number of votes from areas where you live in large numbers. It does not matter. Even if you have not voted for us, we will continue to work for you." During his campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls, Babu said the party had fervently appealed to the community to vote in its favour though they had not done so in previous elections. Still, the party was not chosen and citing an example, Babu said in a particular locality, the DMK got 50 votes and the BJP about 300. If asked about their choice, the community members had maintained that their vote was for the DMK, he said. Seeking to reject their claim, the Minister said in this age of Electronic Voting Machines, specific, area-wise data on the electorate"s choice can be zeroed in, he said. Such data for the 2021 polls revealed that they did not vote for DMK this time too, whose MLA and MP worked for them, he said in an obvious snide remark. Despite them not voting for DMK, the party and its elected representatives would not ignore them, he said. "We, the DMK are here to work for you," he said and quoted a couplet from Tamil classic "Thirukkural" to buttress his point. The crux of the "Inna Seitharai" couplet is good deeds for even those who have been bad and Babu said he would send a copy of the Hindi version of Thirukkural to them. "We welcome good deeds, whoever does it," he said on the free food distribution, food bank initiative of MICM to help people affected by the pandemic. "We don"t consider you as people from outside. We consider you as from our state. We regard you as one among us," the Minister said and thanked the organisers of the event. The Minister"s remarks came in for severe criticism from a section of social media users. BJP"s national president of mahila morcha and MLA from Coimbatore-south, Vanathi Srinivasan tweeted, "The hatred spewed by Minister Sekar Babu against North Indians are condemnable and disturbing." "To see elected officials discriminate Indians on the basis of their native roots is against every grain and soul of our constitution. Thiru. @mkstalin should take immediate action." When votes for the Assembly polls were counted on May 2, in a number of rounds, BJP"s Vinoj P Selvam was leading in Harbour constituency. Selvam eventually finished runner-up and the Saffron party, an ally of the AIADMK secured 32,043 votes and DMK"s Babu got 59,317 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-minister-p-k-sekar-babu-ticks-off-north-indian-residents-says-they-didnt-vote-for-dmk-990407.html
26-05-2021||State||Popularity of vegan products boosts jackfruit demand||Bengaluru on Tuesday exported a whopping 10.2 metric tonnes of gumless jackfruit powder and jackfruit cubes to Germany. Sourced from various parts of Karnataka to meet the growing demand for vegan products in European countries, the organic jackfruits were processed at the pack house of the Bengaluru-based Phalada Agro Research Foundation. The consignment consisting of jackfruit flour, largely used in the baking industry as part of the gluten-free movement, and jackfruit cubes were exported to Germany via sea route, officials said. C M N Shastry, chairperson and managing director of Phalada Agro Research Foundation, told DH that this would empower the farmers economically, besides getting a global market for their produce. “Jackfruit is often chosen as an alternative to shredded meat in the West, due to its texture and rich fibre content besides being packed with almost every vitamin, protein and mineral needed by us. The fruit and its products are in great demand overseas,” Sastry explained. Though most households in rural Karnataka have jackfruit trees, not all fruits are consumed. Most of the times, they are left to rot or eaten by animals. But now with the steady demand for the fruit, farmers are seeing it as an additional source of income. “As jackfruit crop does not require any spray or maintenance, it is free from pesticides or other chemical content, providing wholesome nutrient at affordable costs. Besides turning out to be an additional income to our farmers and doubling their income as envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, fruits that are usually left to rot are fed into the mainstream. Realising the economic importance of the tree, no one will cut it, thus aiding conservation,” Sastry said. Assisted by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Phalada has processed raw jackfruits sourced from Malnad, coastal Karnataka and other places. A few weeks ago, 1.2 metric tonnes of organic jackfruits were exported to London from Tripura, officials said. Phalada is an agro company registered with APEDA and consists of 1,500 farmers holding about 12,000 acres, cultivating medicinal, aromatic herbs, coconut, jackfruit, mango, spices and coffee, using organic methods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/popularity-of-vegan-products-boosts-jackfruit-demand-990087.html
26-05-2021||State||Homa-havana vs sanitisation drive in Belagavi||BJP MLA Abhay Patil’s initiative of conducting a ritual of homa-havana in every lane of Belgaum South Assembly constituency to clean the environs during the second wave of Covid-19 took a political turn on Tuesday. Supporters of KPCC working president and MLA Satish Jarkiholi, under the banner of Veera Madakari Gharjana Sangha, conducted a sanitisation drive in the same lanes where the homa-havana ritual was held. On Monday, Abhay Patil, along with his supporters, launched the homa-havana ritual from Baswan Galli in Hosur where he resides. The ritual was conducted at 50 places in Belgaum South Assembly constituency. Various material such as cow-dung, camphor, neem leaves, cloves, ghee, guggal, loban, and others were used for homa-havana. A container-like pushcart was used for the ritual. To counter the ritual, activists of Veera Madakari Gharjana Sangha conducted a sanitisation drive on Tuesday in the same lanes where the homa-havana was held. Sangha activists said: “We are not aware of the benefits of homa-havana and its impact on Covid-19, but sanitisation will clean the area by killing the virus. We are conducting sanitisationas per the direction of Satish Jarkiholi.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/homa-havana-vs-sanitisation-drive-in-belagavi-990094.html
26-05-2021||State||Researchers turn to Spanish Flu to find Covid treatment||Learning some lessons from the Spanish Flu outbreak of 1918, Indian researchers have gone back to testing how low-dose radiation therapy can be used to treat Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and pneumonia in Covid-19 patients. Over 10,000 out of 14,308 Covid-19 fatalities this year in Karnataka suffered from SARI. Although pilot studies at AIIMS in New Delhi and at a centre at Trichy in Tamil Nadu involving about 20 patients were carried out last year, researchers said that further work was stopped after the first wave peaked. Now, researchers in Bengaluru said they are preparing to carry out independent trials, building on these pilot studies. Dr Lohith G Reddy, consultant radiation oncologist, who is one of the principal investigators of the proposed trial, said the studies are looking at the precedent of Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918, whereby medical practitioners found that X-rays can help modulate cytokine storms, or an unregulated immune response from a viral infection. “By giving a low dose of radiation, we can suppress the pro-inflammatory phase of the virus. Application of Low-Dose Radiation Therapy (LDRT) is done between the second and third stage when oxygen dependency is more. The radiation has an immune modulatory effect. This can suppress lung damage,” Dr Reddy said.  The low dose being proposed is 0.5 grays of radiation. Speaking as an independent expert, Dr C Ramachandra, director, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, concurred that LDRT has its benefits without causing side-effects. “The dosage is the equivalent of about 15 CT-scans,” he said. “While high doses of radiation trigger inflammatory effects and edema (swelling), low doses of below 1 gray actually produce anti-inflammatory and anti-edema effects. When they give this dose, the inflammation reduces and use of oxygen supplementation is reduced and percolation of the lung is better. This has prevented many people from entering the ICU,” he added. In Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials conducted at Trichy with ICMR approval, researchers found that there was a dramatic reduction in supplementary oxygen requirements among patents. “Unfortunately, after the first wave, the research stopped. Had it continued, we would probably not be facing many problems today, including oxygen shortages,” said Dr G Govindaraj, the principal investigator of that study. He added that while most LDRT studies have been conducted in the West, additional studies in India could help pool the data and advance the treatment. Problem of deployment Dr Ramachandra, however, does not believe the treatment can be effectively deployed. “Only patients who can do without supplemental oxygen can ideally be treated as they should be able to move back and forth from Covid hospitals to radiation therapy centres. This is not possible by seriously ill patients who require oxygen support at all times,” he said. He added that radiation therapy machines are also in limited supply in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/researchers-turn-to-spanish-flu-to-find-covid-treatment-990097.html
26-05-2021||State||RDPR staff to be considered Corona warriors||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday suggested setting up help desks and helplines for Covid-19 management at the gram panchayat (GP) level. In an interaction with representatives from GPs, he advised them to seek assistance from local self-help groups and donors and to strengthen the task forces formed at the GP-level to curb the second wave of the pandemic. Yediyurappa announced that employees of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department would be considered as Corona warriors. The government would extend the amenities provided to Revenue Department personnel to those in RDPR, he said. On the Rs 50,000 package announced to all GPs from State Disaster Response Fund, he said that the fund would reach the local bodies at the earliest. In the meeting, HN Desai, president of Thondikatti GP in Belagavi taluk, highlighted a shortage of Rapid Antigen Test kits. Yediyurappa assured to ensure supply immediately. He directed all GP presidents in the video conference to ensure that Covid patients are strictly admitted to Covid Care Centres, especially those residing in small houses to prevent the spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rdpr-staff-to-be-considered-corona-warriors-990419.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two firms offer Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine doses to Karnataka||Two Indian companies have offered to supply Russia's Sputnik V vaccine to Karnataka after the state invited bids to procure two crore Covid-19 vaccines to propel the vaccination drive that has faltered due to a severe shortage of jabs. Bulk MRO Industrial Supply Pvt Ltd from Mumbai has offered to supply the Sputnik V vaccine, while Bengaluru-based Thulasi Systems has said it can provide the Sputnik+ single dose vaccine, officials said. Authorities are evaluating the next steps even as no major international vaccine manufacturer came forward in response to the Open International Tender, which was floated on May 14 and closed at 5.30 pm on May 24. Several other Indian states are also scrambling to procure vaccines through global tenders amid the brutal second wave of the pandemic, even as the Centre said the order books of Pfizer and Moderna, two major US vaccine makers, were full at the moment. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also chairperson of the Covid-19 Task Force, was still hopeful and told DH that the government would consider extending the time limit for submission of bids, given the tepid response. The government has approved Rs 843 crore for the procurement of vaccines. “Let's see...There are many licence holders for the vaccines and we’re sure something will come out,” he said. When asked if the government would float a fresh tender, he said: “We can extend the time (limit) instead of re-tendering. We will discuss this.” Karnataka is struggling with its vaccination drive as the government does not have enough stock or supply for the 18-44 age category, while the virus continues to ravage the rural areas and its capital and tech hub, Bengaluru. “Vaccination for the 18-44 age group is going on, but not publicly. It’s only for priority groups, which we want to finish by the end of this month,” Narayan said.  The government wants to launch its own software programme for vaccination on June 1. Globally, there are at least 15 Covid-19 vaccines that have received regulatory authorisation or approvals. “We weren't looking for responses from just international manufacturers. Even suppliers were allowed to make a bid," Karnataka State Medical Supplies Corporation managing director KS Latha Kumari said, adding that the tender documents would be verified following which negotiations would take place over pricing and other details. According to sources, one of the two bids was not in the prescribed format. If this becomes a single-bid tender, then officials may consider redoing the process. Bulk MRO co-founder Devang Shah told DH that the company had a licensing agreement to supply Sputnik V and talks were on with other manufacturers for sale agreements. Thulasi Systems managing director T S Srinvas said his company, which deals with solar and LED lighting solutions, has been supplying Covid-19 products for the past one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-firms-offer-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-karnataka-990084.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Real money online gaming: Ban it or allow it with regulations?||Should rummy and other real money online games be allowed with regulations or outrightly banned? While this question faces a legal test, industry players have urged Karnataka to come up with a skill-gaming policy instead of an absolute ban, which they feel would kill a sunrise sector.  The policy, they argue, can provide a blueprint in line with global best practices. Based on a petition filed in September last year, the High Court of Karnataka had directed the government to table before the state cabinet a proposal to regulate online gaming.  Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have banned real money gaming. The Kerala Gaming Act, 1960, grants a special exemption to online rummy. Currently, a regulatory vacuum exists in Karnataka, and the petitioner had sought the court’s intervention to change this.  The industry players say that a gaming policy based on the principles of effective control can help promote a sector with immense revenue and employment potential.  “We are hoping for a forward-looking skill-gaming policy. Globally, this is a well-recognised form of entertainment. In India, it has the potential to be bigger than television and OTT platforms,” notes Sameer Barde, Chief Executive Officer, The Online Rummy Federation.  To ban rummy and other online gaming based on real money, other states had a rationale: That it amounts to gambling. But the industry players say that rummy is a game of skill, and such skill games are not gambling. “Even cricket has a coin toss at the beginning. The game can swing based on who wins the toss,” Barde contends.  In support of their contention, they cite a report authored jointly by the Indian School of Business (ISB) and Deloitte Advanced Analytics, which concluded after a detailed statistical analysis that rummy is essentially a game of skill.  The gaming industry, says Barde, is keen to work with the government to evolve a regulatory mechanism. Self-regulation is already embedded in the system. “This ensures that the player experience is fair and transparent, underage players are not allowed and KYC and SSL encryptions are integrated. We have also set daily and monthly limits.”  Nationwide, online skill gaming has an estimated 300 million players of whom 60-80 millions play rummy. Largely driven by smartphones and affordable data, the sector’s rapid growth is expected to boost the total media and entertainment industry by 4% to 5%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/real-money-online-gaming-ban-it-or-allow-it-with-regulations-990089.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid rule violation: Karnataka HC seeks report on action taken against B Y Vijayendra||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the state government seeking details of action taken against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra violating Covid-19 guidelines and conducting a special puja at a temple in Nanjangud. Hearing a public interest litigation filed by Letzkit Foundation, a division bench led by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, questioned the privilege accorded to one person in violation of the guidelines. “The temple was opened and puja was conducted for one person’s convenience. This is violation of the government’s guidelines. Submit a report by June 3 on the action taken,” the bench said. Advocate G R Mohan had submitted that Vijayendra, along with family, had visited the Nanjundeshwara Temple on May 18 for performing a special puja. BJP’s Belagavi rally issue The high court also expressed its displeasure over the BJP’s rally in Belagavi on January 17 conducted in violation of the rules introduced to curb Covid-19. Responding to the police commissioner’s affidavit that said the violators have been fined, the bench said: “The police commissioner doesn’t seem to have knowledge of the law. No FIR has been registered against the organisers. The rules of the law have been completely ignored. This affidavit cannot be accepted. Submit an affidavit by June 3,” it said. The bench also sought a report on compliance with its earlier order that FIR should be filed against all those who participated in the rally. The case was adjourned to July 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-rule-violation-karnataka-hc-seeks-report-on-action-taken-against-b-y-vijayendra-990090.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yogeshgouda murder case: HC dismisses Vinay Kulkarni's bail plea||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday refused to grant bail to former minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni, an accused in the murder of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat member Yogeshgouda, and dismissed the application. A bench of Justice K Natarajan said that Kulkarni is an influential person in the place where the murder took place. “The accused has been submitting bail applications repeatedly, without providing any complementary matter,” it said. CBI advocate P Prasannakumar argued that there were strong evidences to prove the involvement of the accused in hatching a conspiracy to kill Gouda. Giving bail to the accused may lead to the destruction of the evidences. Kulkarni’s advocate Shashikiran Shetty requested bail noting that CBI has already completed its investigation and submitted a charge sheet. “The applicant has no connection to this murder,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yogeshgouda-murder-case-hc-dismisses-vinay-kulkarnis-bail-plea-990095.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Timely planning helped Karnataka overcome the oxygen crisis: K Sudhakar||The sudden tripping of oxygen manufacturing plants on Monday had triggered panic across the state which is already struggling to cope with the shortage of oxygen. However, on Tuesday, the state government clarified that it has successfully managed the situation without risking the lives of the Covid patients. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday evening told media persons that the timely intervention by the government and meticulous planning in the handling of the situation led to proper management of the scenario without jeopardising the lives of the Covid patients in any part of the state. “Due to the technical snag at the plants, we were facing a shortage of 286.64 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen. But our timely preparations and optimal utilisation of resources helped us overcome the scenario successfully. Whatever the oxygen that was available during these days was judiciously used besides keeping a buffer stock to meet any emergency situation,” Sudhakar briefed. The minister also said that the centre’s oxygen express also arrived in Bengaluru on Monday and delivered 130 MT of oxygen. “Additionally, we had 120 MT of oxygen in Bengaluru and another 100 MT at districts. This was supplied after rationally analysing the demand from various hospitals. Hence we did not face any problem,” he clarified. Dr Sudhakar said that by Tuesday night, the plants, which reported technical snag, will resume operations and there will not be any disruptions in the supply of oxygen. “In the meantime, the Centre has increased Karnataka’s allocation from 1,015 MT to 1,200 MT after CM Yediyurappa and ministers apprised the Centre about the crisis in Karnataka,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/timely-planning-helped-karnataka-overcome-the-oxygen-crisis-k-sudhakar-990099.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Freedom fighter H S Doreswamy passes away at 104||Noted freedom fighter and centenarian H S Doreswamy passed away on Wednesday afternoon due to cardiac arrest. The 104-year-old Gandhian was admitted to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research a few days ago due to old age-related sickness including hypertension and bronchitis. In the first week of May, Doreswamy had tested positive for Covid-19 after he complained about breathlessness, cough, and cold. He had successfully fought the Covid-19 virus and was discharged on May 12 from the Jayadeva Hospital.  However, a couple of days later, he complained about uneasiness and was shifted to the hospital again on May 14. Sources at the Jayadeva Hospital revealed to DH that Doreswamy has tested positive for Covid-19 post-death. Dr CN Manjunath, Director of the Jayadeva Hospital told media persons that the centenarian had complained about fatigue after the discharge.  "When he was readmitted last week, he asked why is he being treated? He told us not to provide him with any bed as he is already 104-year-old. He repeatedly told us to send him home so that another needy patient can be treated at the hospital. But he was promptly following the doctors' advice on health," Dr Manjunath said. Several prominent personalities including Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa have expressed condolences over the demise of freedom fighter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/freedom-fighter-h-s-doreswamy-passes-away-at-104-990191.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gets tech-enabled CSR platform||Karnataka on Wednesday unveiled a new technology platform to facilitate and streamline Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funding for various developmental activities. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa called it the first-of-its-kind initiative in India.  The online portal - akanksha.karnataka.gov.in - has been developed in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). It allows corporates to identify sectors where they want to pump their CSR money.  The law mandates wealthy companies to spend at least 2 per cent of their average net profits of the previous three years on welfare activities. “This portal will be a transparent bridge between the government and donours in taking up CSR projects smoothly,” Yediyurappa said. “This will ensure CSR money goes to projects that are really in need.”  DH had reported in September 2020 that Karnataka was developing an online portal to streamline the flow of CSR money towards various government requirements.  “On this portal, donours can connect with government officials and non-profits and achieve faster help for those in need,” Yediyurappa said.     The Akanksha portal is linked with the state government’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) targets. According to Yediyurappa, the government has set aside Rs 61,407 crore to meet SDGs in the current 2021-22 fiscal. “Last year, the health sector had Rs 11,527 crore. This year, its allocation is Rs 11,650 crore,” he said.  The CSR potential in Karnataka is huge. Between 2014 and 2018, some 2,588 companies based in Karnataka spent Rs 4,143 crore of CSR money, according to the Chief Minister’s Office. Much of this money went into the education, environment and health sectors.  Corporates have donated in a large way ever since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out last year. The Chief Minister’s Relief Fund received donations of over Rs 300 crore last year. This time, during the second Covid-19 wave, the government has received Rs 175.09 crore by way of donations that include ventilators, oxygen concentrators, Remdesivir drug, pulse oximetres and so on.  Yediyurappa said his government had announced a package worth Rs 1,250 crore to help those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Also, 2.06 lakh patients have received free treatment for which the government has spent Rs 956 crore,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gets-tech-enabled-csr-platform-990195.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister seeks Covid-19 relief package for teaching, non- teaching staff in unaided schools||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Wednesday appealed to the Chief Minister to announce a relief package for the teaching and non-teaching staff of private unaided schools, who are facing financial hardship due to Covid-induced lockdown. The appeal was made a day after B S Yediyurappa hinted that another financial package was under consideration for those affected by the lockdown. The government has already announced a package of Rs 1,250 crore for various communities. The Minister and the MLCs representing graduates and teachers' constituencies led a delegation of the teachers of private unaided schools and met Yediyurappa, said a statement issued by the office of Suresh Kumar. During the meeting, the Minister said many teachers are forced to eke out a living by selling fruits and vegetables. "It is our duty to treat this community with dignity, which is protecting the interest of our children and the government's economic package will help them to gain self- confidence," Kumar was quoted as saying in the statement. The relief package of Rs 1,250 crore has been sanctioned to farmers, workers from unorganised sector, auto and cab drivers, street vendors among others. The state on Tuesday reported 22,758 new cases and 588 deaths due to Covid whereas there are 4.24 lakh active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-seeks-covid-19-relief-package-for-teaching-non-teaching-staff-in-unaided-schools-990200.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister confirms moves to topple CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday conceded that attempts were on within the BJP to have Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa removed, with the ageing Lingayat strongman initiating a counterattack by deploying his loyals to bat for his continuation.  "I know that (dissidence) meetings are going on. Some ministers seem to be a part of this as well. All these talks... it's true 100 per cent that attempts are going on (to replace Yediyurappa) and some are involved indirectly," Ashoka told reporters in the first such public admission of the whispers by someone in the government. "But I am completely focused on the Covid-19 situation." Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara and BJP Hubballi-Dharwad (West) legislator Arvind Bellad were in New Delhi reportedly to meet the party’s top brass, leading to speculation in political circles.  Notwithstanding Ashoka’s statement, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, Housing Minister V Somanna and Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani spoke in favour of Yediyurappa, refuting talks on change in leadership.  The latest development has exposed cracks within the ruling BJP as MLAs loyal to Yediyurappa, who has weathered all the storms thus far, have openly hit out against those "plotting" his removal. Those against Yediyurappa are the ones disgruntled over not being made ministers, they said. "Even if some MLAs are trying to have Yediyurappa removed, it won’t happen," Channagiri MLA Madal Virupakshappa said. "The MLAs who have gone to Delhi are those who won’t even win the next election. Why should Yediyurappa be removed anyway? What wrong has he done?"  Virupakshappa joined BDA chairperson S R Vishwanath, Karnataka’s Delhi representative Shankaragouda Patil and Gundlupet MLA Niranjan Kumar in saying Yediyurappa will remain the chief minister. "Yes, there are some differences within the party such as grants to constituencies. And, if our own people have had new clothes stitched, they should stop dreaming," Vishwanath said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, with his ringside view of the developments, claimed that the process of removing Yediyurappa had reached its final stage. "There are corruption charges against his administration. Also, there is mismanagement on the Covid-19 front," he said.  Speculation is rife that the BJP central leadership has asked Yediyurappa to convene a legislature party meeting next month. This has been one of the demands of dissident MLAs. "But will the CM be changed just because a legislature party meeting is convened?" Agriculture Minister B C Patil asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-confirms-moves-to-topple-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-990334.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulls incentive scheme for oxygen production||The state government is planning to come up with a scheme to incentivise oxygen production, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said Wednesday. The government will come out with the details of the scheme soon. Officials have been directed to chart out the details of the proposed initiative, said Shettar, the minister in charge of oxygen supply management. Commenting on oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients in Karnataka, Shettar said that continuous talks with the Centre had yielded fruit. "The Centre has issued an order to supply 1,200 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen," he said. The 1,200 MT allocation includes 830 MT from the state's main producers, 60 MT from MSME PSA plant authorized by the Centre and 310 MT is to be brought from other states (240 MT from Maharashtra and 70 MT Orissa), Shettar explained. Buffer stock storage Shettar also directed officials to increase buffer stock storage capacity of liquid medical oxygen in all districts to 20 MT. Ensuring the buffer storage will help districts, especially during emergencies, according to the minister. Oxygen is supplied to districts based on the active caseload. Oxygen supply to all hospitals is being monitored, he said. Over the last five days, Karnataka has received 889.93 MT, 855.21 MT, 1,062.71 MT, 899.22 MT and 728.36 MT of oxygen, respectively, he said. Shettar said that two 500 litres per minute oxygen generators were functional in Yadgir and Kolar. Another 1,000 LPM plant became operational at Kalaburagi on May 22, he said. Measures are being taken to revive inoperative oxygen generation units across the state. There is a proposal to launch oxygen production at Yermaras in Raichur by handing over the oxygen unit to private parties, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulls-incentive-scheme-for-oxygen-production-990366.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM B S Yediyurappa to chair key meeting on Mekedatu project, says Bommai||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will chair a “crucial” meeting on Thursday to explore legal options after the Chennai bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) constituted a committee to visit Mekedatu where Karnataka has proposed to build a reservoir across the Cauvery. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said legal experts and officials will discuss whether the NGT committee was bound by law, adding that measures will be taken to safeguard Karnataka’s interests. The Southern Bench of the NGT has decided to set up a committee even though there was no official complaint, Bommai pointed out. "When we planned the project -- based on the (water sharing) rights of the state -- we also submitted the relevant documents to Supreme Court," he said and added that the Supreme Court was already hearing the case based on a petition filed by Tamil Nadu. At such a juncture, it is not clear how appropriate or legal the NGT decision is, Bommai said. Yediyurappa will chair a meeting with advocate general, legal experts and officials to decide on the course of action by the state government. Mekedatu is a drinking water project proposed by Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited and has been met with strong opposition from Tamil Nadu since the project was envisaged in 2003. The project is planned at the confluence of Cauvery and Arkavathy rivers. While Karnataka has maintained that the project was to ensure drinking water supply and would use up only the water allocated to Karnataka as per the Cauvery Tribunal award, Tamil Nadu has maintained that it would be against its interest, especially during drought years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-chair-key-meeting-on-mekedatu-project-says-bommai-990367.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 26,811 new Covid-19 cases, 530 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 26,811 new cases of Covid-19 and 530 more deaths, taking the total number of infected persons to 24,99,784 and the death toll to 26,929. The day also saw 40,741 discharges. Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, 6,433 were from Bengaluru Urban and the city also saw 285 deaths. As of May 26 evening, cumulatively 20,62,910 discharges, have been reported across the state. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 4,09,924. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 19.48%, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.97%.  Bengaluru Rural reported 35 deaths, Ballari 22 while Belagavi, Mysuru, Shivamogga, and Tumakuru reported 14 deaths followed by Chamarajanagar with 13. Mysuru accounted for 2,792 new cases followed by Hassan with 1,471, Tumakuru 1,399, Davanagere 1,309, and Belagavi 1,205 cases. A total of over 2,90,61,302 samples have been tested so far, of which 1,37,584 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-26811-new-covid-19-cases-530-deaths-990368.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Task force to prepares action plan for ban on single-use plastic in Karnataka||The state government has constituted a special task force under the chairmanship of additional chief secretary to the government, in an effort to prepare a comprehensive action plan for elimination of single-use plastic. The Task Force will also look into implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. According to a government order in this regard, the task force has been constituted following a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January this year, where the Centre directed the state government to constitute the same. Karnataka was among the first states to ban usage of plastic back in 2016. The task force will have sixteen members, including the chairperson. The members include heads of various departments concerned. According to the government order, the Task Force will be responsible for an action plan to implement the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 and to phase out single-use plastics. Among its other roles, the Task Force will assess plastic waste generated in the state with respect to collection, identify gaps in plastic waste management and develop policies for supporting the adoption of alternatives to identified single-use plastic items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/task-force-to-prepares-action-plan-for-ban-on-single-use-plastic-in-karnataka-990370.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Education department turns to govt teachers to aid counterparts in private schools||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has requested teachers in government schools to extend help to their counterparts working with private unaided schools, who are in financial distress for the last 15 months. In a meeting chaired by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Wednesday, the representatives of government school and PU college teachers associations agreed for the request made by the minister and said they have no problem in donating one day’s salary. According to sources from the meeting, the minister requested the government school and college teachers to donate five days’ salaries. “We have agreed to donate one day’s salary of our primary, high school and PU college teachers. But if it is more than one day, we will need to discuss with our members and get back,” said an office bearer of one of the associations. The one day salary of government primary school. high school and PU college teachers comes to Rs 27 crore, but this is not sufficient to address the financial crisis of private unaided school teachers. Representatives present in the meeting suggested that the department utilise MLC grants, other funds set aside in the department for various schemes like free bicycle scheme, free uniforms, shoes and socks. Meanwhile, 14 members of the legislative council (MLCs) representing teachers and graduates constituencies have donated their one year’s salary to address the financial crisis of private school teachers. Before this, a delegation of MLCs met the chief minister and requested to include private school staff in the Covid-19 relief package. Last year too, the minister convened a similar meeting where government school teachers agreed to donate their one day’s salary, but the promise did not materialise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-education-department-turns-to-govt-teachers-to-aid-counterparts-in-private-schools-990371.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two more oxygen express trains reach Bengaluru||Karnataka on Wednesday received two more Oxygen Express trains, which together brought 232.16 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from Gujarat and Jharkhand. So far, Karnataka has received 1,652.8 tonnes of LMO by rail. The 13th Oxygen Express reached the Inland Container Depot in Whitefield at 12.10 am. It had started from Kanalus, Jamnagar, Gujarat at 6.20 pm on Monday. The train brought 112.16 tonnes of LMO in six cryogenic containers. The 14th train reached the city at 1 pm on Wednesday. It had left Tatanagar, Jharkhand at 9.15 am on Tuesday. The train carried 120 tonnes of LMO in six cryogenic containers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-more-oxygen-express-trains-reach-bengaluru-990375.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||This Bengaluru techie slogs to spare Covid patients the nightmares||Having spent a fortnight in the hospital for Covid-19 treatment and having seen his acquaintances struggle to find hospital beds, Bengaluru-based techie Kamran Shahid, 32, decided to make things easier for others. He began coordinating for hospital beds, even as he was in the hospital. Once discharged, he joined ‘Namma Team,’ a group of volunteers guided by IAS officer P Manivannan. Speaking to DH, Shahid said it all began when he was hospitalised for Covid-19 treatment in April this year. “When I was in the hospital, I saw that there were several SOS requests online for hospital beds and for oxygen. Since I was in the hospital, I was only retweeting requests as I was not in a position to talk to people on phone. Once I got out of the hospital, I reached out to Manivannan Sir as he had called for volunteers,” he narrated. Ever since, he has been managing coordination efforts for medical emergency for the RR Nagar zone. “The entire process is hectic and requires a lot of coordination. It cannot be done alone. Hence, I reached out to people I know and roped in some more volunteers,” he said. He leads a team of 10 members as part of the initiative. The team coordinates with BBMP to help people secure hospital beds. Even though the bed allotment has been streamlined in the recent weeks, there’s still much to do, according to Shahid. “For instance, if a person is sick in spite of testing negative on RT-PCR, it’s still a challenge to find a bed,” he said. How does he manage time along with a full-time job in an MNC? Kamran said he wakes up at 5 am and sometimes the coordination work stretches on much after midnight. “I have been simultaneously doing my office work, too. I sleep whenever I get time in between,” he said. This is not the first time that Shahid has played the good Samaritan. During the Kerala floods in 2019, he and a group of volunteers collected rations and other supplies to be delivered to those in need.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/this-bengaluru-techie-slogs-to-spare-covid-patients-the-nightmares-990377.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Home isolation link to high Covid deaths?||Amid worry over rising fatalities despite falling positive cases, there is a concern that recently discharged patients may be turning serious after leaving hospitals. Sources on the ground told DH that many cases continue to require oxygen support after discharge. “Patients are generally discharged between five and seven days as hospitals are under pressure to free up the beds for more patients,” a social worker said. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) data shows that 70.6% of hospitalised cases were discharged between one and 10 days. BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta explained the Centre’s policy is to assume that anyone who has survived 10-15 days of the infection is “safe” and therefore unable to spread the infection. “The patient is classified as discharged,” he added. But could some of these patients be dying after being discharged? This is what a new death audit committee formed in the BBMP is trying to determine while studying home isolation deaths. Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner, BBMP, said most recorded home isolation deaths have been people who have not been hospitalised. “Their conditions deteriorated between the fifth and seventh days. This trend of mid-infection deterioration has been noticed from April,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/home-isolation-link-to-high-covid-deaths-990411.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shift in test strategy led to Karnataka's record surge in Covid-19 positivity rate: study||Covid-19 Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in Karnataka surged from 13% on April 19 to a record 40% on May 17 for a reason: The state’s decision to restrict testing to only symptomatic people, as a recent study by Jeevan Rakshe found. Karnataka’s shift in strategy differed starkly from the first wave when the primary goal was to reduce TPR by conducting maximum tests, the study notes. Compared to Karnataka, Odisha’s TPR grew from 12% to 18% while Uttar Pradesh’s rate reduced sharply from 14% on April 19 to just 4% on May 17. What explains this wide variance in TPR? On Odisha, the study attributes it to a consistency in its testing approach. “It has given weightage to both, quality and quantity of testing. Therefore, the surge has been gradual. This has helped the state to identify and isolate the infected people relatively faster and achieve relatively lower mortality.” Odisha also followed up its testing with systematic tracing of primary and secondary contacts. When the infected people are identified when the virus onset is mild or very mild, intervention is more effective and recovery faster.  But Uttar Pradesh, the study concludes, adopted a different strategy. The state used the economical and faster Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) to boost testing and reduce its TPR. However, since RATs tend to give high false negative reports, the conclusion is this: “More number of people with less relevance to Covid-19 could have been tested.” Due to the state’s poor quality of testing, the seven-day Moving Growth Rate (MGR) of new positive cases rose from 2% to 24% and mortality increased from 1% to 15% between April 2 and 26. “Test positivity is a measure of testing capacity. While it can provide important context about case totals and trends, it is not a measure of how prevalent the virus is in communities. Policy decisions, like openings and closings or interstate travel, should not be determined based on test positivity alone,” the study cites a quote attributed to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shift-in-test-strategy-led-to-karnatakas-record-surge-in-covid-19-positivity-rate-study-990413.html
26-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||All Covid patients in Karnataka to be tested for black fungus||To curb the rapid growth of black fungus infections, the government is set to revise the policy for discharging Covid-19 patients by which all patients will be checked for fungus infection before discharge with a follow-up tele-consultation a week later. A new discharge policy and post-Covid precautions for patients who have recovered from Covid-19 infection will soon be formulated, announced Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar here on Wednesday. Sudhakar held a meeting with a 14-member committee constituted for containment of the infection. It has been found that administering steroids in the first week of treatment of Covid-19 is one of the main causes of black fungus infection. “We need to avoid this and steroids should be administered only from second week. There are about 95 cases of black fungus being treated at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) alone. Out of them, 75 patients have either uncontrolled diabetes or have been administered steroids during Covid treatment. Therefore, we have decided to come up with a discharge policy to prevent infections,” the minister said. During discharge, Covid patients will be tested for any fungus infection and will be subjected to an MRI scan, if necessary. All district hospitals have been instructed to have a dedicated post-Covid ward. After one week of discharge, Covid-recovered persons should get themselves tested here or they can also get a tele-consultation. Every Covid-recovered person will be contacted to check for symptoms of fungus infection. If symptoms are found, they will be called to hospital for diagnosis, said Sudhakar. Post-recovery, patients will be contacted for 7-15 days, based on their condition. It has been found in a preliminary report that the infection is reported in small hospitals, taluk hospitals and those under home isolation in some cases. “We will get more clarity in the final report. The committee headed by Dr Ambika R will soon submit the final report,” the minister said. Ambika is the head of the department of microbiology at BMCRI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-covid-patients-in-karnataka-to-be-tested-for-black-fungus-990418.html
26-05-2021||West||Param Bir Singh asked him to pay Rs 10 crore to Sharma to escape arrest, bookie alleges||Cricket bookie Sonu Jalan in a statement before the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has alleged that IPS officer Param Bir Singh had asked him to pay Rs 10 crore to former police inspector Pradeep Sharma if he wanted to avoid arrest in a "big case," sources said on Tuesday. Both Singh and Sharma were not available for comment. The CID of Maharashtra police is investigating extortion allegations leveled by Jalan against Singh, a former Mumbai police commissioner; Sharma, inspector Rajkumar Kothmire and others. Jalan had sent a letter to Maharashtra DGP Sanjay Pandey, following which the CID took up the probe. In his statement, Jalan told CID officials that after his arrest in a betting case in May 2018 by the Anti Extortion Cell of Thane police, he was taken to Param Bir Singh who was then Thane police commissioner. Singh asked for information about cricket bookies in India and also threatened to arrest him in a "big case" along with his family members, he claimed. If he wanted to save himself, Jalan should pay Rs 10 crore to Pradeep Sharma, Singh allegedly told Jalan, as per the statement. Singh was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner following police officer Sachin Waze's arrest in the case of SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house. Singh later accused then state home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-asked-him-to-pay-rs-10-crore-to-sharma-to-escape-arrest-bookie-alleges-990077.html
26-05-2021||West||Himalayan Griffon spotted in Sahyadri Tiger Reserve||A Himalayan Griffon vulture has been spotted in the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve. The Himalayan Griffon vultures are found in Tibet, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan, the Himalayan belt in India, Nepal, Bhutan, Western China and Mongolia to some parts of Southern Europe and North Africa. “The Himalayan Griffon was spotted in the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve on 9 May around 10 am,” Rohan Bhate, ornithologist and honorary wildlife warden, told DH on Wednesday. “We tried looking for the next seven to 10 days but could not spot it again,” said Bhate. The English name of this bird is ‘Griffon Vulture’ while the scientific name is ‘Gyps fulvus’. “It is a very large bird and its height is usually 125 cm. The length of two wings (wingspan) is about 8 to 9 feet.  Male and female Griffon vultures have been reported to weigh from 8 to 10  kg, This is a rare vulture species. The feathers on the head are white, the rufous colour on the back and the tail feathers are dark brown-black,” said Bhate. Like other vultures, it is a scavenger and eats rotten meat. “They build nests on high ridges/cliffs and lay one egg at a time," he said. Recently, while patrolling the Fort of Jangli Jaigad area of the Koyna Wildlife Sanctuary, a part of Sahyadri Tiger Reserve, Range Forest Officer Snehel Magar and forest guard Santosh Chalke spotted the bird hovering in the Jangli Jaigad fort area. Chalke gave the photo to Rohan Bhate, for further study, which revealed an orange tag on the right-wing of this bird. Sahyadri Tiger Project Field Director Samadhan Chavan, Deputy Director Uttam Sawant, Assistant Conservator of Forests Suresh Salunkhe, Assistant Conservator of Forests and Range Forest Officer Sandeep Kumbhar congratulated Magar and Chalke for this rare record. “The vulture has been tagged for scientific and migratory studies by some ornithologist,” Bhate said, adding that to find out and contact the concerned ornithologist we have contacted vulture researchers in different countries and Birdlife International, Indian Bird Conservation Network, BNHS and inform about this record. Earlier in 2009, Bhate had recorded one single King Vulture on the plateaus of Chalekewadi which is also in the Koyna Wildlife Sanctuary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/himalayan-griffon-spotted-in-sahyadri-tiger-reserve-990174.html
26-05-2021||West||Goa court questions conduct of survivor while acquitting Tarun Tejpal||Inexplicable normalcy of the victim after the two alleged sexual assaults, shoddy police investigation and an ‘outright lie’ in her deposition are some of the reasons which may have led to the acquittal of former Tehelka editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal courtesy “benefit of doubt”, according to a judgement by a Goa trial court. The entire 527-page judgement was made available in the public domain on Wednesday. Additional District and Sessions North Goa judge Kshama Joshi in her judgment has also underlined “glaring contradictions” in the statements of the victim, her mother and brother, as well as in the statement made by the victim in context of the CCTV footage of the hotel where the alleged crime occurred in November 2013. While the Court on May 21, acquitted all charges levelled against Tejpal under sections 376 (rape), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement) 354A (sexual harassment) and 354B (criminal assault) of the Indian Penal Code, the Goa government has filed an appeal against the acquittal before the Bombay High Court. The judgement, recounting the statement of the victim states that she claimed to be “distraught, in shock and trauma, in fear and anxiety, crying herself to sleep and shattered” after the alleged sexual assaults in the elevator of a five-star resort on November 7 and 8 by Tejpal, but adds that her state of normalcy after the two alleged assaults was inexplicable. “…nothing can explain the absolute normalcy of her behaviour and state of mind inside the privacy of her own room given her own avowed state of mind - such that the colleague sharing this small hotel room with her discovers two weeks later that the prosecutrix claims to have been sexually assaulted on those very nights!” the judgement states. The Court has also observed that the victim did not share the details of the two sexual assaults with her roommate and her closest friend at Tehelka, Samia Singh, or even her mother, but instead, according to her statement, chose to share the details with three male colleagues “who were not intimate friends”. While the victim in her statement said that she cried and narrated the instances of assault to her husband over phone from her room, the judgement citing the statement of her roommate raises questions about how the latter “did not hear her speak on the phone at any point in even a mildly disturbed state so as to alert her that something was amiss with the prosecutrix when the prosecutrix has stated that she was talking to her husband nearly for more than an hour”. The judgement also put the spotlight on the inconsistencies in the statements of the victim, her mother and her brother, stating that the victim’s statement did not inspire confidence. “The evidence of the prosecutrix in her examination-in-chief and her cross-examination also differs on material particulars. In these sets of facts, it would be extremely risky to base the conviction of the accused on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix when it does not inspire confidence,” the judgement states. “There are material omissions and glaring contradictions in the evidence of the Prosecutrix and her mother and brother. Each of them have a different story to tell about the commission of the offence of rape on the prosecutrix on three occasions,” it adds. The order also states that the victim had “outright” lied in her deposition, about the reason why she continued her stay in Goa even after the assaults, adding that she wanted to spend time with a Russian ad filmmaker in Goa, and not because she was “traumatised and disgusted by the accused and Tehelka and her abandoning her duties and choosing to stay on in Goa as a result”.    The Court has also hauled the police over coals for their shoddy investigation right from the time the FIR was registered, questioning the decision of the Goa Police to appoint the same officer who had filed the First Information Report (in a crime involving rape or murder, the complaint is filed on behalf of the state) to investigate the crime. "PW 70 (investigation officer Sunita Sawant) has admitted that she did not move any proposal before her superiors that she being the complainant, the investigation should be handed over to some other officer, and claimed that her superiors directed her to investigate the offence. However, she admitted that her diaries do not reveal that she had any discussion with her superiors about the investigation being handed over to some other police officer, she being the complainant in the case," the judgement order reads. “The above evidence of PW70 therefore clearly shows despite the availability of another lady police inspector of the Crime Branch, the investigating officer and her superiors malafidely retained the investigation with PW70 who was the complainant," it also says, stating that the investigation officer committed omissions and commissions while proving the case and did not investigate crucial and vital aspects. The judgement has also faulted the investigation officer for procedural lapses in collating video evidence found in the CCTV tapes and for ignoring the glaring inconsistencies in the statements of the victims when juxtaposed with the CCTV footage. "The IO did not compare the statements made by the prosecutrix in her statement dated November 26, 2013 with the CCTV footage, which constitutes the most neutral evidence in the case. The IO did not find it necessary or relevant or important to refer to the CCTV footage while recording the statement of the prosecutrix despite already having viewed the CCTV footage and being aware that there were glaring contradictions between the footage and the account of the prosecutrix," the judgement says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-court-questions-conduct-of-survivor-while-acquitting-tarun-tejpal-990175.html
26-05-2021||West||PMO asks Ministry of Civil Aviation to check bird-hit threats at Navi Mumbai airport||Reacting to environmentalists’ serious concern over rising bird-hit threats at the upcoming Navi Mumbai airport, the Prime Minister’s Office asked the Ministry of Civil Aviation to look into the issue. Navi Mumbai-headquartered NGO NatConnect Foundation has drawn the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the fact that the destruction of wetlands in the 15 km to 20 km radius of the airport project has been disturbing the bird flight pattern and causing chaos in the sky. The NGO, quoting 130-year-old research body BNHS, said that the 289-hectare Panje Wetland in Uran alone attracts 10,000 to 200,000 birds land during the migration seasons. “Imagine, Sir, 10,000 birds in the sky flying here and there in search of food and resting place when you have flights landing and taking off at the new airport,” the letter to PM said. “We are happy that the PMO has referred the issue to the right authority, the Ministry of Civil Aviation ministry,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. The Centralized Public Grievance Redress And Monitoring System shows that Ajay Yadav, Director, Civil Aviation, is examining the issue. Planning agency CIDCO targets to launch the first phase of the Rs 16,000 crore Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) within the next two years. Time and again, environment lovers have been complaining about the destruction of the destination of migratory birds around the NMIA by various project proponents such as Navi Mumbai SEZ, JNPT and CIDCO. BNHS, which is studying the bird flight pattern, has repeatedly cautioned the government against destroying the wetlands in areas under the garb of infrastructure development. “The beautiful wetland of Panje has to be protected at any cost,” BNHS director Dr Bivash Pandav said during the recent World Migratory Bird Day event organised by NatConnect. Wetlands also act as urban sponges, a natural flood control mechanism, Dr Pandav pointed and warned against future flooding of the urban settlements if these wetlands are buried. “Now we are even more concerned at the wetland destruction because the Bombay High Court-appointed Mangrove Committee orders to restore the destroyed wetlands have been ignored by the authorities,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pmo-asks-ministry-of-civil-aviation-to-check-bird-hit-threats-at-navi-mumbai-airport-990221.html
26-05-2021||West||Mumbai gets 8 bids for its global Covid-19 vaccine tender||Mumbai’s governing civic body said it has received eight bids in response to its global tender to procure one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also claimed that one of the bids came from a Czech company for the supply of a mix of Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines, which the US-based Pfizer says it has not authorised. The deadline for bids in response to the BMC’s Rs 700 crore global tender ended on Tuesday but was extended to allow bidders to submit documents in support of their bids and also to entertain more bids. “We have received 8 bids in response to BMC Global Expression of Interest for procurement of 1 crore vaccine doses till date. One bid is for Pfizer/AstraZeneca & remaining 7 bids are for Sputnik,” BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal was quoted as saying in a tweet by ANI. While the municipal corporation will discuss the details provided by the bidders, a Pfizer spokesperson said that the company had not authorised the use of its import or distribution of its vaccine in the country, saying it would only deal with the Centre. "As we have maintained all along, during this pandemic phase, across the world, Pfizer will supply the Covid-19 vaccine only to central Governments and supra-national organisations for deployment in national immunization programs," a Pfizer spokesperson said.  "The allocation of doses and implementation plan within a country is a decision for local governments based on relevant health authority guidance.” Previously, Pfizer refused to sell its vaccines directly to states, rebuffing approaches from Delhi and Punjab. Mumbai floated the global tender for vaccines as supplies run low and the Centre has offloaded much of the responsibility of vaccinating the 18-44 age group onto states. The tender came with the condition that the companies offering bids should have their own cold chain for vaccine transport and delivery or should be able to furnish a valid contract with an agent for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-gets-8-bids-for-its-global-covid-19-vaccine-tender-990256.html
26-05-2021||West||This NGO offers ready-to-cook ration kits for tribal areas||As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to ravage India, the tribal areas are among the worst affected. The Association for Nutrition and Development Action (ANNADA), an NGO based in the Mumbai metropolitan region, has come out with a simple solution — ready-to-cook ration kits. The kits are packed with nutrition – and contain carbohydrates, protein and a little bit of fat. “We want to make it simple…it’s safe, nourishing and energy-dense meals….you just have to add water and put it to boil and cook…that’s it,” says Alvin D’Souza, Programme Head, ANNADA. Each ANNADA ration kit contains 5 kgs of food material that can feed a family of 4 for ten days. The food mixes include dal khichdi (1 kg), multi-millet khichdi (1 kg) and masala daliya (1 kg). These mixes just need to be cooked with water. It forms a bulk of the macro-nutrient needs of an individual. The kit also contains 1 kg dal and 1 kg soya chunks/jaggery that helps increase the protein and iron content. “The price of the kit is Rs 1,150,” he said, adding that the NGO would like people to join in the mission. “We know the situation in tribal areas. Instead of providing rice, dal, masalas, oil separately, what we are doing is simple in the form of ready-to-cook mixes…the shelf life too is very good,” D’Souza said. “We have created a wide variety of well researched and universally acceptable food mixes which are also nutritionally adequate and tasty. The food mixes are fortified to ensure that they provide not only macro-nutrients but also essential micro-nutrients such as minerals and vitamins. There is an array of food mixes designed to meet any community/s taste and cultural requirements, be it a dal khichdi in northern India or a bisi bele bath in south India,” said D’Souza. According to Satyen Melwani, Lead Communications and Partnerships, ANNADA, during the first wave of Covid-19, it had distributed 12 lakh relief material to migrants, daily wagers and homeless people. “During the second wave, we started around end-April and so far distributed around 12,000 kits, mainly in tribal areas,” he said, adding that by end of June, they expect this to go up to 30,000 and are working with ground partners. He said that the NGO is now receiving requests again from all over the country. “In rural tribal regions, many people are spread out in small hunger clusters across large distances with diminished access to food. This makes the situation incredibly complex and a logistical nightmare. Providing adequate nutrition and reaching out to the neediest during such times requires an innovative approach,” he said. ANNADA has provided several kits in the tribal areas of Palghar, Thane and Raigad, which are near Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/this-ngo-offers-ready-to-cook-ration-kits-for-tribal-areas-990275.html
26-05-2021||West||China-like discipline not possible in India: Gujarat High Court raps govt to upgrade health infrastructure||The Gujarat High Court on Wednesday said the state government should ramp up health infrastructure keeping in mind that there could be a third or even a fourth wave of coronavirus because people are not going to follow the rules regarding face mask, social distancing and sanitisation. Observing that discipline enforced in China cannot be implemented in India, a division bench of Justices Bela Trivedi and Bhargav D Karia asked the Gujarat government to ramp up infrastructure for medical facilities to deal with any fresh wave of the pandemic. The bench made the observations while hearing a suo motu PIL on the Covid-19 situation and other related issues in Gujarat. It said ramping up of health facilities, especially in rural Gujarat, should be on a long-term basis and not on the short-term to address just the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. "What about this type of third or fourth wave? The third wave will be followed by the fourth wave because the people of the state are not going to follow, to put on masks, to have social distancing or sanitise. Nobody in this country is going to do that, so every six months there will be a wave," the court observed. "With this understanding, you have to prepare yourself," the court told Advocate General Kamal Trivedi during the hearing of the PIL. When Trivedi compared India to European nations and said seven advanced countries combined together have seen more casualties and suffering due to the pandemic, the court said the only country India can be compared with is China, which is" incomparable". "You will have to compare only with China. It is incomparable. The discipline implemented there cannot be implemented here... Therefore, ramp up infrastructure for medical facilities," the court said.  Trivedi then remarked that "Somebody has rightly said that we have paid the price for democracy." Responding to this, the High Court observed, "In the name of democracy we cross all lines, everything is pardoned." When Trivedi said India is a country "with a huge population," where policing in every nook and corner is difficult, Justice Karia observed, "Then prepare for infrastructure when the (Covid-19) waves come." The bench asked the state government to elaborate on the policy it has in place for long-term engagement of medical resources that could cater to the needs of the next three or five years when another wave of Covid-19 may strike. Trivedi assured the court that the government will look into all these aspects. The Advocate General said the government has been trying its best to ensure that discipline regarding social distancing, wearing face masks and sanitisation is maintained to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/china-like-discipline-not-possible-in-india-gujarat-high-court-raps-govt-to-upgrade-health-infrastructure-990308.html
