27-05-2021||First Edit||BJP's toolkit: Misuse of govt power||The ‘Congress toolkit’ controversy that broke into the public realm some days ago has assumed many dimensions, raising serious questions about the conduct of the central government, Delhi Police and some BJP leaders and Union ministers. The government has issued a notice to the microblogging platform Twitter demanding that it remove the label “manipulated media” from certain posts shared by some BJP leaders and ministers. Delhi Police visited Twitter offices in Delhi and Gurgaon to deliver the notice in person. The case originated with a tweet from BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on May 18, which was shared by ministers and others. It had screenshots of what was called a "Congress toolkit" purportedly aimed at discrediting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress wrote to Twitter saying the alleged toolkit was fake and forged letterheads had been used in the screenshots. When Twitter concluded, after an internal investigation, using technology and independent third-party expertise, that the ‘toolkit’ was forged, it marked the BJP leaders’ posts as manipulated, as it does in such cases. The government should have had nothing to do with this. But it used it to intimidate the social media, as in the past, just as Delhi Police had arrested those who had pasted posters on the city’s walls criticising Modi. This must also be seen in conjunction with External Affairs Minister Jaishankar’s advice to diplomats on how to counter anti-Modi articles in foreign media. It is not just that criticism is not welcome. Even suggestions are not, as seen by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan’s nasty letter to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who had written to Modi on how to combat the pandemic.  There are other important aspects to the case. One is that the government has no legal standing or right to question Twitter on its handling of posts by BJP leaders and ministers. Twitter acted true to its professional and business ethics because it has a right and duty to red-flag fabricated content. The government should not be supporting BJP leaders in their partisan political battles using wrong and unfair means. It also used Delhi Police in these political exercises. Ironically, Delhi Police issued notices to Congress leaders who are the aggrieved party in the case. All this is particularly wrong and repugnant and would be an embarrassment for the Government of India if the charge of forgery against the BJP leaders were to be found correct in an independent investigation, although there is no expectation of such an investigation by Delhi Police. The government's actions in the matter are partisan and authoritarian, and the BJP leaders’ conduct dubious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bjps-toolkit-misuse-of-govt-power-990487.html
27-05-2021||First Edit||Act against Ramdev under Epidemic Diseases Act||The country’s experience of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic for more than one year shows that the fight is not just against the pandemic but against the tools and methods of disinformation and misrepresentation that constrain the fight. Ignorance and lack of information were inhibiting factors in the initial days, and even now they are a problem. But the mischief done and the misinformation spread by the statements and activities of persons like Baba Ramdev also do much harm to the cause of controlling the pandemic. His latest remarks have been especially egregious. He described the allopathic system as “stupid’’ and farcical and said that people had died because of the usage of allopathic medicines and not from a shortage of oxygen. He was forced to withdraw the statement in the face of public outrage but has since given indications that his views have not actually changed. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) protested against the statement and has threatened to file a defamation case against Ramdev for disparaging allopathy and the use of allopathic medicines in Covid treatment. It has sought an apology. Lakhs of healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and others, have risked their lives to save the lives of millions of Covid patients. Many have lost their lives in the process. To dismiss modern medicine and its practice as foolish is to belittle their sacrifices. The IMA also pointed out that the statement would weaken the vaccination campaign. It has the potential to mislead people who may have trust in him because of his high profile. Since the statements and claims he has made have the potential to hamper the national effort to fight the disease, Ramdev must be proceeded against under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, as demanded by the IMA. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan’s muted criticism of Ramdev is revealing. Ramdev is a serial offender in making unscientific claims. He had claimed earlier this year that Coronil, produced by his company, was an evidence-based medicine for Covid. Later, in the face of criticism, he described it as an immunity booster. Harsh Vardhan had endorsed that product. The BJP government in Haryana is distributing one lakh Coronil kits among Covid patients. It is the patronage extended by the BJP and the government that has encouraged Ramdev to make his outlandish claims, cock a snook at science and take the people for a ride. It is a fact that the ecosystem of false claims about past glories, irrationality, quackery and cow urine therapy, promoted by the BJP, nourishes persons like Ramdev. They unravel not only the campaign against Covid but also the very idea of a modern, rational and scientific India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/act-against-ramdev-under-epidemic-diseases-act-990865.html
27-05-2021||In Perspective||Be watchful of ovarian cancer||Ovarian cancer is the 7th most common cause of death and morbidity among women worldwide. In India, it is the 3rd most common cancer affecting nearly 60,000 women every year and its incidence only keeps rising. It is a highly aggressive cancer that has a very high fatality ratio. In most cases, it remains silent or goes unnoticed for a long time. It can occur in different parts of the ovaries without any prominent symptoms— a patient can experience abdominal bloating, dyspepsia (indigestion) and sometimes even urinary complaints. These are common symptoms of many other problems; therefore, it becomes difficult to identify ovarian cancer at an early stage. However, the only effective way to defeat the cancer is early diagnosis and timely intervention. What is ovarian cancer? Ovaries are a pair of organs that are part of the female reproductive system. Ovarian cancer is a disease in which cancer cells form in the tissues covering the ovaries. It usually affects women in their post-menopausal age, presents with very vague symptoms which are often ignored. These symptoms can be bloating or dull aching pain in the abdomen, increase in abdominal girth, indigestion, feeling of fullness even after small meals and urge to urinate frequently. More commonly, these symptoms are attributed to ailments like acidity and mistakenly alternative treatment is sought. Ovarian cancer lacks a definitive symptom or sign, it vague nature of symptoms usually lead to the patients consulting an Oncologist when they’ve reached an advanced stage. Signs and symptoms: Pain in the pelvis, lower side of the body, in the lower stomach Back pain Indigestion or heartburn Feeling full rapidly when eating More frequent and urgent urination Pain during sexual intercourse Changes in bowel habits, such as constipation As ovarian cancer progresses these symptoms are also possible: Nausea, weight loss, breathlessness, fatigue (tiredness) and loss of appetite Prevalence in India In around 10% of women, there is a family history of ovarian cancer or certain inherited genetic changes such as impaired BRCA1 /2 genes. This population has a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer. BRCA1/2 are two protective genes and change in the structure of these genes can cause multiple cancers in our body, primarily impacting the breast and ovaries. This group of women should consult an oncologist and undergo cancer risk assessment with genetic counselling and testing to find out how likely they are to develop ovarian cancer. Women with proven increased risk for ovarian cancer may undergo surgery to remove their ovaries prior to the development of cancer. Use of Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT), being overweight, smoking, nulliparity, early onset of menarche and endometriosis are other risk factors for ovarian cancer. On the other hand, childbirth, breastfeeding, physical exercise, consumption of oral contraceptives, Salpingectomy (removal of Fallopian Tubes), and tubal ligation can protect one from ovarian cancer. Early diagnosis is most crucial for achieving a long-term cure. In ovarian cancer, 5-year survival is only 45% due to the advanced nature of the disease on presentation. So, women need to be more conscious of these symptoms and seek help from an oncologist within a year of the onset of it. Commonly used tests for screening are clinical examination, ultrasound, and CA 125. However, timely treatment is also essential. Treatment of ovarian cancer depends on the stage of cancer, the type of cells involved, overall health, and the age of the patient. Methods majorly used to treat Ovarian Cancers include surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy. For prevention, all women should get their blood calcium levels monitored on regular basis. If the levels are high, then there is an increased risk. While contraceptive pills are usually dogged by controversies and myths, they are effective in protecting women from developing ovarian diseases. These must be taken after consulting a doctor. Women with a family history of cancer of colon, prostate or uterine should never ignore symptoms. (The writer is a Consultant, Surgical Oncology, at a Mumbai-based hospital)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/be-watchful-of-ovarian-cancer-990481.html
27-05-2021||In Perspective||Living off bones: A macabre survival||Thousands in India wait daily for the dead to reduce their bones to a source of calcium that they sell to suppliers of calcium factories. While bone-selling has been a continued source of income in India despite a strict ban on the activity, the ‘lockdown bone-diggers’ are forced into a source of livelihood that they find very difficult to give up. The pandemic has further pushed them into deep isolation because of lack of any other means, forcing them to take up the roles of bone gatherers, robbers and scavengers. Illegal bone-gathering has become a common practice amidst the second wave of Covid-19, where mass cremation sites and hundreds of pre-dug burial spots have become an opportunity for those who struggle to survive. In the loss of a loved one of one family, the bone-digger finds the means to feed his family. Around the burial grounds in Kolkata, bone gatherers are exploited by local goons in the pursuit of quick cash. Bikram works at the lowest level as a bone gatherer, selling it to men in masks who take human tissues and bones to medical institutions and students. The graveyards of Kolkata have always been haunted by rackets of illegal bone-trading, but the lockdown has again drowned the bone-diggers and sellers in bones, caustic soda, hydrochloric acid and trauma. While some gather bones, others have taken a more difficult route, all in pursuit of survival. In Dahod, the lockdown has given rise to graveyard robbers who dig at midnight post fresh burials. Zahir stocks his vehicle with small shovels to dig every 2-3 days. He takes a remote route to escape the checkpoints. The lockdown also means that fewer people will spot him. Since he has been doing this for some time now, he can spot the difference between a femur and a fibula. Elsewhere, on the ghats of Varanasi, Radhe waits every night to rob the ash-smeared Aghors who move about at midnight in search of bones, in between cannabis and their own macabre practices. Radhe used to sell goods for rituals in a rented shop space, but his new job is that of a bone-robber. The quest for bones is unlimited and is also extended to animal bones. Caste plays an important role amidst those who are forced to scavenge bones, for those who begin on this path once are unable to get out of it easily. The bone scavengers are in between one of the biggest struggles for survival. In Kanpur Dehat, the bone scavengers are found to separate animal flesh from the bones to feed their family, in the absence of any other nutrient source. Amit, who raids butcher shops at night, says that on some days, the bone marrow is his family’s only source of fat and protein. The lockdown has made them plan for meals in advance, despite the fact that the raids have become shorter because of the fear of the spread of disease. In Ghazipur landfill, Delhi, waste workers dig the piles to find materials of resource. In the lockdown, their resource recovery tactic has made them scavenge for chicken and bones to feed their children. Each day, Sakhubai waits eagerly for the vehicles to dump fresh waste so that she can rescue pieces with some leftover flesh to feed her family of four. Sunita sells dug-out animal bones to people in small tents on the Amritsar-Jamnagar Expressway. These tents are the practice spots of ‘tantric gurus’ who pay a good price for these bones, which they use to make ‘jewellery’ for their rituals. After she earned Rs 1,000 thus, she brought another seller into this business. Struggling through Covid-19, many patients also used to come to these tents for tantric treatments to ‘wash’ themselves of the disease in the early days of the pandemic. More patients mean more digging for the bones. Others who have been in the bone trade for decades have built a structural hierarchy of people who collect bones to sell it to calcium factories. Some used to sell the bones to foreign traders for counterfeit make-up products in illegal factories. Amidst the lockdown, bone traders send their agents to cremation grounds to scrape through every inch of the last remains. Krishna, a bone trading agent, says that “he has often been an impostor, presenting himself as a friend or relative of the dead” to be able to get a chance to scrape out every remaining bone to present to his master. He says that he also trades in animal bones, which are easier to find than human bones. While the pandemic and the increase in the Covid-19 death toll has fractured society at all levels, the macabre scenes that we do not see seem straight out of a horror film, and unbelievable. But that’s the truth, behind which is a desperate quest for survival for those people who have no other means left anymore. Many continue to be exploited by bone traders who are also now living off every bone, animal or human. (The writer is the National Convener of Bhim Safai Karmachari Trade Union. She is also known as the ‘Toilet Woman of India’)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/living-off-bones-a-macabre-survival-990491.html
27-05-2021||In Perspective||Trauma of the Indian taxpayer||From March, when the financial year ends, right up to July, when tax returns are filed, is a traumatic period for most taxpayers in India. The Credit Suisse Global Wealth Report, 2019, says India has 759,000 dollar-millionaires, who should ideally be filing their IT returns, but surprisingly, the latest statistics (AY2018-19) on the CBDT website shows that only 29,000 dollar-millionaires declared an income in this range and actually filed returns. India, with its population of 1.38 billion, sees only 58.7 million tax returns filed. Worse, 10 million returns are filed by people earning less than Rs 2.5 lakh per annum, who pay no tax at all. What do these 3.5% tax-paying Indians get in return? Public education, right from school level to colleges, has disappeared from the lives of the urban middle class. So also, public healthcare – when was the last time a taxpayer got herself treated at a government hospital? Despite the exorbitant charges in private hospitals, one is forced to depend on them. Water, in most Indian cities nowadays, comes from private borewells and water tankers, necessitating a taxpayer to pay for clean water. Taxpayers pay for security, too, even rudimentary security when hiring personal security staff or guards. Travel by road requires taxpayers to pay toll, airports require user development fees. Salary-earners in the private sector, after paying taxes all through their work lives, find that the tax doesn’t get them a pension, unemployment support or post-retirement healthcare benefits. When an individual, after diligently paying taxes each year, suddenly loses his or her job due to the coronavirus pandemic, the family does not see any direct benefit out of all that tax paid! Income tax paid by senior citizens and retirees is increasingly becoming a traumatic form of forced charity. Is the sense of alienation, low tax-morale and zero motivation for people to pay taxes in India any surprise? Taxpaying salaried employees perceive a sense of unfairness, while other categories, like the self-employed or businesspersons, get away by paying minimal taxes, and farmers enjoy a completely tax-free status. In a country the size of India, having only 3.5% of the population paying income tax, with no commensurate benefits to them from the government, points to a serious lacuna in India's taxation system. For in the end, it’s not how much you earn but what you show as non-taxable that matters. After paying tax, the salary-earner finds that his tax payments are squandered in wasteful public expenditure and corruption decided on the basis of populism and vote-bank considerations, like the Ujjwala scheme where cooking gas connections were distributed free of cost, requiring further sacrifices from the taxpayer by “voluntary” withdrawal of subsidies. Yet, our elected representatives continue to enjoy privileges that no taxpayer does. Not only do they get to decide their own salary, their perks include free flights with companion, free limitless first-class train travel, free healthcare, rent-free housing and a pension, all paid for by the taxpayer! Perhaps India is not ready for very low taxation rates or zero individual income taxes, although globally the UAE, Malaysia, Czech Republic, Mexico, Vietnam, amongst several other countries, adopt such a regime and save on massive administrative costs spent on collecting taxes from a minuscule taxpaying population. But at least, why should salaried individuals be taxed on their gross income without deducting the expenses incurred by them, while business income tax is charged on net profit, not on the gross business income? Again, why tax the individual and not the family, when corporates are taxed as complete entities, not individually for each business? Indian parents require assistance in old age, with incomes required to take care of the elderly or to support children with tuitions, education and marriages. Currently, without catering to this reality, individuals pay income tax first and incur costs out of the balance income. Why not make income tax into an ad-valorem tax, taxing value-addition, just like GST? Taxes paid on inputs should be offset in the final payout. Making income taxes paid adjustable against other indirect taxes brings in an element of honesty as individuals will ensure collection of receipts, ensuring tax compliance while purchasing even everyday essentials like groceries. Why not tie up tax payment with banking transactions or cash withdrawal? With the rich requiring many more banking transactions than the poor, the taxation system will get imbued with some fairness. One reason taxpayers are uncared for is that they don’t matter as a vote bank. Maybe it is time to have a pan-India organisation of taxpayers with a mandate to ensure no distribution of free electricity, free water, loan waivers, etc.— in fact, no freebie announcements— without prior taxpayer consent. Meanwhile, special conveniences to income taxpayers, like faster lanes at immigration counters or priority issue of passports, would be more gratifying than appreciation certificates mailed to them! (The writer is former Executive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/trauma-of-the-indian-taxpayer-990870.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||13 of a family recover from Covid in Karnataka's Mulki||With suitable guidance from doctors, 13 members of a family, who had tested positive for Covid-19, recovered completely from the infection at Panja Kokude in Mulki. All the members remained in home isolation and succeeded in winning the battle against the infection. The elected representatives and officials from health department visited the family and felicitated the members. Of the 13 members, 84-year-old Appi Devadiga is the oldest. Initially, Appi Devadiga and five others tested positive for the Covid-19. Later, other members too tested positive. Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat former vice president Kasturi Panja and others visited the house and gave flowers to all them. The family has shown that by strictly adhering to the guidelines and the advice of the doctors, they can overcome Covid infection, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/13-of-a-family-recover-from-covid-in-karnatakas-mulki-990663.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 hits normal life in villages near forests||Many villages in the district are now in the grip of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Many people have contracted the virus in many villages closer to the forest regions, especially in Northern Kodagu. Siddapura, Nellihudikeri and surrounding villages in Southern Kodagu too, are affected by the pandemic. Many people in the village are Covid-19 patients. There are deaths too, according to residents of Kadmane village. No case last year The village is dependent on labourers on daily wages and they now find it difficult to make ends meet. Kadmane did not report any case last year. The village, under the Tholurushetty gram panchayat in Somwarpet taluk, is surrounded by coffee plantations and paddy fields. Those in the village had little contact with outsiders, but the virus managed to affect the villagers. Mahesh Thimmaiah, a volunteer from Seva Bharathi, said that some Bengalureans visited his house when they came there for a function. Within days, his grandmother, her sister and Mahesh’s cousin tested positive and passed away. “Now, almost every house in the village has a Covid-19 patient,” he says. Mahesh, through Seva Bharathi, performed the final rites of people dying of Covid-19. Tests only at Somwarpet  The Kadmane villagers will have to go to Somwarpet for Covid-19 tests. On testing positive, they should be admitted at Covid Care Centre in Koodige. The daily wage labourers and financially underprivileged, can’t cover such a long distance during lock down. There are no proper ambulance facilities in the region. Even though the condition of the patient is serious, the patient will be under home isolation. Situation is similar in many villages. Members of some non-government organisations perform last rites of the deceased. These days, there is less movement of people near Handli region close to Shanivarasanthe on the Kodagu-Hassan border. About 21 villages in Handli Panchayat limits have been affected by the pandemic. People are afraid to venture outside their houses. Rangi, a woman labourer from Koldipet, says,” She is unable to go to work in plantations. I don’t know who will look after my children if I die” She lacks details about receiving a vaccine. H B Jayamma, a resident of Bellaralli, says,” There is no supply of vaccines at Shanivarasanthe Community Health Centre. Many people still have not received the first dose.” ‘Situation under control’ Dr Rajeshwari from Shanivarasanthe stated that a maximum number of Covid-19 cases were detected in the bordering villages of Kodagu during April. “The pandemic is now under control. There is a sufficient stock of medicine, “ she says. People turn mentally weak There were charges that Covid Care Centre in Galibeedu lacked hot water and poor quality meals. Some patients had protested too. According to the staff, the patients lacked taste due to the effects of the virus. “Quality food is served now. The patients lack a positive attitude. Nobody is cheering them up, “ a patient said. Another Covid-19 patient considers the designated Covid-19 hospital in Madikeri as the only hope for those who are seriously ill as it has the ICU facility. Farmers’ future bleak Vegetable growers and floriculturists in Kittturu, Kodlipet, Handli, Hebbale, Torenuru, Shirangala, Heggadahalli, Koodige, Aluru Siddapura, Banavara, Gonimarooru, Ganaguru and Aluvara regions have suffered huge losses due to lockdown. Handli gram panchayat member Veerendra Kumar said that the lock down had impacted the farmingproduce. Tribal apathy People dwelling in tribal hamlets in Karekandu, Bombuhadi, Chenihadli, Ayirusuli, Majjigehalla and others are hesitant to receive vaccinations. Even though Covid-19 cases have not been reported in the tribal hamlets, their lives have been affected as they have no work due to lock down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-hits-normal-life-in-villages-near-forests-990736.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||No power supply on May 29 in Somwarpet||Due to the pre-monsoon maintenance work in Kushalnagar-Somwarpet 33 KV line, there will be disruption in power supply in the surrounding regions on May 29 from 10 am to 3 pm, stated a press release. The regions to be affected are Somwarpet town, Chowdlu, Hanagalli, Aiguru, Nerugalale, Shantalli, Kiraganduru, Bettadalli and Tholurushettalli gram panchayat limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-power-supply-on-may-29-in-somwarpet-990738.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Labourer woman injured during elephant attack||A labourer woman was severely injured as a wild elephant attacked her while she was on the way to a coffee plantation where she works. The incident took place in Kambibane on Wednesday morning. Pathu (48), wife of K P Ali, a resident of Uruguppe paisari in Kambibane gram panchayat limits, is the injured. On Thursday morning at 8 am, she was on the way to the Sujatha coffee plantation owned by Mohandas. A wild elephant came from the plantation, chased her and attacked her all of a sudden. As the pachyderm stabbed Pathu with its tusks, she has suffered serious injuries on leg and hip. After providing first aid at the primary health centre in Suntikoppa and at district hospital, Madikeri, she was later shifted to a hospital in Mysuru for advanced treatment. Kushalnagar forest officer K N Devaiah, forest guard Ganesh, Suntikoppa PSI Punith, Kambibane Gram Panchayat member R R Mohan and others visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/labourer-woman-injured-during-elephant-attack-990740.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||One death, 269 new Covid-19 cases in Kodagu district||One person died, while 269 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Kodagu district on Thursday. About 108 people were discharged from the hospitals after their recovery from the virus. Of 23,509 persons suffering from the virus, 20,444 of them have recovered. There are 2,761 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-death-269-new-covid-19-cases-in-kodagu-district-990742.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid norms ignored as many throng vaccination centre in Kushalnagar||More than 500 people gathered in front of the vaccination centre at Raitha Sahakara Bhavana in the town on Thursday, even though 300 vaccines were scheduled to be administered for the beneficiaries during the day. As a result, many left the centre disappointed. Second dose of Covaxin and first dose of Covisheild was administered to the beneficiaries. On Thursday, the second dose was administered to 150 persons and the first dose to 150 persons. Covid warriors and specially abled persons too, were provided with vaccination, on priority. People ignored physical distance norms and thronged the vaccination centre. Town Panchayat President B Jayavardhan and PSI Ganesh visited the vaccination centre and requested people to follow norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-norms-ignored-as-many-throng-vaccination-centre-in-kushalnagar-990743.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Willpower and determination keys to defeat Covid-19'||Willpower and determination are weapons to defeat Covid-19, says Vishwa Kumburu, who has recovered from the infection. "Medicines are more effective if one develops a positive attitude," he points out. Vishwa, his father, mother and his son tested positive for Covid-19. He immediately visited the designated Covid-19 hospital, consulted the doctor and as per the suggestion, remained under home quarantine. They followed the doctor's instructions. Even though the neighbors abused them, the family did not mind and kept positive thoughts and spoke positively all the time. He requests people not to demean the Covid-19 positive persons. "One should instill confidence among the infected. Unfortunately, people who call themselves educated, insult those who have been infected, as if they have committed a sin. One should not hurt the Covid-19 patients. One should remember that anyone can get infected, irrespective of the barriers of caste, creed or status," he explains. He requested people not to panic. Fight the disease bravely with proper medication, Kumburu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/willpower-and-determination-keys-to-defeat-covid-19-990744.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Don't hand over food kits directly to Covid patients: Tahsildar||Tahsildar R Yogananda directed people not to directly hand over food kits directly to the Covid-19 infected persons or their primary contacts. "The kits should be given to Covid warriors who will in turn supply the same to the beneficiaries," he said. He was speaking during a Covid-19 awareness meeting chaired by Virajpet MLA K G Bopaiah, in Betoli on Thursday. "Vendors and workers should undergo Covid-19 tests. Shops of the violators will be sealed and the trade license of the shop will be scrapped if the vendors and workers fail to undergo tests," he warned. MLA K G Bopaiah requested the citizens to cooperate with the governance by adhering to lockdown rules. "Some home quarantined people have not been taking the pandemic seriously and are roaming around carelessly. This has been resulting in faster spread of the virus", he said. He requested those awaiting reports of their tests not to venture outside. The MLA meanwhile said that the fair price shops would be open during three days of the week from morning till evening. "Permission has also been given for the purchase of fertilisers," he said. Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Appanna, Taluk Health Officer Dr Yathiraju, Betoli Gram Panchayat President Yashoda, Vice President Shanthi and Arji gram Panchayat Vice President Upendra were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dont-hand-over-food-kits-directly-to-covid-patients-tahsildar-990745.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fund-starved zoos struggle to feed animals||The pandemic-hit zoos in the state are struggling to feed animals and pay wages to the staff. Of the nine zoos in the state, only Mysore (Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Park) and Bannerghatta see good footfall and generate substantial revenue. A part of the revenue generated at Mysore and Bannerghatta was used to maintain and manage other zoos - Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park near Hampi and the ones in Gadag, Belagavi and Shivamogga. But a prolonged closure of zoos for the visitors due to the coronvavirus pandemic has left them in a deep financial crisis. The fund-starved zoos are looking to corporates and philanthropists for donations or adoption of animals/birds. Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK ) president L R Mahadevaswamy told DH, “The zoos in Karnataka are facing challenges in maintenance and upkeep of animals/birds. Mysore and Bannerghatta zoos are being managed from their FD accounts and adoptions, but there are no funds to manage other zoos. The animal lovers and industrialists should donate or adopt the animals and thereby keep the zoos afloat,” he urged. The staff, mostly outsourced, have not been paid for months owing to fund crunch. “I have been working at Vajpayee Zoological park since its inception as a driver on contract basis. I have not been paid for the last three months. With everything shut due to lockdown, it is not easy to get loans. I am struggling to run home, a staffer said, on the condition of anonymity. The story of staffers at other zoos is no different. Zoo employees poured out their woes to DH, “The employees on payroll are getting their wages on time. But the salary of outsourced workers is delayed. All we get is Rs 8,000 per month and even that is not disbursed on time. We are struggling to stay afloat.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fund-starved-zoos-struggle-to-feed-animals-990818.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Remove C P Yogeshwar from Cabinet, MLA demands||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's Political Secretary M P Renukacharya has demanded the party leaders to sack MLC C P Yogeshwar from the minister's post and arrest him in connection with a Mega City scam. Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, he said, Yogeshwar has not met the Central leaders in Delhi. He is making false statements that he held talks with the Central leaders. There is no change of chief minister at all, he clarified. Slamming the minister, he said, Yogeshwar became the minister by begging Yediyurappa and B Y Vijayendra (State BJP vice-president). Now, he is speaking against the chief minister. He has no moral right to do so. "Yogeshwar, who was rejected by voters in the Assembly polls, was made the MLC so as to induct him into the Cabinet. It is a mistake of BJP leaders. Yogeshwar looted public money as forest minister when Sadananda Gowda was the chief minister. He left the BJP then and again embraced the party for political gains," Renukacharya added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/remove-c-p-yogeshwar-from-cabinet-mla-demands-990822.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rukmini Madegowda to move Supreme Court over disqualification||Rukmini Madegowda of JD(S) has decided to move the Supreme Court challenging Karnataka High Court’s order disqualifying her as the corporator. The trial court in the city had disqualified Rukmini of JD(S), also Mayor, as corporator for not disclosing the details of assets in the affidavit filed with nomination papers in 2018. Rajani Annaiah of Congress, who lost to Rukmini Madegowda in the 2018 Corporation polls, filed a petition in the District Court questioning the election of Rukmini alleging false affidavit regarding her assets. The lower court annulled the election. Later, Rukmini filed an appeal in the high court, which on Wednesday upheld the disqualification. Rukmini Madegowda said that she will discuss the matter with the party leaders H D Deve Gowda, H D Kumaraswamy and Sa Ra Mahesh and will continue legal battle as per their suggestions. “I will move the apex court challenging the high court order,” she said, and expressed hopes of getting justice. “Power is not permanent and I am not upset over losing the Mayor’s position before completing the term. Even dignitaries like H D Deve Gowda, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and H D Kumaraswamy had to step down before completing the term,” she said. Her husband Madegowda, also Mysuru Zilla Panchayat Member said, “We have disclosed all the assets and had not hidden anything.” Rajani Annaiah, said, “The truth has prevailed. Rukmini Madegowda did not furnish clear details in her affidavit submitted to the Election Commission and it is proved.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rukmini-madegowda-to-move-supreme-court-over-disqualification-990824.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||H D Revanna upset with Karnataka govt for ‘ignoring Hassan’||MLA H D Revanna criticised the state government for neglecting Hassan district, even during the crisis like Covid, which has been claiming hundreds of lives. Speaking to reporters after visiting the Government Crawford Hospital in Sakleshpur on Thursday, Revanna said, “The district has been totally neglected as it has six JD(S) MLAs. Let them do politics during the election time, but it is not right for the government to do revenge politics even during the pandemic.” Highlighting staff shortage, Revanna said, “There is a need for more than 25 doctors in the taluk health centres, including Crawford Hospital. There are more than 100 doctors’ posts vacant in the district. The government has not been responding to this.” Out of 100 people, 45 are testing positive for Covid in the district. Around 956 people have succumbed to the infection. The death rate is high as the Covid has spread among the community in rural areas. Despite this, the government has been neglecting the district, he alleged. Even though the district in-charge minister and deputy commissioner enforces strict lockdown, the CM cancels it in half-an-hour. Though the government claims of giving total power to the DCs, the Hassan DC has not been given a free hand, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/h-d-revanna-upset-with-karnataka-govt-for-ignoring-hassan-990825.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Superstitions reign high to ward off Covid-19 in Mysuru||While the government is creating awareness on wearing masks and following Covid guidelines to check the spread of the pandemic, a section of the people have sought divine intervention to free them from the virus attack. As a section of the people conducted special homas on streets to ward off coronavirus in Belagavi, a few villages in Mysuru district has also been following similar rituals believing that tying a ‘Belimullu kayi’ along with a bunch of neem leaves at the entrance keep the virus at bay.Similar rituals like drawing rangoli and lighting a lamp and dhoop and conducting special pujas are being followed at a few villages in the district. In Chamarajanagar, an idol was installed and named it as ‘Corona Maramma’ and special pujas performed. A few others sacrificed fowls to the idol on Tuesday. It is for the welfare of the people, said a resident. However, lockdown norms were followed with only women performing the rituals. We believe this would free us from the deadly virus, he said. Similarly, at a few villages in Mandya, the people installed three stones at a junction of three roads, constructed a makeshift temple and sacrificed fowls. Such practices are common in the region during the spread of contagious diseases that claims several lives. They prayed to the god to free them from the diseases. Residents of Sankenahalli in Halebid, Hassan district too installed a doll and decorated it with turmeric, vermillion and flowers and, offered sheep and fowls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/superstitions-reign-high-to-ward-off-covid-19-in-mysuru-990826.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||Implement MGNREGA effectively during pandemic, advise experts||Covid-19 induced nationwide lockdown came as a blow to lakhs of people, who lost their jobs all over the country during the first wave that struck last year. There was reverse migration and a large number of people returned to rural areas as it became difficult for them to survive during the Covid-19 and lockdown situation in the state from the last one year. It was at this time, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) Scheme, popularly known as NREGA came to their help. Many migrant workers who returned to their hometowns due to coronavirus outbreak were able to find jobs under MGNREGS. Lakhs of people working as manual labourers were the worst hit. These casual workforce come in search of jobs to towns and cities from rural locations as migrants. Once the economic activities came to a sudden halt in urban areas, these workers had to return to their natives.  However, there is a widespread opinion that implementation of the programme needs to be more effective in rural areas as it can create more employment opportunities during the current pandemic situation. In this programme, each family will be getting 100 days of employment in a year. According to D V Gopalappa, Professor and Chairman, Department of Studies in Economics and Cooperation, University of Mysore, the programme implementation is the problem as it is not being done as per the guidelines of the Act. Implementation of MGNREGS needs to be more effective in the rural areas as it can create more employment opportunities during the present pandemic situation and it helps the rural people to earn their livelihood. Various studies have been conducted in parts of Mysuru district and there are allegations that the contractors, along with Gram Panchayat (GP) members have been misusing the resources allocated for the MGNREGS, Gopalappa said. It is alleged that the contractors use machines of their own to carry out the works in the respective GPs. As per the rules, wages are deposited on the accounts of job card holders. In case of one labourer working for about six days in a week his total wages will be Rs 1,734 of which the beneficiary will get about Rs 300 and the remaining will be handed over to the contractor. Certification is done to say that the programmes like check dams, farm ponds, land reclamation, bund formation, social forestry, roads, repair of public properties are implemented within the GP boundaries. Once the certification is completed, the officials are happy of reaching the target, bills are cleared and the elected representatives get their commissions, it is alleged. All these resulted in the partial implementation of MGNREGS works. This has curtailed the development in the rural areas and the objective of the programme is not sustained. There are studies conducted by many research institutions and the universities that the MGNREGS is only a partial success to the extent of only about 35 per cent. The effective implementation of the MGNREGS reduces the pressure on land as it generates employment to the extent of about 31 per cent in the villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/implement-mgnrega-effectively-during-pandemic-advise-experts-990828.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Districts||50:50 project, a blessing for farmers||The Forest department’s project of solar fencing at subsidised rates around agricultural lands of villages on the fringes of the forest, has evoked good response. The Forest department has been installing railway fence in villages near the forest to prevent human-animal conflict. Now, the department has proposed solar fencing at 50:50 cost. After installing elephant-proof trenches, railway and solar fences at Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife sanctuary, the Forest department has installed a 6 km-stretch of solar fence at Chennuru village, under Ramapura Wildlife range at a subsidised rate. The residents of the villages face the threat of wild animals during summer and also during harvest season, when animals destroy crops in search of food. Wild elephants and other animals stray into villages despite elephant trenches and solar fence. To find a permanent solution, officials of MM Hill Wildlife Sanctuary proposed a 50:50 scheme for the year 2020-21, for laying solar fence around farmlands. The cost for laying one km of solar fence is approximately Rs 2.30 lakh. While the Forest department will bear 50%, the rest will be borne by farmers. The fence installed under the project would be stronger, with an additional layer of wire. This would prevent wild boars, rabbits and smaller animals from even coming near thefence. The project is experimented in two ranges and there is good response. More farmers are approaching the department to get solar fence for their farms. The officials would check the possibilities of the scheme and prepare a plan, they said. MM Hill Wildlife Sanctuary Deputy Conservator of Forest V Yedukondalu said, damage due to wild animals was high at some places. “Though the department had deployed guards, it was not of great help. Now, solar fence is experimented. There are complaints that Kombudike and Ponnachi villages are affected by wild animals menace. There are plans to install hanging solar fence for around 40 km,” Yedukondalu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/5050-project-a-blessing-for-farmers-990831.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Change of Karnataka CM only a rumour: Laxman Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said that media reports about change of leadership in the state were only rumours. “I don’t have the knowledge of such developments and question of change of chief minister does not arise,” he told reporters here on Wednesday.  Savadi said that Yediyurappa has been discharging his responsibilities efficiently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/change-of-karnataka-cm-only-a-rumour-laxman-savadi-990424.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||My focus only on Covid, says BSY amid rumblings of leadership change||Unperturbed by attempts to topple him, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said he was focussed on the Covid-19 pandemic, and asked his party legislators and ministers to work towards containing the spread of the infection. Yediyurappa was responding to questions on change in leadership, a day after several members of the ruling BJP publicly said there were attempts being made to remove him from the top post. “Covid-19 is the only thing in front of me right now. Containing it and safeguarding the interests of citizens are my priorities,” he said on the sidelines of an event to commemorate former PM Jawaharlal Nehru’s 57th death anniversary.   On some BJP leaders heading to Delhi to reportedly lobby for his removal, he said: “If someone went somewhere, you should also know that they were given the right answer and sent back. So, the only thing now is for us to work together to face Covid-19 at a time when people are suffering and deaths are rising. Legislators and ministers should focus on containing the pandemic. There’s no other subject in front of me.” Yediyurappa was referring to the way the BJP central leadership is said to have snubbed Tourism Minister CP Yogeshwar and Hubli-Dharwad (West) MLA Arvind Bellad, who went to New Delhi reportedly to lobby for Yediyurappa’s removal. On Wednesday, Revenue Minister R Ashoka conceded that attempts were on within the BJP to have Yediyurappa removed. Several others known to be Yediyurappa loyalists attacked party leaders for “plotting” against the chief minister. When asked if he would convene a meeting of the BJP legislature party, Yediyurappa said he did not have to discuss that with the press. Yediyurappa is arguably the BJP’s tallest leader in Karnataka. But the Lingayat strongman is ageing, and at 78, is way past the BJP’s unwritten 75-year-limit rule for leaders to hold constitutional posts. Also, there is palpable disgruntlement against Yediyurappa's style of functioning, though he has weathered all the storms that have come his way. On Wednesday evening, a message went viral on social media warning the BJP that it is not so easy to “touch” Yediyurappa. Any move against him would antagonize the dominant Lingayat community, it said. The anonymous message was ostensibly from a pro-Yediyurappa Lingayat group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/my-focus-only-on-covid-says-bsy-amid-rumblings-of-leadership-change-990560.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress demands immediate arrest of Ramesh Jarkiholi||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Thursday demanded the arrest of former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on rape charges. It has been three months since the incident came to light. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had assured that the government would register a sexual assault case against the former minister. But the accused is roaming freely. The woman has given a complaint to the SIT. The police should immediately arrest Jarkiholi, the Congress leaders urged. The accused is charged under Section 376. Within 60 days, the investigation had to be completed. However, the investigation did not take place properly, Siddaramaiah alleged. Alleging that the state government was not allowing the police to function independently, Shivakumar said the government was setting a precedence by allowing Jarkiholi to go scot-free. “Police cannot decide whether it’s a consensual relationship or whether it’s an assault. The case has to be investigated by the High Court. An inquiry should be conducted even in Karnataka Bhavan. If the government does not take action immediately, Congress will take to streets to protest,” he said. Meanwhile, there is a conspiracy to defame the woman in the media. Her parents are being harassed too, he said. “He said he had Covid and got himself admitted into a hospital in Gokak. Everyone gets admitted to a hospital in Bengaluru or to a district hospital. Why did he go to Gokak? Who wears a PPE kit and goes for treatment?” Shivakumar asked, alleging that Jarkiholi was only trying to escape from legal implications. The former minister is trying to destroy proofs, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-demands-immediate-arrest-of-ramesh-jarkiholi-990816.html
27-05-2021||Karnataka Politics||All not well in BJP as C P Yogeshwar says he’s got issues||Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar said on Thursday that his visit to New Delhi was to discuss his “personal” problems, dropping broad hints on why he was disgruntled.  “There are some matters I can’t discuss publicly,” Yogeshwar said after his Delhi visit that led to speculation on change of leadership in the state, bringing him in the crosshairs of those loyal to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. “I am a minister. I won’t accept my son exercising my powers. Likewise, someone else exerting power in my jurisdiction or running the show in my name is not sitting well with me personally,” he said. This was widely seen as a reference to BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra, Yediyurappa’s son.  “I went to Delhi to share my problems with leaders. I try to meet them whenever I can. I don’t know why this became such a big deal,” he said. “Getting the CM changed is not my fundamental objective. In fact, I don’t have that power.” Apparently, Yogeshwar is upset that his clout has been challenged in Channapatna, the constituency he represented before his defeat in the 2018 Assembly polls. “I want to contest and win the 2023 election. But in the current situation, will I win? It’s difficult. Those we have to fight have joined forces with our own people. This politics of understanding will affect me,” he said.  “The day I became MLC, I told Yediyurappa that this government is turning out to be a 3-party government. I’ve said from the beginning that the politics of convenience between the three parties isn’t good. I want to discuss these problems within the four walls of the party,” he said. Yogeshwar, who played a key role in the fall of the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition, was made a minister as the BJP central leadership is said to have wanted to groom him as the party’s face in the Vokkaliga-dominated old Mysuru region where Congress’ D K Shivakumar and H D Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) hold sway.  Will he support Yediyurappa in the event of a change in leadership? “I’ll express my opinion internally when it comes to that. I don’t have answers to all your questions right now,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/all-not-well-in-bjp-as-c-p-yogeshwar-says-he-s-got-issues-990817.html
27-05-2021||Main Article||After Covid-19, pandemic of positivity is infecting India||There is a steady echo of voices asking for the Prime Minister to step aside, many demanding that he should take responsibility for leading us straight into the mouth of the pandemic to be devoured. The demand has grown against the backdrop of a strong rebuff from the electorate in West Bengal and expectedly in Kerala, a poor showing in the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh and the continued toll extracted by the second wave of the pandemic that we have seen in funeral pyres burning round the clock, bodies found floating in the Ganga, and the continued mess on the vaccines. Even the BJP’s ideological parent, the RSS, could no longer ignore the havoc caused by SARS-Cov-2; it launched a series styled “positivity unlimited”, actually an act of insensitivity on its part that still had to make a token acknowledgement of the misery all around us. The BJP has stepped up, too; the negative equity the PM has earned is being met with a “positivity” propaganda brigade that has taken its role rather seriously. As a result, a new pandemic called “positivity” is being unleashed to fight the SARS-Cov-2 pandemic. This is why a whole new set of “positivity” videos, stories designed to evoke nationalistic sentiments, and videos of how a “hard-working” Prime Minister is being unfairly targeted have hit the market as WhatsApp forwards in the last fortnight or thereabouts. All this transpires amidst a total collapse, an underlining of the nation’s firm membership in the group of third world nations, left quite clueless and only receiving assorted help from across the world, and even that has not been transparently accounted for or deployed with any sense of purpose. Yet, the Prime Minister is unlikely to go. He will have to be pushed out of office, and this is unlikely to happen as long as his party of ‘Yes’ ministers and the BJP’s ideological parent, the RSS, think they can ride out the storm. They are equally unlikely to ask a different set of questions, demand accountability and become uncomfortable with the reducing of the party to a person. All reins are in the hands of the Prime Minister, a complete capture of the party and its machinery, which must bend to his whims, which of course the BJP has done with a readiness that makes it quite common to call this a one-man show. The 15 arrests and 17 FIRs in mid-May for posters put up in New Delhi critical of Modi by tying him to the export of vaccines when Indians don’t have enough, and the questioning of Youth Congress president B V Srinivas in another instance, are only the latest cases that make the point.  Not only is criticism stamped out, Modi has a penchant to use his position for personal glorification crossing all boundaries, as has been seen repeatedly – from the suit he wore that had his name woven in, the renaming of a cricket stadium in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, as the Narendra Modi stadium, done at the hands of the President of India, and his pictures on all vaccination certificates. As the historian Ramchandra Guha has helpfully pointed out, by naming a stadium for himself while in power, Modi sits in the company of leaders like Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini, Saddam Hussein and Kim Il-sung. Not since Indira Gandhi and her total domination and control over the Congress in the 1970s has any single political leader held such power and authority at the national level and shown the willingness to use it to narrow ends. Indira Gandhi had a declared “Emergency”; India today lives through an undeclared “Emergency”, which is in many ways worse because constitutional limits are stretched, twisted and tested routinely, not under the umbrella of any extraordinary national exigency, but under a new normal that takes hold to terrorise citizens into silence. All of this will have long-term implications for the future of India’s democratic traditions. The plain fact is, the BJP has succeeded and grown well beyond its own imagination, helped of course by a free ride offered by the Congress that was steeped in corruption scandals and an opposition that has been in disarray and unable to capture the imagination of the people in the face of sharp, powerful and divisive campaigns by the BJP. Now, the parivar sees the goal of a Hindu Rashtra within reach; 2024 is not too far away and this third time will open the road to a very different India. The Ram temple is being built, and the gaming shows that one more election will be in the bag. The script is written. The timelines are set. Only the picture has to play out. But the pandemic and the response has come in the way. When your loved ones are snatched away, when the economy is in the doldrums and when raising a voice can land you in jail, then this isn’t a pretty picture of Hindutva. The handling of the pandemic has exposed the party for what it is – insensitive not only to one segment or religion but to all of humanity in the relentless pursuit of an agenda that has nothing to do with people and everything to do with power and control and domination. The ugliest of forces have conspired to tear down the magnanimity, the values and the openness that are at the heart of India’s spiritual traditions and religious practices that are said to be promoted while in actuality, everything is being torn down. This much should be plain for anyone to see. (The writer is a journalist and a faculty member at Bhavan’s SPJIMR. Views are personal) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/after-covid-19-pandemic-of-positivity-is-infecting-india-990489.html
27-05-2021||Main Article||Who failed India?||The world’s largest vaccine manufacturer is broke. Queues of anxious people, desperate to get a jab, have returned home disappointed as several inoculation centres have had no supply of the two vaccines currently being used in India, Covishield (made by Serum Institute of India under licence from AstraZeneca) and Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). With the second wave of the coronavirus on a dangerous trajectory, people are terribly worried. They should be. India’s caseload is at a staggering 26 million, and we have established dubious records in daily cases (over 400,000), daily deaths (4,522), and the fastest vertical progression in infection rate in the month of April 2021. According to a New York Times report, the actual aggregate death count could be higher at 600,000, twice the official count. Dead bodies buried hurriedly along river embankments, lack of oxygen supply, inadequate ICU beds, black-marketing of life-saving drugs, the average Indian has experienced a dystopian nightmare. It can be unequivocally stated that Indians have been let down by their central government in a shocking exhibition of political hubris. And complete incompetence. Let me explain with the help of elementary arithmetic. India’s population is estimated to be about 1.38 billion. The targeted group due for vaccination above the age of 18 years is 940 million. Now, India has approved vaccines that must be given in a double dose. Thus, even a toddler using a calculator can tell you that India should have ordered (from both domestic manufacturers and foreign suppliers) 940x2=1880 million doses, plus some to allow for wastage, at the earliest, preferably in December 2020-January 2021 itself. It is again basic knowledge that vaccination is the best preventive measure to stop transmission of the virus, save lives, and reduce pressure on a creaky health infrastructure. The government, however, was asleep at the wheel. But which government would expose its own people to death and despair against a deadly disease? There is one, which is so inebriated by its electoral triumphs and the image of its strongman ‘Supreme Leader’ that they believed they could not look weak, nervous or uncertain in public perception. After all, they were lionised as macho and muscular avatars of political leadership. Basically, they were hallucinating, drunk on PR, dazzling sound-bytes of premature triumphalism and gloating on TV. Like the Titanic crew, they missed the emerging iceberg. Here is how. Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech (BB), both given emergency use authorisations, were awaiting government orders. SII received orders till Jan-Feb 2021 of guess how many vaccine doses? A miserly 21 million doses (1.1% of India’s needs). It was preposterously low. BB’s production capacity was anyway limited to just 20 million at the time. Was the government living in a fool’s paradise? Were they not aware of the even more malignant second and third waves that had pillaged the US, UK, Brazil and Europe? The answer to the coming challenge lay in investing significant funds in both SII (which had taken the business risk) and BB so that they could ramp up production capacity to about 150 million and 50 million doses, respectively, at the barest minimum. Despite allocating Rs 35,000 crore in the Union budget for vaccines, the government did nothing right until April 2021, when the crisis was already upon us. Foreign vaccine-makers like Pfizer who came knocking on our doors returned because of the government’s reluctance to acknowledge its shortfalls. The government thought that India’s war against the virus was over. Game, set and match, BJP. The real tragedy is that we could have saved many lives had the government focused on governance instead of grand theatrics to appear like supermen. The BJP hailed PM Modi as the ultimate hero and the PM himself boasted of India being the “pharmacy of the world”. It was a self-goal. Now, we have to beg, borrow or steal vaccines to save ourselves. This was an avoidable disaster. In its bid to boost Modi’s global appeal, the government even exported 67 million vaccine doses (more than what we had used locally till then). It was bizarre. BJP spokespersons talked of India’s altruism, but in that case why did they suddenly stop helping poorer countries thereafter? Now India has failed not just its own denizens but even other vaccine-starved nations with vulnerable populations. And AstraZeneca has sent SII a legal notice for non-delivery against contractual obligations, as the government forced it to stop deliveries. It is a mess.  It is believed that External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is now travelling abroad with a shopping bag, hoping for the charitable disposition of multinational pharma companies whose global commitments now restrict them from obliging India. Of course, by the end of the year, there will be an oversupply of vaccines worldwide, but that makes the next few months crucial for India. At 70% of targeted population needed for herd immunity, India needs to vaccinate approximately 650 million people with at least a single dose. Right now, we have reached the 200-million threshold; the gap is 450 million. Ideally, if we were doing even five million vaccinations a day, India could have opened up, like the US and UK, by August 2021. But currently, the daily vaccination levels have collapsed to a dismal 150,000 a day. At this rate, it will take us 10 months, that is till March 2022, to hit the herd immunity benchmark. India cannot afford that. Therefore, the only way forward is to back SII and, through compulsory licensing, widen the manufacturing base of Covaxin, even as we urgently facilitate conditions for import of foreign vaccines. Indian company Wockhardt has volunteered to make 500 million doses by February 2022. The question is, why was the government not engaging with the private sector to augment supply all these months? One day, this dystopian nightmare will end. But a commission of inquiry will be needed to investigate if lives perished because of criminal negligence. There must be consequences for those who failed innocent Indians in their critical hour of need. (The writer is a former spokesperson of the Congress party)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/who-failed-india-990868.html
27-05-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru enforces strict lockdown to curb Covid spread||With the rise in Covid cases, Mysuru district administration has decided to initiate tougher lockdown in the district. Strict lockdown will be in place between May 29 and June 7. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has ordered that the public are allowed to purchase essential commodities only two days a week, Mondays and Thursdays and Fridays, from 6 am and 12 noon. Milk parlour, fruits, vegetables vehicles of HOPCOMS are allowed to function. However, the strict lockdown is not applicable to medical shops and petrol bunks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-enforces-strict-lockdown-to-curb-covid-spread-990603.html
27-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas: Eight lakh people impacted in Jharkhand; about 12,000 people evacuated||As severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' enters Jharkhand, the state remains on high alert and has evacuated about 12,000 people to safer zones while operations are still on to minimise damage from the cyclone that pounded neighbouring Odisha and West Bengal, officials said Wednesday. The state has imposed a complete lockdown in some parts to prevent people from venturing out in view of the storm while as many as eight lakh people have already been impacted by it. Cyclone Yaas, packing winds of up to 130-145 kmph, whiplashed the country's eastern coasts on Wednesday, dumping heavy rain, damaging houses and farmlands, and leaving at least four persons dead - three in Odisha and one in Bengal. Operations are being executed on a war-footing in the vulnerable areas in East and West Singhbhum, besides some other districts due to cyclonic storm Yaas, Disaster Management Secretary Amitabh Kaushal said. Kaushal said at least eight lakh people are impacted by it in Simdega, East and West Singhbhums and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts. "We have evacuated 10,767 persons to 310 shelter homes sites and the evacuation operations are on. A total of 848 of our villages are impacted by it. We are doing our best to prevent any casualty," East Singhbhum Deputy Commissioner Suraj Kumar said. Kumar said the district is witnessing heavy rainfall, high speed winds and there has been damage to the power transmission network besides trees have been uprooted. "We have announced a complete lockdown today and tomorrow barring some relaxation for emergency cases and essential services," the East Singhbhum DC said adding a flood cell has been created and people are being evacuated from low lying areas of Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers. National Disaster Response Force teams are alert for rescue operations while 500 relief teams are already working. West Singhbhum Deputy Commissioner Rajkamal said, "We have evacuated 1,065 people to safer locations while a lockdown has been announced in the district for today and tomorrow barring essential services." Director-General of Police Neeraj Sinha said, "Satellite phones are being provided to interior Naxal-affected police stations for emergent communications, besides batteries in police wireless systems have been readied in case of communication disruptions due to the storm." "We are ready to deal with the situation and have formed rescue teams," he added. East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts of the state are likely to witness high velocity winds of 92-117 kmph, the weather office said. Deputy Commissioner Saraikela-Kharsawan said safety operations are on near Tiasara river bordering Odisha. The districts of Sahibganj, Godda, Pakur, Garhwa and Palamu may witnesswind speed of 52-61 kmph. Rest of the state is likely to have "high to very high seas" phenomenon with a wind speed of 62-91 kmph, it said. This is the first time in the history of Jharkhand that the state is facing such a severe cyclonic storm. Chief Minister Hemant Soren has asked officials to be on their toes to deal with any emergency situation. Soren said: "State government, district administrations, NDRF teams are on high vigil" and asked people to stay indoors. Covid vaccination drives have been suspended till Thursday in some parts of the state in view of heavy rainfall and lightning, besides high-speed wind which is likely to uproot trees, officials said. Door-to-door testing for Covid-19 has also been halted at many places, they said. The Disaster Management Department has alerted authorities to take immediate action as cities such as Ranchi are witnessing heavy rainfall. Forest, drinking water and sanitation, and electricity departments officials have been asked to be on standby. They have been asked to chalk out alternative plans to deal with electric and water supply, besides clearing of roads in case of uprooting of trees, and ensuring satellite phones and wireless communication are ready as networks are likely to be hit badly. As per the weather forecast the state is likely to witness "heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rainfalls" some places. Thick sheets of rain blurred the vast coastline in Odisha, as the cyclone made landfall around 9 am near Dhamra port in the state, with surging waters swamping the mud-and-thatch houses in the low-lying areas, where a massive evacuation drive was carried beforehand to move more than 20 lakh people to safety. Yaas is the second cyclonic storm to hit India within a week after 'Tauktae' tore into its western coast, causing death and destruction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-eight-lakh-people-impacted-in-jharkhand-about-12000-people-evacuated-990455.html
27-05-2021||National||India-US ties one of the major relationships in the world today: Jaishankar||India-US ties are one of the major relationships in the world and the challenge before New Delhi and Washington is how to translate their fundamental, societal and geopolitical convergences into actionable policies, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Emphasising that he has "big agenda" for the US-India relationship going forward, Jaishankar said, "I think our relationship has come a long way. It's today one of the major relationships in the world and my own sense is that in Washington today, there is a real appreciation of the potential of this relationship, what it can do. And it's true of New Delhi as well." During a virtual conversation with former US National Security Adviser General HR McMaster in ‘Battlegrounds’ session on 'India: Opportunities And Challenges For A Strategic Partnership’ presented by the Hoover Institution, Jaishankar said that keeping in mind issues such as impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, rise of different powers, "today we all recognize that it's not a question of one or two or three countries who will decide how the world." "The world is truly much more multipolar and if it is multipolar, then it's all the more important for countries to learn how to work with each other more effectively. And I see a big change in the American mindset in that regard,” Jaishankar said responding to a question on the trajectory of US-India relations. "So the United States has not only an enormous ability to reinvent itself, it also has a great ability to assess its situation and re-strategise in a way." Noting that when it comes to the big issues of the day, "maybe because we are pluralistic societies, because we are political democracies, because we are market economies, that we have fundamental convergences." He said these convergences are societal and geopolitical. "I think the challenge before us is how to translate those convergences into actionable policies,” he said, adding that he certainly looks forward to working on these with the Biden administration. Jaishankar, who arrived in New York Sunday and met UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, travelled to Washington Wednesday where he is expected to meet US Secretary of State Antony Blinken. A State Department spokesperson said Blinken and Jaishankar would discuss a wide range of issues, including Covid-19, efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad, enhanced UN and multilateral cooperation. In addition to meeting his counterpart, Jaishankar is scheduled to meet US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, other senior officials of the Biden Administration, influential lawmakers, think-tanks, leaders of the corporate sector and members of the Indian American community. It is the first visit by a senior Indian minister to the US after President Joe Biden assumed office in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-ties-one-of-the-major-relationships-in-the-world-today-jaishankar-990456.html
27-05-2021||National||Death in the Himalayas: Poverty, fear, stretched resources propel India's Covid-19 crisis||Pramila Devi's shrouded body lay on a bier, resting on a rock on the banks of a muddy Ganges. The 36-year-old mother-of-three died the previous night in a village in the mountainous northern state of Uttarakhand, a day after testing positive for Covid-19. Devi's death on Sunday is a sign of how poverty, fear and a lack of facilities are adding to Covid-19 fatalities in remote villages, where many shun tests for fear of testing positive and being forced to go to hospital far from home. India's Covid-19 caseload stands at 2.71 core, with 3,11,388 deaths, federal government data from May 26 show. But some experts estimate numbers are far higher, due in part to low testing rates in India's hinterlands where Covid-19 cases are spreading rapidly. Devi's eldest daughter got married and moved away in late April after the family hosted a ceremony attended by over two dozen people, her husband Suresh Kumar, 43, told Reuters. Two weeks after that Devi suffered a bout of diarrhoea. But it was not until 10 days later that Kumar, who has no income and depends on handouts, took her to a nearby dispensary that has been turned into a small Covid-19 facility with four beds. The dispensary is equipped with one oxygen cylinder and one concentrator, said Aishwary Anand, the only doctor there. Devi tested positive for Covid-19 with very low blood oxygen levels. Anand advised Kumar to take her to a bigger hospital, but costs were a deterrent. The couple returned home, where their two other children - a 16-year-old boy and 10-year-old girl - were waiting. The next day Devi's nephew carried her to a creaky taxi which returned her to the dispensary. Another patient was using the oxygen cylinder and the oxygen concentrator did not work due to a power outage. "We need power," Anand pleaded with an electricity department employee over the phone, as he paced the dispensary wearing white protection gear. Eventually power was restored, Devi had access to the concentrator and felt well enough to return home. But feeling sick again, the family called an ambulance to take her back to the clinic, where she was pronounced dead on arrival. "I'm yet to inform my eldest daughter of her mother's death," a distraught Kumar said, as he crouched on the banks of the Ganges. Fear of testing Uttarakhand, which shares its border with China and Nepal, reported 45,568 Covid-19 cases and 6,020 fatalities as of May 25. Its city of Haridwar recently hosted the weeks-long Kumbh Mela gathering that saw lakhs of ash-smeared ascetics and devout Hindus jostling to take a dip in the Ganges, which is considered a holy river. Some experts fear that the event led to a surge in Covid-19 infections both in the crammed city and other parts of India as devotees returned home. On the eastern edge of Haridwar, Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal district - where Devi's family live - has reported 5,155 Covid-19 cases and 241 deaths. But locals and doctors say many in the district suffering Covid-like symptoms refuse to get tested or test too late.  "We've launched radio and newspaper campaigns to spread awareness about Covid and encourage testing," said Manoj Kumar Sharma, the district's top health official. "But despite our efforts there is some resistance in rural areas to getting tested." Reuters reporters hiked uphill with medics for over an hour to get to Pitha, a village in the district with no road access. There, Jai Prakash, 38, pleaded with his neighbours to get tested. Despite his appeals, a dozen of the village's nearly 60 inhabitants did so. Only nine of around 200 inhabitants in the nearby village of Tangroli - declared a Covid-19 containment zone with more than a dozen positive patients - showed up for testing the same day that a medical team camped outside their village. "My neighbour did not want to get tested," said Deepak Singh, who works for a company in New Delhi but returned to his village this month. "He asked me if I was willing to take care of his household expenses if he tested positive."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-in-the-himalayas-poverty-fear-stretched-resources-propel-indias-covid-19-crisis-990473.html
27-05-2021||National||States want to hide their incompetency: Meenakshi Lekhi on vaccine supply||BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi hit out at the Delhi government over CM Arvind Kejriwal holding the Centre responsible for supply of Covid vaccines. "They (states) are the same people who questioned Centre when it began the vaccination drive. They want to hide their incompetency, that's why they are putting the blame on Centre," the MP told ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-want-to-hide-their-incompetency-meenakshi-lekhi-on-vaccine-supply-990474.html
27-05-2021||National||DH Toon | 'A non-manipulated picture'||After two police teams descended on Twitter's offices in Delhi and Gurgaon, the Congress on Monday alleged that the "cowardly raid" on the microblogging site's offices by the Delhi Police "exposes lameduck attempts" to hide a "fraudulent toolkit" by BJP leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-a-non-manipulated-picture-990476.html
27-05-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on May 27||India's Covid-19 infection tally climbed to 2,73,69,093 as 2,11,298 more people tested positive for the disease in a day, while the country's recovery was recorded at 90 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 27,369,093 as of May 27, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 315,235 as of May 27, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged: 2,46,33,951       Total Vaccination: 20,26,95,874   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-may-27-990496.html
27-05-2021||National||84-year-old Covid-19 patient who received monoclonal antibody therapy, back home: Hospital||"After being kept under observation, he was sent home yesterday only," a spokesperson of the hospital said. An official of the hospital claimed it was Delhi-NCR's first case of monoclonal antibody therapy for a Covid patient. Suffering from Covid-19, Singh is the first patient to receive monoclonal antibody therapy at Medanta, Gurgaon, he said. "The antibody combination of Casirivimab and Imdevimab, now available in India is a cutting-edge treatment that will provide protection to Covid-19 positive patients with mild or moderate symptoms before they deteriorate further or require hospitalisation," the hospital said in a statement. "This FDA approved therapy demonstrated good efficacy in Phase 1/2 and Phase 3 studies by reducing Covid-19 related hospitalisation and death by 70 per cent. Approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), this single dose infusion-based treatment can be provided on an outpatient or on daycare basis, and marks a dramatic shift in Covid-19 care in India," it added. Similar to antibodies which are proteins that the body naturally produces to defend itself against the disease, monoclonal antibodies are artificially created in a lab and tailor-made to fight the disease they treat, hospital authorities said. "Casirivimab and Imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that are specifically directed against the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, designed to block the virus' attachment and entry into human cells," the statement said. "Two distinct antibodies bind non-competitively to the Covid-19 virus-cell surface and prevent the virus from infecting healthy cells.  Using two antibodies protects against emergence of resistance," it said. The therapy is most suited for "high-risk Covid-19 patients" who are within the first 10 days of symptom onset and meet any of the listed criteria, such as, age being 65 years or above, the hospital said. Other criteria include, obesity with body mass index (BMI) of more than 35; or type-1 or type-2 diabetes mellitus; or chronic kidney disease, including those on dialysis; or chronic liver disease; or currently receiving immunosuppressive treatment; or if aged above 55, having either heart disease, or hypertension, or chronic lung disease, the statement said. Patients are advised to check with their doctor if monoclonal antibody therapy may be beneficial to them in the treatment of their Covid-19 infection, hospital authorities said. "We are glad to now have access to monoclonal antibody therapy in India. This fast and effective treatment for Covid-19 will save patients at highest risk from falling critically ill, getting hospitalized or possibly dying of complications from Covid-19. We look forward to serving our patients with this therapy and saving more lives,” said Dr Naresh Trehan, Chairman and Managing Director, Medanta. High-risk patients between the 12-17 years of age weighing at least 40 kg may also be eligible if they have any of the following conditions -- BMI of 85th percentile or more for their age and gender-based on CDC growth charts; sickle cell disease, or congenital or acquired heart disease neurodevelopmental disorders; medical-related technological dependence, example tracheostomy, gastrostomy or positive pressure ventilation (not related to Covid-19), asthma, reactive airway or another chronic respiratory disease that requires daily medication for control, the statement said. The therapy is not recommended in patients who are hospitalised due to severe Covid-19, require oxygen therapy due to Covid-19 or require an increase in baseline oxygen ﬂow rate due to Covid-19 or those on chronic oxygen therapy due to underlying non-Covid-19 related co-morbidity, it said. Sources said that Fortis Escorts Heart Institute (FEHI) in south Delhi, will also start offering the therapy at the facility from Thursday. "Yes, we have got the doses at our hospital today, and from tomorrow we are ready to offer it to our patients who fit into the indications of its approval," a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/84-year-old-covid-19-patient-who-received-monoclonal-antibody-therapy-back-home-hospital-990502.html
27-05-2021||National||SEC suggests emergency use authorisation for Jubilant Life Sciences's remdesivir tablets||Central Drugs Standard Control Organization's Subject Expert Committee has suggested emergency use authorisation for Remdesivir tablets by Jubliant life Sciences, according to a report by ANI quoting sources. SEC suggests emergency use authorisation for Remdesivir tablets by Jubliant life Sciences: Sources More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sec-suggests-emergency-use-authorisation-for-jubilant-life-sciencess-remdesivir-tablets-990516.html
27-05-2021||National||With 3,847 deaths, India's daily fatalities dip; tally rises by 2.11 lakh cases||India's Covid-19 infection tally climbed to 2,73,69,093 as 2,11,298 more people tested positive for the disease in a day, while the country's recovery was recorded at 90 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease climbed to 3,15,235 with 3,847 fresh fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 21,57,857 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total number of such exams done so far in the country to 33,69,69,353. The daily positivity was recorded at 9.79 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for three consecutive days now, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also declined and now stands at 10.93 per cent. The count of active cases has further reduced to 24,19,907, which is 8.84 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 90.01 per cent, the data showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,46,33,951, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.15 per cent, it stated. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-3847-deaths-indias-daily-fatalities-dip-tally-rises-by-211-lakh-cases-990509.html
27-05-2021||National||Fact-check: Morphed BBC article links black fungus with cow urine||A screenshot of an alleged BBC article headlined ‘Black fungus: Indian scientist find link with cow urine 9,000 cases of rare infection [sic]’ is widely circulating on WhatsApp. The byline says that it has been authored by Soutik Biswas. It has also been shared on Twitter.  The following image compares the viral screenshot with a screengrab of the genuine article on BBC. We noticed 1) the font in the headline is different; 2) there no image icon of the author; 3) the line dividing the article and headline is darker in the viral screenshot.  A doctored screenshot of BBC’s website was shared to falsely claim that the outlet wrote an article headlined ‘Black fungus: Indian scientist find link with cow urine 9,000 cases of rare infection’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-morphed-bbc-article-links-black-fungus-with-cow-urine-990524.html
27-05-2021||National||Zydus Cadila seeks human trial approval for Covid-19 antibody cocktail in India||Zydus Cadila on Thursday said it is seeking permission from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to initiate human clinical trials for monoclonal antibodies cocktail for treatment of Covid-19. "Zydus is currently seeking permission to initiate phase 1/3 human clinical trials from the DCGI... ZRC-3308, a cocktail of two SARS-CoV-2-neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) can emerge as one of the main treatments for mild Covid-19," Cadila Healthcare said in a regulatory filing. Cadila Healthcare is the listed entity of the group. ZRC-3308 has been found to be safe and well tolerated in animal toxicology studies. Zydus said it is the only Indian company to have developed a neutralizing monoclonal antibody based cocktail for the treatment of Covid-19. Dr Sharvil Patel, Managing Director, Cadila Healthcare Ltd said, “At this juncture, there is a critical need to explore safer and more efficacious treatments to combat Covid. It is important to look at different stages of the disease progression and look at options that can reduce patient's suffering and discomfort. “We believe that ZRC-3308 has the potential to address these concerns and provide a safe treatment.” Earlier this week, drug majors Roche India and Cipla announced the launch of Roche's Antibody Cocktail in India priced at Rs 59,750 per dose for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in patients who are at high risk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-cadila-seeks-human-trial-approval-for-covid-19-antibody-cocktail-in-india-990526.html
27-05-2021||National||Committed to comply with local laws, work constructively with govts: Google CEO Pichai on new social media rules||Google is committed to complying with local laws and engages constructively with governments as they scrutinise and adopt regulatory frameworks to keep pace with the fast-evolving technology landscape, its CEO Sundar Pichai said on Thursday. "It's obviously early days and our local teams are very engaged... we always respect local laws in every country we operate in and we work constructively. We have clear transparency reports, when we comply with government requests, we highlight that in our transparency reports," Pichai said in a virtual conference with select reporters from Asia Pacific. He added that a free and open internet is "foundational", and that India has long traditions of that. As a company, we are very clear about the values of a free and open internet and the benefits it brings and we advocate for it, and we engage constructively with regulators around the world, and we participate in these processes, I think it's a part of how we learn..." He added that the company respects the legislative processes, and in cases where it needs to push back, it does so. "It's a balance we have struck around the world," he said. Pichai noted that technology is touching society in deeper and broader ways and the landscape is evolving at a fast pace. "So, we fully expect governments rightfully to both scrutinize and adopt regulatory frameworks. Be it Europe with copyright directive or India with information regulation etc, we see it as a natural part of societies figuring out how to govern and adapt themselves in this technology-intensive world," he said, adding that Google engages constructively with regulators around the world, and participates in these processes. The new IT rules for social media companies, which came into effect from Wednesday, are aimed at making digital platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, Instagram and Google - which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India - more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform. The new rules, which were announced on February 25, require large social media players to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. 'Significant social media intermediaries' - defined as those with over 50 lakh registered users - were given three months' time to comply with the additional requirements. Non-compliance with rules, will result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for action. Google has previously stated that it has consistently invested in significant product changes, resources, and personnel to ensure that it is combating illegal content in an effective and fair way, and complies with local laws in the jurisdictions it operates in. The new rules also require these platforms to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours, and take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint. The new guidelines mandate setting up a robust complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country, and significant social media companies will have to publish a monthly compliance report disclosing details of complaints received and action taken, as well as details of contents removed proactively. They will also be required to have a physical contact address in India published on its website or mobile app, or both.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/committed-to-comply-with-local-laws-work-constructively-with-govts-google-ceo-pichai-on-new-social-media-rules-990556.html
27-05-2021||National||Twitter 'concerned' about India staff safety after police visit; Centre says new rules empower social media users||As social media platforms are up against the government over new intermediary rules, Twitter on Thursday joined the chorus expressing concern over the new regulations describing it as a "dangerous overreach that is inconsistent with open, democratic principles" and taking exception to the  "use of intimidation tactics" by the police in the toolkit case. Google said it is committed to comply with local laws and it respects the legislative processes, and in cases where it needs to push back, it does so even as the government said the new rules empower common man when they become victims of abuse and misuse. The developments came two days after WhatsApp approached a Delhi court against the new social media intermediary rules, which it said would have an impact on privacy of its users. The social media companies were to comply with the rules from May 26 but WhatsApp chose to approach the court on the last day May 25. As the government insisted that the social media giants have no option but to comply, Twitter said it would "strive to comply with applicable law in India to keep its service available in the country" though it was seeking three more months to comply with the new rules. Referring to Delhi Police personnel visiting its office on the pretext of serving notice in the 'toolkit case', a Twitter spokesperson said, “We, alongside many in civil society in India and around the world, have concerns with regards to the use of intimidation tactics by the police in response to enforcement of our global terms of service, as well as with core elements of the new IT Rules.” Twitter also said it was concerned about the requirement to make an individual, whom it should appoint as compliance officer as per new rules, criminally liable for content on the platform, the requirements for proactive monitoring, and the blanket authority to seek information about our customers. This represents dangerous overreach that is inconsistent with open, democratic principles", the spokesperson said. It urged the  Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MietY) to publish the Standard Operating Protocols on procedural aspects of compliance for public consultation. Twitter was in the news after it tagged BJP leader Sambit Patra's tweet on 'Congress toolkit' as "manipulated media". Government wanted it to retract but the social media giant refused to do so and days later, Delhi Police personnel visited the Twitter offices on the pretext of serving notice in connection with a complaint filed by Congress against BJP leaders. Separately, Google said it is committed to complying with local laws and engages constructively with governments as they scrutinise and adopt regulatory frameworks to keep pace with the fast evolving technology landscape. "It's obviously early days and our local teams are very engaged... we always respect local laws in every country we operate in and we work constructively. We have clear transparency reports, when we comply with government requests, we highlight that in our transparency reports," Google CEO Sundar Pichai said. A free and open internet is "foundational", and that India has long traditions of that, he said adding that the company respects the legislative processes, and in cases where it needs to push back, it does so. "It's a balance we have struck around the world," he said. Taking firm stand on new rules, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that WhatsApp users have nothing to fear about new social media rules, that are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. "The rules only empower the ordinary users of social media when they become victims of abuse and misuse," Prasad wrote on micro-blogging platforms Koo and Twitter. The new rules were announced in February,  which came into force from Wednesday (May 26), requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance report and removal of objectionable content. The new rules also specify that social media firms adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-concerned-about-india-staff-safety-after-police-visit-centre-says-new-rules-empower-social-media-users-990558.html
27-05-2021||National||Congress pays tributes to Jawaharlal Nehru on death anniversary||The Congress on Thursday paid tributes to India's first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru on his death anniversary, saying he was the architect of modern India who made unforgettable contributions to the country and the world. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also paid floral tributes to Nehru at his memorial Shanti Van this morning. Nehru, the first prime minister of India, held office between August 1947 and May 1964. He died on this day in 1964. "Today, we honour Pt Jawaharlal Nehru, who has made unforgettable contributions to India & the world. He was a man of towering intellect, the architect of modern India, a true patriot," the Congress said on its official Twitter handle. "He fought ardently for India's Independence, democracy and further development," the party tweeted with the hashtag 'RememberingNehru'. Paying homage to Nehru, Gandhi posted a quote of his great grandfather, "Evil unchecked grows, evil tolerated poisons the whole system." "Remembering the wise words of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on his death anniversary," the former Congress chief tweeted. “Evil unchecked grows, evil tolerated poisons the whole system." Congress general secretary in-charge, organization, K C Venugopal, also posted a quote of Nehru, "Without peace, all other dreams vanish and are reduced to ashes." "My humble tributes to India's first Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru ji on his death anniversary," Venugopal tweeted. "Without peace, all other dreams vanish and are reduced to ashes"- Jawaharlal Nehru Congress chief ministers -- Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) -- also paid tributes to Nehru on his 57th death anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-pays-tributes-to-jawaharlal-nehru-on-death-anniversary-990559.html
27-05-2021||National||India has held talks with Pfizer, J&J, Moderna for Covid-19 vaccine||India has held several discussions with Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers Pfizer, Moderna and J&J, but there are no applications for approval pending with its regulators, the government said on Thursday. "Government offered all assistance to have them supply and or manufacture their vaccines in India," the government said in a statement. "No application of any foreign manufacturer for approval is pending with the drugs controller."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-held-talks-with-pfizer-jj-moderna-for-covid-19-vaccine-990576.html
27-05-2021||National||UN agencies ready to support Cyclone Yaas response efforts in India: UN spokesperson||As Tropical Cyclone Yaas ravaged parts of India's eastern coast, a spokesperson for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres has said the world body and its agencies stand ready to support the response efforts if state authorities request it, while expressing concern that lack of social distancing in emergency shelters and temporary suspension of vaccination campaigns amid the Covid-19 pandemic could further complicate the health crisis. "From South Asia, which is being impacted currently by Tropical Cyclone Yaas, our humanitarian colleagues tell us that we have activated cyclone preparedness measures and prepositioned stocks of food and other items,” Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General, said at the daily press briefing on Wednesday. “The cyclone reached the Indian state of Odisha yesterday, with millions of people being evacuated by the Government ahead of the storm. UN agencies and our partners in India stand ready to support the response efforts if State authorities request it,” he said. UN humanitarian colleagues in Nepal say the country could also experience heavy rainfall with floods and landslides over the coming hours, Dujarric said, adding that in Bangladesh, "our colleagues say the cyclone has not impacted Cox’s Bazar, but they are closely monitoring the situation due to the possibility of storm surges and embankment collapse in border areas." Cox's Bazar is home to the world's largest refugee camp, with nearly a million Rohingya migrants residing at the enclosures in Ukhiya and Teknaf Upazilas. “As you know, India, Bangladesh and Nepal are all grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic. We are concerned that the lack of social distancing in emergency shelters and the temporary suspension of vaccination campaigns could complicate already complicated efforts,” he said. Cyclone Yaas, packing winds gusting to 145 kmph whiplashed parts of India’s eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and leaving behind a trail of damaged homes and flooded farmland, forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in the states of West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. The cyclone, which made landfall around 9 am near Dhamra port in Odisha, is the second cyclonic storm to hit India within a week after Tauktae tore into its western coast, causing death and destruction. Odisha shifted 6.5 lakh people to safer places, and West Bengal 15 lakh people, ahead of the cyclone, amid concerns over spread of Covid-19 infection at the temporary shelters, given the fact that the country is battling the raging second wave of the pandemic. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik ordered health screening of all the 6.5 lakh people taken to the cyclone shelters, including Covid-19 tests if required. Officials said similar health screenings were also planned for the shelters in Bengal. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said relief materials worth Rs 10 crore have been sent to the affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-agencies-ready-to-support-cyclone-yaas-response-efforts-in-india-un-spokesperson-990579.html
27-05-2021||National||Many teachers pressed into election duty became Covid-19 victims, families say||"She asked if she could be excused but the officers said 'if you are not sick, you have to do your duty',” said Lata’s 25-year-old son, Vaibhav Agarwal, sitting in front of her photo, garlanded with flowers at the family’s home in Mathura town, southeast of the capital, New Delhi. It was not possible to verify how many of the teachers from the eight families Reuters spoke to had contracted the virus when they attended election training or the polling. Uttar Pradesh state has for now only considered compensation for teachers who died while on polling duty. It says for those who died after polling, there's no proof they contracted the virus while on election duty. Primary Education Minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi told media last week only three teachers died while on polling duty. He dismissed the figure of 1,600 from the teachers' union as "misinformation". Spokesmen for the state government did not respond to requests for comment. Almost all the people interviewed said their relatives began developing symptoms several days after returning from duty. The others said their relatives were already sick when they were called up but had not been tested for Covid. Their requests to be excused from their duty were refused, the families said. Swati Gupta, a 32-year-old teacher, fell sick days after attending election training in early April, said her cousin, Amit Kumar Gupta. "She had written an application to the district magistrate and state election commission to relieve her from duty due to poor health but no reply was received,” he said. She later tested positive for Covid and died before the polling date. Election crowds Sprawling across north India and home to more than 200 million people, Uttar Pradesh is more populous than Brazil. Village-level elections are a huge exercise, with more than 1.3 million candidates vying for 800,000 seats in voting spread over four days in April. With schools closed because of the pandemic, hundreds of thousands of teachers were called in to help with monitoring voting and overseeing the counts. Coronavirus cases spiked in the state in April, from official tallies of fewer than 1,000 a day at the end of March to more than 30,000 a day by the end of April. Hospitals in north India saw an unprecedented crisis in April, with patients dying from a lack of oxygen and beds, while crematoriums worked around the clock. The federal government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been criticized for allowing mass gatherings throughout April, including a religious festival attended by millions and elections in several states. News footage of polls in Uttar Pradesh showed crowds of voters jostling in queues, with some not wearing masks. On one occasion, police baton-charged a crowd that thronged a counting centre near Lata’s home. Plea for potponement Uttar Pradesh did not go into a state-wide shutdown until April 30, the day after Lata finished polling duty. "She called to tell us the facilities were really bad,” Agarwal said. She was not provided with hand sanitiser, gloves, or any other protective equipment, he said. The Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh teachers’ union wrote several times to the state’s chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, a Modi ally, asking for the polls to be postponed but it said it got no response. "These deaths could have been avoided if the elections were postponed but the government never paid heed,” said Sanjay Singh, the union’s general secretary. “The least they could do now is give compensation to every family.” All eight families that Reuters spoke to said their relatives felt they had little choice but to fulfil their election duty. Days after returning, Lata fell sick. She was moved to hospital, tested positive for Covid and died on May 14. Lata was the family breadwinner as her husband is unable to work because of an injury. Without her monthly salary of 65,000 rupees ($895) – which put them firmly in India’s emerging middle class – the family is facing hardship. A state government suggestion it might provide compensation for teachers it recognises died after contracting Covid on polling duty has done little to ease the anger over its refusal to postpone the vote. "She was our mother, she provided everything for us,” Agarwal said. “Money won't bring her back.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-teachers-pressed-into-election-duty-became-covid-19-victims-families-say-990582.html
27-05-2021||National||Delhi HC agrees to hear plea to restrain 'media trial' of wrestler Sushil Kumar on Friday||The Delhi High Court has agreed to hear a plea to restrain media from sensationalising a case related to the murder of a 23-year-old wrestler in which Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar has been arrested along four with others. The plea filed by Kamla Devi, mother of Kumar and a law student Shrikant Prasad was mentioned before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh.  The matter will be taken up on Friday, May 28.  It was contended in the petition that Kumar’s career and reputation were tarnished by sensational reporting against him in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl that led to the death of a wrestler.  According to the plea, excessive publicity of the suspect before the trial in a court of law, either incriminates a fair trial or results in characterising the suspect as guilty. This amounts to undue interference with the "administration of justice”, it claimed.  The media has now transformed itself into “janta adalats” or “public courts” and has started intervening in the cour's proceedings. The vital gap between a convict and an accused is completely overlooked by the media which disregards the cardinal principles of ‘presumption of innocence until proven guilty’ and ‘guilt beyond reasonable doubt’ in its reporting, it claimed. The Delhi police claimed Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted fellow wrestler Sagar Dhankar and his two friends Sonu and Amit Kumar at the stadium on May 4 night over a dispute over money. Dhankar succumbed to his injuries later.  The Delhi Police have filed an FIR under Sections 302 (murder), 308 (culpable homicide), 365 (kidnapping), 325 (causing grievous hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. They have also included Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of IPC and various sections under the Arms Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-agrees-to-hear-plea-to-restrain-media-trial-of-wrestler-sushil-kumar-on-friday-990586.html
27-05-2021||National||There is a political effort to depict current government in a certain way: S Jaishankar in US||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said that there is "a political effort" to depict the current government in India in a certain way and there is a difference between the political imagery that has been "concocted" and actually the governance record out there. During a conversation with former US National Security Advisor General HR McMaster in ‘Battlegrounds’ session on 'India: Opportunities And Challenges For A Strategic Partnership’ presented by the Hoover Institution, Jaishankar on Wednesday also said that India is going through “a very stressful time" right now because of the pandemic. "We are actually giving free food, last year for multiple months and right now again because of the second wave we have resumed, to as much as 800 million people. We put money into the bank accounts of 400 million people. "This is what this government did. Now, if you are feeding more than two and a half times the population of the United States and you are funding more than the population of the US and you're doing this pretty much anonymously and impersonally in the sense beyond the name and the detail, the bank account of the person. We're not asking anything more. There is no criteria of discrimination,” Jaishankar, also a senior leader of the ruling BJP, said. "So I think when you come down to real governance judgments, you find that there is a difference between the political imagery that has been concocted and actually the governance record out there. "So I think you should take it for what it is, which is really politics at play. You can agree with it, you can disagree with it but I would certainly see that very much as part of a political effort to depict our current government in a certain way and obviously I have a very profound difference with that,” he added. "We Indians are extremely confident about our democracy… India is a deeply pluralistic society,” the minister said. Jaishankar was responding to a question by McMaster on some “Hindutva policies” that could undermine the secular nature of Indian democracy, how he sees internal Indian politics evolving during the trauma of the pandemic and are India's friends "right to be concerned about some of these recent trends." Jaishankar said he would respond to the question with a straight political answer and a slightly more nuanced societal answer. "The political answer is that in the past there was a great reliance on what's called vote bank politics, which is appealing to vote banks on the basis of their identity, or their beliefs or whatever it is. And the fact that we have departed from it has obviously been a difference," he said. He stressed that India is a country of many faiths and faiths everywhere in the world are very closely tied to culture and identity. "Now in our society, we define secularism as equal respect for all faiths. Secularism doesn't mean that you are in denial of your own faith or anybody else's faith for that matter. "I think what you are seeing in India, in many ways, is the deepening of democracy, if you would call it, a much broader representation in politics and in leadership positions and in civil society of people. Of people who are much more confident about their culture, about their language, about their beliefs. "I would be very open about it. I mean these are people who perhaps are less, shall I say, less from the English-speaking world, less connected to other global centers. So there is a difference. And I think sometimes that difference is judged politically harshly and it is often used to create a certain narrative,” he said. Jaishankar added that the larger societal explanation he would give is that India is diverse in every conceivable sense of the term - ethnicity, language. "You name a parameter and you know it's a broad spectrum sort of representation out there." Jaishankar, who arrived in New York Sunday and met UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, travelled to Washington on Wednesday where he is expected to meet US Secretary of State Antony Blinken. It is the first visit by a senior Indian minister to the US after President Joe Biden assumed office in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-is-a-political-effort-to-depict-current-government-in-a-certain-way-s-jaishankar-in-us-990588.html
27-05-2021||National||Odisha man’s bizarre reason for stepping out during cyclone Yaas leaves netizens in splits||When the reporter asked this man the reason behind him being out in this bad weather, he told, “I’m out as you are out”. The reporter told him that he is doing his work and showing what’s happening during the cyclone. To which the man replied, “If we don’t come out in the cyclone, whom will you show?” While the cyclone wreaked havoc in different parts of Odisha and West Bengal, many people were still seen outside carelessly even after authorities had repeatedly warned them about it. Such a kind hearted man. Doing so much for the humanity. I must say that this guy has a great sense of humour..what a reply!   While the journalist is justifying his salary , the respondent is justifying his IQ.....not surprised. Cyclone Yaas made its landfall near Dhamra port in Odisha at 9:15 am on Wednesday and left a trail of destruction in the nearby areas. NDRF teams have been carrying out the restoration work in the cyclone-hit areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-man-s-bizarre-reason-for-stepping-out-during-cyclone-yaas-leaves-netizens-in-splits-990592.html
27-05-2021||National||New rules designed to prevent misuse of social media; WhatsApp users have nothing to fear: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Prasad said that the government welcomes criticism including the right to ask questions. "The rules only empower the ordinary users of social media when they become victims of abuse and misuse," Prasad posted on micro-blogging platform Koo, and also tweeted. The government fully recognises and respects the right of privacy, he asserted. "Ordinary users of WhatsApp have nothing to fear about the new Rules. Its entire objective is to find out who started the message that led to commissioning of specific crimes mentioned in the Rules," Prasad added. The new IT rules require the social media companies to set up an India-based grievance redressal officer, compliance officer and nodal officer "so that millions of users of social media who have a grievance get a forum for its redressal", he said. The government on Wednesday had staunchly defended its new digital rules, saying the requirement of messaging platforms like WhatsApp to disclose origin of flagged messages does not violate privacy, and went on to seek a compliance report from large social media firms. The new rules, announced on February 25, require large social media platforms -- defined as those with over 50 lakh users in the country -- to follow additional due diligence, including appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules would result in these platforms losing the intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-rules-designed-to-prevent-misuse-of-social-media-whatsapp-users-have-nothing-to-fear-ravi-shankar-prasad-990601.html
27-05-2021||National||Cyclone Yaas leaves more than 150,000 people homeless||More than 150,000 people were left homeless in the aftermath of a cyclone that unleashed storm surges in eastern India and Bangladesh, officials said on Thursday, with heavy rains hampering relief work in some low-lying coastal areas. At least five people were killed in the two countries after Cyclone Yaas moved inland from the Bay of Bengal on Wednesday, packing gusts of up to 140 kph (87 mph) and whipping up tidal surges in India's West Bengal state and neighbouring Bangladesh. Indian officials said the storm had weakened into a depression after hitting the coast but heavy rain poured down in parts of West Bengal, where there was fresh inundation of sea water along some coastal villages on Thursday. "Restoration work will be difficult unless the weather improves," West Bengal state minister Bankim Hazra told Reuters. In West Bengal's Sundarbans delta, which stretches into Bangladesh, at least 25,000 homes, many of them traditional mud houses, had been destroyed, leaving 150,000 people homeless, Hazra said, citing preliminary estimates. The storm, the second to hit India in a week, arrived as the country grapples with a deadly second wave of coronavirus infections that has stretched the healthcare system to breaking point. Some 500,000 people were sheltered in relief camps in West Bengal and officials said they had taken steps to reduce the risk of a potential spread of the virus. "Flood shelters have quarantine rooms for those showing symptoms of COVID-19 like fever, sore throat, body ache," Dr Indranil Bargi, a medical officer in Gosaba area, told Reuters. People are being tested for coronavirus using the rapid antigen test and anyone who tests positive would be shifted to safe homes set up in government offices and schools, he said. Authorities in Bangladesh reported flooding of villages due to torrential rains and tidal surges. Three people were dead, two by drowning and a third who was hit by a tree, an official at the Disaster Management Agency said. "I have never seen a tidal surge rising to this level. It flooded many villages and washed away houses. Many people are marooned," said Humayum Kabir, an official in the coastal district of Khulna. Elsewhere on the sub-continent, Nepal was bracing for floods in its plains and landslides in the hills as heavy rains have lashed the Himalayan country since Wednesday and were forecast to last till Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-yaas-leaves-more-than-150000-people-homeless-990602.html
27-05-2021||National||Covid-19 pandemic hits India's drive to tackle an ancient disease — Elephantiasis||Sunita Kashyap used to get free treatment in her local health centre for the swelling in her right leg that has left her in pain and unable to work - the incurable result of a parasitic disease endemic in her native India. For the past year, the 36-year-old mother of three has received only basic painkillers for the debilitating swelling caused by her lymphatic filariasis, also known as elephantiasis for the distinctive lower limb swelling it causes. "We are poor people," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from her village in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, one of India's most deprived regions. "My husband works on daily wages of 200 rupees ($2.75) in a shop, but each time the shop closes due to lockdowns, we don't get that money." Lymphatic filariasis is a centuries-old disease spread by mosquitoes that causes hidden damage to the lymphatic system. It is present in Asia, Africa and parts of the Caribbean and South America and is often contracted in childhood, but the painful and disfiguring swellings behind its colloquial name usually emerge only later in life. It affects the world's poorest people, often preventing them from working and trapping them in a cycle of poverty, with many sufferers left disabled and facing the social stigma of disfigurement. The World Health Organization estimates that 859 million people in 50 countries are threatened by lymphatic filariasis, though the number of sufferers has fallen by 74% since it launched a programme to eliminate the disease in 2000. The bulk of these are in India, where 670 million people live in regions where the disease is endemic, according to the health department. Because its effects are irreversible, prevention is key. But as well as affecting access to treatment, health campaigners say the coronavirus pandemic has hit crucial efforts to curb the spread of the disease. Treatment Hurdles Over the last two decades, India has used its army of ASHA workers - women health workers who act as the first line of defence in small communities - to administer a two-drug combination that can break the transmission chain if taken annually for five to six years. The treatments, which target the parasites in the blood of infected people to lower community transmission, have brought the number of districts where lymphatic filariasis is endemic down to 159 from 257 in 2004, Indian health officials said. In 2019, India introduced a new triple-drug regimen that can check transmission in just three years. The new drug combination was initially rolled out in four districts, with plans to extend it to 27 this year, but officials said only one district had so far been covered. Five out of 10 health workers contacted by the Thomson Reuters Foundation in Uttar Pradesh said they had not been able to distribute the preventive drugs at all during the pandemic. "We could not distribute the medicines last year," said health worker Renu Singh. "This year also we have been busy screening people for Covid symptoms and it appears we won't be able to distribute the medicines." Chhavi Pant Joshi, joint director of India's National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, said the pandemic would not derail the country's efforts, describing it as a "short-term hurdle". Preventive drugs had been administered in 97 of the 150 districts targeted by the government last year, Joshi said, adding that 32 had been covered so far this year, and distribution would resume between October and December. "Once the pandemic situation is under control, out-patient department consultations will go up," she said. 'Desperate' The WHO set out the goal of eliminating lymphatic filariasis as a public health problem by 2030 when it published its roadmap to tackle 20 neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) in January. Together, these curable or preventable diseases affect more than 1.7 billion people in some of the world's poorest countries, and efforts to tackle them around the world have been hit by the pandemic. Elephantiasis sufferers contacted by the Thomson Reuters Foundation in India said they were struggling to access the drugs they relied on to ease the pain and fever that come with their condition. When transport services were suspended last year during a strict nationwide lockdown, patients in villages were unable to travel to the cities where they had previously accessed health services. Electrician Mohammad Hussain Baig travelled 1,500 miles (2,500km) from his village in the eastern state of Bihar to southern India to seek treatment after months of excruciating pain in his swollen leg. "I was desperate," said the 41-year-old, who used his smartphone to look for treatment options. "There is no doctor in my village or nearby who could treat this." When he reached the Institute of Applied Dermatology in the southern state of Kerala, Baig was diagnosed with lymphorrhea, a painful bacterial skin infection. The Institute's chief dermatologist, S.R Narahari, said such cases had increased among his patients in the last year, and were often at a serious stage by the time they received medical attention. "Wherever there is swelling, there is a lot of inflammation and we call this local immuno-deficiency. In Covid-19 it is an important co-morbidity which people don't recognise," he said. Amandeep Singh, senior director at the US-based health advocacy organisation Global Health Strategies, said India's drug prevention programme had continued in 2020 despite the nationwide disruptions, but this year was different. "There has been an unprecedented break in public health messaging, it's almost as if all other diseases have disappeared," he said. "Covid messages need to be integrated with all the other programmes, and flexibility given to local decision makers to tailor the messages, to localise it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-hits-indias-drive-to-tackle-an-ancient-disease-elephantiasis-990604.html
27-05-2021||National||Man pays Rs 18K for flight to Dubai, flies alone on a 360-seater plane||The CEO of a Dubai-based company has boarded flights between Mumbai and Dubai over 200 times, but his latest flight on May 19 was the most unique, and his best so far. An operator from the Indian aircraft charter industry told TOI that it would cost about Rs 70 lakh to charter a Mumbai to Dubai flight and double that if the aircraft was of a company that had to fly it back without passengers to its base. So, how did Javeri get this 'money-can't-buy' experience, for just Rs 18,000?  "It is probably a case of good passenger load on one side when they flew from Dubai to Mumbai and then poor load on the return leg. The airline would have operated the return leg anyway, even with zero paying passengers," an Indian airline official is quoted as saying by the publication. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has in place travel restrictions that allow only UAE nationals, holders of UAE Golden visa and members of the diplomatic mission to travel to the country from India. Javeri is a Golden visa holder. Javeri, who usually travels business class, booked an economy ticket assuming light passenger load in the flights. To his surprise, he ended up having the 360-seater aircraft all to himself. He posted a video of this experience in detail with visuals of the near-empty Mumbai airport and interiors of the flight with empty seats, which received traction across social media.    The Emirates crew reportedly gave him an extremely personalised experience, with in-flight announcements like, "Mr Javeri, please fasten your seat belt," and "Mr Javeri, we are preparing to land." The pilot even offered him a tour of the plane before the flight. "Usually I do a big announcement. Since you're the only one here I am going to give it to you. I’ll give you tour of the entire plane," the pilot said while welcoming Javeri, according to a Khaleej Times report. "I have flown so much, but this is the best flight ever!" Javeri told the air hostesses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-pays-rs-18k-for-flight-to-dubai-flies-alone-on-a-360-seater-plane-990608.html
27-05-2021||National||No local trials for Covid-19 vaccines to fast-track imports as India battles second wave||India on Thursday scrapped local trials for "well-established" foreign coronavirus vaccines to fast-track imports as it battles a devastating second wave of the pandemic that has killed tens of thousands of people. India has been inoculating its people with the AstraZeneca vaccine produced locally at the Serum Institute, Covaxin made by local firm Bharat Biotech, and has begun rolling out Russia's Sputnik V. But supplies are far short of the millions of doses the world's second-most populous country needs. Last month, India pledged to fast-track approvals for foreign vaccines but its insistence on local trials was a key reason for stalled discussions with Pfizer. "The provision has now been further amended to waive the trial requirement altogether for the well-established vaccines manufactured in other countries," the government said in a statement. None of the drugmakers has sent in applications for approval with India's drugs regulator, it said. "We reiterate our request to all international vaccine makers to come and make in India – for India and for the world." Just about 3% of the country's 1.3 billion people have been fully vaccinated, the lowest rate among the 10 countries with the most Covid-19 cases. Officials have said that 98% of the population remains susceptible to infection. The country reported 211,298 new infections on Thursday, still the world's highest daily rise, but nearly half the daily infections it recorded earlier this month. The overall case load is now at 27.37 million, while deaths stand at 315,235, according to health ministry data. But experts believe that figure grossly underestimates the actual toll as only people who have tested positive are counted, whereas many victims were never tested. Desperate Indian states are launching global tenders or seeking expressions of interest from firms including Pfizer and Moderna, but vaccine makers said they would only talk with the federal government. The government said supplies were tight. "The fact that global tenders have not given any results only reaffirms what we have been telling the states from day one: that vaccines are in short supply in the world and it is not easy to procure them at short notice," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-local-trials-for-covid-19-vaccines-to-fast-track-imports-as-india-battles-second-wave-990617.html
27-05-2021||National||Govt, Pfizer working together for earliest possible import of vaccine: VK Paul||As soon as Pfizer indicated vaccine availability, the central government and the company started working together for the earliest possible import of the vaccine, NITI Aayog member VK Paul said on Thursday. Paul, in a statement on 'Myth and Facts on India's Vaccination Process' pointed out that vaccines are in limited supply globally, and companies have their own priorities, game-plans and compulsions in allocating finite stocks. "As soon as Pfizer indicated vaccine availability, the central government and the company are working together for the earliest possible import of the vaccine," Paul, who is also the head of India's Covid-19 task force, said. Paul, the Chair of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), has said that as a result of the central government's efforts, Sputnik vaccine trials got accelerated and with timely approval, Russia has already sent two tranches of vaccines and accomplished tech-transfer to Indian companies that would start manufacturing very soon. "We reiterate our request to all international vaccine makers to come and make in India – for India and for the world," he said. The NITI Aayog member said the Centre has engaged continuously with all the major international vaccine manufacturers right from mid-2020. "Multiple rounds of discussions have happened with Pfizer, J&J & Moderna.  The government offered all assistance to have them supply and/or manufacture their vaccines in India," he said. However, Paul noted that it is not that their vaccines are available in free supply. "We need to understand that buying vaccines internationally is not similar to buying 'off the shelf' items," he said. According to sources, Pfizer has told Indian authorities that its jab has shown "high effectiveness" against the SARS-CoV-2 variant prevalent in India and on people of Indian ethnicity or nationality, while it is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees. Pfizer, which is ready to offer 5 crore doses to India between July and October this year, has sought certain relaxations including indemnification, has held a series of interactions with the Indian government authorities recently including one this week, during which it shared the most recent data points regarding efficacy trials and approvals for its vaccine in various countries and by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Paul also refuted the claim by some opposition leaders that the Centre is not doing enough to ramp-up domestic production of vaccines. "The central government is playing the role of an effective facilitator to enable more companies to produce vaccines from early 2020. "There is only 1 Indian company (Bharat Biotech) which has the IP. The government of India has ensured that 3 other companies/plants will start production of Covaxin apart from enhancing Bharat Biotech's own plants, which have increased from 1 to 4," he argued. Paul further said that Covaxin production by Bharat Biotech is being increased from under 1 crore per month to 10 crore per month by October. India is currently using mainly two 'made-in India' jabs – Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech – and Russian-made Sputnik V at a smaller scale to inoculate its population, all of which are approved only for those aged 18 years and above. In its latest communication to the government, Pfizer has also thanked the government of India to have agreed to its request for procurement through a central government pathway and to discuss "the Indemnity and Liability protection".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-pfizer-working-together-for-earliest-possible-import-of-vaccine-vk-paul-990620.html
27-05-2021||National||Give compliance details with new IT rules in 15 days: Centre to digital media, OTT platforms||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has said that digital media publishers need not register with it but should provide "certain information" under the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Codes) Rules in the next 15 days. In a public notice issued on Wednesday, the Ministry said Minister Prakash Javadekar held interactions with the publishers of online curated content, news as well as digital media publishers. Around 60 publishers and their associations have informed the ministry that they have initiated the process of formation of self-regulatory bodies under the rules.  The ministry clarified that there is "no requirement for prior registration of digital media publishers" but should provide information about the company. It has come out with three separate forms for newspapers and TV channels running news websites, digital-only publishers, and OTT platforms. All three will have to provide the details of the Grievance Redressal Officer, the self-regulating body of which the publisher is a member, and the names of news editors of media groups and content managers for OTT. According to Rule 18, a publisher of news and current affairs content and a publisher of online curated content operating in the territory of India should inform the ministry about the details of its entity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-compliance-details-with-new-it-rules-in-15-days-centre-to-digital-media-ott-platforms-990623.html
27-05-2021||National||Covid-19 lockdowns hit sale of liquor across India||Lockdowns to curb Covid-19 pandemic have impacted the sale of IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liquor) products across India in 2020-21 with overall sales dropping by 12 per cent. Though the sales picked up in the second half of 2020-21 in most parts, the States which imposed high Corona cess and other taxes after the first wave of Covid-19, showed poor recovery. The total sales of IMFL products in 2020-21 was 305 million cases (9 litres each) which is nearly 12 per cent below the previous year, says the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC). After an extremely poor first quarter (April-June 2020) due to Covid lockdowns, sales showed positive trend across the country, improving through each quarter, and finally ending the year with a robust performance in the fourth quarter (January to March 2021), said the apex body of the Indian alcoholic beverage industry in a statement. While the liquor sales fell by a huge 42 per cent in Q1 of the last fiscal, the sales were down 9 per cent in Q2 and 1 per cent in Q3, while it showed a recovery of 6 per cent in Q4. The top five states in terms of recovery in sales were Maharashtra, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, while West Bengal, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are among the big states which witnessed largest decline over the previous year. “Many States showed positive trend through the quarters, and even though most States were unable to fully recover in first and second quarters, strong performance in third and fourth quarters reflects fundamental strength in the market. It also confirms that there is no lasting shift against alcoholic beverages in consumption baskets.”CIABC Director General Vinod Giri said.    The CIABC DG pointed out that some states remained a matter of concern where sales did not pick up or picked up way below the national trend. “Incidentally, the majority of these States are ones that imposed high cess / tax during the first wave of Covid, and unlike other states, those did not withdraw or reduce it. West Bengal and Chhattisgarh also made changes in the route-to-market which may have suppressed the market's natural uplift”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdowns-hit-sale-of-liquor-across-india-990624.html
27-05-2021||National||Boat capsize: Bodies of two more fishermen recovered||The bodies of two more fishermen, who had gone missing after their boats capsized off Vizhinjam coast near Thiruvananthapuram, were recovered on Thursday morning, police said. Along with Indian Coast Guard (ICG) personnel, the state coastal police and local fishermen were engaged in a relentless search mission to rescue them after their boats capsized on Tuesday night. The body of Joseph, hailing from Poonthura, was recovered off Poovar, a fishing hamlet nearby, by a team of coastal police and fishermen. The body of Xavier alias Shabariar was fished out by the ICG team off Vizhinjam. He was a native of Kottappuram in Vizhinjam, police said. Coastal police sources told PTI that search is still continuing to ensure that all fishermen, who were travelling in the capsized boats, have been rescued though only these two were reportedly missing. The body of another fisherman, 55-year old Davidson, was recovered from Adimalathura on Wednesday. Four tiny boats, carrying at least 17 people including the deceased men, had capsized off the Vizhinjam coast due to rough seas and strong winds. A total of eight people had already been rescued by the rescue team. The others had swam to safety by themselves, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boat-capsize-bodies-of-two-more-fishermen-recovered-990626.html
27-05-2021||National||Covid-19 to stay with us for generations, says IIPH Director Prof. G V S Murthy||Like the flu, Covid-19 is here to stay for generations, according to the Director of the Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad, Prof. G V S Murthy. Available data from different states suggests that June-end may see a significant downward spiral in Covid-19 cases in south and west India, he said. "In north and east India, it may be mid-July for a significant decrease in the cases", Prof. Murthy told PTI on Thursday. Allowing political, social and religious gatherings too early in the life of the pandemic is one of the prime reasons for the rapid fueling of cases in the second wave, according to him. Despite signals emerging from February that we could see an upswing of cases, prompt public health response was lacking, he said, adding this is because public health professionals have not been engaged in the response. "In all countries where the Covid-19 response was quick and need-based, there was authority and responsibility vested in the public health leadership. Unfortunately, the same was not seen in India where it was more of a non-public health or political response," Prof. Murthy said. He said Covid-19 is here to stay with us for a long time. An infectious agent once introduced into the community, continues to simmer and lead to localised outbreaks. "Flu has been with us for generations now and the same will be the course of Covid-19," he said. He is of the view that outbreaks will occur whenever a large number of people susceptible to the infection are available. "We know that post the Covid-19 infection, immunity is only for a short duration of 3-6 months, after which the same person is vulnerable to getting reinfected. The reinfection will depend on the viral load to which the susceptible person is exposed to. We have seen some Chief Ministers and national leaders also getting infected a second time. So nobody is permanently immune," Prof. Murthy said. According to him, it will take five to six months for the next Covid-19 wave to occur as, by then, the population immunity will once again wane off. "So November could again be a worrying time". In pandemics, it is the older and more infirm people who succumb first, but with each succeeding wave, more of the middle-aged and younger people, including children, get infected. This is the danger of the next wave, he said. "If the country can vaccinate more than 80 per cent of those above 30 years of age by November, we will be able to mount an effective challenge to the spread of Covid," Prof. Murthy said. At the same time, efforts should be made to field-test available vaccines in children so that if possible, the vaccine can be added to the 'Universal Programme of Immunisation' in the country. Prof. Murthy underlined that there needs to be a continued ban on large gatherings till February 2022 if we have to reduce the risk. Schools and offices can be opened up with adequate precautions. "If the country does not create a public health cadre with adequate decision-making authority being vested in them, from the district-level onwards, we will always be playing a catch-up game rather than planning proactively with adequate projections and data," he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-to-stay-with-us-for-generations-says-iiph-director-prof-g-v-s-murthy-990627.html
27-05-2021||National||IMA files police complaint against yoga guru Ramdev||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has filed a complaint against yoga guru Baba Ramdev for committing offences under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005.  Indian Medical Association (IMA) files police complaint against Yog Guru Ramdev for committing offences under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Disaster Management Act, 2005 with all other relevant provisions of law The IMA and Ramdev have been involved in a heated spat since May 22, with the latter undermining the efforts of doctors and healthcare workers across the nation in battling the Covid-19 pandemic. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-files-police-complaint-against-yoga-guru-ramdev-990632.html
27-05-2021||National||India conducts highest single-day tests for Covid-19||India conducted the highest single-day tests for Covid-19 on May 26, according to the Union Health Ministry. A total of 22,17,320 tests were conducted yesterday.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-conducts-highest-single-day-tests-for-covid-19-990640.html
27-05-2021||National||Even their father cannot arrest me: Ramdev in another video||Amid the raging controversy over Ramdev's alleged disparaging remarks against allopathy, another controversial video surfaced on social media in which the yoga guru is seen reacting to the demand for his arrest, saying "even their father cannot arrest him". "They are just making a noise. They keep creating trends like Thug Ramdev, Mahathug Ramdev, Giraftar Ramdev and so on," he said responding to #Arrest Ramdev trends on social media. "Arrest to khair unka baap bhi nahin kar sakta Swami Ramdev ko (even their father cannot arrest Swami Ramdev)," he is caught saying in the video. The yoga guru's latest video shows he is not apologetic at all about making "insensitive" comments about allopathy and allopathic practitioners, a doctor said in Dehradun. "Ramdev's statement is full of arrogance. It shows that he considers himself above the law," he said reacting to the latest video of Ramdev. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding that Ramdev be booked immediately under sedition charges for alleged misinformation campaign on coronavirus vaccination and challenging government protocols for its treatment. The apex medical body of modern doctors has also served a defamation notice on Ramdev for his alleged disparaging remarks against allopathy and allopathic practitioners, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said it will demand a compensation of Rs 1,000 crore from the yoga guru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/even-their-father-cannot-arrest-me-ramdev-in-another-video-990643.html
27-05-2021||National||Covid-19 lockdowns temper India’s economic activity in April||By Anirban Nag India’s economic activity showed signs of beginning to cool off in April as several states resorted to lockdowns to control a deadly second wave of the coronavirus. Although the three-month weighted average scores of eight indicators tracked by Bloomberg News showed the pace of activity was unchanged from March, the single month reading pointed to weakness setting in. Even more recent data from this month confirmed the softening trend in activity. A basket of high-frequency, alternative and market indicators such as retail activity and road congestion pointed to weakness in the week to May 16, Abhishek Gupta, India economist at Bloomberg Economics, said in a report. The growing economic pain may render next week’s gross domestic product numbers a sideshow. Data on Monday will probably show the economy grew near about 1% from a year earlier in the March quarter, and faster than the 0.4% expansion in the prior three months, before India became the global hotspot for virus infections. Business Activity Activity in India’s dominant services sector moderated for a second straight month in April. The IHS Markit India Services PMI eased to 54 from 54.6, with a reading above 50 signaling growth. A similar survey for the manufacturing sector showed expansion picking up just a tad. At the same time, input costs have been rising with implications for headline inflation. That is likely to come up for discussion at next week’s Monetary Policy Committee meeting to decide interest rates. Exports Exports soared in April, mainly because of a low base the year earlier when a nationwide lockdown crippled economic activity. Shipments jumped 196%, while imports increased 167% year-on-year. Sequentially though, both measures moderated. Consumer Activity Google mobility indicators exhibited a dip across all major cities in April as compared to the baseline. E-way bills -- an indicator of domestic trade -- recorded double digit contraction at 17.5% month-on-month in April -- and possibly pointing to a moderation in goods and services tax collections. Most passenger vehicle manufacturers reported a month-on-month dip in April, reflecting subdued demand. Dispatches of two wheelers contracted by double-digits, mirroring frail rural demand. Tractor sales weakened amid supply chain constraints and dwindling footfalls at dealerships. Bank credit grew 5.7% in April from a year earlier, picking up from 5.6% expansion seen in March, central bank data showed. Liquidity conditions stayed comfortable, with the banking system in surplus. Industrial Activity Industrial production expanded, jumping 22.4% in March from a year earlier, mainly because of a favorable base. But numbers for April are likely at risk from activity curbs because of state-level lockdowns. Output at infrastructure industries, which makes up 40% of the industrial production index, expanded 6.8% in March from a year ago. Both data are published with a one-month lag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdowns-temper-india-s-economic-activity-in-april-990645.html
27-05-2021||National||Jaishankar arrives in Washington DC for comprehensive dialogue with Biden administration||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar arrived here on Wednesday for a series of meetings with senior US officials during which they are expected to review the progress made in bilateral ties in the first 100 days of the Biden administration and lay the groundwork for the future. During his three-day stay here, Jaishankar is scheduled to meet his American counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, along with other key members of the Biden administration. It is the first visit by a senior Indian minister to the US after President Joe Biden assumed office on January 20. The defence secretary will be meeting on Friday with Jaishankar, Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby told reporters at a news conference. "The defence secretary is meeting with the external affairs minister, will continue discussions that the two held in New Delhi in March and will continue the robust bilateral defence and security relationship between our two countries. We are looking forward to having him here at the Pentagon and hosting him for a good set of talks," Kirby said. "It will be a continuation of the discussion, the very productive discussions that we had when we were in New Delhi a month or so ago," he said, referring to Defence Secretary Austin's India visit in March. Since India is a strategic defence partner, there is lots to discuss, Kirby told reporters in response to a question at his Pentagon news conference. The State Department has not yet announced the timing of Blinken's meeting with Jaishankar at its Foggy Bottom headquarters. Blinken is currently travelling in the Middle East as asked by Biden to continue with the peace process. "The secretary (of state) looks forward to meeting minister Jaishankar during his visit and discussing a broad range of issues, including COVID-19 relief, efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad, enhanced UN and multilateral cooperation, and a range of other shared regional security and economic priorities," a State Department spokesperson said earlier this week. Procurement of coronavirus vaccines and raw materials to boost domestic production is expected to be a major focus area of Jaishankar's talks here. Jaishankar is likely to press for further speeding up of the supply of raw materials from the US to boost vaccine production in India, which is currently reeling under the second wave of COVID-19 infections. Ahead of arriving in Washington, Jaishanakar described India-US ties one of the major relationships in the world today. He said the challenge before New Delhi and Washington is how to translate their fundamental, societal and geopolitical convergences into actionable policies. Emphasising that he has "big agenda" for the US-India relationship going forward, Jaishankar said, "I think our relationship has come a long way. It's today one of the major relationships in the world and my own sense is that in Washington today, there is a real appreciation of the potential of this relationship, what it can do. And it's true of New Delhi as well." During a virtual conversation on Wednesday with former US National Security Adviser Gen. HR McMaster in ‘Battlegrounds’ session on 'India: Opportunities And Challenges For A Strategic Partnership’ presented by the Hoover Institution, Jaishankar said that keeping in mind issues such as impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, rise of different powers, "today we all recognise that it's not a question of one or two or three countries who will decide how the world." "The world is truly much more multipolar and if it is multipolar, then it's all the more important for countries to learn how to work with each other more effectively. And I see a big change in the American mindset...,” Jaishankar said responding to a question on the trajectory of US-India relations. "So the United States has not only an enormous ability to reinvent itself, it also has a great ability to assess its situation and re-strategise in a way." Noting that when it comes to the big issues of the day, "maybe because we are pluralistic societies, because we are political democracies, because we are market economies, that we have fundamental convergences." He said these convergences are societal and geopolitical. "I think the challenge before us is how to translate those convergences into actionable policies,” he said, adding that he certainly looks forward to working on these with the Biden administration. Jaishankar is expected to meet a group of eminent business leaders on Thursday at two different meetings organised by the US India Business Council and the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum. Jaishankar, who was the Indian Ambassador to the US from December 2013 to January 2015, is also scheduled to have meetings with eminent American lawmakers. Congressman Brad Sherman, Co-Chair of the India Caucus, said he looks forward to meeting with Jaishankar, India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu and other leaders concerned with the US-India relationship for dinner on Wednesday. "This is an opportunity to discuss how the US can further help India as it continues to battle COVID-19, global vaccine production and security issues in the Indo-Pacific," Sherman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-arrives-in-washington-dc-for-comprehensive-dialogue-with-biden-administration-990646.html
27-05-2021||National||Instead of tweeting, Rahul Gandhi should speak to Congress CMs: BJP on Covid tally charge||The BJP on Thursday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi for his allegation that the government was "lying" about the Covid-19 death toll, saying he "knows nothing and speaks everything" and referred to the high number of casualties in opposition-ruled states like Maharashtra to attack the Congress leader.  BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra noted that Maharashtra, where the Congress is in the ruling alliance, has reported the highest number of deaths and that there is a "huge discrepancy" between actual deaths and what has been projected by the Rajasthan government, a Congress-ruled state.  "Rather than existing in the republic of Twitter and playing this tweet game" Gandhi should pick up the phone and speak to chief ministers of states where his party is in power, he said, alleging that the Congress leader's priority has always been to spread lies and misinformation.  "He will never get down to the ground and do any act of service. He will post one tweet daily. One tweet a day will not drive the corona away," Patra said at a virtual press conference.  Rahul Gandhi should speak to his chief ministers and ask them to take proper measures, he added.  The Congress leader had on Wednesday posted a New York Times figure, which had said that the Covid tally in India may be grossly under reported.  "Numbers don't lie... GOI (government of India) does," he had said on Twitter.  Hitting back at the Congress over its leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's recent critical statement, Patra said they are the ones responsible for vaccine hesitancy and noted that chief ministers from the opposition party had even expressed their disapproval of Covaxin, an indigenously developed jab against Covid.  He also sought to know if Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi have been vaccinated or not.  Patra also spoke at length about "myths and facts" on the vaccination process and accused leaders like Rahul Gandhi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of doing politics over the matter.  Referring to as "myths" allegations like the Centre was not doing enough to buy vaccines from abroad, not approving vaccines available globally, not doing enough to ramp up domestic production of vaccines, abdicating its responsibility to states and not taking any step to vaccinate children, he gave a point-by- point rebuttal.  The NITI Aayog, a public policy think tank of the government, had also earlier issued a statement on similar lines in which it had given a detailed reply about the measures being taken by the Centre since last year to boost its vaccination programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/instead-of-tweeting-rahul-gandhi-should-speak-to-congress-cms-bjp-on-covid-tally-charge-990651.html
27-05-2021||National||RAW chief, IB Director's service extended by 1 year||RAW chief Samant Kumar Goel and Intelligence Bureau Director Arvinda Kumar have been given a one-year extension on their services. Their tenure was due to end on June 30.  Kumar and Goel are experts on Pakistan and had contributed actively in the February 26, 2019, Balakot airstrike on Jaish-e-Mohammed terror camps across the Line of Control. A 1984-batch IPS officer of the Assam-Meghalaya cadre, Kumar has served on important desks in the IB, including Kashmir and Left Wing Extremism, while Goel, also of the same batch but from the Punjab cadre, has served on the Pakistan desk and on groups working against the interest of country from Europe. The extensions were cleared by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Apart from designated charters such as Kashmir and Left Wing Extremism, Kumar has spent much time in planning operations and strategic moves in certain insurgency areas in the North East. Kumar is a recipient of the President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service. Goel looked after the security of the Punjab chief minister in 2000 and 2001, besides holding other important posts both in his state cadre and at the Centre. Goel is considered an expert on issues related to the Punjab militancy and Pakistan, and has played an important role in checking militancy in the state during the 1990s. He is a recipient of the Police Medal for Gallantry and the Police Medal for Meritorious Service, and joined RAW in March 2001.  Meanwhile, BVR Subrahmanyam was on Thursday transferred from Jammu and Kashmir and A K Mehta was appointed in his place as the new chief secretary of the union territory by the government. According to official orders issued on Thursday, Subrahmanyam, a 1987-batch IAS officer of Chhattisgarh cadre, will come to the Centre as an Officer on Special Duty in the Commerce Ministry and will take over as Secretary, Department of Commerce, upon Anup Wadhawan's superannuation on June 30. Subrahmanyam had taken over as the chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir in June 2018, and during his tenure its special status was scrapped in 2019 and the state was bifurcated into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla informed Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha that the Appointments' Committee of Cabinet had given its approval to make Mehta, a 1988-batch IAS officer, the new chief secretary, officials said. "....it has been decided with the approval of the competent authority that Arun Kumar Mehta...will take over as chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir from the date that BVR Subrahmanyam relinquishes the charge and until further orders," the letter to Sinha said. An official order from the union territory administration was expected soon. Mehta, who is at present the financial commissioner, had a constant tussle with Subrahmanyam, with the latter even proceeding on protest leave in September last year. Although now the Jammu and Kashmir cadre has been merged with the AGMUT, Mehta has served in the union territory for long and is seen as a welcome change by officials as he is considered as an insider and aware about the problems. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raw-chief-ib-directors-service-extended-by-1-year-990655.html
27-05-2021||National||Social media rules aren't new, SC had suggested tracing origin of messages inciting violence in 2019||Though WhatsApp challenged the validity of new rules to trace the origin of some messages on judicial order or executive direction, the Supreme Court had in 2019 suggested such a regime to check contents inciting violence, promoting illegal weapons, drugs, pornography and paedophilic activity. Facebook-owned WhatsApp questioned the validity of the Social Media Intermediary rules 2021 in the Delhi High Court, saying it would break users' right to privacy and end-to-end encryption on its messaging service.  In February this year, the Centre notified the ‘Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code Rules 2021’ for social media companies operating in the country. The rules came into force on Wednesday. On September 24, 2019, dealing with a separate case of Facebook Inc Vs Union of India, a bench of Justices Deepak Gupta (since retired) and Aniruddha Bose said, "it is imperative that there is a properly framed regime to find out the persons/institutions/bodies who are the originators of such (contentious) content/messages. It may be necessary to get such information from the intermediaries." Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had then told the court that the matter was under active consideration of the Union government. The court had then noted that there are various messages and content spread or shared on social media, some of which are harmful, and some which can incite violence. There may be messages which are against the sovereignty and integrity of the country; also, there is large amount of pornography and pedophiles use social media in a big way. “Drugs, weapons and other contrabands can be sold through the use of platforms run by the intermediaries," it had said. For purposes of detection, prevention and investigation of certain criminal activities, it may be necessary to obtain such information. De-encryption and revelation of the identity of the originator may also be necessary, it had said. However, the court cautioned that de-encryption, if available easily, could defeat the fundamental right of privacy. De-encryption may be done under special circumstances but it must be ensured that the privacy of an individual is not invaded, it had said.  In this context, the law is still at a nascent stage and technology keeps changing every day, if not every hour, the court had said, emphasising that there are various creases which need to be ironed out.  On Wednesday, the government claimed its commitment to protect the privacy of citizens, alongside its responsibility to maintain law and order and national security. It pointed that out the UK, US, Australia, New Zealand etc required social media firms to allow for legal interception.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/social-media-rules-arent-new-sc-had-suggested-tracing-origin-of-messages-inciting-violence-in-2019-990661.html
27-05-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Politicking over coronavirus continues; India scraps local trials for foreign vaccines||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-politicking-over-coronavirus-continues-india-scraps-local-trials-for-foreign-vaccines-990665.html
27-05-2021||National||Wrestler murder case: 4 associates of Olympian Sushil Kumar sent to 4-day police custody||A Delhi court has remanded four alleged associates of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar to 4-day of police custody in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old former junior national wrestling champion at Chhatrasal Stadium. The accused, identified as Bhupender, Mohit, Gulab and Manjeet, are from Haryana and allegedly active members of the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs. They were arrested from Delhi's Kanjhawala area on a tip off on May 25 night. Metropolitan Magistrate Richa Sharma of Delhi's Rohini court granted their custody to the police for interrogation on May 26 and they will now be produced before the court on May 30 at the end of their remand period. All the four arrested are allegedly associates of Kumar and were involved in the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Non-Bailable Warrants were also issued against them in connection with the incident. Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar at the stadium over a property dispute. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later. On May 23, the alleged “main conspirator” Sushil Kumar was arrested, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar. The international wrestler was evading arrest and had been on the run for nearly three weeks. The court remanded Kumar and Ajay to six days in police custody for interrogation, saying that allegations against them were serious in nature and that no one is above the law. Sushil Kumar and the co-accused will now be produced before the court on May 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrestler-murder-case-4-associates-of-olympian-sushil-kumar-sent-to-4-day-police-custody-990666.html
27-05-2021||National||PM to visit Odisha, West Bengal to review cyclone Yaas impact||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Odisha and West Bengal on Friday to review the impact of cyclone Yaas on the two coastal states. Government sources said Modi will first hold a review meeting in Bhubaneswar and then proceed for an aerial survey in the affected areas of Balasore, Bhadrak and Purba Medinipur. He will then hold a review meeting in West Bengal. Cyclone Yaas pounded parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-visit-odisha-west-bengal-to-review-cyclone-yaas-impact-990677.html
27-05-2021||National||New chief of India-based exiled Tibet govt wants talks with China for ‘mutually beneficial’ solution||The Tibetan Government-in-Exile based in India will reach out to the Government of China to negotiate a “mutually beneficial” solution to the “Sino-Tibet conflict”, its new Sikyong (President) Penpa Tsering said on Thursday. Soon after being sworn into the top office of the Tibetan Government-in-Exile based at Dharamshala in India, Tsering reaffirmed commitment to Dalai Lama’s “middle way” approach of demanding genuine autonomy, not independence, for Tibet. He said that the TGiE would resolutely tread the path of the Middle Way, which was espoused by the Dalai Lama and which commanded high degree of support by the general population in and outside Tibet and had been unanimously approved by the Tibetan Parliament in Exile. “Based on which (middle way approach), we will reach out to the Chinese Government to find a mutually beneficial, negotiated, non-violent solution to the Sino-Tibet conflict. We hope that this in turn shall set a good example in resolving conflicts around the world, '' he said. The senior officials of the Chinese Government had nine rounds of talks, including one informal, with the 14th Dalai Lama’s representatives between 2002 and 2010. But the negotiations remained suspended since 2010. The Dalai Lama set up the TGiE or the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) on April 29, 1959, just a few weeks after he arrived in India following his escape from Tibet, which had been occupied by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in 1950-51. The CTA calls itself the “continuation of the government of independent Tibet”. Tsering’s parents were among the early thousands who had followed the Dalai Lama and fled to India after their homeland was occupied by China. They settled in Bylakuppe in Karnataka and raised their children, including Tsering, who recently won the elections to the office of the Sikyong of the TGiE (or the CTA). The Tibetans living in exile in India and the other countries around the world took part in the global elections, which had two rounds and the polling for the final round had taken place last month. He took office on Thursday, succeeding Lobsang Sangay. Tsering said that he and the Kashag (Council of Ministers) would represent the voices of Tibetans living in Tibet ruled by China. “We shall monitor and conduct thorough study of the basic issues concerning environmental destruction and protection of the Tibetan national identity inside Tibet. We shall not dither from pointing out the gross mistakes of the Chinese government’s policies and programs and seek to redress, withdraw or amend the wrong policies,” said the new TGiE head. “Likewise,” he added, “we will put in every effort to seek increased interaction between Tibetans in Tibet and those in exile and work towards realizing the wish of His Holiness the Dalai Lama to visit China.” What has added to the significance of the election of the Sikyong this year is that the democratic exercise by the exiled Tibetans got endorsement from the US last year. The US Congress late last year passed the Tibetan Policy and Support Act (TPSA) of 2020, acknowledging the legitimacy of both the Tibetan Parliament in Exile (TpiE) and the TGiE or the CTA. The TPSA 2020, which the then US President Donald Trump signed into law, acknowledged the Central Tibetan Administration as the “legitimate institution reflecting the aspirations” of the Tibetan Diaspora around the world with Sikyong as its President. Tsering was congratulated by the US State Department. This is the first time the US Government officially congratulated the winner of the election to the office of the CTA Sikyong . The new TGiE chief was also congratulated by the Speaker of the US House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi. India, however, maintained silence, as it so far never officially acknowledged the existence of the TGiE or the CTA, despite allowing it to run from its territory for decades. Beijing does not recognize the elections to the Sikyong and the TPiE and repeatedly asked India to shut down the TGiE. It has been accusing the Dalai Lama as well as the TGiE of running a secessionist campaign against China. New Delhi did tacitly encourage the Dalai Lama to lead the exiled community to embrace democracy gradually – starting with electing the Parliament-in-Exile and then moving on to directly elect the leader of the TGiE. It was during the 2011 elections that Dalai Lama officially announced that he would be delegating his political powers to whoever would be elected democratically to the top office of the TGiE – a move, which was apparently aimed at avoiding a leadership vacuum and keeping the struggle against China’s rule in Tibet alive beyond the lifetime of the octogenarian monk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-chief-of-india-based-exiled-tibet-govt-wants-talks-with-china-for-mutually-beneficial-solution-990685.html
27-05-2021||National||Delhi Police hit back at Twitter in 'toolkit' case, say 'it is seeking dubious sympathy'||Delhi Police on Thursday hit back at Twitter claiming that its statement accusing it of using "intimidation tactics" in the toolkit case was "not only mendacious but designed to impede a lawful inquiry". The Police alleged that the microblogging platform was seeking "dubious sympathy" while refusing to share information it possesses. Twitter’s “entire conduct” in the last few days has been “obfuscatory, diversionary and tendentious” though it “refuses to do a simple thing”, which is to cooperate with the law enforcement agencies and reveal to the legal authority the information it has, a Delhi Police statement said. It said Twitter's latest statements were "devised to seek dubious sympathy" when they themselves not only refuse to comply with the law of the land but also claim to be in possession of material evidence yet refuse to share it with legal authority duly recognised. The police statement came hours after Twitter said, "We, alongside many in civil society in India and around the world, have concerns with regards to the use of intimidation tactics by the police in response to enforcement of our global Terms of Service, as well as with core elements of the new IT Rules". Delhi Police had "visited" the offices of Twitter in Delhi and nearby Gurugram earlier this week on the pretext of issuing a notice to it to join the probe in connection with a post by a senior BJP leader that the social media giant tagged as "manipulated media". The Congress had accused BJP's Sambit Patra of sharing a "forged" toolkit in its name and Twitter had classified it as manipulated media following which the government asked Twitter to drop the tag. The "contrived fear-mongering" by Twitter is unfounded and misplaced", as a Twitter official has been asked to join the probe, not as an accused but to participate in the inquiry as Twitter claims to have been acquainted with certain facts. In its statement, Delhi Police said "prima facie, these statements are not only mendacious but designed to impede a lawful inquiry by a private enterprise. Twitter Inc. has taken upon itself, in the garb of terms of service, to adjudicate the truth or otherwise of documents in public space." It accused Twitter of being both an investigating authority as well as an adjudicating judicial authority when it has no legal sanction to be either. The only legal entity, so empowered by the duly laid down law, to investigate is the Police and to adjudicate is the courts, it said. "However, since Twitter Inc. claims to have material information basis which is not only ‘investigated’ but arrived at a ‘conclusion’, it must share that information with the Police. There should not be any confusion about this logical course," the statement said. It said Twitter should lead by example in demonstrating transparency in its functioning which has a bearing on public discourse and should proactively bring clarity into what are subject matters of the public domain. On Patra's tweet, it said Delhi Police has registered a preliminary inquiry on a complaint filed by Congress leaders, and "hence, the efforts by Twitter that portray this as an FIR filed at the behest of the Government of India is wholly and completely incorrect". "Twitter Inc, while placing the cart before the horse, went ahead and declared that the toolkit was ‘Manipulated Media’. This clearly demonstrates that Twitter Inc was acquainted with the facts of the case and it had material information which was germane to the inquiry by a duly recognized law enforcement agency. Therefore, Twitter was asked, by way of multiple communications, to join the inquiry to provide the information it possesses," it said. It claimed initiallyTwitter India’s subsidiary, TCIPL’s Managing Director, chose to adopt a path of evasiveness instead of cooperation. The Managing Director stated in his response that he was merely a sales head, had no role whatsoever in any operations relating to the content, and thereby refused to join the inquiry. "It is to be noted that TCIPL’s stance that its Managing Director is a mere sales head runs contrary to his very own previous press interviews wherein he elaborately discussed Twitter’s plan to devise methods to identify abusive/manipulative content. The above interview makes it clear that Twitter India’s convoluted stance is similar to a deer caught in the headlights," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-hit-back-at-twitter-in-toolkit-case-say-it-is-seeking-dubious-sympathy-990687.html
27-05-2021||National||Stop beating around the bush, comply with law of land: Centre to Twitter||Hitting out at microblogging platform Twitter, the Centre on Thursday said the US-based company is trying to dictate its terms to the world’s largest democracy. Asking Twitter to comply with the laws of the land, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeiTY) said that "through its actions and deliberate defiance, Twitter seeks to undermine India’s legal system. Furthermore, Twitter refuses to comply with those very regulations in the Intermediary Guidelines on the basis of which it is claiming a safe harbour protection from any criminal liability in India." Twitter needs to stop beating around the bush and comply with the laws of the land, said the government.  The government's strongly-worded statement came in the background of the Twitter earlier statement which termed police visiting its offices at Delhi and Gurugram to serve notices regarding the 'toolkit' case probe as an 'intimidation tactic".  On Twitter expressing the safety of its employees in India, the government said, "Representatives of social media companies including Twitter are and will always remain safe in India and there is no threat to their personal safety and security." Earlier in the day, Twitter described new social media intermediary rules framed by the IT Ministry as a "dangerous overreach that is inconsistent with open, democratic principles." Condemning the statement issued by Twitter, the government said it was "totally baseless, false and an attempt to defame India to hide their own follies". "Lawmaking and policy formulations are the sole prerogatives of the sovereign and Twitter is just a social media platform and it has no locus in dictating what India’s legal policy framework should be," the government said. "India has a glorious tradition of free speech and democratic practices dating back centuries. Protecting free speech in India is not the prerogative of only a private, for-profit, foreign entity like Twitter, but it is the commitment of the world’s largest democracy and its robust institutions," the statement said. "The rules only empower the ordinary users of social media when they become victims of abuse and misuse," Prasad posted on microblogging platform Koo and also tweeted. "Ordinary users of WhatsApp have nothing to fear about the new Rules. Its entire objective is to find out who started the message that led to the commissioning of specific crimes mentioned in the Rules," Prasad added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-beating-around-the-bush-comply-with-law-of-land-centre-to-twitter-990694.html
27-05-2021||National||India in touch with Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda to bring back Mehul Choksi||India is in touch with the governments of Dominica, and Antigua and Barbuda to bring back fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi from the Caribbean region, sources said on Thursday. Choksi, who had recently fled from Antigua and Barbuda, was captured in neighbouring Dominica after an Interpol Yellow Notice was issued against him, Antiguan media reported on Wednesday. The sources said India was in touch with Antigua and Barbuda on the matter and now contact has been established with the government of Dominica. "We are in touch with them. Our interest in getting fugitives like Choksi and others remains strong," said a source, adding the focus has been to bring them back to the country at the earliest. It is learnt that probe agencies are pursuing the matter of bringing back Choksi to India. Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne said he has asked Dominica to hand the diamantaire over to India directly. After news of Choksi's arrest in Dominica came on Tuesday night (local time), Browne told media that he has given "clear instructions" to the Dominican authorities to repatriate Choksi to India. "We asked them not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him," Antigua News Room, a media outlet, quoted Browne's interaction with journalists in Antigua and Barbuda. Choksi is wanted in a Rs 13,500-crore loan fraud in the Punjab National Bank. He was last seen going for dinner in his car in Antigua and Barbuda on Sunday. His staff had reported him missing. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi allegedly siphoned off Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using fraudulent letters of undertaking. Nirav Modi, lodged in a London jail, is contesting his extradition to India after repeated denial of his bail by courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-touch-with-dominica-antigua-and-barbuda-to-bring-back-mehul-choksi-990695.html
27-05-2021||National||India faced 117 cyclones from 1970-2019, over 40,000 lives lost: Study||As many as 117 cyclones hit India in 50 years from 1970-2019 claiming over 40,000 lives, according to a study on extreme weather events, which also states the mortality rate due to tropical cyclones has come down significantly over the past 10 years. A total of 7,063 extreme weather events killed 1,41,308 people during the period in the country, which included 40,358 (or 28 per cent) due to cyclones and 65,130 (a little over 46 per cent) due to floods, the study says. The research paper published earlier this year has been authored by M Rajeevan, Secretary of Ministry of Earth Sciences, along with scientists Kamaljit Ray, S S Ray, R K Giri and A P Dimri. Kamaljit Ray is the lead author of the paper. Earlier this month, the western coast witnessed the fury of Cyclone Tauktae which hit the Gujarat coast as an extremely severe cyclonic storm, leaving a trail of destruction in several states killing nearly 50 people. Currently, the eastern part of the country in facing 'very severe cyclonic storm' Yaas which battered the Odisha and West Bengal coasts on Wednesday before moving deeper into the country. The study states that the number of deaths due to cyclones has come down significantly in the last two decades, whose latter years have witnessed much improvement in the IMD's weather forecast abilities. In 1971, the study said, four tropical cyclones developed in the Bay of Bengal within a period of about six weeks --- from the end of September to the first week of November. Of these, the most destructive one struck the Odisha coast on the early morning of October 30, 1971 and caused very severe damage to life and property, according to the study. About 10,000 people were reported to have lost their lives, and more than one million rendered homeless, it said. In 1977, two tropical cyclones developed over the Bay of Bengal during November 9-20, out of which the second one (Chirala cyclone) which was a very severe tropical cyclone with a wind speed of the order of 200 kilometres per hour along with tidal waves 5 metres high, hit coastal Andhra Pradesh, the study says. The estimated mortalities were around 10,000 and total damage to infrastructure and crops was more than $25 million. The decade from 1970-1980 alone recorded over 20,000 mortalities due to cyclones. “Overall, the analysis showed that the mortality rate associated with tropical cyclones decreased by almost 88 per cent in the last decade (2010–2019) in comparison to the earlier decade (2000–2009) despite the significant increasing trend of severe tropical cyclones during the post-monsoon season over Bay of Bengal,” the paper states. India Meteorological Department Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said the reasons for fatalities during cyclones have changed over the years with improvement in IMD's forecast abilities. Earlier, storm surge was the major reason behind fatalities, but now deaths are caused mostly by the collapse of a tree or a house now, he said. The storms produce strong winds that push the water into the shores, which can lead to flooding. This makes storm surges very dangerous for coastal regions. But over a period, the forecast as well as the response to these events have changed considerably, he said, adding people are now evacuated from low-lying areas with prior warnings. Cyclones also bring in thunderstorms, lightning and heavy rains which also prove fatal, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-faced-117-cyclones-from-1970-2019-over-40000-lives-lost-study-990698.html
27-05-2021||National||Modi govt counters 'blatant lies' on Covid-19 vaccine campaign; Pfizer vaccine under consideration||The Union government on Thursday firmly denied what it described as "distorted statements, half truths and blatant lies" on India's ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme that received flak because of its slackening pace and shortage of vaccine that has forced the States to shut down many of their vaccination centres. NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul who chairs the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 also said that the Centre was examining Pfizer’s proposal of supplying 50 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccines, but a decision would be taken on “merit and keeping the larger interest of people in the mind.” The government, Paul said, was in touch with Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson since mid-2020, but these companies "have their own priorities, game plans and compulsions in allocating finite stocks." With Pfizer now showing an inclination of supplying some doses, the government was examining the multinational’s request to grant indemnity against its liabilities. The company has made such a request to every country where its vaccines are being used. The US pharma giant has indicated availability of 50 million vaccine doses -- 10 million in July, 10 million in August, 20 million in September and 10 million in October -- for supply to India in 2021. The company also made it clear that it would deal only with the Centre and not with individual states or private hospitals. In a detailed statement that counters a barrage of criticism on poor execution of the Covid-19 vaccination programme, Paul blamed the states for their demands to open up the vaccination despite their failure to achieve good coverage of healthcare workers and frontline workers even after three months. “The states very well knew the production capacity in the country and what the difficulties are in procuring vaccines directly from abroad. (Still) the states, which had not even achieved good coverage of healthcare workers and frontline workers in three months, wanted to open up the process of vaccination and wanted more decentralisation,” he said. Even after four months, only 67 lakh healthcare workers and 84 lakh frontline staff received two doses of the vaccine as on Thursday. “Health is a state subject and the liberalised vaccine policy was a result of the incessant requests being made by the states to give them more power. The fact that global tenders have not given any results only reaffirms what we have been telling the states from day one: that vaccines are in short supply in the world and it is not easy to procure them at short notice.” On ramping up the production at Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, he said the two vaccine manufacturing companies would augment their production up to 110 million and 100 million doses per month, respectively by October. Additionally, 40 million doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin would also be manufactured at four public sector units by December as India seeks to arrange more than two billion doses by the end of 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-counters-blatant-lies-on-covid-19-vaccine-campaign-pfizer-vaccine-under-consideration-990704.html
27-05-2021||National||Centre to roll out unified health interface under NDHM||Centre will soon roll out a Unified Health Interface (UHI), an open and interoperable IT network for digital health that shall enable public and private solutions and apps to plug in and be a part of the National Digital Health Ecosystem. It will allow users to search, book and avail necessary healthcare services such as tele-consultations or laboratory tests. The system will ensure that only verified healthcare providers join the ecosystem. The plan, envisaged under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), was discussed at length at a high-level review meeting chaired by him on Thursday.  The meeting happened at a time when the nation's health infrastructure was found woefully inadequate to meet the Covid-19 pressure and tele-consultation was lapped in a big way in cities as hospitals remained crammed. The scheme, which was announced by Modi in his Independence Day address last year was later launched as a pilot scheme in the Union Territories of Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. NDHM were rolled out in these six UTs initially. The expansion of the same will be taken up after evaluation of the outcome during Phase one of the project. So far, nearly 11.9 lakh Health IDs have been generated and 3,106 doctors and 1,490 facilities have registered on the platform.  Under the NDHM scheme, the expenditure for implementation of NDHM in six UTs, borne by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and expenditure till March 15, is Rs 11.82 crore. The NDHM, aims to develop the backbone necessary to support the integrated digital health infrastructure of the country. It is expected to bridge the existing gap amongst different stakeholders of the healthcare ecosystem through digital highways. With a vision of universal health coverage, NDHM aims at creating a seamless online platform “through the provision of a wide-range of data, information and infrastructure services, duly leveraging open, interoperable, standards-based digital systems” while ensuring the security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related personal information. The PMO feels that this is likely to unleash a digital health tech revolution with innovations and various services for citizens. In such a manner, healthcare infrastructure and human resources can also be utilised in a more efficient manner across the nation, an official statement said. Modi also discussed with officials the concept of UPI e-Voucher developed by National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) that will enable financial transactions linked to specific purposes which can be used only by the intended user. It can be useful for targeted and efficient delivery of various government schemes . Modi called for expediting steps to expand operations under the NDHM, which he said, will bring ease of living for citizens to avail a large number of health services. The Prime Minister felt that though the technical platform and building up of registries are inevitable essential elements, the utility of the platform to the citizens will be visible only by way of enabling citizens across the country to avail services like tele consultation with a doctor, availing services of a lab, transferring test reports or health records digitally to the doctor and paying digitally for any of the above services. Modi asked the National Health Authority, which is also implementing the country's flagship Public health scheme Ayushman Bharat that was launched in September 2018, to coordinate in this direction with the Ministry of Health & the Ministry of Electronics & IT to achieve the desired results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-roll-out-unified-health-interface-under-ndhm-990709.html
27-05-2021||National||From The Newsroom: RBI revises GDP growth forecast due to second Covid-19 wave||In your evening news brief, RBI says second wave of Covid-19 pandemic triggered revision of growth; Rahul Gandhi seeks Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in the withdrawal of new regulations in Lakshadweep, and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar says there is "a political effort" to depict the current government in India in a certain way.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald. Here is the top news of May 27, 2021: External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said that there is "a political effort" to depict the current government in India in a certain way and there is a difference between the political imagery that has been "concocted" and actually the governance record out there. During a conversation with former US National Security Advisor General HR McMaster in ‘Battlegrounds’ session on 'India: Opportunities And Challenges For A Strategic Partnership’ presented by the Hoover Institution, Jaishankar on Wednesday also said that India is going through “a very stressful time" right now because of the pandemic. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in the withdrawal of new regulations in Lakshadweep, saying the rules seek to penalise dissent and undermine grassroots democracy. In a letter to the prime minister, he said all this is being done by the new administrator Praful Khoda Patel in the guise of development and maintaining law and order. Reserve Bank of India on Thursday said that the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has triggered revision of growth projections for the current financial year with consensus gravitating towards its earlier forecast of 10.5 per cent. The central bank, in its annual report for 2020-2021, further said that previous year has left a scar on the economy and "in the midst of the second wave, as 2021-22 commences, pervasive despair is being lifted by cautious optimism built up by vaccination drives.” Source: PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rbi-revises-gdp-growth-forecast-due-to-second-covid-19-wave-990712.html
27-05-2021||National||News broadcasters demand exemption from new IT rules||The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) Thursday urged the government to "exempt and exclude" the traditional television news media and its extended presence on the digital news platforms from the ambit of the IT Rules 2021, saying it is already "sufficiently regulated" by various statutes, laws, guidelines, codes and regulations. "The Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act, 2000) had not contemplated the regulation of digital news media. Despite this, the IT Rules, 2021 seek to inter alia include traditional news media, i.e. electronic television news media having a digital news feed and presence on other digital media platforms, within its purview. This appears to be ultra vires the IT Act, 2000," the NBA said, raising its concerns in a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. The NBA represents several leading national and regional private television news and current affairs broadcasters which run news channels in Hindi, English and regional languages.  "In any event, while the NBA appreciates the need for regulations, the traditional news media need not be subjected to and/ or covered under the scope of the IT Rules 2021, since it is already sufficiently regulated by various statutes, laws, guidelines and codes, regulations, and judgements," it said.  The NBA members are also required to adhere to the code of ethics and broadcasting standards and the National Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) regulations and the guidelines, it added.  The NBSA is an independent self-regulatory mechanism that is headed by an eminent jurist along with four independent members from the civil society, being persons with proven eminence in various fields of activity and four editors of the members of NBA.  "The IT Rules 2021, if applied to the digital media of the linear television medium, would only result in duplication of the adjudicatory and redressal mechanism resulting in the creation of parallel adjudicatory bodies," the NBA said.  The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 prescribe administrative regulations, which will make it "virtually impossible" for small or medium-sized traditional news media organisations to survive, the news broadcasters body said.  "Any additional mandates as contemplated under the IT Rules, 2021 would result in increasing the employee costs and compliance requirements of the traditional television news media organisations along with duplication and creation of parallel processes," it said.  The NBA said the media organisations would have to devote "significant resources and time" in resolving each complaint and in defending themselves before multiple forums. "Therefore, NBA suggests that the focus should primarily be on further strengthening the already existing mechanism of NBSA and giving statutory recognition to NBA's Code of Ethics under the Cable TV Rules," it added.  The NBA also said that the IT Act, 2000 and the IT Rules 2021, and "more specifically" provisions such as the blocking of content in cases of emergency, will "severely" impact the freedom of speech and expression of the media.  "Since the news channels/broadcasters and their extended digital arms strictly adhere to the statutes and regulations applicable and are governed at multiple levels of redressal mechanism, if the IT Rules, 2021 are made applicable, it will not only lead to harassment of the news channels/broadcasters but will also suppress and violate their fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression and will also restrict news reporting in a fair manner," the association said.  "The NBA requests the exclusion of the digital news platforms that are owned and run by traditional news media from the purview of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021," it said.  The association requested that a "specific and express exclusion" should be carved out in the definitions of "digital news media and/or publishers of news and current affairs content" to exclude the applicability of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021 to the digital news platforms that are owned and run by the traditional news media.  The association also urged the ministry to keep the IT Rules, 2021 "in abeyance/suspension", specifically concerning the NBA members till the pending matters challenging the IT Rules, 2021 in the various high Courts are adjudicated upon and decided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/news-broadcasters-demand-exemption-from-new-it-rules-990713.html
27-05-2021||National||PM reviews Cyclone Yaas impact, asks agencies to ensure restoration of normal life at the earliest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the impact of Cyclone Yaas at a meeting on Thursday during which he asked the central and states agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in the affected areas at the earliest. The prime minister chaired the meeting during which officials made a detailed presentation on various aspects of preparedness, assessment of damage and related matters, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. According to another PMO statement, Modi will visit Odisha and West Bengal on Friday and will chair review meetings in the two states to assess the impact of the cyclone.  He will also undertake an aerial survey of the affected areas in the two states, it said. Cyclone Yaas pounded parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. At the meeting held on Thursday, it was informed that about 106 teams of National Disaster Response Force were deployed with 46 teams each in West Bengal and Odisha that rescued more than 1,000 people and removed more than 2,500 trees and poles that had fallen and obstructed roads, the PMO said.  Defence forces, namely the Army and the Coast Guard, also rescued marooned people, while the Navy and Air Force were on the alert, it said. "Reviewed the situation arising due to Cyclone Yaas. Discussed the preparedness, relief and rehabilitation efforts as well as other aspects," Modi tweeted after the meeting. The PMO said though the states are engaged in assessment of the damage caused in the aftermath of the cyclone, from the preliminary reports available, it is seen that due to accurate forecasting, effectively communicating to the people in the affected areas and evacuation in a timely manner by states and central agencies, there was minimal loss of human life. At the same time, damage caused due to inundation are being assessed, it added.  According to the statement, power and telecom services have been restored in most of the affected areas. During the meeting, the prime minister noted the effective and proactive role played by the central and states agencies in responding to challenges posed by the cyclone and advised the agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in the affected areas at the earliest and relief is appropriately disbursed to people affected by the cyclone, the PMO said. Principal secretary to the prime minister, the cabinet secretary, home secretary, secretary Power, telecom secretary and DG of India Meteorological Department and other officials participated in the meeting, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-reviews-cyclone-yaas-impact-asks-agencies-to-ensure-restoration-of-normal-life-at-the-earliest-990714.html
27-05-2021||National||Apprehension that we are going the Chinese way: ex-Infosys CFO Balakrishnan on new IT rules||Information Technology industry veteran V Balakrishnan on Thursday criticised the new digital rules, alleging that they appear to be unduly compromising the privacy right of citizens. The two key issues with the new IT rules relate to user privacy which is a fundamental right and the oversight mechanism lying fully with the executive arm of the government, said the former Chief Financial officer of Bengaluru-headquartered IT major Infosys Ltd. "India is one of the large social media ecosystems in the world which is free till now and the apprehension is that we are going the Chinese way", he told PTI. Asked about government statement that the new rules are only designed to prevent abuse and misuse of social media, he said. The World Press Freedom Index 202O produced by 'Reporters Without Borders' ranked India at 142nd out of 180 countries. "In the last few years we had seen the independence of many institutions getting undermined", said Balakrishnan, who unsuccessfully contested as an Aam Aadmi Party candidate from Bangalore Central Lok Sabha seat in the 2014 general elections. "There is a general lack of trust in the government today", he alleged. "With this background the new rules look like unduly compromising the privacy right of citizens as also providing unfettered right in the hands of the executive government. I think these issues need to be addressed." On Twitter's statement that it's concerned over "intimidation tactics" by police, and potential threat to freedom of expression, Balakrishnan said: "I think the concerns of Twitter are real". He added that there should be an independent oversight mechanism outside the government with judicial oversight. "At present, as per rules, it is with the executive arm of the government which is a big worry especially considering the track record of the current government in handling such issues", Balakrishnan said. In the new digital rules, social media companies like Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter have been asked to identify within 36 hours the origin of a flagged message as well as conduct additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. According to Twitter, the company is particularly concerned about the requirement to make an individual (the compliance officer) criminally liable for content on the platform, the requirements for proactive monitoring, and the blanket authority to seek information about its users. This, it said, represents dangerous overreach that is inconsistent with open, democratic principles. The government on Wednesday strongly defended its new digital rules, saying the requirement of messaging platforms like WhatsApp to disclose origin of flagged messages does not violate privacy, and went on to seek a compliance report from large social media firms. The UK, the US, Australia, New Zealand and Canada require social media firms to allow for legal interception, the IT Ministry had said, adding, "What India is asking for is significantly much less than what some of the other countries have demanded".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apprehension-that-we-are-going-the-chinese-way-ex-infosys-cfo-balakrishnan-on-new-it-rules-990723.html
27-05-2021||National||Active Covid-19 cases still high: MHA extends Covid-19 containment measures till June 30||The Centre on Thursday extended the directions given to states on Covid-19 management during the second wave till June 30 even as Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said containment and other measures need to be implemented strictly as active cases are still high. Bhalla issued an order extending the directions contained in the directions issued on April 29 till June-end. The April 29 order had asked the states to identify districts where either the tests positivity had been more than 10 per cent or more in the last one week or where bed occupancy was more than 60 per cent. Districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria were directed to consider intensive and local containment measures.  In a letter to states and union territories, Bhalla said that strict implementation of containment and other measures has led to a declining trend in the number of new and active Covid-19 cases across the country, barring some areas in the South and the North-East "In spite of the declining trend of Covid-19 cases, the number of active cases presently is still very high. It is therefore important that containment measures may continue to be implemented strictly. Any relaxation may be considered at an appropriate time in a graded manner after assessing the local situation, requirements, and resources," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-covid-19-cases-still-high-mha-extends-covid-19-containment-measures-till-june-30-990749.html
27-05-2021||National||Elderly, differently-abled persons can now get Covid-19 vaccines near their homes||The elderly and differently-abled persons can now get Covid-19 vaccines near their homes. The Government of India on Thursday issued guidelines for setting up Near to Home Covid Vaccination Centres (NHCVC) for those above 60 years and the differently-abled to impart a people-centric and flexible approach to the Covid-19 vaccination drive. “All individuals above 60 years of age with no vaccination or first dose vaccination and all individuals below 60 years with disability due to physical or medical conditions will be eligible to get the jabs at the NHCVC,” a health ministry official said. Such vaccination centres can be set up in non-health facility-based settings that are nearer to home, including community centres, RWA office, panchayat ghar, school buildings and old age homes, a health ministry statement said. The beneficiaries can be registered on the CoWin platform either in advance or at the vaccination centre or as a facilitated cohort registration process. NHCVC will be linked to an existing vaccination center which will be responsible to provide vaccines, logistics and human resources required for vaccination. Once identified and verified for meeting vaccination centre criteria, all such sites will be registered on the CoWIN portal as NHCVC, the guidelines said. The Union Health Ministry has advised all States and UTs to take note of these recommendations and undertake prompt action for their planning and effective implementation under the ongoing national Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elderly-differently-abled-persons-can-now-get-covid-19-vaccines-near-their-homes-990751.html
27-05-2021||National||NGT asks states to frame policy to cremate unclaimed bodies||With several states reporting unclaimed bodies in rivers, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the central government, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), state pollution control boards and all states to consider framing a policy for cremation of such bodies exclusively in gas crematoriums. The NGT Principal Bench headed by its chairperson Justice A K Goel passed the order while disposing of an application filed by H C Arora, a Chandigarh-based lawyer.  Arora had sought directions to frame a policy for the cremation of the unclaimed bodies, exclusively in gas crematoria and to provide some incentive, like free commercial gas cylinders, for motivating people to cremate bodies of their dear and near ones in LPG crematoria. “We consider it appropriate to dispose of this application with a direction that a copy of this order be forwarded to the MoEF&CC, CPCB, chief secretaries of all states/UTs, state PCBs/PCCs, and district magistrates of all the states/UTs by email for such consideration as may be found necessary,” observed the NGT while disposing of the matter. Several states, mainly Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have reported bodies being dumped in rivers. The Union Jal Shakti Ministry has issued a direction to states to take immediate steps to prevent this. The Ministry also asked states to test water quality, particularly in rural areas to rule out pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-asks-states-to-frame-policy-to-cremate-unclaimed-bodies-990755.html
27-05-2021||National||Opening up may not hit Covid-19 downswing: Govt||With the second wave of Covid-19 on a downward slope, a top health official on Thursday said that the Centre believed such a slide would continue even when the restrictions imposed by the states are lifted. “It is reassuring that we are on the downswing of the second wave. We do believe and hope it will be sustained even when restrictions are gently, systematically and cautiously removed as the time comes,” said NITI Ayog member V K Paul, who chairs the National Expert Group on vaccine administration for Covid-19. Paul made his comments soon after a Union Health Ministry official made a presentation on the southern movement of the Covid-19 curve after reaching a peak on May 7 when 4.14 lakh fresh cases were reported in a single day. Since then the numbers are decreasing steadily with less than 3 lakh daily new cases being reported for the last ten days since May 17. In the last 24 hours, 2.11 lakh new cases were reported from all over the country. The number of active cases fell to 24 lakh on May 27 from the peak of 37.45 lakh recorded on May 10. As many as 24 states reported a decline in active cases since last week. The states that did not report such a decline are Tamil Nadu, Odisha and the entire Northeast. The positivity rate also dropped from a high of 21.5 per cent recorded between April 29 and May 5 to 10.45 per cent logged between May 20-26, said Lav Agaiwal, joint secretary in the health ministry. While the testing – mostly the rapid antigen tests - has increased multifold, there is a steady decline in weekly positivity since the last three weeks. "We continue to note stabilisation of the second wave in most parts of India, both in the number of cases and declining positivity rate. It's reassuring that it happened despite sustained and high overall testing. But we must remember that we are achieving this in the face of significant restrictions in most states,” Paul said. However, 313 districts still have a positivity rate higher than 10 per cent as the epidemic is now largely being driven by Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal and the northeastern states. The Union Home Ministry has asked the states to identify districts where either the tests positivity had been more than 10 per cent or more in the last one week or where bed occupancy was more than 60 per cent. The states should consider taking intensive and local containment measures in such districts, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opening-up-may-not-hit-covid-19-downswing-govt-990757.html
27-05-2021||National||Dominica to send Mehul Choksi to Antigua despite calls for deporting him to India||Dominica will repatriate diamantaire Mehul Choksi to Antigua and Barbuda, instead of deporting him to India, where the diamantaire would have to stand trial for colluding with his jeweller nephew Nirav Modi for defrauding the Punjab National Bank of about Rs 13,500 crore. Though Choksi is a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda, Prime Minister Gaston Browne’s government in St John’s is reluctant to take him back and instead wants the authorities in Dominica to deport him to India. Browne has spoken to Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit and discussed about deporting Choksi to India, according to reports received in New Delhi. Browne’s call to Skerrit raised hope in New Delhi for early deportation of the fugitive billionaire to India. But the Government of Dominica apparently decided to send him to Antigua. The Ministry of National Security and Home Affairs of the Dominican Government stated in a press release that it was in communication with the authorities of Antigua and Barbuda (A&B) to ascertain some facts, including the status of Choksi’s A&B citizenship. New Delhi has asked its High Commissioner to Trinidad and Tobago, Arun Kumar Sahu, who is based in Port of Spain, but concurrently accredited to Dominica, to travel to Roseau next week.   It added that after the information are provided by the A&B authorities, “possible arrangements” would be made for “repatriating” him to the neighbouring Caribbean Sea nation. Choksi was arrested from Canefield Beach in Roseau, the capital of Dominica, on Wednesday, when local police spotted him disposing of some documents in the sea. He had disappeared from Antigua on Sunday. New Delhi had in August 2018 requested the A&B Government to extradite him to India. He had, however, filed a lawsuit in the local High Court to challenge and pre-empt any move to strip him of the A&B citizenship and to send him back to India. Browne asked Skerrit to send Choksi directly to India, as he enjoyed legal and constitutional protection in A&B, but not in Dominica, according to reports in the news-portals of the Caribbean Sea island nations. Choksi purportedly alleged during a meeting with his lawyers that he had been abducted and brought from Antigua to Dominica. His lawyers are likely to file a Habeas Corpus writ in the local court in Dominica. New Delhi has been in touch with the governments of both A&B and Dominica through its diplomatic missions in the region. India’s High Commissions in Georgetown and Port of Spain – the capitals of Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago – manage its relations with A&B and Dominica, respectively. Choksi was apparently having a stopover in Dominica on his way to Cuba after fleeing from A&B by sea. Dominica is often used by illegal immigrants as a stopover on their way to Cuba or the United States. The local police had detained 19 citizens of India last month when they had arrived in the island nation without valid travel documents in order to sneak into the US. Choksi’s aide Govin told the investigators of A&B that the diamantaire had plans to travel to Cuba, according to a report on West Indies and Caribbean News Online.  When the cops spotted Choksi on the beach in Roseau and questioned him, he could not explain why and how he had travelled to Dominica. The West Indies and Caribbean News reported that scuba divers had been engaged to retrieve the documents the billionaire had thrown into the sea. Choksi is wanted in India, as he had allegedly colluded with Nirav Modi to defraud the Punjab National Bank of about Rs 13,500 crore. The duo had left India in January 2018. The Ministry of External Affairs had in February 2018 revoked the passports issued to both of them, thus, stripping them of the citizenship of India. New Delhi had in August 2018 sent two separate requests to the A&B Government seeking extradition of Choksi. The owner of Gitanjali Gems, however, had by then already moved the A&B High Court to bar the government of the island nation from detaining him for extradition on the request of India. Browne’s government in St John’s had conveyed to New Delhi that he would be extradited to India as soon as he would exhaust all his legal options.    Choksi had been reported missing at Johnson Point Police Station in Antigua on Sunday. He had gone missing after leaving his home at the Jolly Harbour township on the west coast of Antigua. His car had later been found abandoned by the police. The Interpol had issued a Red Corner Notice against him long ago. The A&B authorities had also got the Interpol to issue a Yellow Notice on him after he had been reported missing. Browne’s Government conveyed to New Delhi that it was in favour of stripping Choksi of the A&B citizenship and might do so once he would exhaust all his legal options to stall the move. Choksi’s nephew Nirav Modi was arrested in London in March 2019. His extradition to India was cleared by British Home Secretary, Priti Patel, last month, after the Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London had ruled in favour of it. He, however, still has options to challenge it in the High Court and the Supreme Court of the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dominica-to-send-mehul-choksi-to-antigua-despite-calls-for-deporting-him-to-india-990764.html
27-05-2021||National||AstraZeneca, Sputnik V evince interest in Telangana's global tender for Covid-19 vaccine||AstraZeneca and Russia's Sputnik V are the only two vaccine manufacturers which have participated in a pre-bid meeting held by Telangana government for procuring 10 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, though the conference witnessed participation of a few trade representatives, sources said on Thursday. The pre-bid meeting was held on May 26. The last date to submit the quotation is June 4. Telangana recently issued aglobale-tendernotice for procuring ten million doses of Covid-19 vaccine from manufacturers or their agents in case of imported jabs. "Representatives of AstraZeneca and Sputnik V participated, though some trade representatives also took part in the pre-bid meeting," sources close to the development told PTI. The bidders can quote their offers to supply the vaccine in part also, provided that monthly supply shall not be less than 1.5 million and the total supply of 10 million doses shall be completed within six months from the issuance of Letter of Intent (LoI), according to the tender document. Any vaccine supplier should comply with the standards set by the Drug Controller General of India for the jabs, sources add. AstraZeneca sells two Covid-19 vaccines. It tied up with Serum Institute and rolled out Covishield in India while it sells the jab under brand name Vaxzevria in Europe and other countries. Russian Direct Investment Fund inked a pact with Dr Reddy's Laboratories for the first 125 million people doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/astrazeneca-sputnik-v-evince-interest-in-telanganas-global-tender-for-covid-19-vaccine-990768.html
27-05-2021||National||BJP, RSS missing on ground in helping people affected by Covid-19: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday alleged that the BJP and RSS workers were missing from work in providing relief to the people facing hardships amid the second wave of coronavirus pandemic and claimed that his party's members have been helping people. "In the entire state, BJP and RSS men are missing from providing relief to people facing hardships due to the pandemic. Only SP workers are helping people in all possible ways following Covid protocol," Yadav said in a statement issued. He said SP workers have been directed to reach out to people in need of help and share their grievances with the district administration. At many places ambulances were arranged by party members for the patients, the former chief minister added. Through 'Samajwadi Rasoi', patients and their family were given free food, he said, adding that the SP always stood with the people in difficult times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-rss-missing-on-ground-in-helping-people-affected-by-covid-19-akhilesh-yadav-990771.html
27-05-2021||National||Virologist Jacob John believes Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 cases peak 'is around the corner'||While Tamil Nadu has been reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country since one week, according to virologist Jacob John, the state’s peak “is around the corner”.   For the past week, Tamil Nadu has been witnessing a 14.89 per cent rise in Covid-19 positive cases and recording 33,000 cases on an average, daily.  When asked about the continuous surge in the cases despite the state achieving an epidemic acceleration peak, he told the publication, “The numbers continued to rise because it takes some days before the effect of momentum deceleration results in numerical peak and epidemic decline.” He further added, “Karnataka and Tamil Nadu applied lockdown during the ascending phase of the epidemic curve — but in Tamil Nadu, it was a bit late for flattening the curve as the curve began the process of decline just a few days later.” In the natural process of epidemic dynamics, once the momentum peaks, the number of cases reaches the peak soon. Likewise Tamil Nadu’s peak “is around the corner”, according to the virologist. He also told the publication that the second wave happened because the variants were missed by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Sequencing Consortia (INSACOG) “apparently because INSACOG was not funded (as rumoured)”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virologist-jacob-john-believes-tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-cases-peak-is-around-the-corner-990780.html
27-05-2021||National||Won't decide vaccine plan for children based on 'panic in WhatsApp groups', says NITI Aayog's V K Paul||Inoculating Indian kids against Covid-19 would not be decided on the basis of “panics in Whatsapp groups” and political demands but scientific data, a top health official said on Thursday. “Vaccinating children should not be decided on the basis of panic in Whatsapp groups and because some politicians want to play politics. It has to be a decision taken by our scientists after adequate data is available based on trials,” said NITI Ayog member V K Paul who chairs the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVA) for Covid-19. “No country in the world is giving vaccines to children under 12 years of age. Also, the World Health Organisation has no recommendation on vaccinating children,” said Paul, a former professor of pediatrics at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The USA Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) had earlier recommended that everyone aged 12 years and above should get a vaccine to help protect against the virus as widespread vaccination is a critical tool to help stop the pandemic. But the WHO was critical of countries that began vaccinating the kids as children were being considered a low-risk group. “The WHO hasn't given any recommendation yet to cover the pediatric population in general as any illness in the pediatric population is very very mild. If we go with the paradigm of deaths as a public health objective, it's at a lower priority,” he said. “As of now, there have been studies about the safety of vaccines in children, which have been encouraging. Trials in children in India are also going to begin soon,” Paul said, referring to the upcoming trial of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on more than 500 children. "Covaxin has received permission, they'll start the pediatric trial. They are going all the way to two years of age in a systematic way. SII wants to begin a pediatric trial of Novavax." “When any drug/vaccine is discovered, typically it is first sorted out in the adult population because you do not want to risk children. It has now been found that the Pfizer vaccine can be administered to the younger population,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-decide-vaccine-plan-for-children-based-on-panic-in-whatsapp-groups-says-niti-aayogs-v-k-paul-990782.html
27-05-2021||National||Govt approves Rs 5 lakh assistance to kin of 67 journalists who died of COVID-19||The Centre on Thursday approved financial assistance to families of 26 more journalists who succumbed to Covid-19. In the financial year 2020-21, the central government provided assistance to families of 41 journalists who died due to the infection. Such aid has now been extended to the kin of a total of 67 media persons. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said Rs 5 lakh assistance each will be given to the families of these 67 journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-approves-rs-5-lakh-assistance-to-kin-of-67-journalists-who-died-of-covid-19-990804.html
27-05-2021||National||Despite its own needs, India ensured supply of medicines to 123 partner countries: Harsh Vardhan||India ensured supply of medicines to 123 partner countries despite its own needs amid the Covid-19 pandemic, and has also been active in global efforts to develop “diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines” to tackle the infection, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. He was speaking during a virtual interaction with health ministers of NAM (Non-Aligned Movement) countries. Tedros, Director-General, World Health Organisation was also present in the meeting. Reiterating that India shall always strive for the 'health of all', Vardhan said, “Despite its own needs, during the Covid-19 pandemic, we ensured supply of medicines to 123 partner countries, including 59 NAM nations. India has also been active in global efforts to develop diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 because we know and understand that no one is safe until everyone is safe.” He said India has adopted transformative strategies and fast-tracked many initiatives aimed at all the core tenets of Universal Health Coverage like strengthening health systems, including primary healthcare, improving access to free drugs and diagnostics, and reducing catastrophic healthcare spending. “India is moving towards Universal Healthcare for All which means every citizen of India must get world quality treatment facilities. Full immunisation coverage is increasing at a rapid pace with a greater emphasis on village-based micro-plans as we aim to enhance coverage to 90 per cent in a year,” an official statement quoted the health minister as saying. Speaking about India's ambitious National Health Policy, he noted, “Our flagship health initiative called Ayushman Bharat aims at providing free health assurance to over 500 million underprivileged people, making it the world's largest health assurance scheme. “And we dream of making this scheme much bigger, ensuring it for every Indian! If a developing nation like India can dream of this level of 'health for all' policy, I think the rest of the world has to think even beyond this,” he said. He, however, expressed concern over the current pandemic that has demonstrated the vulnerability of humankind to exigencies and underlined the need to act with greater speed and predictability. “We need an aggressive roadmap to curtail deaths from diseases that can be eliminated. We need a fresh roadmap to address shortages of medicines and vaccines. Our motto should always be to protect the health of those without wealth…,” the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-its-own-needs-india-ensured-supply-of-medicines-to-123-partner-countries-harsh-vardhan-990838.html
27-05-2021||National||DH Toon | 'If Pak attacks, will states buy tanks?'||"Why is the country not buying vaccines? India is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, and in such a situation, state governments cannot be asked to look out for themselves. If tomorrow, Pakistan declares war on India, should UP buy its own tanks and Delhi its own weapons?” Kejriwal said in an online briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-if-pak-attacks-will-states-buy-tanks-990863.html
27-05-2021||National||Studies under way to determine need for Covid-19 vaccine booster dose: Centre||Studies are currently underway on whether there is a need for a Covid-19 booster dose, the Centre said on Thursday, and asserted that no vaccine can give 100 per cent protection from the virus. Responding to a question on whether a boost dose is needed at a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said if there is a need, it will be communicated to the people. In a vaccination campaign, we want to immunise everyone against a particular disease, he said. "If there is a need for a booster dose it will be told. There are studies that are going on. Covaxin trial is going on whether it (booster dose) should be taken after six months or not," he said. "Just follow the guidelines, take two doses and continue with Covid-appropriate behaviour. You are safe from serious disease but be careful. The protection is not totally 100 per cent. "Once the need for a booster and the timing of booster will be known, those guidelines and provisions will be communicated," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/studies-under-way-to-determine-need-for-covid-19-vaccine-booster-dose-centre-990874.html
27-05-2021||National||Total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India crosses 20.54 cr||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 20.54 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. It said 11,76,300 beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years received their first dose of vaccine on Thursday. Cumulatively, 1,51,52,040 people in this age group have received their first dose since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive. Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the 18-44 age group, the ministry said. According to the 7 pm provisional report, the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 20,54,51,902. This includes 98,27,025 healthcare workers and 1,53,39,068 frontline workers who got the first dose, 67,47,730 healthcare workers and 84,19,860 frontline workers who have taken both doses, and 1,51,52,040 people in the 18-44 year age group who have received the first dose. Besides, 6,35,32,545 people aged between 45 and 60 years received the first dose of the vaccine and 1,02,15,474 beneficiaries got both doses. Among the beneficiaries above 60 years, 5,77,48,235 got the first dose and 1,84,69,925 the second dose. As on day 132 of the vaccination drive, total of 26,58,218 vaccine doses were administered of which 24,81,196 beneficiaries received the first dose and 1,77,022 the second according to the provisional report, the ministry said adding final reports for the day would be completed by late in the night. "The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level," it underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-number-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-crosses-2054-cr-990878.html
27-05-2021||National||Centre expects speedy India launch of single-dose Sputnik Light to boost Covid-19 vaccination drive||The government is hopeful of a speedy launch of single-dose Covid-19 vaccine cin India and all stakeholders, including the Russian manufacturer and its Indian partners, have been directed to fast-track the application and regulatory approval procedures for the jab to boost the country's vaccination drive, sources said on Thursday. An application seeking regulatory approval for Sputnik Light is expected to be filed in the next couple of weeks and it could become the first single-dose vaccine to be launched in India, sources said citing high-level discussions held among top government officials in the recent days to boost domestic availability of Covid-19 vaccines. At a meeting chaired by the Cabinet Secretary last week, it was suggested to immediately convene a meeting with all concerned stakeholders including the Department of Biotechnology Secretary, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the Ministry of External Affairs representatives, the Union Health Ministry officials, RDIF (Russian Direct Investment Fund) and domestic manufacturers to expedite the regulatory approvals for Sputnik Light. Also, with the rollout of Sputnik's one-dose jab, the issue of the criticality of recombinant Adenovirus Type-5 (rAd-5) component, which is used in the second dose of the presently-approved double-dose Sputnik V vaccine and for production of which manufacturers are not very comfortable, will also become redundant, sources privy to the discussions said. On Sputnik Light, it was discussed in the meeting that Russia has already approved this vaccine and trials are ongoing in other countries. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) informed other participants that the application for regulatory approval of Sputnik Light is expected to be filed in the next 2-3 weeks. It was also highlighted during the meeting that six Lakh imported double-dose of Sputnik-V will be available in May 2021, one crore imported doses in June 2021 and 2.8 crore doses (2.4 Crore imported and 40 Lakh manufactured in India) in July 2021, sources said.    August 2021 onwards, locally manufactured Sputnik V vaccine will be available in the domestic market and technology-transfer arrangement for manufacturing of Sputnik-V vaccine has been firmed up with six Indian manufacturers, sources added. The Department of Biotechnology and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) are in touch with all these manufacturers to provide the necessary support to them in setting up their manufacturing facilities. It was also flagged during one recent meeting that the domestic manufacturers are not very comfortable with the production of recombinant Adenovirus Type-5 (rAd-5) component, which is used in the second dose of vaccine, due to its low yield and their inability to fully absorb its production process. Another round of meeting with the manufacturers and RDIF is likely to be held soon to resolve this issue. At the same time, it was noted that the availability of single-dose Sputnik Light in the domestic market can significantly boost the country's vaccination drive. "Besides, the issue of the criticality of rAd-5 component will also become redundant with its launch. It was, therefore, suggested that NITI Aayog may immediately convene a meeting inviting all relevant stakeholders including the DBT Secretary, DCGI, representative of MEA, representative of Health Ministry, RDIF and domestic manufacturers to expedite the regulatory approvals for Sputnik Light," another source said. The two-dose Sputnik V had received the Indian drug regulator's permission for restricted emergency use with certain conditions on April 12. Dr Reddy's Laboratories is importing the vaccine for use in India. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd had applied for the grant of permission to import and market Gam-Covid-Vac combined vector vaccine, popularly called Sputnik-V, developed by Gamaleya Institute, Russia for Emergency Use Authorization. The Gam-Covid-Vac combined vector vaccine (Component I and Component II) has been developed by the National Research Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation and is approved in 30 countries across the world. DRL has collaborated with the Russian developer for obtaining regulatory approval for import for marketing in India. The interim results of safety immunogenicity and efficacy from the Russian phase-3 clinical trial have been published in the Lancet journal. With many states reporting shortage of vaccines, the government is trying to secure imported jabs, including of Russia's Sputnik vaccines, while talks are also underway for Covid-19 vaccines developed by US majors Pfizer and Moderna. Besides, the government is also looking to ramp up domestic manufacturing of vaccines, including those made by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, among other Indian manufacturers currently in various stages of their vaccine production.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-expects-speedy-india-launch-of-single-dose-sputnik-light-to-boost-covid-19-vaccination-drive-990879.html
27-05-2021||National||US Dept of Defense ties up with Gujarat forensic varsity in its search for 400 soldiers missing since World War II||The US Department of Defense (DOD) has roped in Gandhinagar-based National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) for helping it in its efforts to "recover and identify" remains of 400 missing personnel of World War II in the northeast region of the country. The US government is trying to identify them through the remains and inform their families. NFSU officials said that recently DOD's Defense Prisoner of War/Missing in Action Accounting Agency (DPAA) collaborated with it to trace the remains of soldiers who died during the Japanese attack in the northeast region. Officials said that DPAA has a DNA database of 400 missing personnel and it has been trying to find clues to match with the data for identification. According to varsity officials, NFSU will be working as a "local agency" for the DOD in "identifying the possible sites, taking permission from concerned state authorities, going to the place, helping in excavation along with Archaeological Survey of India, among others. "We will be helping the US officials in collecting the remains, belongings or any relevant material. US has DNA technology that will identify whether body parts belong to Indian or US origin," an official said. In a release, J M Vyas, vice-chancellor, NFSU has been quoted as saying, “This partnership with DPAA will enable the scientific exchange in the areas of forensic anthropology and odontology and develop best practices for human identification.” The release further said that "a three-way partnership has been established between National Forensic Sciences University-Defense Prisoner of War/Missing in Action Accounting Agency (DPAA) will develop academic exchanges and cooperation in teaching and research in the areas of forensic anthropology, forensic archaeology and forensic odontology activities." The release said that the mission of DPAA is "to provide the fullest possible accounting for missing personnel to their families and the nation". “Their (NFSU) renowned expertise and capabilities will advance our efforts to find and recover the remains of Americans missing from World War II in India,” Kelly McKeague, DPAA Director, has been quoted in the release as saying.  According to the release, DPAA teams "locate, identify, and repatriate the remains of unaccounted service members from America’s past conflicts including World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Cold War and the Iraq and Persian Gulf Wars across the world." It said that there are over 81,800 such personnel who are still unaccounted for, including over 400 in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-dept-of-defense-ties-up-with-gujarat-forensic-varsity-in-its-search-for-400-soldiers-missing-since-world-war-ii-990880.html
27-05-2021||National||3 Indian peacekeepers honoured posthumously with prestigious UN medal for sacrifice in line of duty||Three Indian peacekeepers, who laid down their lives while serving in UN peacekeeping missions last year, are among 129 military, police and civilian personnel honoured on Thursday with a prestigious UN medal awarded posthumously for courage and sacrifice in the line of duty. Corporal Yuvraj Singh who served with the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) and two civilian peacekeepers — Ivan Michael Picardo, who served with UNMISS, and Mulchand Yadav, who worked for the UN Assistance Mission in Iraq (UNAMI) — were honoured posthumously with the Dag Hammarskjold Medal during a sombre virtual ceremony here on the occasion of the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers. India is the 5th largest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN peacekeeping with more than 5,500 military and police serving in peace operations in Abyei, Cyprus, Congo, Lebanon, the Middle East, Somalia, South Sudan and the Western Sahara, according to the UN. "On the occasion of the UN International Day of peacekeepers, I salute the men and women who serve in UN peacekeeping missions in foreign lands to preserve international peace and security," India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said. The International Day of UN Peacekeepers is observed annually on May 29 to pay tribute to the uniformed and civilian personnel for their invaluable contribution to the work of the world organisation and to honour the more than 4,000 peacekeepers who have lost their lives serving under the UN flag since 1948. Earlier in the day, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres laid a wreath to pay tribute to the fallen UN peacekeepers and presided over the virtual ceremony at which the Dag Hammarskjold Medal was awarded posthumously to the peacekeepers who lost their life serving under the UN flag last year and in the first month of this year. The theme for this year’s observance is ‘The road to a lasting peace: Leveraging the power of youth for peace and security’. Tens of thousands of young peacekeepers aged between 18 and 29 years deployed around the world play a key role in helping UN missions implement their mandated activities, with the active participation of young people from host communities, the UN said. “The challenges and threats faced by our peacekeepers are immense. They work hard every day to protect some of the world’s most vulnerable, while facing the dual threats of violence and a global pandemic,” Guterres said during the virtual ceremony. The UN chief said despite Covid-19, across all UN missions, peacekeepers have not only been adapting to continue to deliver their core tasks, they are also assisting national and community efforts to fight the virus. “I am proud of the work they have done,” he said, adding that the fallen UN peacekeepers – uniformed and civilian – lost their lives due to malicious acts, in accidents and as a result of illness, including Covid-19. The fallen peacekeepers came from 44 different countries and diverse backgrounds but were united by a common purpose: “to serve our great Organisation, promote peace and security and improve the lives of some of the world’s most vulnerable people. We are forever in their debt,” Guterres said. The Secretary-General also awarded the ‘2020 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award’ to Major Steplyne Buyaki Nyaboga, a Kenyan military officer who served with the African Union – United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur, (UNAMID). Created in 2016, the Award “recognises the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security.” Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, saluted the dedication and bravery of UN peacekeepers, who serve and perform admirably in challenging environments only compounded by the ongoing pandemic. “I also honour our young peacekeepers who bring energy and innovation, and serve as role models to youth populations working tirelessly to ensure meaningful representation and participation in political processes,” he said. Lacroix said UN peacekeepers deserve "our full support" and “we must continue to work together to do all we can to improve their safety and security and give them the tools to succeed”. The International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers was established by the General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace. The General Assembly designated May 29 as the International Day of UN Peacekeepers in commemoration of the day in 1948 when the UN’s first peacekeeping mission, the UN Truce Supervision Organisation (UNTSO), began operations in Palestine. Since then, more than one million women and men have served in 72 UN peacekeeping operations, directly impacting millions of people, and saving countless lives. Today, UN Peacekeeping deploys more than 89,000 military, police and civilian personnel in 12 operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-indian-peacekeepers-honoured-posthumously-with-prestigious-un-medal-for-sacrifice-in-line-of-duty-990883.html
27-05-2021||National||Time to relook at India's Covid-19 vaccination strategy: Medical professionals body||With the second wave of Covid-19 on the wane, India needs strategies to weaken the third wave and have another look at the vaccination drive to increase penetration, says Organized Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), a federation of professional medical organisations of India. Herd immunity can be achieved if around 60 per cent people develop immunity against Covid-19, either by getting infected or vaccinated. As on May 27, India has 2,73,76,791 Covid-19 infections — around 2 per cent of the population. However, at least ten times more have possibly been infected, based on sero-surveillance data that showed 20-30 per cent positivity in different pockets of India. “If we strategise properly, with around 20-22 per cent people already infected, we need another 40 per cent to be vaccinated. The protection offered by the infection or vaccine is less than a year. We need to complete the vaccination of desired numbers within this time frame,” said Dr IS Gilada, Secretary General, OMAG. “Four and half months are over and we have little over seven months in hand. Therefore, very well-coordinated efforts using several innovating and multi-prong strategies have to be used,” he said, adding that OMAG, which is an umbrella body of 15 professional post-graduate doctors associations, will soon be meeting officials of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Niti Aayog. According to him, the short supply of vaccines needs to be met by ramping up local production, opening several new manufacturing facilities, licensing more vaccines and importing vaccines from other countries. “USA, Canada and several European countries have over-ordered and have buffer stocks that will be nearing expiry soon. We should procure from them either on a goodwill or loan basis, to be exchanged when we have them,” he said. Dr Gilada added: “Vaccines should be given only to those who are willing rather than forcing on people who may have their own or manipulated vaccine hesitancy. Let us spend energy at the right places. We have seen political, religious and medical hesitancy and somehow overcoming. But destroying vaccines in dust-bins (as seen in Agra), jumping in rivers to be saved from vaccines and tribals running away from vaccinators needs to be investigated and surveyed to plug the loops.” “Till we have enough stocks, we should defer vaccination of the 18-44 age group. First we should complete the frontline workers, those above 45, and those with co-morbidities in the 18-44 age group. Admittedly, opening up to this group has fuelled the problems,” the OMAG Secretary General feels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-to-relook-at-indias-covid-19-vaccination-strategy-medical-professionals-body-990885.html
27-05-2021||National||IAF chief flies 'missing man' formation in tribute to Squadron Leader Abhinav Choudhary||Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Thursday flew a 'missing man' formation in a MiG-21 Bison aircraft, as a mark of respect to fighter pilot Abhinav Choudhary who died after his jet crashed near Moga in Punjab last week. Squadron Leader Choudhary was killed when his MiG-21 fighter aircraft went down last Thursday. "Panthers paid tribute to Sqn Ldr Abhinav Chaudhary by flying a 'Missing Man' formation, as they recommenced their op flying. The senior most serving 'Panther', CAS flew a Bison & joined the CO in the aerial tribute," the Indian Air Force tweeted. The Chief of Air Staff flew the sortie at the Suratgarh air force station in Rajasthan. The No. 23 Squadron, popularly known as Panthers, is based in Suratgarh. The Chief of Air Staff later interacted with the aircrew and technicians of the base. Twenty-eight-year-old Squadron Leader Choudhary was returning to the Suratgarg airbase when his aircraft reportedly developed a technical snag. The IAF has already ordered a court of inquiry to ascertain the cause of the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chief-flies-missing-man-formation-in-tribute-to-squadron-leader-abhinav-choudhary-990887.html
27-05-2021||National Politics||Toolkit row to resonate in IT panel after ministry's comprehensive reply||The 'Congress toolkit' versus 'Manipulated Media' issue is set to resonate in a big way in the upcoming meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, as the panel has received a comprehensive reply on the issue from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The Chairman of the panel is Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. BJP Nishikant Dubey, who is a member in the same panel, on Monday wrote to Lok Sabha Om Birla, asking for the sacking of Tharoor from the Committee and disqualifying him as MP.   The trigger for the spat was a particular letter written by the panel to the Information Technology Ministry at the behest of Tharoor. In his letter to Birla, Dubey is learnt to have said, "the Standing Committee is the extension of parliament but Mr Shashi Tharoor has made this committee an extension of the Congress Party. Where he is more concerned about his party's and Rahul Gandhi’s agenda than the nation itself. Recently, on the Twitter toolkit controversy he is asking for explanations from the Ministry of Information Technology when Twitter’s action is against this nation's IT law. Tharoor is helping Twitter act against the government and the nation." In a series of tweets, Tharoor on Wednesday justified his decision to write to the ministry and hit back at Dubey, saying "members are advised to communicate directly with the Chairman and/or the Committee Secretariat, rather than ventilating their concerns in the media without discussion." "With reference to allegations circulated publicly recently by a member of the Parliamentary Committee on IT relating to the #ManipulatedMedia issue, this is to clarify that, given the Committee's inability to meet in current circumstances, it communicates with Ministries in writing as required," Tharoor said. He said that the Committee Secretariat had written to the Information Technology Ministry by email on May 4 and May 25 on this matter and received a detailed and comprehensive reply on May 26, which is being circulated to all panel members for their information. Tharoor said that since the Committee was already examining the subject of "Safeguarding citizens' rights & prevention of misuse of social/online media platforms," which relates to this issue, it is well within its mandate to seek a clarification on this matter from the ministry concerned. He also had a piece of advice for Dubey. "As a matter of established practice and good form, members with issues to raise relating to the work of a Parliamentary committee are advised to communicate directly with the Chairman and/or the Committee Secretariat, rather than ventilating their concerns in the media without discussion," Tharoor tweeted. The Congress and the BJP have already sparred over the issue after a Delhi police team visited Twitter India's office on Monday to serve notice in the 'toolkit' case and know the reason why Twitter categorised the toolkit-related tweets of BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as "manipulated media". The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology disapproved of Twitter's action and called it "prejudiced".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/toolkit-row-to-resonate-in-it-panel-after-ministrys-comprehensive-reply-990425.html
27-05-2021||National Politics||Modi 2.0 a virtual horror for people: Sitaram Yechury||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury has claimed that the last two years of the Narendra Modi government have been a "virtual horror" for people and the Constitutional Republic, as the dispensation has been preoccupied with relentlessly pursuing the "RSS project" of Hindutva rather than fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Yechury's scathing criticism comes in an article 'Two Agonising Years of Devastation' in the upcoming issue of CPI(M) mouthpiece 'Peoples Democracy' in which he also said that the decisions to allow Kumbh Mela and the way election campaign for the state Assembly elections were conducted "accelerated community transmission" of the virus infection. He also referred to the "fanciful projects like the bullet trains, even though unrealisable, gigantic statues and the redevelopment" of the Central Vista, which he said are "all reminiscent of Hitler’s Dome in Berlin that was to highlight his fascist rule". "The last two years have been a virtual horror for the people and our constitutional republic," Yechury wrote highlighting the need for building a resistance to "defeat this assault on the Indian Republic and our people". Citing the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and passage of Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, he said the last two years saw the "consolidation of the process, with renewed vigour, put in motion seven years ago", of the realisation of the RSS project of converting India into their "conception of a rabidly intolerant, theocratic, fascistic Hindu Rashtra". Emphasising that the Opposition demands to take adequate measures were met with "general disdain", he said Modi government's "pre-occupation had never been combating the pandemic in right earnest and saving people's lives but on continuing to relentlessly pursue the unfolding of the RSS project".  He accused the Modi government of abdicating its responsibility at the start of the second wave by passing the burden on to the state governments without offering any financial packages, and blaming the people for their neglect of precautions. "The net result was people dying gasping for breath; shortages of crucial life-saving medicines and an acute shortage of hospital spaces and ventilators," he said. Yechury alleged that the Modi government paid "absolutely no attention" and failed "miserably" while "desperately seeking to project himself as the ‘Vishwa Guru’, he bombastically claimed that India is saving humanity through its vaccination production". "India has today the morbid record of having the highest number of daily deaths and positive cases. Such has been the disaster of Modi’s Covid management. It could not protect lives and could not even arrange for a solemn and dignified funeral of the dead. The gory visuals of dead bodies floating on rivers, particularly Ganga and the mass funerals are a reflection of this macabre dance of death that this government has brought about on the country and the people," he wrote. He said there is an "abject refusal" to provide relief to the people by procuring vaccines from all sources and to ensure a free, universal mass vaccination drive all across the country. "The truth remains: Indian people can save themselves only when the Modi government can be forced to launch such a vaccination drive on a war footing while providing the needed monetary and food relief," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-20-a-virtual-horror-for-people-sitaram-yechury-990501.html
27-05-2021||National Politics||Politics over corpses is Congress's style: Harsh Vardhan's sharp retort to Rahul Gandhi||As India's death toll due to Covid-19 rises due to the second wave, so do jibes among rival parties. On May 26, Rahul Gandhi posted a screenshot of a The New York Times article on scenarios where the Covid-19 death toll may be higher than the official figures. In retort, Union Minister for Health Harsh Vardhan said that politics over corpses was Congress's style, adding that Rahul Gandhi trusts New York over Delhi. "Though vultures are flying away from trees, feels like their energy is being absorbed by vultures on earth," the health minister tweeted. India's Covid-19 caseload stands at 2.71 core, with 3,11,388 deaths, union government's data from May 26 show. But some experts estimate numbers are far higher, due in part to low testing rates in India's hinterlands where Covid-19 cases are spreading rapidly. (With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politics-over-corpses-is-congresss-style-harsh-vardhans-sharp-retort-to-rahul-gandhi-990505.html
27-05-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi writes to PM Modi, demands withdrawal of 'anti-democratic' regulations in Lakshadweep||Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking withdrawal of “anti-people policies” introduced in Lakshadweep by its new administrator without any consultations with the elected representatives. In a two-page letter to the Prime Minister, Gandhi voiced concerns over the draft regulations on lifting regulations on sale of alcohol, disqualifying panchayat members having more than two children and penalising dissent which were introduced by Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Khoda Patel. “I request you to intervene in this matter and ensure that the above-mentioned orders are withdrawn,” the Lok Sabha member from Wayanad said. Gandhi joins the list of political leaders, including NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member Elamaram Kareem, CPI Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam, Congress leaders Hibi Eden and K C Venugopal, who have written letters to President Ram Nath Kovind on the developments in Lakshadweep. “The provision in the draft Panchayat Regulation that disqualifies members with more than two children is blatantly anti-democratic. Furthermore, proposed changes to regulations like Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, the Lakshadweep Animals Preservation Regulation and lifting of restrictions on sale of alcohol are a deliberate assault on the cultural and religious fabric of the local community,” Gandhi said. He said it was pertinent to mention that despite the pandemic, the administration demolished structures used by the fisherfolk, fired contractual workers in various government departments, and relaxed quarantine norms that led to a lethal spike in Covid cases. “Under the guise of development and maintaining law and order in a low crime union territory, the draconian regulations penalise dissent and undermine grassroots democracy,” Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-writes-to-pm-modi-demands-withdrawal-of-anti-democratic-regulations-in-lakshadweep-990598.html
27-05-2021||National Politics||Farm laws: Union Agriculture Minister Tomar bats for reforms amid calls for roll back||Amid calls for restarting talks with farmers, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday launched a strong defence of the three farm laws, saying they would help improve income of small and marginal farmers. Tomar, while addressing a webinar of the Institute of Cost Accountants of India, said the Modi government was now focused on increasing the income of farmers and make agriculture a profitable proposition. “The government is bridging the gaps in the farm sector to ensure that farmers do not sell their produce at throwaway prices. We have ushered in agricultural reforms that do not tax transactions done outside the wholesale markets. A farmer can sell his produce at the farm-gate itself,” the minister said. The minister’s strong defence of the farm sector reforms came a day after farmers’ unions observed black day to mark seven years of the Modi government and demanded immediate repeal of the farm sector reforms, contending that they were meant to benefit big businessmen. Tomar said the reforms also have provisions for contract farming besides a crop insurance scheme. “These new initiatives will prove beneficial to small farmers and strengthen them,” the minister said. At least 13 opposition parties had supported the agitating farmers who had given a call to observe Black Day on Ma 26 and asked the Modi government to resume negotiations on their demand for repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-union-agriculture-minister-tomar-bats-for-reforms-amid-calls-for-roll-back-990772.html
27-05-2021||National Politics||Opposition-ruled states to push for greater say in GST Council||Fresh from electoral victories, Opposition-ruled states are set to make a joint bid for a greater say in the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax regime when the GST Council meets after a seven-month gap on Friday. Senior Congress leader and Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal accused the Modi government of ignoring the state governments, who enjoy 75 per cent voting rights in the GST Council, and implementing the indirect taxation system through a group of bureaucrats of the GST Implementation Committee. At least eight Opposition-ruled states, including Punjab, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, are expected to demand an outright grant from the Centre to meet the revenue shortfall instead of the borrowing plan that was “agreed under duress” last year. These states have been pushing the Centre to have a Vice Chairman and a Secretariat to the GST Council where state governments can submit their proposals for inclusion in the agenda for the meetings. Badal said all states, ruled either by the BJP or its rivals, have been affected by the pandemic and there was a need to bring about structural changes in the GST regime. “If we cannot correct GST in its formative stages, it will be very difficult, actually to have a world class GST,” Badal said. Finance Ministers of Punjab, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, and Tamil Nadu held a virtual meeting on Wednesday to fine tune the joint strategy for the GST meeting. Maharashtra minister could not join the meeting due to “technical issues”. Badal also sought a separate band of State GST for states with higher revenue deficits to help them bridge the gap. “We need to start talking about this thing and unless we meet every very often, we are not likely to achieve credible GST,” he said. The recent electoral victories for the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, DMK in Tamil Nadu, and LDF in Kerala have given a fresh impetus to the Opposition to forcefully make its case at the GST Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-ruled-states-to-push-for-greater-say-in-gst-council-990773.html
27-05-2021||National Politics||Centre's Covid-19 vaccination policy 'directionless': Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday hit out at the Centre over what she said was a "directionless" vaccination policy and questioned the government over the export of jabs earlier this year. The Congress general secretary's attack on the government came in a Facebook post as part of her 'Zimmedaar Kaun?' (who is responsible) campaign under which she is asking questions of the government over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Countries around the world had come to know in 2020 that the vaccine is the most effective weapon to fight coronavirus and large countries ordered last year vaccines many times more than what their population required, Priyanka Gandhi said. The prime minister, after announcing in August 2020 that the government had a complete plan to provide vaccines to all, placed the first order in January 2021, that too for only 1.6 crore vaccine doses for India's 130 crore population, she said in her post in Hindi. "Today, the locks hanging at vaccine centres everywhere, the appeal by the states for vaccines and the declining pace of vaccination bear testimony to the government's directionless vaccine policy," Priyanka Gandhi said. Earlier in the day, in a video on Twitter, Priyanka Gandhi asked why is India, one of the largest manufacturers of vaccines in the world, facing a scarcity of vaccines. Why was the first order of vaccines by the government of India placed in January 2021 when other countries began placing their orders in the summer of 2020, she asked. "Why did our government export six crore vaccines between January and March 2021, while vaccinating only 3.5 crore Indians during the same period of time," she said, questioning the government. The Government of India owes the people of the country answers, Priyanka Gandhi said, adding that "we have to ask them questions and they have to answer us". Questions need to be asked so that the people in power understand their responsibility and accountability towards this country, Priyanka Gandhi had asserted while announcing her 'Zimmedaar Kaun' campaign on Tuesday. The Congress has been critical of the Centre's handling of the Covid situation in the country, especially its vaccine policy, but the government has dismissed the criticism of the Opposition party, accusing it of politicising the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-covid-19-vaccination-policy-directionless-priyanka-gandhi-990842.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||No Covid-19 vaccine, no salary: Chhattisgarh tribal dept officer warns staff||A copy of the order, issued by the assistant commissioner K S Masram in Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district on May 21, went viral on social media where some people expressed displeasure over the 'diktat'. The order asked officers and employees working in the tribal welfare department-run offices, ashrams (residential schools) and hostels in the district to get inoculated and submit their vaccination cards at its office. If they do not take the vaccine, their salaries for the next month will be withheld, said the order which came into force with effect from the date of being issued. When contacted, Masram told PTI on Wednesday night that the objective behind the order was to ensure 100 per cent vaccination of the department's officers and employees in the fight against Covid-19. He claimed that 95 per cent of the department's staff members took the vaccine shots after the order was issued. The official, however, also said the department was not going to withhold the next month's salary of its staff. "My intention was to get all my officers and employees vaccinated, nothing else," he said. All citizens aged 18 and above are eligible for taking the Covid-19 vaccine from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-covid-19-vaccine-no-salary-chhattisgarh-tribal-dept-officer-warns-staff-990543.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Pfizer vaccine should be procured as soon as possible to vaccinate children: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday sought procurement of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine as soon as possible to inoculate children. This comes after the US pharma company sought fast-track approval for its jab in India. The US major has told Indian authorities that its vaccine is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees, sources had said. "We shud procure this vaccine asap for our children," Kejriwal tweeted, citing a news story on fast-track approval sought by the company. The Delhi chief minister has been requesting the Central government to explore suitable vaccine options, citing opinion of experts that a possible third wave of Covid-19 in coming months may affect children. The Delhi government has also suggested the Centre to vaccinate students and teachers if it decides to conduct class 12 Board exams delayed due to the second wave of the virus. Pfizer, which has offered 5 crore doses to India between July and October, recently held a series of interactions with Indian government authorities. It has shared with authorities the most recent data points regarding efficacy trials and approvals for its vaccine in various countries and by the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pfizer-vaccine-should-be-procured-as-soon-as-possible-to-vaccinate-children-kejriwal-990547.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi hospital reports 'first-ever' white fungus case causing severe damage to entire intestine||Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) has come across a first-of-its-kind case of white fungus which causes multiple perforations “throughout the intestine” in a Covid-19 patient, doctors said on Thursday. “White fungus (Candida) causing multifocal perforations in the food pipe, small bowel and large bowel in Covid-19 infection has not been reported in literature to the best of our knowledge,” Dr Anil Arora, Chairman of the Institute of Liver, Gastroenterology and Pancreaticobiliary Sciences at the hospital, said. A 49-year-old woman was admitted to the SGRH on May 13 with complaints of severe abdominal pain, vomiting and constipation. She had undergone a mastectomy for breast cancer in December last year and had received chemotherapy till four weeks ago, he said. “A CT scan of the abdomen revealed free air and moderate amount of free fluid in the abdominal cavity suggestive of an intestinal perforation,” the hospital said in a statement. The doctors immediately placed a tube inside the abdomen and drained about one litre of bile-stained pus. A team of surgeons led by Dr Samiran Nundy of the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplantation conducted an emergency surgery on the patient the next day. The surgery revealed perforation in the lower end of the food pipe. A part of the small intestine had developed gangrene and sloughed off, and the patient had multiple thinned out patches in the wall of the colon with one small leak, Dr Nundy said. “The perforations were closed and the gangrenous segment was resected in a difficult surgery lasting four hours after which a piece of intestine was sent for biopsy,” he said. The biopsy revealed severe ulceration of the intestinal wall with resultant perforation and necrosis caused by invasive white fungus, Dr Arora said. The woman's Covid-19 antibody levels were markedly elevated. Her blood and peritoneal fluid culture showed exuberant growth of the fungus. She was immediately started on anti-fungals and showed remarkable improvement, he said. However, five days later, she had to undergo a second surgery for a small leak from the anastomotic site. She is currently recovering from it, said Dr Aurobindo of the Department of Liver Transplantation and G I Surgery. There have been cases of fungal infection (black fungus) secondary to Covid-19 infection with underlying diabetes, but “white fungus causing severe ulceration and gangrene of the intestine with multifocal perforations in the food pipe, small bowel and large bowel in the setting of Covid-19 infection has not been reported in literature to the best of our knowledge”, Dr Arora said. Malignancy, recent chemotherapy, and a superimposed Covid-19 infection together drought down the immune system of the patient to dismally low levels, he said. Normally the intestine remains in perfect harmony with the fungus called candida. In immunosuppressed states such as diabetes, injudicious use of steroids, overzealous broad-spectrum antibiotics and chemotherapy for an underlying malignancy, there is inward migration of this candida - the white fungus - from the intestinal lumen into the body tissues by disrupting the normal gut barriers. This is followed by intestinal complications like ulcers, bleeding, gangrene and perforation, followed by transmigration of the candida across the beleaguered gut barrier into blood, culminating in sepsis and multiorgan failure, Dr Arora said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hospital-reports-first-ever-white-fungus-case-causing-severe-damage-to-entire-intestine-990552.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||J&K launches financial scheme for families who lost sole earning member due to Covid||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (LG) Manoj Sinha, on Wednesday, launched a special financial scheme for families who lost their sole earning members due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The scheme is in furtherance of the announcement of the LG regarding special assistance scheme for families which are in a state of distress due to Covid- related death of their breadwinner. An official spokesperson said the government has adopted a comprehensive approach by creating a special cell in the Social Welfare Department to identify and track support to these families over time in the spirit of leaving no one behind. Under the scheme, called ‘सक्षम’ or ‘Special Assistance Scheme for Covid Mortalities (SASCM)’, cash assistance of Rs 1,000 per month shall be provided to the spouse and the eldest member of the family. Apart from this, the scheme provides for a scholarship of Rs 20,000 per annum for school-going students and Rs 40,000 per annum for college-going students, he said. A family in distress shall be eligible for scholarship for two children, if they are not getting any other scholarship. The assistance is not limited to above. The Special Cell in the Social Welfare Department shall also explore further assistance under other existing schemes of the government for which the family may be eligible. An important element of support shall be financial assistance for self-employment for any of the surviving members who wishes to start any business for livelihood support. The assistance under the scheme shall commence next month. “We have taken prompt and decisive action to support elderly, women and children. Our decision is about personal protection and mitigating vulnerability of families, which have lost their breadwinner by extending long-term assistance. The government’s aim is to take care of their day-to-day lives and ensure financial security,” the LG observed. “Our commitment to support vulnerable families is long-term. Therefore we are creating a special cell to track the welfare of affected families. The pension and scholarship is only part of our assistance. Other parts shall be extending all possible assistance through existing schemes and support for self-employment. It is a comprehensive approach, aimed at overall support to empower these families,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-launches-financial-scheme-for-families-who-lost-sole-earning-member-due-to-covid-990572.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||UP govt extends ban on strikes in state departments for six months||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) in the state, banning strikes in public services, corporations and local authorities under it, for a period of six months, an official spokesperson said on Thursday. A notification to this effect was issued on Tuesday, he added. The Act gives police the powers to arrest, without a warrant, anybody for violating its provisions. An official statement issued here said strikes have been banned with immediate effect in all public services, including corporations and local authorities owned or controlled by the state government. The Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1966 mandates imprisonment for a term which may extend to a year, or a fine which may extend to Rs 1,000, or both, to any person who instigates a strike which was illegal under the Act. The Uttar Pradesh government had initially invoked the ESMA in the state in May last year for a period of six months. It subsequently extended the provisions for another six months on November 25, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-extends-ban-on-strikes-in-state-departments-for-six-months-990593.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||No proof of spying for Pakistan found against two MP women, says police||Police have not found any evidence of spying for Pakistan against two women who were questioned over the last one week for their alleged involvement in suspicious activities in an Army area at Mhow in Madhya Pradesh, an official said. It has come to light during the probe into the matter that the two women were possibly getting phone calls from some people from Pakistan, Indore Crime Branch's Additional Superintendent of Police Guruprasad Parashar told reporters on Wednesday evening. "However, we have not found any evidence that the women were spying for Pakistan in Mhow's Army cantonment area," he said. The two women, aged between 25 and 30, and a man were extensively questioned by police and intelligence agencies over the last one week, but they were not arrested, he said.  According to the official, the women, both residents of Lakshmi Vihar colony at Gawli Palasiya village in Mhow, located about 37 km from here, got acquainted with some people suspected to be Pakistanis through a matrimonial website. From their social media chats, it appears to be a case of love affair which could have resulted in marriage, he said. "It seems a big gang involved in spying for Pakistan was trying to trap the women. But, the police through swift action saved them from it," the official said. He also said that all technical evidences pertaining to the women were probed thoroughly and an inquiry was also conducted into their bank accounts. Based on the result of the investigation into the matter, no criminal case has been registered against the women, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-proof-of-spying-for-pakistan-found-against-two-mp-women-says-police-990595.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Turning up without slot deemed vaccine wastage: Baghel slams government for politics on jabs||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel rubbished reports of his state wasting 30 per cent of its Covid-19 vaccine doses terming it as "misleading" and adding that the Centre is "doing politics", news agency ANI reported.   Baghel claimed that individuals who go for vaccination without registering on the CoWIN portal are being deemed by the Centre to be cases of vaccine wastage. According to data made available by the Centre, Chhattisgarh has the second-highest vaccine wastage figures among all the states and union territories in the country. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/turning-up-without-slot-deemed-vaccine-wastage-baghel-slams-government-for-politics-on-jabs-990596.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||YouTuber posts video of dog flying with helium balloons, arrested||A 27-year-old YouTuber was arrested for cruelty against animals after he uploaded a video, showing his pet dog floating in the air with helium gas balloons tied to its collar, police said on Thursday. The accused, Gaurav Sharma, who has 4.15 million subscribers on his YouTube channel, is a resident of Panchsheel Vihar in south Delhi's Malviya Nagar, they said. In the video shot on May 21, Sharma can be seen with his pet dog in a park. The dog is strapped to a bunch of balloons and is set loose to fly. A case was lodged against Sharma under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act on the complaint of Gaurav Gupta, a member of ‘People for Animals Society’, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, adding the footage was deleted. After receiving criticism for the video, the accused uploaded another one with apologies the next day. He said that he took adequate safety measures while shooting the video featuring his pet dog, Dollar, and assured his viewers that he would not repeat it in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youtuber-posts-video-of-dog-flying-with-helium-balloons-arrested-990613.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Take action on PIL claiming poor state of quarantine centre, HC tells Delhi government||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Delhi government to treat as a representation a PIL claiming that the quarantine centre at Sultanpuri for Covid-19 patients is "unhygienic", "uninhabitable" and lacks medical professionals to monitor them, and ordered it to take "immediate action" on the concerns raised in the plea. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the Delhi government to take immediate action on the issues raised in the plea as early as possible and practicable. With the direction, the court disposed of the petition by a student of Jawaharlal Nehru University who has said in her plea that she tested Covid-19 positive while staying at the varsity campus and since there was no quarantine facility in there, she was transferred to the Sultanpuri Isolation Centre. The student had claimed that to her "utter shock" the quarantine centre was unhygienic and no facilities were given to the patients. During her four day of stay at the centre, she had found that "patients at the quarantine facility were suffering severely not only on account of their illness but also due to the negligence of the government authorities in providing them with basic facilities like sanitation, food, medicines, clean mattresses and blankets, regular doctor visits, proper monitoring of oxygen, etc". She had also alleged in her plea that "not a single person visits these wards, be it a doctor, nurse or any ward officials". "The patients manage everything on their own. No doctor or a nurse visits the patients to check their vitals, temperature and oxygen levels. All of them have to come to the ground floor of the building to get checked and to obtain basic medicines. "Most of the time, the patients have to wait in a line, sometimes even for an hour in the scorching sun to obtain basic medicines..," the petition had claimed. The petitioner had sought appointment of a court commissioner to visit the quarantine facility at Sultanpuri and directions to the Delhi government "to follow the recommendation issued by WHO and the guidelines issued by NCDC for implementing quarantine". Besides that the petitioner also seeks a clean and hygienic environment by sanitizing and disinfecting the premises, doctor visits thrice a day to the patients in their rooms, PPE kits for sanitation workers at the quarantine centres, periodic checking of oxygen levels of the patients and several other reliefs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/take-action-on-pil-claiming-poor-state-of-quarantine-centre-hc-tells-delhi-government-990648.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||After affecting urban areas, Covid-19 now hitting rural Kashmir||After affecting urban areas, the second wave of Covid-19 is now spreading fast in the rural areas of Kashmir. The new challenge has forced the Union Territory (UT) administration to set up five-bedded Covid care centres at the panchayat level with at least one oxygen-supported bed. The persons needing isolation at these centres shall be identified by panchayats, medical staff or ASHA workers, while mobile testing vans will visit villages. An official of the Health Department said about 70% of the new Covid-19 cases were coming from the rural areas of Kashmir in the last 10-days. “This was a shift from the earlier pattern that had seen urban Kashmir, majorly Srinagar district, and urban areas of other districts, reporting a major chunk of cases,” he said. The official said accessibility is not easy in the rural areas as compared to the urban ones and people in rural areas are not only hesitant towards testing for Covid-19 but also show reluctance to go for vaccination. “Many people don’t even seek medical advice when they develop symptoms. We have thus been trying to carry out testing in the rural areas extensively and have found a high positivity rate,” he added. On Tuesday, out of 1,819 Covid-19 positive cases reported from Kashmir, 578 were from urban areas, 1,074 were from rural areas and 167 from semi-urban areas, official data reveals. Dr Rouf Rather, who specialises in epidemiology and community medicine, says that the new trend was expected as earlier the effect of the pandemic in rural areas was late “by around two weeks” as compared to urban areas. “The peak in the cases in rural areas does not sync with that of in the urban areas, and similarly, the decrease will also not sync,” he said. Dr Rather said that although Srinagar was expected to hit a plateau by the end of May, it would take rural Kashmir another two to three weeks to reach a point where the cases are stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-affecting-urban-areas-covid-19-now-hitting-rural-kashmir-990652.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi Deputy CM Sisodia inaugurates drive-in Covid-19 vaccination centre for 18 and above||A drive-in vaccination centre for beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years was inaugurated by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday, officials said. The centre, located in a parking lot of a plush mall, is being run by a leading private health facility, they said. "Deputy CM Manish Sisodia opened a drive-in vaccination centre dedicated for the age group of 18-44 years. It is the first such facility, only for that particular age bracket," a spokesperson of the Fortis Hospital said, adding, that it is located at Select City Walk mall. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had inaugurated Delhi's first drive-in vaccination centre inside the premises of another private facility in Dwarka, which will cater to all age groups. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi, in a vaccination bulletin issued online on Wednesday evening, had said, "For 18-44 age group, we were vaccinating over 80,000 people per day till a few days ago, but now it has been halted totally as we don't have doses for this category of beneficiaries". Vaccination for the 18-44 years age group is now being done only at private hospitals, and a dose of vaccine is priced there between Rs 800 to Rs 1,350, which many in Delhi cannot afford, she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-cm-sisodia-inaugurates-drive-in-covid-19-vaccination-centre-for-18-and-above-990656.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||GST Council to discuss tax rate on Covid-19 essentials, compensation to states on Friday||The GST Council is likely to discuss on Friday a reduction in the tax rate on Covid medicines, vaccines and medical equipment as well as means to make up for the shortfall in revenues promised to states. Ahead of the first meeting of the top decision-making body, finance ministers of eight states ruled by non-BJP and like-minded parties -- Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Kerala and West Bengal -- have devised a joint strategy to press for a zero tax rate on Covid essentials, sources said. The Council, which is headed by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and includes representatives of all states and Union territories, is meeting for the first time in nearly eight months. Besides discussion on tax rates, the Council may also deliberate on the estimated Rs 2.69 lakh crore that states need to be provided as per the promise in 2017 to make good any loss in revenue they suffer because of giving up their right to levy VAT and other taxes. Sources said the Fitment Committee on GST rates, comprising tax officers of Centre and states, has also given its report to the Council listing out the pros and cons of waiver and zero-rating of Covid vaccines, drugs and other equipment. Exempting final products from GST would deny manufacturers the option to claim the benefit of the input tax credit on raw materials and hence not much benefit accrues to consumers. In 2018, the Council, following demands from various women's organisations, had exempted GST on sanitary napkins from an earlier rate of 12 per cent. However, not much of the rate cut benefits accrued to consumers as manufacturers could not claim the benefit of taxes paid along the supply chain. Earlier this week, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, in a letter to Sitharaman, said that many goods, including protective garments, digital thermometers, laboratory sanitisers/disinfectants and paper bed sheets, which are needed to fight the Covid pandemic attract a basic customs duty of 20 per cent and a Goods and Services Tax (GST) of up to 18 per cent. On top of that, a 10 per cent social welfare surcharge is levied on such items. As IGST is charged on taxable value, which includes import duties, the effective burden exceeds by another 2-3 per cent, Badal said. "It is baffling that despite the crisis our country currently finds itself in... taxes this high continue to apply on basic essentials needed to overcome this life-threatening disease...," Badal said in the letter. Earlier this month, Sitharaman virtually ruled out exempting Covid vaccines, medicines and oxygen concentrators from GST, saying such an exemption will make the lifesaving items costlier for consumers as manufacturers will not be able to offset the taxes paid on inputs. Currently, domestic supplies and commercial imports of vaccines attract a 5 per cent GST while Covid drugs and oxygen concentrators attract a 12 per cent levy. With regard to the issue of compensation payable to states, the Centre has estimated the shortfall at Rs 2.69 lakh crore. The Centre expects to collect over Rs 1.11 lakh crore through cess on luxury, demerit and sin goods which will be given to the states to compensate them for the shortfall in revenue arising out of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 1.58 lakh crore would have to be borrowed to meet the promised compensation. As per the agenda note shared with the states ahead of the GST council meeting on Friday, the Centre has estimated that although the GST revenues may see a recovery in the current financial year, there will still be a gap between the compensation need and the amount raised through cess. The 2021-22 Budget has assumed 17 per cent growth in GST revenues, translating into monthly gross GST revenue of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. Based on this assumption, it has been estimated that for the period February 2021 to January 2022, the gap between projected revenue and the actual revenue after the release of the compensation would be around Rs 1.6 lakh crore. In the last fiscal, the Centre had borrowed on behalf of the states and released Rs 1.10 lakh crore to compensate for the GST revenue shortfall. Another Rs 68,700 crore was collected by way of levy of cess. Under the GST law, states were guaranteed to be compensated bi-monthly for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation from July 1, 2017. The shortfall is calculated assuming a 14 per cent annual growth in GST collections of states over the base year of 2015-16. With states still continuing to face a shortfall in revenue as GST collections declined on account of slowing economic activity mainly due to Covid, the GST compensation cess would continue beyond the first five years of GST implementation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gst-council-to-discuss-tax-rate-on-covid-19-essentials-compensation-to-states-on-friday-990679.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC allows duty free import of drug to treat 'black fungus' till Centre decides on waiver||The Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed duty-free import of Amphotericin B, the drug used for treating black fungus patients — primarily those affected by it after recovering from Covid-19 — on furnishing of a bond by the importers till the Centre takes a final decision on waiving the customs duty on it. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh noted that the medicine is required to save the lives of thousands of people suffering from Mucormycosis and the central government should seriously consider a waiver of customs duty till the drug is in short supply in India. "We direct that if any import is made by any person of this drug (Amphotericin B), it shall be allowed on a bond furnished by the importer without the actual duty being paid, till a decision is taken by the Centre. The bond shall have the undertaking that in case the import duty is not waived, the duty shall be paid by the importer," the court said. The issue came up during arguments on a plea by a black fungus patient who was not getting the medicine. While one of the advocates informed the court that the import duty on the medicine was in the range of 27 per cent, another one said it was 78 per cent. The Centre’s counsel said he was not aware of the exact percentage and will inform the court after taking instructions from the competent authority. Central government standing counsel Kirtiman Singh submitted that the issue of waiving the import duty on such drugs will be communicated to the authorities during the day and a decision will be taken soon. The bench said it was hopeful that the Centre will look at waiving the import duty. The court was also assured by the Centre that the customs department shall clear all consignments relating to Covid-19 and black fungus without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-allows-duty-free-import-of-drug-to-treat-black-fungus-till-centre-decides-on-waiver-990680.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Woman in UP gives birth to a Covid positive child||A Covid negative woman gave birth to a coronavirus-infected child at a hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, taking doctors by surprise. According to reports, the woman was admitted to Sir Sunderlal Hospital at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Sunday and gave birth to a female child two days later. ''The woman was tested for Covid at the time of admission...she was negative.....the baby, when tested soon after being born, turned out to be positive,'' said an official of the hospital in Varanasi. The doctors will conduct Covid tests of the mother and child again, reports said. The doctors said that it was the first such case in the country and that they were in touch with the experts to ascertain the reasons behind it. The father of the child was also 'shocked'. ''I am really shocked...how can this happen?...I don't know what to say,'' he said. 'Both the mother and the baby are in good condition....they have been kept in different wards,'' the hospital official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-in-up-gives-birth-to-a-covid-positive-child-990689.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||1,072 new Covid-19 cases, 117 more deaths in Delhi; positivity rate 1.53 pc||Delhi recorded 117 more Covid-19 fatalities, the lowest since April 15, and 1,072 new cases on Thursday, while the positivity rate dipped to a nearly two-month low of 1.53 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin. This is the fifth day in a row when the daily cases in Delhi have remained below 2,000 and the second consecutive day when the cases are below 1,500. The number of deaths reported on Thursday (117) is the lowest since April 15 when the national capital had reported 112 fatalities.  The national capital had recorded 1,491 cases and 130 fatalities on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 1.93 per cent. Delhi had recorded 1,568 cases and 156 fatalities on Tuesday, while the positivity rate was 2.14 per cent. On Monday, the national capital had recorded 1,550 fresh cases of Covid-19, 207 fatalities and a positivity rate was 2.52 per cent. On Sunday, 1,649 cases and 189 deaths were recorded, while the positivity rate was 2.42 per cent. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day death count had been spiralling up with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 2, the city had registered a record 407 deaths, according to the official data. A total of 70.068 tests were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1072-new-covid-19-cases-117-more-deaths-in-delhi-positivity-rate-153-pc-990706.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Punjab govt extends curbs till June 10||The Punjab government on Thursday extended the coronavirus restrictions till June 10 but removed the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles and allowed the resumption of elective surgeries and OPD in hospitals. The state government had imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like a weekend lockdown and a night curfew to check the spread of the infection. The decision to extend the curbs was taken at a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, according to a government statement. Earlier, the state government had extended the Covid curbs till May 31. The CM directed the resumption of elective surgeries in both government and private hospitals and the restoration of outpatient department (OPD) operations in view of the improvement in the coronavirus situation, the statement said. The state government had stopped elective surgeries on April 12 to ensure adequate availability of beds and medicine oxygen for serious infection cases. The CM has now allowed these to be resumed, subject to the condition that there shall, for the present, be no reduction in beds for Level-3 coronavirus patients in hospitals. The CM also said while the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles is being removed, the limit on commercial passenger vehicles and taxis will continue to be in place at present. Earlier, the government had announced that not more than two persons could travel in a car. Pillion riders on a two-wheeler were also not allowed, except for those belonging to the same family and living in the same house. The deputy commissioners may make any adjustment for the opening of shops dealing in non-essential items as are merited by local conditions, the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-punjab-govt-extends-curbs-till-june-10-990710.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh government says nearly 50% of its villages now Covid-free||Nearly half of over 20,000 villages in Chhattisgarh have become coronavirus-free, the state government claimed on Thursday. Measures such as reactivation of quarantine centres as soon as the second wave of the pandemic began helped and now 9,462 out of 20,092 villages do not have a single active Covid-19 patient, an official statement said. As the cases began to surge in urban areas, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel instructed officials to take every possible measure to curb the spread in rural areas, it said. Quarantine centers established during the first wave last year were reactivated with better infrastructure and those returning from other states or cities were compulsorily isolated in these centres. Village-level health staff including `Mitanins' or women health workers as well as teachers conducted door-to-door surveys to look for infected persons, the statement said. New labs were established to increase the coronavirus testing capacity and now around 70,000 samples are being tested in the state daily against around 22,000 earlier, it said. The number of beds in district hospitals has been increased and new Covid Care Centers have been set up in villages, the statement added. As many as 402 of 957 villages in Baloda Bazar district, 311 of 702 villages in Bemetara, 491 of 579 villages in Bijapur, 158 of 229 villages of Dantewada, 377 of 385 villages in Durg, 342 of 722 villages in Gariband, 792 out of 1,084 villages in Kanker, 832 out of 1,035 villages in Kabirdham, 407 of 569 villages in Kondagaon, 352 out of 638 villages of Koriya, 362 of 422 villages in Narayanpur and 1,204 out of 1,599 villages in Rajnandgaon are now coronavirus-free, among others, the statement said. Chhattisgarh's coronavirus caseload rose to 9,59,544 on Wednesday with addition of 2,829 cases, while the death toll increased by 56 to 12,779.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-government-says-nearly-50-of-its-villages-now-covid-free-990733.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Vice Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen C P Mohanty reviews security situation at Ladakh||Vice Chief of Army Staff Lieutenant General C P Mohanty on Thursday reviewed the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness of the force in the Union Territory of Ladakh, Defence Spokesperson Lt Colonel Emron Musavi said. The Vice Chief of Army Staff visited the headquarters of the Fire and Fury Corps where he was briefed about the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness in eastern Ladakh, he said. The defence spokesperson said that Lt Gen Mohanty, accompanied by General Officer Commanding of the Fire and Fury Corps Lt Gen P G K Menon, will visit the forward areas in Ladakh on Friday and Saturday and interact with the troops deployed there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vice-chief-of-army-staff-lt-gen-c-p-mohanty-reviews-security-situation-at-ladakh-990763.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Punjab health minister mocks Sukhbir Singh Badal, says SAD leader took 'vaccine worth Rs 62,000'||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday mocked SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal for criticising the state government on the vaccine procurement issue, claiming that the former deputy chief minister got a "vaccine worth Rs 62,000" administered after he tested positive for Covid-19. Sidhu's remarks were in response to Badal's criticism of the Punjab government. The minister did not elaborate but appeared to be referring to the recently introduced Roche antibodies cocktail drug priced at Rs 59,750 per dose launched this week in India. It is for restricted emergency use to treat mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults and paediatric patients (12 years or weighing more than at least 40 kg). However, the drug was not available in the country when Badal had tested positive for Covid-19 in March. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday said when the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) was able to procure Covaxin doses within one week of placing the order then why the Amarinder Singh-led dispensation could not do so. He had alleged that the Congress-led government lacked the intention to procure vaccines for people of the state. "Do not compare Sukhbir Singh Badal with the state government. He says too much and he had earlier spoken a lot as well and even now. Sukhbir Badal had himself got a vaccine worth Rs 62,000 administered. Has he got Rs 62,000 worth a jab administered to the people of Punjab," he asked while talking to reporters here. Sidhu was replying to a question when asked that Badal had said if the SGPC could procure vaccine doses then why the state government could not do so. "He (Sidhu) is completely wrong in saying this," Sidhu, adding that the state government has also been procuring vaccines every day. The health minister, however, welcomed the SGPC for coming forward to assist in the fight against Covid-19. The SGPC, which is to start a vaccination drive next week, has also set up some Covid care centres in the state. On the issue of black fungus or mucormycosis, Sidhu said that the state government could get only 1,000 injections against the demand for 15,000 doses raised with the Centre, which were insufficient. "We are putting pressure on the central government to give us more injections," he said. To a question on vaccines, the minister said that Punjab was facing a shortage of the vaccine. "We are not getting that much supply of vaccine doses which match our requirements which is a matter of concern. Every day we go hand to mouth," said Sidhu. Around 47 lakh people have been vaccinated so far, he said. To another question on wastage of vaccines, Sidhu said, "There can be one-and-a-half per cent wastage. They (Centre) themselves say 10 per cent. But we are not going to allow any wastage, which is like expiry date or anything else. If there is a breakage in any injection then it is a separate issue. Otherwise, we do not allow any wastage."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-health-minister-mocks-sukhbir-singh-badal-says-sad-leader-took-vaccine-worth-rs-62000-990779.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Ops against militants in J&K will be stepped up in coming times: DGP||Jammu and Kashmir's Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh on Thursday said that while the Covid pandemic has affected the fight against militancy in the valley, security forces are focussed and the operations against the ultras will be stepped up in the coming time. Talking to reporters in south Kashmir's Kulgam district after touring many areas to review the security measures, the DGP said that during the review meetings, a special focus was laid on enhancing the anti-militancy operations across south Kashmir. "We cannot deny that the Covid pandemic has affected anti-militancy operations to some extent because there is a need to take precautions. Many policemen and security forces personnel who were on deployment duty have tested positive for the virus. Then the police personnel are on lockdown duty for implementing the restrictions. "So, it has affected (the operations), but it does not mean that we are leaving that area and focusing on the other. The operations are going on and we will step up the operations so that this runs parallel," the DPG said. Singh said local militant recruitment in the Kashmir valley has gone down and the police wants the youth who have picked up arms to return to the mainstream. "Police have been working hard to prevent misguided youth from joining the militancy. In Kulgam, a group of youth, who were about to join militancy, were brought back and united with their families. Similarly, in other districts of South Kashmir, many such groups were prevented from joining the wrong path," he said. The DGP said unfortunately, the recruitment was on because "Pakistan-based agencies want the recruitment to continue". "Their job is to give more oxygen to outfits like Jaish-e-Muhammad, Lashkar-e-Toiba and Al-Badr. They want to make them stronger. However, the recruitment is less as compared to previous years," he said. Asked about the number of militants active in South Kashmir, Singh said while the number of keeps on fluctuating, it has come down compared to previous years. "At present, the number is around 100 plus and I hope it will come down further," he said. Meanwhile, a police spokesman said Singh visited the twin South Kashmir districts of Anantnag and Kulgam where he chaired security review meetings with jurisdictional officers and took stock of the situation. He also inaugurated 13 different facilities for police officers and personnel in Kulgam. In his address, the DGP stressed upon officers to be vigilant and asked them not to give any breathing space to the enemies of peace who were looking to create disturbance. Singh said the peaceful atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir has been achieved after a lot of hard work and sacrifices by the police and security forces and added that more efforts are required to consolidate the peace in the union territory. The DGP complimented the police personnel for handling different challenges successfully and urged them to continue work with the same dedication in the future. Singh said the police along with other agencies have succeeded in creating a sense of security and he impressed upon the officers to work with full professionalism, sincerity and in a dedicated manner for the welfare of the people while taking due care of their security. He advised the police to continue their fight against drugs and book all those involved in this menace as it has emerged a major threat in recent times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ops-against-militants-in-jk-will-be-stepped-up-in-coming-times-dgp-990797.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||A K Mehta to be new chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir||A K Mehta, an IAS officer of Jammu and Kashmir cadre, was on Thursday asked to take over as the new chief secretary of the union territory after the incumbent BVR Subrahmanyam was transferred to the Commerce Ministry at the Centre, officials said. Lt Governor Manoj Sinha was informed by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla about the decision which had a clearance of the Appointments' Committee of Cabinet, they said. Subrahmanyam, a 1987 batch IAS officer from Chhattisgarh, was earlier in the day shifted to the Department of Commerce as the Officer on Special Duty. He will be posted as the commerce secretary on June 30 when the incumbent Anup Wadhawan retires.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-k-mehta-to-be-new-chief-secretary-of-jammu-and-kashmir-990836.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi government sets up two committees to prepare for 3rd wave of Covid-19||The Delhi government on Thursday set up a 13-member committee to prepare an action plan for a possible third wave of Covid-19 after assessing the current status and projected requirement of the health infrastructure such as hospitals, oxygen plants and drug supplies in the city. Another eight-member expert committee has been set up to devise a strategy for mitigation and management of the third wave of Covid-19. Both the committees will be chaired by IAS officer Satya Gopal, ACS (Power) and Nodal Officer (Covid-19). The 13-member committee will "assess the present status and projected requirement of the different verticals of health infrastructure such as hospitals, oxygen plants, drug supplies etc and prepare an action plan for the Third Wave", an order issued by the health department said. The eight-member expert committee has been tasked with devising a plan for mitigating the impact of the third wave and preparation required for the specialised needs of children of the city. The committee has been asked to analyse the data trends, experiences of other cities across the globe and conduct modelling exercises to foresee and predict the onset of such waves and the changing/mutating character of the virus, the health department said in a separate order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-sets-up-two-committees-to-prepare-for-3rd-wave-of-covid-19-990846.html
27-05-2021||North and Central||Delhi LG issues regulations on 'black fungus', all cases to be reported to health department||Amid rising cases of 'black fungus' in the national capital, Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has issued regulations under the Epidemic Diseases Act to contain and manage cases of the deadly mucormycosis in the city, according to a government notification released on Thursday. The Delhi Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations, 2021, which will be valid for a year from the date of publication, states that all healthcare facilities, government or private, will report each and every suspected or confirmed cases of 'black fungus' in the national capital to the city health department. All healthcare facilities in Delhi will follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of 'black fungus' issued by the Health Ministry, it said. "No person or institution or organisation will spread any information or material for the management of black fungus without prior permission of the health department," the new regulation stated. The regulations further said that any person or institution or organisation disobeying these new norms on 'black fungus' shall be deemed to be committing an offence under Indian Penal Code's Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). About 600 cases of 'black fungus' or mucormycosis have been reported here till May 26, with over 200 being recorded on May 23 alone, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lg-issues-regulations-on-black-fungus-all-cases-to-be-reported-to-health-department-990869.html
27-05-2021||Oasis||Unalloyed love of the aged||When I called up my maternal cousin, he was indeed in a melancholic state after having lost his spouse, months ago. He had got into wedlock when I had just then launched into my college life. His spouse was an awesome person with amazing warmth, abundant goodness and an adorable attitude. Apparently, she and my cousin did make for a wonderful couple. When my cousin stated, “Now, I have lost the light of my life,” I could sense a lurch in his throat. At that moment, I discerned the cardinal truth that 'the love'— the unalloyed, genuine, matured and intense kind— grows only over a great passage of time. Such love, the depth of which is unfathomable, occurs only when the couple would have lived closely together for years, accepting each other and their foibles, shortcomings and eccentricities. That is why, at that stage, though the spouses differ from each other, be it in their tastes, habits, ideas, attitudes, emotions, sentiments etc., where myriad differences of opinions abound, there is magnanimity in respecting each other’s perceptions or perspectives without foisting one’s views on the other. In fact, the deep love takes the form of deepest sentiment especially during that ‘climacteric stage’ where one’s physical powers try declining, with ailments mounting. And, love starts attaining the sublime state amidst such high emotional dependence with the fabrication of a strong bond. The absence of which, makes each day, inexplicably longer; with the inner heart feeling ineffably feebler; for the surviving spouse. Interestingly, the love between the aged couple is so tacit/explicit that it simply debunks the theory of “The greater the expression/exhibition of ‘love’ through eloquent phrases, the deeper is ‘its’ intensity”. Definitely, this ‘decades-old, divine love’ is diametrically different from those ‘loves’ intertwined with overt “demonstrations or vociferations”. Since here, one seldom gets to see the aged couple, even speak to each other, before others. Such is their deep, secret love. Indeed, very much unlike a few months old, puerile puppy-love of today’s youngsters, which often has the proclivity to pop up as fantasy, progresses as farcical and precipitate as pathetic fiasco.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/unalloyed-love-of-the-aged-990479.html
27-05-2021||Oasis||Right approach to right duty||The third chapter of the Bhagavad Geeta is titled 'Karmayoga'— the yoga of action. If in the Vedic times, 'Karma' meant rituals and sacrifices to the Gods to seek their blessings, in the present context it means one’s duty in this world, whatever it may be. The essence of this chapter is that man must carry out his duties sincerely, to the best of his abilities with a pure mind, as an offering to the divine, without thinking of the fruits of his actions alone. As mortals, we are all impelled by our desires to do actions to fructify our wants. If for a serious ‘sadhak’ or practitioner, it would be appropriate to desist from all worldly wants, for ordinary men, it would mean limiting or controlling his insatiable senses and restrict himself to only the essentials. “Such a man, who controls his senses and does his duty is superior to other ordinary men,” says the Lord. When he takes this approach, his mind is cleansed of its impurities and he is filled with a sense of vigour, enthusiasm and energy. With this, he can channelise his efforts towards doing his duty in an efficient way with the humility that he is offering it to the divine.  Now the Lord significantly says, “do your allotted duty, whatever it may be, for, doing something is better than not doing anything at all. You need to do something at least for sustaining your physical body”. The importance of this statement does not need elaboration.  Next comes another valuable piece of advice, timeless in its eternal appeal and significance. “Doing your duty is one thing. But, do it as a “Yagna”, not only as your offering to the Gods but as your contribution to this world, for the welfare of society”. When a man does his work efficiently, selflessly, with pure heart, keeping the larger interests of mankind in mind, his work becomes a 'Yagna'; a 'yoga'. Society is benefitted. The Lord beautifully says “even this mindset to work like this and the ability to do so is also given to you by the creator. It inheres in you. You just have to tap into that inner reservoir. When you do this, the Gods are pleased and bless you with all prosperity”. History shows that all great human achievements have been made by individuals who have just done their work quietly without any expectations. This is true ‘Karma Yoga’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/right-approach-to-right-duty-990856.html
27-05-2021||Opinion||S Jaishankar should clinch a lasting agreement with the US to battle Covid-19||On top of Jaishankar's concerns will be how New Delhi clinches lasting commitment from pharmaceutical majors on whose vaccination doses the United States is gradually opening up its economy, public space and movement of people. Lined up for discussions are a host of business leaders and trade bodies whose companies stepped out to donate relief to Indian patients suffering from the virus which left many gasping for breath. The initial lukewarm response notwithstanding, the US worked swiftly to despatch supplies with the active involvement of influential sections within its political set-up, administration, businesses, civil society and Indian Americans. Within the Democratic Party of President Joe Biden, there is a strong view that the US should continue to work with India for a prolonged period to meet several objectives. One, deal with the immediate crisis at hand as India struggles with the second wave; two, create safeguards against subsequent waves that the medical community warns could be on the way; and third, build capacities in India to ramp up production of vaccines. For instance, Congressman Rohit ‘Ro’ Khanna, a powerful voice within the party and the vice-chair of India Caucus, is pushing the Biden administration to do more. In an article in the latest edition of the prestigious Foreign Affairs periodical, he supported the idea that India should be assisted to make vaccines for the world, including the two the US is using since these are produced based on the Messenger RNA Vaccine technology, which India does not have. There are several other suggestions from the Democratic Party leaders, including the co-chair of the India Caucus Brad Sherman. He along with 50-odd colleagues on Capitol Hill wrote to President Biden requesting assistance to India. Besides the humanitarian aspect, the group underscored the concern that as long as the virus persists in India, there is a potential of additional variants posing a threat even to the vaccinated Americans. The decisive push from the Hill and efforts by others advocating support to India will remain high on the agenda when EAM Jaishankar and his US counterpart Anthony Blinken meet this week.  Of course, other aspects of regular bilateral, regional and multi-national interests to New Delhi and Washington would also be on the table especially as India exudes confidence to “shape big debates of our times”. The way forward — a coordinator to work with India Interestingly, veteran Democrat Jim McDermott, suggests President Biden appoint a coordinator who would work with New Delhi to facilitate seamless flow of everything that needs to be done. Former Congressman McDermott, a founder member of the India Caucus, is of the view that the present arrangement when several organisations are reaching out to the Biden administration, the approach tends to be prescriptive. “The way the United States is providing aid is not the way to react. We need to have a person who can sit down with Indians, find out what exactly is required and then talk to the President,” McDermott said in an exclusive interaction over the phone from Seattle. “It is not our job to prescribe. ‘Take these pills’ approach does not work. We have been through tough times in battling the virus and the US can work with India. Based on our experience in handling the crisis, we can show the way to fight…we do not have all the answers but we can work together,” he said. To a question, if he was willing to take up the role, McDermott said he has a great fondness for India and experience of working with aid to Africa for HIV/AIDS. More on the plate Jaishankar’s schedule does not show any meetings either with leaders in the Congress or members of the India Caucus. The visit provided an opportunity for the country to strengthen ties with this separate branch and take forward the conversations Indian Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu is having with this influential section in Washington. Linked to the vaccine production is another initiative that the Quad Summit decided — the US and Japan funding to build production capacity in India with Australia providing the logistics in reaching out the vaccines for countries in the Indo-Pacific. Concerns over vaccine nationalism and the World Health Organisation to work around it through its COVAX programme received a setback with India now unable to commit supplies after initial delivery. According to Congressman Khanna, some 82 per cent of high and upper-middle-income countries have been inoculated in the world as against a mere 0.3 per cent administered in low-income countries. “At this pace, more than 85 countries will not have widespread access to vaccines before 2023,” he said, advocating a strong American leadership across sectors. In the global fight against containing the pandemic, India enjoys a unique position as the pharmacy of the world but the country will have to work imaginatively on a steady set of policies to convert this aapada into avasar (crisis into opportunity). (KV Prasad is a New Delhi-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/s-jaishankar-should-clinch-a-lasting-agreement-with-the-us-to-battle-covid-19-990554.html
27-05-2021||Panorama||Russia raises heat on Twitter, Google in online crackdown||By Adam Satariano and Oleg Matsnev, Russia is increasingly pressuring Google, Twitter and Facebook to fall in line with Kremlin internet crackdown orders or risk restrictions inside the country, as more governments around the world challenge the companies’ principles on online freedom. Russia’s internet regulator, Roskomnadzor, recently ramped up its demands for the Silicon Valley companies to remove online content that it deems illegal or restore pro-Kremlin material that had been blocked. The warnings have come at least weekly since services from Facebook, Twitter and Google were used as tools for anti-Kremlin protests in January. If the companies do not comply, the regulator has said, they face fines or access to their products may be throttled. The latest clashes flared up this week when Roskomnadzor told Google on Monday to block thousands of unspecified pieces of illegal content or it would slow access to the company’s services. On Tuesday, a Russian court fined Google 6 million rubles, or about $81,000, for not taking down another piece of content. On Wednesday, the government ordered Facebook and Twitter to store all data on Russian users within the country by July 1 or face fines. In March, the authorities had made it harder for people to see and send posts on Twitter after the company did not take down content that the government considered illegal. Twitter has since removed roughly 6,000 posts to comply with the orders, according to Roskomnadzor. The regulator has threatened similar penalties against Facebook. Russia’s campaign is part of a wave of actions by governments worldwide to test how far they can go to censor the web to maintain power and stifle dissent. On Monday, the police visited Twitter’s offices in New Delhi in a show of force. No employees were present, but India’s governing party has become increasingly upset with the perception that Twitter has sided with its critics during the coronavirus pandemic. In Myanmar, Poland, Turkey and elsewhere, leaders are also tightening internet controls. In Belarus, President Aleksandr G Lukashenko this week signed a law banning live streams from unauthorised protests. “All of these policies will have the effect of creating a fractured internet, where people have different access to different content,” said Jillian York, an internet censorship expert with the Electronic Frontier Foundation in Berlin. The struggle over online speech in Russia has important ramifications because the internet companies have been seen as shields from government censors. The latest actions are a major shift in the country, where the internet, unlike television, had largely remained open despite President Vladimir V Putin’s tight grip on society. That has changed as Russians have increasingly used the online platforms to speak out against Putin and to organise and share information. Russian officials, taking a cue from China’s Great Firewall, have pledged to build a “sovereign internet,” a legal and technical system to block access to certain websites and fence off parts of the Russian internet from the rest of the world. “What is happening in Russia foreshadows an emerging global trend when censorship becomes but one tool in the ultimate battle for writing the rules that major tech platforms have to follow,” said Sergey Sanovich, a Princeton University researcher focused on internet censorship and social media governance. Roskomnadzor did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In an interview this week with Kommersant, a leading Russian newspaper, Andrey Lipov, the head of Roskomnadzor, said slowing down access to internet services was a way to force the companies to comply with Russian laws and takedown orders. Lipov said blocking their services altogether was not the goal. Google declined to discuss the situation in Russia and said it received government requests from around the world, which it discloses in its transparency reports. Facebook also would not discuss Russia but said it restricted content that violated local laws or its terms of service. “We always strive to preserve voice for the greatest number of people,” a spokeswoman said. Twitter said in a statement that it took down content flagged by the Russian authorities that violated its policies or local laws. “Access to a free and open internet is an essential right for all citizens,” Twitter said. “We remain deeply committed to offering a safe service to account holders around the world — including those in Russia.” Anastasiia Zlobina, a researcher for Human Rights Watch who focuses on Russian internet censorship, said the government crackdown threatened the future of American internet services in the country. A turning point, she said, was when YouTube, Facebook and Twitter were used during protests in support of the opposition leader Alexei A Navalny after his arrest in January. The demonstrations were the biggest shows of dissent against Putin in years. “This mobilization was happening online,” Zlobina said. The Russian government has portrayed the tech industry as part of a foreign campaign to meddle in domestic affairs. The authorities have accused the companies of blocking pro-Kremlin online accounts while boosting the opposition and said the platforms were also havens for child pornography and drug sales. Twitter became the first major test of Russia’s censorship technology in March when access to its service was slowed down, according to researchers at the University of Michigan. To resolve the conflict, a Twitter executive met at least twice with Russian officials, according to the company and Roskomnadzor. The government, which had threatened to ban Twitter entirely, said the company had eventually complied with 91% of its takedown requests. Other internet companies have also been affected. Last month, TikTok was fined 2.6 million rubles, or about $35,000, for not removing posts seen as encouraging minors to participate in illegal demonstrations. The fines are small, but larger penalties loom.  Perhaps the biggest target has been Google. YouTube has been a key outlet for government critics such as Navalny to share information and organise. Unlike Facebook and Twitter, Google has employees in Russia. (The company would not say how many.) In addition to this week’s warning, Russia has demanded that Google lift restrictions that limit the availability of some content from state media outlets like Sputnik and Russia Today outside Russia. Russia’s antitrust regulator is also investigating Google over YouTube’s policies for blocking videos. Google is trying to use the courts to fight some actions by the Russian government. Last month, it sued Roskomnadzor to fight an order to remove 12 YouTube videos related to opposition protests. In another case, the company appealed a ruling ordering YouTube to reinstate videos from Tsargrad, a nationalist online TV channel, which Google had taken down over what it said were violations of American sanctions. Joanna Szymanska, a senior program officer for Article 19, an internet freedom group, said Google’s recent lawsuit to fight the YouTube takedown orders would influence what other countries do in the future, even if the company was likely to lose in court. Szymanska, who is based in Poland, called on the tech companies to be more transparent about what content they were being asked to delete and what orders they were complying with. “The Russian example will be used elsewhere if it works well,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/russia-raises-heat-on-twitter-google-in-online-crackdown-990484.html
27-05-2021||Panorama||Covid-19: In Gujarat, courts had to direct a clueless CM at every step||At the peak of the global pandemic last year, it took the Gujarat High Court's adverse remarks and several reprimands to see the chief minister, health minister and bureaucrats, who were missing in action, get their acts together in checking the spread of Covid-19. On almost every issue— from the plight of migrant workers to patients pleading for beds to the need to create urgent medical infrastructure, it was the judiciary that forced the Vijay Rupani government to take immediate measures to help citizens and even stepped in to alter policies that put the lives of citizens in danger. Some of these policies, struck down by the court, were on admitting patients only through 108 ambulances, making Aadhaar mandatory for admissions and allocation of medicines and oxygen, and on restrictions on large gatherings. As the second wave of the pandemic hit the state, the Vijay Rupani-led BJP government fumbled yet again, leaving the space for the judiciary to step in and "guide" it. Unlike last year, the situation this time around was worse, with patients queuing up outside hospitals for admission, struggling to secure beds, scrambling for oxygen, ambulances, antiviral drugs such as Remdesivir, and so on. Like elsewhere in the country, the chaos compelled the judiciary to take up a public interest litigation suo motu and directing the government through the crisis while seeking details of each and every action the government took or was lacking in. With the opposition Congress barely able to expose the failures of the ruling party, it was only in court that the government was forced to reveal details that routinely hit the headlines, such as its repeated pleading with the Centre to increase oxygen supply and life-saving drugs. However, Rupani was quick to respond and counter his own government's affidavits on oath to say that the Centre was taking care of Gujarat in every manner possible. The Rupani government was accused of hiding information regarding the spread of the pandemic and its casualties. Gujarati newspapers flashed reports of huge underreporting of deaths and virus spread. The division bench led by Chief Justice Vikram Nath questioned the authenticity of the government's statistics and even asked the state to "admit" if there were shortages and failures. The court questioned the details the government provided on oath in its affidavits and went on to say that the state was only trying to create a "rosy picture" devoid of the ground realities. The bench even remarked that the government won't gain anything by hiding the real picture. It said, "Suppression and concealment of accurate data would generate more serious problems, including fear, loss of trust, panic amongst public at large..." The government flatly denied any wrongdoing. The government followed the High Court's directions in handling the pandemic and in making most of the crucial decisions that it should have made on its own. "It seemed as if the judiciary was doing the work of the executive and legislature. It's not that such things have never happened in the past, but it is bad for democracy in the long run," said a former IAS officer, requesting not to be quoted. The former official, who retired as an Additional Chief Secretary, added, "A state needs an independent leader who is taken seriously by everyone, especially by the bureaucrats. I don't want to lower anyone's image, but it's a fact that the state, home to incumbent prime minister (Narendra Modi) and union home minister (Amit Shah), who have ruled it for over 12 years, is not being run by state leaders. A leader has to be independent and shouldn’t have to look to Delhi for every decision concerning the state. Gujarat lacks in this regard." In fact, since the pandemic broke out last year, the Rupani government has followed the guidelines issued by the Centre quite literally. There hasn't been any change or modification to suit the local demands or requirements. "We have followed every guideline of the central government, right from the beginning," confirms a senior IAS officer, part of the core group of the team handling the crisis.  "The present chief minister has inherited an idea that big announcements and propaganda are substitutes for governance. You start with this thinking, spend little on micro-planning, or taking stock of what is available. You need micro-planning and guts. For example, look at what happened when the Surat plague broke out in 1994. The then city commissioner turned the city from the dirtiest to the cleanest with planning and guts. The Surat success showed that culture could be changed," said retired professor Ghanshyam Shah. He added that it's not a good sign to see the judiciary directing the government to do things that are not under its purview, and such a trend is terrible for democracy. As a matter of fact, according to officials, Anandiben Patel, who inherited the reins of the state from Narendra Modi in 2014, was considered an "independent leader" who could shake up things, including the bureaucrats on her own. She was replaced by Rupani, a low-profile leader from Rajkot who, as opposition Congress alleges, is "remotely controlled" from Delhi. "The government has failed miserably in protecting the lives of citizens. The chief minister was busy making tall claims of drugs being imported from abroad, drugs being kept in reserve and what not, while people were dying for want of bed, medical attention, oxygen and drugs. The government's real face was unmasked. They were inaugurating hospitals with big photos of their supreme leaders while patients kept dying outside the hospitals as they were not allowed to enter. It was such a sad scene," said senior journalist Hari Desai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-in-gujarat-courts-had-to-direct-a-clueless-cm-at-every-step-990488.html
27-05-2021||Panorama||Global temperatures could rise by 1.5 degrees Celsius within 5 years||By Laura Millan Lombrana, There’s about a 40% chance that the global average temperature for at least one of the next five years will be 1.5º Celsius higher than in pre-industrial times— and the odds are only going up.  That level of temperature increase would most likely be temporary, according to an annual climate update led by the UK Met Office and published by the World Meteorological Organisation. But the figure is significant because most global leaders committed to taking actions that would limit global warming to 1.5ºC and well below 2ºC by the end of the century when they signed the Paris Agreement in 2015.  “We are getting measurably and inexorably closer to the lower target of the Paris Agreement on climate change,” WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas said in a statement. “It is yet another wake-up call that the world needs to fast-track commitments to slash greenhouse gas emissions and achieve carbon neutrality.” Last year tied with 2016 for the warmest on record, with temperatures 1.2°C above pre-industrial times. The past seven years have been the warmest seven ever recorded, a sign that climate change is accelerating. Man-made global warming is manifesting itself in phenomena such as rising sea levels, melting sea ice, and extreme weather events.  While a year with average temperatures 1.5°C warmer than pre-industrial times is likely to be a one-off, that doesn’t mean the next half-decade will come in below recent records either. Average temperatures are likely to be at least 1°C warmer in each of the coming five years, with the WMO estimating they’ll be between 0.9°C and 1.8°C.  There’s a 90% likelihood that at least one year between 2021 and 2025 will become the warmest on record, dislodging 2016 from the top slot.  “These are more than just statistics,” Taalas said. Increasing temperatures mean “greater impacts on food security, health, the environment and sustainable development.” The next five years will likely bring more tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean and more rain in high latitudes and the Sahel region of central Africa, compared to the average between 1981 and 2010. This year, southwestern North America will likely be drier than in the past, while the Sahel and Australia are likely to be wetter.  National commitments to cut greenhouse gas emissions currently fall far short of what’s needed to fulfil the Paris Agreement, according to a United Nations analysis released earlier this year. Global leaders are expected to present more ambitious climate goals ahead of the UN-sponsored COP26 climate talks, due to be held in Glasgow in November. Pressure from the public as well as international competition has generated momentum on the policy front in recent months, although significant issues remain unresolved, including the creation of an international carbon market that would put a price on emissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/global-temperatures-could-rise-by-15-degrees-celsius-within-5-years-990862.html
27-05-2021||Panorama||Vaccines and the coming third Covid-19 wave||If you trace the history of pandemics, their natural course tends to have three waves. During the first wave, the aged and those with weak immune systems (immune-compromised individuals) are the worst hit; in them, the virus learns to circumvent the human body’s immunity. The young and those with strong immune systems— the immune-uncompromised subset of the population— remain mostly asymptomatic or show mild symptoms, thus becoming the main, yet unnoticeable, spreaders of the virus. In the absence of severe disease, the younger population mounts only a sub-optimal (i.e., incomplete) immune defence against the virus. On a community level, this creates only a ‘sub-optimal immune pressure’, which facilitates the selective propagation of viral mutants that have acquired increased infectivity to circumvent and escape the immune lines of defence. Several such mutants of the Covid-19 virus have already been reported. Let’s call these ‘escape mutants.’ The aged and immune-compromised individuals who recover from Covid-19 disease develop natural antibodies and a memory-based immune response which protects them against disease in the second wave of the pandemic. However, due to the incomplete defence elicited in the first wave among the younger and immune-uncompromised subset of the population, this subset succumbs to disease in the second wave, which is what we are seeing currently. Come the third wave, the natural antibodies gained through recovery in the first wave among the aged and immune-compromised individuals will have waned or started to wane. Their capacity to recall immune memory is slower. Therefore, the balance will tilt once again to cause greater rates of infection in them. At this point, however, by virtue of having gained a robust memory-based immunity (during the second wave) which they can recall quickly, the younger and immune-uncompromised individuals will create an optimal immune pressure, popularly termed ‘natural herd immunity’, to stop further transmission of the viral mutants. This, however, occurs in the absence of human interventions such as mass vaccination. Mass vaccination campaigns disrupt the natural course of the pandemic and make it less predictable. Uneven and slow-paced mass vaccination perpetuates 'sub-optimal pressure' at the community level, which allows repeated exposure of the virus to vaccinal antibodies, allowing it to evolve vaccine-resistant mutants. This may pave the way for a fourth wave in which the vaccinated subset of the population will be the asymptomatic spreaders of the virus while unvaccinated individuals may succumb to severe disease; and potentially a fifth wave in which even the vaccinated population is affected by the vaccine-resistant mutants.  However, I’m not here making a case for allowing the pandemic to run a natural course. That is not an option for modern democratic governments faced with millions of infected people, healthcare systems and hospitals crumbling, and hundreds of thousands of deaths. Nor can we now allow viral mutants from other countries that have mass-vaccinated to make their way into India. Our best bet to break this cycle of pandemic waves therefore is to expedite universal vaccine coverage with the ‘best’ vaccines available.  Currently, a milieu of prophylactic (i.e., preventive) vaccines are being administered globally (including Covishield, Sputnik V, Moderna’s mRNA-1273 vaccine, Pfizer-BioNTech’s Comirnaty, and the soon-to-come ZyCoV-D of Zydus Cadilla), which are all ‘spike protein-based vaccines’— while they differ in the technology of vaccine development and delivery, all of them uniformly introduce into the human body and elicit immunity only against a protein sub-unit (i.e., the spike protein) of the coronavirus, as opposed to helping develop immunity against the whole virus. So, as the virus introduces mutations in its spike proteins, the efficacy of these vaccines to protect against disease will begin to diminish. The Oxford Covid-19 Vaccine Trial Group has already published evidence-based studies that reveal the reduced effectiveness of Covishield against viral strains with mutated spike proteins. Similar studies have demonstrated the reduced effectiveness of Sputnik V, too, against mutants. The reduced effectiveness is likely because the vaccinal antibodies bind to the mutated spike protein with reduced or poor capacity to neutralise the mutant. It is suspected that the overwhelming presence of the vaccinal spike protein-specific antibodies may also out-compete the natural antibodies of our immune system from binding to the viral mutant, thereby lowering our natural defence mechanisms. In-depth studies are required to address such concerns. What’s noteworthy, however, is a 2015 study by Andrew Read, et al., in animal models that showed that ineffective (or ‘leaky’) vaccines can facilitate the evolution of mutants that put unvaccinated populations at greater risk of severe disease. While Moderna and Pfizer vaccines have proven effective against the current spontaneously occurring ‘escape mutants’, they will lose their ability to provide immunity against the vaccine-resistant mutants that would emerge in the near future. In countries like the UK and Israel, mass vaccination with spike protein-based vaccines has ushered in a ‘transient herd immunity.’ While the severity of the disease is temporarily addressed, the transmission of the virus is not halted – the repeated exposure of the virus to the overwhelming presence of spike protein-specific antibodies in the vaccinated population facilitates the propagation of vaccine-resistant mutants which, in time, could become fully resistant to these vaccines. The transient herd immunity will shatter.  In a populous country like India, as a slow-paced vaccination occurs in the backdrop of high infection rates and severe disease, the transmission of the virus is accelerated. This accelerated viral transmission in a population that offers an inadequate immune-pressure, may in turn accelerate the emergence and propagation of vaccine-resistant viral mutants. It’s time, therefore, to shed our myopic view, and adopt a vaccination policy that is beneficial not just to the individual but to the population as a whole. The best vaccines are those that mount immunity closely similar to the one our body naturally acquires, and mimic a natural setting required to shift the balance toward acquiring herd immunity. The most effective in this regard is a live attenuated vaccine, i.e., vaccines that administer weakened strains of the disease-causing virus. These come with the danger of causing infections/disease to varying extent in individuals given such a vaccine. An example is the potential vaccine candidate under evaluation in animal models at Japan’s Osaka University. Such vaccines are currently unavailable in the market. They are, in any case, not suitable for the Indian context of paucity of healthcare services and administrative chaos. The next best option is the inactivated whole virion vaccine, i.e., a vaccine that administers ‘dead’ virus that cannot cause disease or transmit it but allows the immune system to develop holistic immunity against the entire virus, not just its spike protein or parts of it. Such a vaccine is available in India – Covaxin. While initially shrouded in controversies, the emerging data on this vaccine looks promising. Studies have proven its effectiveness against emerging mutants. Unlike sub-unit vaccines that only tend to clear the viral load in the respiratory system, the inactivated whole virion vaccine additionally clears the viral load from extrapulmonary organs such as the gastrointestinal tract, urinary bladder and skin. Though live-attenuated and inactivated whole virion vaccines too are prophylactic in nature and their efficacy in individuals slightly lower than that of spike protein-based vaccines, they elicit a holistic immune response that does not create any selective immune-pressure (as in the case of spike protein-based vaccines) that favours viral mutation, and therefore they will not become ineffective in time. In other words, while spike protein-based vaccines protect individuals well – and therefore individuals should not hesitate to get vaccinated with these -- whole virion vaccines protect both the individual and benefit the wider population by slowing down mutation and transmission of the virus. And that’s a consideration for policymakers at the highest levels to ponder over and act on.   So, here is what the government and our vaccine-makers should do to brace ourselves for a third wave: 1. First, publish the results of the Phase III trial on Covaxin/other vaccines based on similar technology at the earliest and clear up doubts and controversies. Obtain WHO approval for Covaxin speedily. Building trust is essential. 2. Ramp up manufacturing capacity of vaccines, especially of inactivated whole virion vaccines. 3. Revise vaccine procurement and distribution process to ensure equitable access and vaccination for all. Uneven vaccination allows the virus to evolve increasingly potent mutants. 4. Conduct a well-designed study on the safety and efficacy of administering a booster shot of an inactivated whole virion vaccine following an earlier immunisation with spike protein-based vaccines. 5. Focus research efforts on developing therapeutic vaccines that can fight/cure disease in hospitalised patients, alongside improving the window of protection offered by prophylactic vaccines. (The writer is an independent researcher and former senior science adviser to the UK government)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/vaccines-and-the-coming-third-covid-19-wave-990864.html
27-05-2021||Panorama||Rebooting urban governance for sustainable development||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday extended the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions till June 15, saying that the curbs have helped ease the pandemic situation. The West Bengal government had announced the existing restrictions for 15 days from May 16 following a huge surge in the number of coronavirus cases. The announcement for extension of the curbs came three days before they were scheduled to come to an end. "The Covid-19 restrictions in the state will continue till June 15. This is not a lockdown or a curfew. We will strictly follow the restrictions. "It's a relief to see that the ongoing restrictions have helped in easing the situation a little," Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat 'Nabanna'. Essential services will continue operating following protocols, the chief minister said adding that all the ongoing restrictions would continue till June 15. "We will see that the state's economy is not disturbed," Banerjee said. She allowed the jute industry to work with a 40 per cent workforce in place of the existing 30 per cent following rising demand for jute bags from Punjab. Banerjee also said that work in the construction sector could be allowed provided labourers are vaccinated by companies for whom they work. "Construction companies must arrange for inoculation of labourers to carry out works," she said. Cities and towns of Karnataka are being governed currently through Karnataka Municipal Corporations (KMC) Act, 1976, Karnataka Municipalities (KM) Act, 1964, and the BBMP Act, 2020. A careful study of these legislations reveals that these are outdated and inadequate, with disjointed operational clauses, thereby necessitating a new set of laws fully compliant with the constitutional mandate in order to meet the aspirations of the people for good governance. As a result, there is a strong need for a new, separate and customised law to govern the metropolitan city of Bengaluru, perhaps to be called the New Bengaluru Governance (NBG) Bill, 2021, and a common law to govern all the remaining municipalities in the state, perhaps called the Karnataka Municipalities Governance (KMG) Bill, 2021. Apart from this, the framework of town-planning legislation in Karnataka under the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (KTCP) Act, 1961, along with Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) Act, 1976, Bengaluru Metropolitan Region Development Authority (BMRDA) Act, 1985, and the Karnataka Urban Development Authorities (KUDA) Act, 1987, are also outdated and need to be remodelled in the form of a unified legislation. This can be called the Karnataka Town and Country (Planning and Development) Bill to facilitate rebooting urban planning governance in the state, also to be fully compliant to the constitutional mandate. The NBG Bill, 2021, envisages facilitating better governance of the Bengaluru Metropolitan City through BBMP both at the municipal and metropolitan levels as a whole with the objective of bringing out both systematic and structural or constitutional reforms comprehensively. As part of structural reforms, the NBG Bill contemplates a new set of municipal authorities for BBMP— the BBMP Council, Mayoral Executive Committee, Subject Standing Committees and Zonal Standing Committees—endowed with powers and responsibilities mandated under Article 243-W of the Constitution. BBMP will have ward committees for a group of adjacent wards for the purposes envisaged under Article 243-S of the Constitution. The NBG Bill is being visualised with detailed provisions for metropolitan governance for the preparation of draft development plans by the Greater Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee (GBMPC) mandated under Article 243-ZE of the Constitution and their enforcement for compliance by all the constituent bodies of GBMPC. GBMPC will have a strong technical secretariat called the Bengaluru Metropolitan Region Authority (BMRA) substituting BMRDA. The KMG Bill, 2021 aims to incorporate all improvisations as envisaged in the NBG Bill for graded and customised application to all classes of municipalities in the state excluding BBMP, with a corresponding set of structural and systemic reforms to enable them to function efficiently as institutions of self-government as per the constitutional mandate. The KMG Bill makes it obligatory for all municipalities and panchayats in a district to participate in the consolidation of District Development Plan by the District Planning Committees to fulfil the mandate of Article 243-ZD of the Constitution. Alternatively, the state government may opt for adopting a unified municipal law containing all structural and systemic reforms applicable to all the municipalities including BBMP for reasons of brevity and non-repetitive operational clauses. The KTC (P & D) Bill, 2021, aims to provide for the promotion of planned development and regulation of growth in urban and rural areas with a focus on scientific spatial planning on a digital platform, which is expected to act as an impetus to sustainable development and thereby enhance the living conditions of people by improving governance standards. Articles 243-ZE and 243-ZD of the Constitution make it imperative for the state legislature to mandate preparation of draft Metropolitan Development Plan through the GBMPC and the draft District Development Plans through District Planning Committees (DPCs), which define the future urban governance profile and legislative framework for the next few decades. The KTC (P & D) Bill involves merger of the BMLTA Act contemplated by the government with suitable improvements to it in order to create The Bangalore Metropolitan Land Transport Authority (BMLTA) as a statutory body responsible for the preparation of Comprehensive Traffic and Transportation Plan (CTTP) for the GBMA as a component of draft Metropolitan Development Plan. The CTTP involves infrastructure investment provisioning for traffic and transportation and a mechanism for enforcing them with an aim to secure sustainable mobility solutions to the cities and towns. Rebooting urban governance by enacting the above new set of urban legislations is the need of the hour in order to fulfil the long-standing aspirations of the people of the state for improved living conditions with sustainable development. This objective cannot be achieved by resorting to patchwork of amending the laws disjointedly and on adhoc basis as is being done in the past several decades. The above three proposed laws envisage to develop a framework for formulating urban development plans on the basis of present and past conditions and of anticipated future requirements of cities and towns for the next few decades. The government may consider seizing this opportunity as an advantage by enacting these legislations simultaneously during this year itself so that the rebooted urban governance becomes a reality for the economic good of the state and larger public interest soon. For ensuring quick enforceability, an entire library of sub-ordinate legislations along with timelines for various statutory activities by the respective functional bodies has to be embodied in these laws. (The writers are directors of the Centre for Urban Governance Studies & Policy Research, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/rebooting-urban-governance-for-sustainable-development-990871.html
27-05-2021||Right in the Middle||The adventurous Persian cat||I was under the impression that Persian cats were decorative bits of fluff who only slept, ate and looked cute. But when Floofy, my son's cat, joined our family, I realised that Persians are real cats with all the feline attitude and temperaments. A fearsome predator, she is our dragon slayer. No household gecko is safe in her presence. We never let her out of our country house mainly because the dogs are a menace in our backyard. Poor Floofy has to be satisfied watching the world through the windows. Whenever a door or a window is accidentally left open, she slips out and her parents (my son and daughter-in-law) manage to get her back. One day, she went out after it was dark. She could not be found anywhere. Ultimately it was decided that she would come back on her own and we went to bed, keeping the back door open for her. We had a restless night. The barking of dogs made us imagine her being attacked and sounds of cats fighting had us rushing to the window to see if some strange cat had cornered Floofy. The next morning, she still hadn't come home. Her parents systematically went to all the nearby houses asking if they had seen the cat. Nobody had. One old crone had a disturbing tale to tell of a python. It seems a python was often sighted near their house and they had lost a chicken and a cat to it. The day went by miserably. Floofy's dad went off his food. He refused lunch and evening tea. A pall of gloom descended on the household. In the evening, another search brought no news. Phone numbers were exchanged with neighbours so that they could inform us if they saw or heard anything. Dinner was a solemn affair. Again we left the back door open for Floofy before going to bed. All night I dreamt about pythons and cats and was glad when it was morning. Two nights and a day had gone by. How could our pampered Persian survive without food and water? Hope was thinning and I began to brace myself to accept that we would never see Floofy again. Then I suddenly heard my husband shouting in the garden, "Hey, the cat is back" Dirty and covered with dried leaves and twigs, our adventurous Persian had walked in calmly through the garden gate. Never have I felt so happy and relieved! "She's back! She's back! Oh, glorious day!" I WhatsApped my sister. The clouds were dispersed, the sun shone through and my son smiled again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-adventurous-persian-cat-990480.html
27-05-2021||Right in the Middle||Walking in the park amid Covid-19||The local park is a vibrant place in the morning, in spite of the coronavirus scare. ‘Maintain social distancing,’ a board at the entrance gently reminds the walkers patronising the park. A more apt command would seem to be ‘let’s come closer.’ The fact is, one can hardly walk peacefully, let alone meditate, in a world of crowds. While a sizeable number throng the park on their doctors’ orders, there are those who come just to soak up vitamin D from the sun—for free. If only they could take away a bucket full of sunshine. The park starts humming with activity as soon as the gates open and the early birds troop in. Soon, one can hardly stick to the pathway without bumping into a shoulder or two. At times a walker comes down so fast that one has to step away from the pathway— or else get bumped off. Discretion is the better part of valour and so one yields readily to the rampaging bull. The day may not be far off when one will leave the park not invigorated but battered and bruised. What’s the true intention of walkers coming to the park? It’s not for their health or for the sunlight. It’s gossip. So loud is their yapping that it puts the sweet tweeting of many a cuckoo in the trees in the shade. Some walkers are so deceived by the innocuous-looking park that they decide to give it a go-bye and explore the nearby bylanes instead. Recently, when I was advised by the doctors to go for walks, the responsibility of escorting me fell on a friend of mine. I followed him like a lamb to be slaughtered. No sooner did we enter the park than my friend grabbed hold of a pole and started to demonstrate a few exercises. A gentleman tried to warn us that the electric pole may be charged due to leakage. My friend became so charged himself that he retorted with a snap, “what’s that to you? Is this your father’s property?” The well-intentioned Samaritan quickly turned around and fled. I too quietly quit the ugly scene.  I kept my fingers crossed as we approached the gymming area. As luck would have it, the wanted equipment was down too, out of order for ‘technical’ reasons. I waited for him to explode. But he was cool as a cucumber. He smiled at the security guard and said, “you should have a board here reading: ‘Covid-19 at play. Journey guaranteed without delay.’” A morbid observation on ‘co-morbidity’ I quickly shed my friend’s observation and fled home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/walking-in-the-park-amid-covid-19-990857.html
27-05-2021||Second Edit||Whatever happened to human rights?||The plight of Father Stan Swamy, the 84-year-old Jesuit priest who has been in jail since October last, reflects the callousness and insensitivity of the State and the inability of the system to come to his aid at a time of extreme distress. The ailing tribal rights activist has been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for various crimes. He was denied bail by the special court hearing National Investigation Agency (NIA) cases in March on the ground that the material placed on record prima facie indicated that he was carrying out activities to “overthrow the democracy of the nation” and that the “collective interest of community outweighed the right of personal liberty of Stan Swamy.” Last week, the Bombay High Court was again petitioned for interim bail on health grounds. The court suggested that he may be shifted to a government hospital, but he did not want to go there as the hospital lacked facilities.  Swamy suffers from Parkinson’s disease and other ailments. He cannot hold a glass in his hand, finds it difficult to eat himself, write, take a bath or walk, and needs help for all these. He says he would “rather suffer, possibly die very shortly if this were to go on.” If a prisoner in such a condition cannot get the treatment and care that he needs and wants, how can our society be called civilised? It is not only Stan Swamy who is denied basic health facilities in prisons. His co-accused Hany Babu, a Delhi University professor, got treatment for his serious infections very late and only after much pressure. Journalist Siddique Kappan, who is also held under the UAPA, had to struggle to get medical treatment and there are still complaints about that.   Swamy and 15 others are languishing in jail as accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Charged under the UAPA, it is almost impossible for them to get bail. The charges against them are, attempt to destabilise the government and a plot to assassinate the Prime Minister. Even at a preliminary glance, there are serious infirmities in the cases. One of the accused, Rona Wilson, has sought to produce proof that shows that evidence was planted in his laptop to incriminate him. But it is certain that all of them will have to spend years in jail before their cases are decided. If they are found innocent, as they claim, and as the record of convictions in such cases shows, who will be responsible for depriving them of their freedom for long years and for the ill-treatment? Some of them may not even survive jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/whatever-happened-to-human-rights-990486.html
27-05-2021||Second Edit||Nepal’s President has worsened its crises||Nepal’s Constitution has been dealt yet another blow with President Bidhya Devi Bhandari dissolving the country’s lower house of parliament last week. This is the second time in less than six months that she has dissolved parliament on the recommendation of Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli. Her decision in December to dissolve the lower house was struck down by the Supreme Court in February. The apex court declared her decision unconstitutional and reinstated parliament. One would have thought that after the Supreme Court’s decision, she would exercise more caution and stay clear of making decisions that violated the country’s Constitution. As recent events indicate, she seems to have paid little heed to the principles and procedures laid down by the Constitution. When Oli lost the trust vote in parliament on May 10, President Bhandari gave the opposition parties very little time to build a majority to form an alternative government. Instead of exhausting the constitutional option of allowing Nepali Congress leader Sher Bahadur Deuba to test his majority on the floor of parliament, she deemed that the NC-led claim to form the government did not have adequate support and reappointed Oli as Prime Minister on May 13, although he too did not have a majority and had lost a trust vote just days earlier. Bhandari then swiftly dissolved parliament to leave him as caretaker till elections. This is what Oli had wanted all along and Bhandari has played along with his script. Bhandari has severely undermined the respect and stature of the presidency by acting as a facilitator of Oli’s ambitions rather than keeping in check his repeated assaults on the Constitution. Not surprisingly, the opposition and Nepal’s civil society have questioned the neutrality of their President. They have also challenged her decision in the apex court. Will Nepal’s Supreme Court reiterate the order it issued in February or will its judges succumb to pressure from the Oli-Bhandari combine? What the court decides will be crucial for the survival of Nepal’s fragile democracy. Fresh elections, slated for November, are unwise at this point. Among other problems, Nepal is in the midst of a sharp surge in Covid-19 infections and the pandemic is unlikely to have subsided by November. The country recorded a 668% increase in new infections between mid-April and May and its health infrastructure is woefully inadequate. Instead of acting to prepare for the pandemic, politicians have been busy conspiring against each other in pursuit of power. Nepal’s political class has displayed a shocking level of indifference to the plight of its people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/nepal-s-president-has-worsened-its-crises-990867.html
27-05-2021||South||Tamil Nadu appoints special officers to monitor desilting work in Cauvery Delta||With farmers hoping that sluices of the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur will be opened for the cultivation of kuruvai (short-term) crop on June 12 for the second consecutive year, the Tamil Nadu government has named senior officers to monitor desilting work in the fertile Cauvery Delta region. Water from the 88-year-old reservoir in Mettur in Salem district is usually opened on June 12, the date was set keeping in mind the arrival of monsoon in Karnataka. However, the non-release of water from Karnataka dams on time prevented the state government from opening the dam on the designated date from 2012 to 2019. In 2020, the gates were thrown open in June for the first time since 2011. With the water level at over 90 feet, farmers are expecting that the gates of the dam will be opened on June 12 so that they can go for the cultivation of the short-term crop. The farmers placed their demand before Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan at a consultative meeting held last week. In an order, chief secretary V Irai Anbu said the desilting work in eight districts – Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Pudukkottai, Tiruchirapalli, Karur, and Ariyalur – will be carried out at a cost of Rs 65 crore. The desilting of tanks and other water bodies is carried out before the water is released from the Mettur dam. The order said IAS officers Pradeep Yadav, K Gopal, Apoorva, and R Kirlosh Kumar will oversee desilting works in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, and Mayiladuthurai districts respectively. Ramesh Chand Meena, C Vijayaraj Kumar, Shambhu Kallolikar, and Reeta Harish Thakar will continue to oversee the work in Ariyalur, Karur, Pudukkottai, and Tiruchirappalli. The Cauvery Delta, used to a three-crop formula --- samba, kuruvai and thaladi --- had come down to just one crop a year. Till about a decade ago, cultivation would take place in three seasons --- kuruvai from June to September, samba (long-term crop) from August to January, and thaladi from January to May --- keeping the farmer busy for the whole year. While the first two seasons primarily cultivated paddy, the farmers utilised the third season to cultivate pulses for centuries together with the progressive farming community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-appoints-special-officers-to-monitor-desilting-work-in-cauvery-delta-990445.html
27-05-2021||South||Priests pray to 'Corona Devi' for mercy from pandemic||Hindu priests at a temple are saying daily prayers to two coronavirus goddesses in an effort to tame the pandemic as the country battles a new infection surge. Two "Corona Devi" idols have been set up in the southern city of Coimbatore, badly hit in an outbreak that has killed 100,000 people nationwide in the past four weeks. The Kamatchipuri Adhinam temple is closed to worshippers because of the city's high infection rates but priests are paying tribute in front of the goddesses, one made of sandalwood and the other from stone. They leave food and other offerings, chant prayers urging an end to the pandemic and bathe the idols in turmeric water and milk. "We have had similar temples for smallpox, chicken pox and plague in the past," said temple manager Anandbharathi K. "We are worshipping the virus in the form of a Goddess and praying to her every day to reduce the impacts of this disease," he added. While case numbers are easing in much of India, the country of 1.3 billion people has been shocked by the severity of the latest wave of the pandemic, which overwhelmed hospitals and led to critical shortages of oxygen and medicines. "Even doctors are unable to deal with the enormity of the situation. So, we turn to faith and God as a last resort," Anandbharathi said. The priests plan to continue their prayers to the "Corona Devi" idols for another seven weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/priests-pray-to-corona-devi-for-mercy-from-pandemic-990528.html
27-05-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh: After intermediate exams, Jagan government now defers Class 10 exams||After the intermediate exams, the Andhra Pradesh government has now decided to postpone the Class 10 final exams. The SSC board exams were scheduled to be held from 7 to 14 June. Officials said that a further decision on the school-end exams would be made after a review in July. The decision was communicated to the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Thursday, which is reviewing petitions seeking cancellation of the exams because of the alarming Covid-19 situation in the state. The AP health department reported 16,167 new cases on Thursday morning, out of 84,224 samples tested. The death toll in the last 24 hours stands at 104. The state currently has over 1.86 lakh active cases. Though the CBSE and other states, like Telangana, have canceled the 10th standard exams this academic year because of the second Covid-19 wave, the YSRCP government insisted on conducting the exams. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy had stated his decision as “for the benefit of students, for them to get seats in good colleges.” Reddy's administration had also planned to conduct the intermediate (+2) exams from May 5 but on May 2 decided to postpone them, as Covid-19 cases in the state rose sharply. The government had then stated that the intermediate exams were deferred after considering the High Court's recommendations and the Covid-19 case spike. The court had earlier asked the state to reconsider its decision to go ahead with the 10th and intermediate examinations amid the Covid-19 second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-after-intermediate-exams-jagan-government-now-defers-class-10-exams-990637.html
27-05-2021||South||Recall Lakshadweep administrator: Tamil Nadu CM Stalin tells PM Modi||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Thursday demanded that the Union Government recall Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel for imposing “anti-people” legislations in the tiny Union Territory. In a post on his verified Twitter page, Stalin accused Patel of forcibly bringing in “anti-people" regulations to "alienate Muslims" living there is causing anguish. Muslims form majority of the population in the tiny UT. “The Prime Minister's Office should intervene in the matter and relieve him of the post. Our country's strength is pluralism,” Stalin wrote. MDMK chief Vaiko, and actor-politician Kamal Haasan also condemned Patel's actions in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/recall-lakshadweep-administrator-tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-tells-pm-modi-990667.html
27-05-2021||South||ED files charge sheet in 2015 Telangana cash-for-vote scam case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet against Telangana Congress MP A Revanth Reddy, TRS MLA Venkata Veeraiah and a few others in connection with its money laundering probe into the alleged 2015 cash-for-vote scam. The central probe agency said in a statement that a prosecution complaint (charge sheet) has been filed before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Hyderabad's Nampally. It said the complaint has been filed against Congress MP from Malkajgiri Anumula Revanth Reddy, MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah representing the Sathupally constituency, Bishop Harry Sebastian, Rudra Sivakumar Uday Simha, Mathaiah Jerusalem and Vem Krishna Keerthan in the cash-for-vote scam. Reddy and Veeraiah were earlier in the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) but now the former is in the Congress party while the latter has crossed over to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). The agency claimed its probe has established that the accused "committed the scheduled offence as well as the offence of money laundering by dealing with the bribe money which is nothing but proceeds of crime as per the PMLA." "Thus, the ED has filed a prosecution complaint against the above named accused persons with a prayer to hold a trial for the offence of money laundering," it said. The case dates back to 2015 when the state anti-corruption bureau "conducted trap proceedings while making a bribe payment of Rs 50 lakh in cash to Elvis Stephenson (a nominated MLA representing the Anglo-Indian community in the Telangana Assembly) to lure him to either abstain from voting or cast his franchise in favour of TDP candidate Vem Narendra Reddy in the MLC election, which was to be held on June 1, 2015." The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had arrested the accused during their trap proceedings and filed a charge sheet after investigation, the ED said. The agency said it recorded statements of the accused and witnesses during the course of its probe and that included versions of A Revanth Reddy, Harry Sebastian, Rudra Uday Simha who were "involved in the actual handing over of the bribe amount of Rs 50 lakh to MLA Elvis Stephenson." "They were also confronted with the available audio-visual recordings of the encounters. ED investigation has established that Anumula Revanth Reddy, Sandra Venkata Veeraiah and others had conspired to bribe Elvis Stephenson for securing his vote in favour of Vem Narender Reddy." "In pursuance of their conspiracy, the accused had contacted Elvis Stephenson and offered him a bribe of Rs 5 crore. Elvis Stephenson made a complaint to the ACB police and a trap was laid and his encounters with the accused were secretly audio-video recorded," the ED said.  The accused met the complainant at his house on May 30, 2015, and made the bribe offer, the probe agency claimed. The next day, when A Revanth Reddy, R Harry Sebastian and Rudra Uday Simha came to the house of Malcolm Taylor, a friend of Elvis Stephenson, to hand over the advance bribe amount of Rs 50 lakh in cash, they were trapped by the ACB police and taken into custody along with the seized cash amount. "The cash was handed over to the accused by Vem Krishna Keerthan, the son of Vem Narendra Reddy, to help his father in the election," it said in the statement. The Enforcement Directorate had earlier attached the alleged Rs 50 lakh bribe cash under the PMLA provisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-files-charge-sheet-in-2015-telangana-cash-for-vote-scam-case-990702.html
27-05-2021||South||Lakshadweep administration defends controversial orders||As protest against the Lakshadweep administration's decisions keep on mounting, the administration on Thursday came up with a defence saying that vested interest groups and those involved in criminal cases were unleashing a false campaign against the administration. Lakshadweep collector S Asker Ali said that the recent decision of the Praful K Patel-led administration was aimed at giving a direction and momentum to the development that was lagging in the island. The island is being developed holistically, he said at a press conference in Kochi in Kerala. Meanwhile, the resentment among the people was brewing further as the administration continued to introduce fresh directives like imposing restriction on evacuating patients from the island. An all party meeting rejected the justifications of the administration and decided to strengthen the stir. BJP local leaders may also back the protest. Justifying the decision to bring in Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, Ali said that illegal smuggling of weapons and drugs were increasing in the island. But when journalists pointed out the low crime rate in the island as per NCRB reports, he said that the island was so far more or less peaceful, but was witnessing increasing smuggling activities and hence, preventive measures were being initiated as part of the "holistic development" being planned as to save the youths. He said that the Covid SOP was revised as per centre's guidelines and the intention was to revive the island's economy. The health infrastructure of the island was being developed by constructing three hospitals.    He also said that only illegal encroachments in the island were being evicted, and chicken and beef were removed from school diet in order to promote fish. Regarding the disqualification of parents, having more than two children, contesting local body elections, the collector said “Only parents of such children born after the date of implementation of the regulation will be barred from contesting". Meanwhile, the Kerala Assembly is likely to pass a resolution urging the Centre to address the concerns of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lakshadweep-administration-defends-controversial-orders-990720.html
27-05-2021||South||TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu slams Andhra Pradesh government over slew of issues||Telugu Desam supremo N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday lashed out at the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh, alleging it was perpetrating state terrorism to mask its undemocratic, autocratic and authoritarians acts. Fundamental rights of citizens and civil liberties were grossly being curtailed while false cases and house arrests have become the order of the day, Naidu alleged, inaugurating Mahanadu, the two-day annual conclave of the TDP. For the second year in a row, the Mahanadu was being held in a virtual mode through videoconferencing due to the prevailing coronavirus pandemic. "The ruling YSR Congress leaders, the police and the rest of the official machinery have been stifling the voice of all sections of people, not to speak of the opposition parties. The state has become so intolerant and unnerved that it is foisting false cases and making house arrests (of opposition leaders) even on slightest pretext," the former Chief Minister alleged. "I myself am spending sleepless nights sometimes because of the unchecked harassment of TDP leaders by the YSRC regime. It is indeed a difficult time for the party, considering how its leaders and activists are being put to physical, psychological and financial duress. But, everybody should know how those violating all laws and norms would eventually face much greater punishment," Naidu said. He referred to the arrest of senior TDP leaders K Atchhannadiu, Dhulipalla Narendra, J C Prabhakar Reddy, Chintamaneni Prabhakar and others in allegedly false cases. Even the YSRC's own MP K Raghu Ramakrishna Raju was not spared and booked on sedition charge and beaten up by the police in custody, he charged. "This exposed the lowest levels to which democracy has declined in AP. As a responsible opposition party, the TDP will continue to fight against these atrocities. The police and the government, who are violating the laws, will eventually be held accountable to the people," the Leader of Opposition asserted. The TDP chief also came down on the Jagan Mohan Reddy government over its inept handling of the Covid-19 crisis, because of which people were dying due to lack of oxygen and even hospital beds. "This Chief Minister has no foresight or concern for the lives of people. Neither is he bothered about the stability and sustainability of AP," Naidu said. On the first day, the TDP discussed various subjects like Covid-19 and the failure of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in handling it, state terrorism and breakdown of law and order, mounting debt and enhanced taxes and the fate of capital Amaravati. With regard to Telangana, the party discussed the agricultural crisis in the state and the drastic cuts in the welfare budgets for various downtrodden sections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-chief-chandrababu-naidu-slams-andhra-pradesh-government-over-slew-of-issues-990725.html
27-05-2021||South||Talks of Congress leadership change gain momentum in Kerala||As Congress national leadership is trying to ascertain reasons for the party's poor performance in Kerala Assembly elections, discussions have begun in the state unit of Congress on a leadership change. Ramesh Chennithala was already replaced with V D Satheesan as leader of Opposition and demand for replacing Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and UDF convenor M M Hassan was being raised by a section in the party. Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran is the front runner for the Kerala PCC president post, even as some other leaders like Lok Sabha MP Kodikunnil Suresh are under consideration. The panel led by Congress leader Ashok Chavan appointed by the party high command to find reasons for the party's poor performance in the election has started the exercise by collecting versions of leaders individually online. In an interesting move, Chennithala who gave his version to the committee on Wednesday, made a social media post hailing Mullappally Ramachandran. Chennithala maintained that the responsibility of Ramachandran in the party's performance would come only upon him and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy who led the party. He was learnt to have told the panel that organisational weaknesses, projection of Covid and flood relief measures by the LDF government and CPM-BJP understandings were the key reasons for Congress's poor performance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/talks-of-congress-leadership-change-gain-momentum-in-kerala-990777.html
27-05-2021||South||APSRTC sleeper buses converted into Covid-19 care oxygen facilities for remote areas||To provide oxygen support and on-the-spot treatment to patients in remote tribal, hilly areas, the Andhra Pradesh government is refurbishing few of its state transport sleeper buses into Covid-19 care facilities. Two such transformed air-conditioned Vennela buses, renamed as Sanjeevini, each with a 10-bed capacity, would be deployed as a pilot at the Buttayagudem Community Health Centre and KR Puram Primary Health Centre in the West Godavari district. The Jaganmohan Reddy government plans to have at least 10 such buses, each equipped with five O2 concentrators and three AC machines, to extend the Covid-19 care to the remote regions with scarce health care facilities. These buses are planned to be placed in north Andhra districts of East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam. “Since it would be difficult for an ambulance to reach far off hamlets, villages in the forests, hills like that of Araku at a short notice, these buses stationed nearby would help provide immediate medical attention and also oxygen support to the needy patients. If required, patients can be later shifted to the hospitals,” state transport minister Perni Venkataramaiah said, after inspecting Covid-19 care facilities in the bus. Andhra Pradesh is reeling under a surge in cases in the ongoing Covid-19 second wave. Though the daily new positive case numbers have come down below the 20-thousand mark in the last few days, the state reporting over 100 deaths daily has become a concern. The health department reported 16,167 new cases on Thursday morning, out of the 84,224 samples tested. The death toll of the last 24 hours is 104. AP has over 1.86 lakh active cases at present and the total deaths since March last year are 10,531. “These Sanjeevani buses are as per the CM's idea to provide prompt medical support to people in tribal etc areas, in a comfortable environment. Three 1.5 tonne capacity AC machines would be fitted to each AC bus and power would be drawn from external source like from the PHC where the bus stands,” Perni said. The minister said that Greenko, a renewable energy company, has come forward to donate 50 oxygen concentrators and 30 AC machines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/apsrtc-sleeper-buses-converted-into-covid-19-care-oxygen-facilities-for-remote-areas-990827.html
27-05-2021||South||Give IVC on lease, will ensure production of vaccines: Stalin to Modi||Tamil Nadu on Thursday expressed interest in taking on lease the Integrated Vaccines Complex (IVC) on the outskirts of Chennai lying idle for the past nine years with “full operational freedom” to commence production of Covid-19 vaccines through a suitable partner. Chief Minister M K Stalin wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking to hand over the massive facility built by the Centre in an area of 100 acres on lease and rushed Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu and DMK Parliamentary Party leader T R Baalu to New Delhi to meet Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. Built in Chengalpattu in 2012 under the universal immunisation programme, the IVC is a state-of-the-art facility that has the capacity to produce over 585 million vaccine doses a year. The facility, owned by HLL Biotech, is yet to be operationalised and the Centre has called for Expression of Interest (EoI) from vaccine manufacturers to use the facility to produce Covid-19 vaccines. As the country struggles with a shortage of doses, the new Tamil Nadu government explored possibilities of running the plant through a private player. Stalin visited the facility, 60 km from Chennai, on Tuesday and held a meeting with top officials on the issue. In the letter to Modi, Stalin stressed that the IVC should function immediately, as it would substantially enhance the nation's vaccine production capacity and cater to the requirements of the country as a whole and Tamil Nadu in particular. “I wish to propose that the assets of IVC may be handed over to the State Government on lease, without any past liabilities, and with full operational freedom. The State Government will identify a suitable private partner immediately and will make all efforts to commence vaccine production at the earliest,” Stalin told Modi. He further added that a suitable financial arrangement for the Centre to recover a part of its investment can be subsequently worked out, after the commencement of operations. DMK MPs have been writing to the Centre for the past few years about using the facility. In New Delhi, Thennarasu said Goyal has promised to get back to the state in a week's time on our request. “The Centre is also looking for a strategic partner. I think they have not yet got any proposals. They will get back to us on our proposal soon,” Thennarasu said. Baalu said Stalin was very interested in getting the facility operationalised at any cost. “Money is not an issue. We want the plant to be used for producing vaccines as it is the need of the hour,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/give-ivc-on-lease-will-ensure-production-of-vaccines-stalin-to-modi-990834.html
27-05-2021||State||Won't allow Mekedatu project 'at any cost': Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reiterated it would not allow Karnataka to construct a reservoir across River Cauvery in Mekedatu at “any cost”. The remarks by Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan came a day after the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) constituted a four-member committee to visit Mekedatu to check whether any construction activity was on at the site without obtaining necessary permission from departments concerned in the Union government. “The state government will consult lawyers and take a decision. Tamil Nadu will never allow Karnataka to build a reservoir across Cauvery in Mekedatu. We will not allow this at any cost,” Durai Murugan said. In their order, Justice K Ramakrishnan, and Expert Member Dr K Satyagopal, a retired IAS officer of the Tamil Nadu cadre, said the committee would inspect the area in question and submit a factual as well as action taken report, if any violation is found. The report should be submitted on or before July 5. “The committee is also directed to go into the question as to whether any construction activity as alleged in the media report has been started without obtaining necessary clearance from the Forest Department as well as from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change under the Forest Conservation Act as well as the EIA Notification, 2006,” the order had said. The proposed reservoir is yet another source of friction between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wont-allow-mekedatu-project-at-any-cost-tamil-nadu-990420.html
27-05-2021||State||Poor people can’t pay Rs 1,200 for Covid vaccine: HC to Karnataka govt||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday questioned the state government’s policy of limiting vaccine administration to second dosage recipients and allowing persons in 18-44 age group to get vaccines from private hospitals by paying over Rs 1,000. The court asked whether such a rule will not violate the Constitution. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar was hearing a suo motu case registered on the basis of letters of complaint received by the court. When informed about the policy that allows people in 18-44 age group to get vaccine form private hospitals while limiting government vaccination to the second dose recipients, the court asked whether this doesn’t violate Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution. It noted that poor people, especially those in crowded slums, would not be able to shell out Rs 1,200 for the vaccine while a privileged person facing low risk can get the vaccine because he can pay. “Can the central government remain silent on the matter,” it asked. The bench asked whether the government has the power to allocate vaccine to private hospitals form within the 50% quota set by the vaccine makers. It also sought to know whether a person who buys first dose in a private hospital, is allowed to get the second dose in government hospital. Additional Solicitor General Aiswarya Bhati said people can get the second dose from either hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/poor-people-can-t-pay-rs-1200-for-covid-vaccine-hc-to-karnataka-govt-990431.html
27-05-2021||State||Doreswamy, a tireless fighter for rights||Keeping the conscience of Karnataka till the end and actively taking part in movements against the oppression of people’s rights until last year, centenarian freedom fighter and an untiring activist H S Doreswamy was indeed a force to reckon with. Remaining at the forefront of several citizens’ struggles, the 103-year-old Gandhian, who died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday in Bengaluru, was close to the hearts of many in Karnataka. Strongly influenced by Gandhian ideology since his childhood, Doreswamy fought against injustice throughout his life — before and after Independence. Like he fought against the British during the Quit India movement by planting time bombs, Doreswamy also took on elected governments for their lopsided policies affecting the lives of the people. Often coming under attack by the ruling leaders, Doreswamy always said, “I do not belong to any political party and my struggle is only for the welfare of the people.” Perhaps it was this life of struggle that historian Ramachandra Guha described Doreswamy as the ‘conscience of Karnataka’. Born in Harohalli on the outskirts of Bengaluru, Doreswamy lived much of his life in Mavalli and Jayanagar and saw Bengaluru evolve into a global city from a small town then. Though Doreswamy, with a degree in science from the Central College of Bengaluru began teaching mathematics and physics, it was the call of Mahatma Gandhi that made him plunge into the freedom movement. Ever since, he remained a fighter till his last, even taking part in protests against the CAA and the farmers’ bill at the age of 102. Taking on the British in revolutionary style by bombing British Record Rooms and serving prison sentences, Doreswamy led several citizens’ movements in independent India. In fact, fighting against the Emergency, Doreswamy was jailed for four months. His active participation in the Bhoodan movement, the struggle for the unification of Karnataka and the JP movement, made him popular. For a brief period, he was also the face of Bengaluru Mill workers’ struggle and championed the labourer causes along with other leaders. Doreswamy also ran a publication ‘Pauravani’ highlighting the problems faced by common people and drew the attention of the rulers. Not a man known to rest on his past deeds, Doreswamy led different struggle at the cusp of the millennium. Be it the struggle to rid the government land from the clutches of the land sharks or safeguarding the water bodies of Bengaluru, he walked the streets vehemently opposing the government’s decisions. While the whole of India stood against Corruption under the leadership of Anna Hazare at Delhi, the whole of Karnataka was held united by Doreswamy for several days. Regardless of his age and health, he never hesitated to hit the streets to stand against injustice. Reacting strongly against communalisation of politics and suppression of people’s freedom of expression Doreswamy had even cautioned many elected representatives who tried to discredit his fight for the country’s Independence for his bitter remarks against the Centre and its anti-people and anti-farmer policies. Though the sudden demise of his wife Lalithamma in 2019 left him disappointed, Doreswamy was back at what he is known for and always took part in events and programmes at any time of the day. Remaining fit through his life, Doreswamy complained of breathlessness and uneasiness at the beginning of May and was admitted to Jayadeva Hospital where he tested positive for Covid. Similar to his life of struggle, he had even won the battle against Covid and was discharged. But he was admitted again on May 14 following uneasiness and bronchitis. While he was responding to treatment and recovering fast, he died of Cardiac arrest on Wednesday afternoon. He is survived by a son and a daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/doreswamy-a-tireless-fighter-for-rights-990446.html
27-05-2021||State||Local networks more powerful than online influencers: Scientist||Social media superstars may be renowned for having the power to influence people, but it is local and modestly connected people who have the real power to mobilise ideas and causes, a scientist said. This understanding is important to addressing problems like vaccine hesitancy while deciphering how social change groups like Black Lives Matter and the US Capitol Hill attackers mobilise support, the scientists added. Speaking on Wednesday at an online lecture organised by the US Consulate General, Chennai, in partnership with Science Gallery Bengaluru, Damon Centola, a Professor of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, said breakthroughs in new science over the last 10 to 20 years had prompted paradigm shifts in the study of people. “Instead of studying people as individuals, we have started studying people as collectives,” Professor Centola said, adding previous attempts to understand the dynamics of social change had erred by considering people on an individual scale. “Consider a school of fish. You observe their collective behavior. You study each of these fish faces individually. If you are able to know all the physiological and neurological data about each of these fish, would you then be able to predict after you put them together how they produced their magnificent complex adaptive behavior? The answer is no,”he said. “Instead, we need to study the collective process as a whole,” he said, adding that adopting this new strategy could help address vaccine hesitancy. “If you want to get people to adopt vaccination, the way to do it is not by targeting influencers. Instead, a more effective method is to go to local neighborhood networks to get the message across,” he said. Professor Centola is the author of Change: The Power in the Periphery to Make Big Things Happen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/local-networks-more-powerful-than-online-influencers-scientist-990447.html
27-05-2021||State||Covid-19 vaccine quota to private entities: Karnataka HC asks Centre, state to respond||The High Court on Thursday directed the state and central governments to file responses on the question of directions to private entities, entitled to a 25% quota of vaccines. A special division bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, said the real issue will arise when private entities exceed the quota of 25%. It was informed to the court that a person in the 18-44 years age group is unlikely to get the first dose, unless he/she belongs to either frontline or priority category. Similarly, those who have taken the first dose of Covishield or Covaxin, will have to wait for the second dose till such a date is communicated to them. The court said that a person, who otherwise will not get the vaccine within the quota provided by the government, may get the vaccine at a private entity. The governments have to take note of this situation in view of Article 14 of the Constitution. The court said the private entities in the state have exceeded the quota by 18,000 doses. The Centre submitted that if the private entities do not exhaust their quota in some states that can be given to those in other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccine-quota-to-private-entities-karnataka-hc-asks-centre-state-to-respond-990809.html
27-05-2021||State||Covid-19: Caseload crosses 25L mark in Karnataka, 24,214 new cases||The number of Covid-19 infections in Karnataka on Thursday crossed the 25 lakh mark, as the state recorded 24,214 new cases and 476 fatalities, the health department said. The day also saw 31,459 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of the new cases, 5,949 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 6,643 discharges and 273 deaths. As of May 27 evening, cumulatively 25,23,998 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 27,405 deaths and 20,94,369 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. Active cases stood at 4,02,203. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 17.59 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.96 per cent. Ballari accounted for 22 deaths, Mysuru (18), Belagavi and Dharwad (15), Tumakuru (14), Bengaluru Rural and Uttara Kannada (13), followed by others. Mysuru logged 2,240 new cases, Hassan 1,505, Tumakuru 1,219, Belagavi 1,147, Udupi 905, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,43,878, followed by Mysuru (1,36,688) and Tumakuru (99,358). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 9,25,066, followed by Mysuru 1,18,387 and Tumakuru 83,376. A total of over 2,91,98,945 samples have been tested so far,of which 1,37,643 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-caseload-crosses-25l-mark-in-karnataka-24214-new-cases-990858.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt sets up 13-member panel to tackle third Covid wave||The state government on Wednesday notified a 13-member committee headed by eminent cardiologist and founder of Narayana Health Dr Devi Shetty to analyse, advise and control a possible third Covid-19 wave in Karnataka. The panel has eight paediatricians (including one paediatric intensivist, one child psychiatrist, one paediatric pulmonologist, and one neonatologist), one cardiothoracic surgeon, one cardiologist, two epidemiologists, and one oncologist. Asked about the constitution of the committee despite statements from national bodies like the Indian Academy of Paediatrics that the third wave may not affect children much, one of the two public health specialists on the committee, who refused to be named, said, "Right now, there is no concrete evidence available on which group will be affected but it is good to remain prepared." Dr Srikanta J T, paediatric pulmonologist, Aster Group of Hospitals, Bengaluru, one of the members, said, "Our aim should be primordial prevention, meaning we should see to it that the third wave does not come at all. We have to vaccinate our population to the extent possible before the third wave because we have seen in the US, UK and Israel that people are going about their normal lives without masks because they're vaccinated. We need to speed up research for paediatric vaccines and protect them as soon as possible." Dr Jagdish Chinnappa, paediatric consultant, Manipal Hospital, Old Airport Road, another member, said Maharashtra had also constituted a similar committee led by paediatricians.  "We need to minimise the impact on children. Data coming out of countries that have had multiple waves suggest that children or younger adults are more vulnerable. We should not be caught unprepared like the second wave. There is a pyramid structure of the disease pattern in children all over the world; 10-15% will need oxygen and 1-2% will need critical care," he said. "We need to create hubs in all district hospitals, which is capable of handling oxygenation. Further, they need to be referred to speciality hospitals. Primarily, a child with Covid in a paediatric ICU will need ventilation," he said. The other members of the committee are Sathish Girimaji, Basavaraj G V, Ashish Sathapathy, Ajaykumar, Aravind Shenoi, Raghunath U, Yogananda Reddy, Vinod H Ratageri, Prem K Mony and P G Girish.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-sets-up-13-member-panel-to-tackle-third-covid-wave-990439.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||ISEC study flags laxity in enforcement of biomedical waste management rules||The surge of Covid-19 patients in various healthcare facilities across India has led to an increase in the quantity of biomedical waste. But despite strict rules, the lack of enforcement may lead to a large-scale negative impact on the society and environment. Researchers of the Institute of Social and Economic Change (ISEC) have flagged the weak monitoring system and low accountability in the implementation of the biomedical waste management rules during Covid. The study relied on a literature review to identify issues surrounding biomedical waste generated after the pandemic hit the country. Before Covid, 0.3 to 1 kg biomedical waste (BMW) was generated per bed per day. "Statements of medical practitioners revealed approximately 15 times increase in BMW in case of treating Covid-19 patient, from 4.5 kg to 15 kg of such waste per bed every day," it said. As most of the medical waste in India is handled by third-party organisations linked to municipalities, capacities, and compliance of those organisations play a major role in the safe management of the waste. Incineration is the preferred way to dispose of biomedical waste. But, the study warned incomplete burning can result in production of dioxins which will have an adverse impact on human health. Sunil Nautiyal, the lead researcher, said the government should set up flying squads to inspect hospitals and incinerators. "In terms of rules and policies, we have everything in place. But wide gaps in enforcement defeat such efforts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/isec-study-flags-laxity-in-enforcement-of-biomedical-waste-management-rules-990449.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet stalls Jindal land deal||The Karnataka Cabinet has put on hold its previous decision to sell 3,667 acres of land to JSW Steel Ltd in Ballari amid opposition from within the ruling BJP and petitions pending in various courts. "We had taken a decision in the previous Cabinet (to sell the land). The decision is now on hold as it was not confirmed in this Cabinet meeting," Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, briefing reporters.  On April 26, the Cabinet agreed to sell 3,667 acres of land allotted to the Sajjan Jindal-led JSW Steel Ltd in Ballari, and the saffron party had opposed when it was in the opposition. This land deal had run into controversy in 2019 when the Congress-JD(S) coalition wanted to go ahead with the lease-cum-sale agreement. This decision came after party MLAs wrote to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa earlier this month urging the government to drop the land deal. An activist has also filed a Public Interest Litigation on this and based on a High Court direction, notices were served to all Cabinet ministers. "The Cabinet, in its wisdom looking into the pending cases, has taken this decision," Bommai said, noting that a petition on the issue was also pending in the Supreme Court. On whether the state can alter its decision in the future, Bommai said that it was unclear. "There are a lot of cases...Based on the outcome of cases, we will take a decision in the future," he said.  In 2005-06, the government decided to give on lease-cum-sale arrangement 2,000.58 acres of land to JSW Steel. In 2007, when HD Kumaraswamy was the chief minister and Yediyurappa the industries minister, another 1,666.73 acres were allotted to the company at Toranagallu, Kurekuppa, Moosenayakanahalli and Yarabanahalli villages in the Ballari district.  In 2019, the Congress-JD(S) coalition decided to convert the lease into a sale. The BJP, then in the opposition, had accused the coalition of selling the land at a throwaway price of Rs 1.22-1.50 lakh per acre. Some BJP MLAs went up in arms after the Yediyurappa Cabinet took a U-turn and approved the land deal. Earlier this month, BJP MLAs Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Arvind Bellad, K Poornima, Uday Garudachar and others wrote a strongly-worded letter to Yediyurappa, terming the decision as “against the interest of the state” and that it was contrary to the BJP’s fight against corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-stalls-jindal-land-deal-990585.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||My Delhi trip has nothing to do with leadership change in Karnataka: Yogeeshwara||Karnataka Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara, whose visit to New Delhi triggered latest round of speculations about attempts to replace Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, on Thursday said it was to discuss his own political future with national leaders and had nothing to with leadership change in the state. However, he dodged the question on his support to Yediyurappa on the leadership issue, saying he will share his opinion at the party forum when the matter comes up. "I keep going to Delhi and come back, everything I can't say in front of the media. In the days to come and when the situation arises, I will tell.. I don't know from where these discussions (leadership change) started and why...," Yogeeshwara said. Asked if there will be leadership change, he said he shared "no such opinion or feelings", and reiterated that his attempt was to air his concerns within the party framework to the high command and not to accuse or blame anyone. ".. Chief Minister change is not my intention, I don't have that strength also, my concern is whether I can win the 2023 election given the situation today.. there is some kind of understanding happening with those, whom we had to face ably. As it may become an impediment in the future, I'm bringing it to the notice of those concerned now itself," he said. However, when questioned whether he will support Yediyurappa on the issue of leadership change, he said, "when it comes let's see, why now itself? when that question comes up I will share my opinion at the party forum, can't say it before the media." According to reports, the BJP's central leadership had refused to meet Yogeeshwara and Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad, who were said to be camping in Delhi seeking appointment to express the feeling of some legislators against Yediyurappa's style of functioning and request them to rein in the Chief Minister. They were even reportedly conveyed not to come to Delhi on this issue. Repeatedly stating that his visit to Delhi was on personal issues and not leadership change, Yogeeshwara said he had nothing to do with Bellad's visit, and that he was on his own. Noting that BJP has made him MLC, Minister, he said he is hoping to contest the 2023 polls, and has some issues of concern to be shared with the leadership. Observing that he had brought them to Yediyurappa's notice also, Yogeeshwara further reminded that he had told soon after becoming MLC that this government doesn't look like "pure BJP government and was emerging as the three party government." "I will not speak about the issues openly before the media, I want to discuss it within the party forum," he said as he clarified that he was not referring to those who have come from other parties, but about having an understanding with opposition parties. The Minister was apparently referring to local politics at his home turf of Channapatna in Ramanagara district, where JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy and state Congress President D K Shivakumar are his bitter opponents. He faced defeat in Chennapattana constituency against Kumaraswamy in 2018 assembly polls as BJP candidate. He was once considered Shivakumar's protege and had now turned political foe. Earlier, he had also claimed that top leaders of JD(S) and Congress were indirectly supporting the state government and were indulging in "adjustment politics".    When reporters repeatedly asked as to what was the issue he is facing that had to be taken up with the high command, Yogeeshwara said it is not regarding him not being made Ramanagara district incharge minister, but the BJP coming back to power in 2023. ".. I'm a Minister, I can't accept if my son is exercising my powers. In the same way I can't agree to someone else exercising powers in my name and in my jurisdiction. I think you (the media) understand the sensitivities," he said, without elaborating. In recognition of his role in "managing" Congress-JD(S) rebel MLAs in Mumbai, which eventually led to BJP coming to power, Yogeeshwara was rewarded with an MLC nomination in July last year, and was subsequently made Minister by Yediyurappa, despite stiff resistance by several party MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/my-delhi-trip-has-nothing-to-do-with-leadership-change-in-karnataka-yogeeshwara-990705.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah demands Karnataka minister Basavaraj Bommai's resignation, claims he is protecting Ramesh Jarkiholi||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday demanded resignation of state Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai alleging that he was protecting the Gokak BJP MLA and former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in the alleged sex-for-job scam. He also demanded the arrest of Jarkiholi and a court monitored probe into the case which should also look into the role of others including ministers and police officers. Jarkiholi had resigned as minister on March 3 a day after an activist alleged that he had raped a woman on the pretext of offering her a government job. Subsequently, a video of the alleged sex scandal surfaced. The woman had later lodged a police complaint that she was raped on March 26. "Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai is protecting Ramesh Jarkiholi in the alleged sex-for-job scandal. Because of him, he has not been arrested so far. He has no moral right to continue as Home Minister.I demand his resignation," Siddaramaiah, who is leader of opposition in the Karnataka Assembly, said. Alleging that the Special Investigation Team led by additional police commissioner of Bengaluru Soumendu Mukherjee has been disbanded, he said another court monitored investigation should take place.   "I demand that this investigation should continue by a legitimate agency under the supervision of the Karnataka High Court. The accused must be arrested immediately as per the provisions of the law," the Congress leader said. Siddaramaiah demanded that the investigation should also probe the role of ministers, police officers and others who are allegedly protecting him. Jarkiholi has said the videos were doctored and that he saw a conspiracy to defame him and remove him from the ministerial position.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-demands-karnataka-minister-basavaraj-bommais-resignation-claims-he-is-protecting-ramesh-jarkiholi-990724.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to challenge NGT's decision to constitute a panel on Mekedatu project||The Karnataka government on Thursday decided to challenge before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) its decision to set up a panel to look into the alleged violations at Mekedatu, the proposed site for construction of a dam across the Cauvery river, with a plea to recall the order. "...based on a media report, NGT decided to constitute a team to conduct the inspection, it is unreasonable, we have decided to challenge the order before the same NGT. Our plea will be to recall the order," Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said "there is a question of law and other things, which our legal team will take care of." The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa that was attended by Advocate General, Chief Secretary, Irrigation Department Secretary, senior legal and irrigation experts, among others. The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal on Tuesday had formed a committee to submit a report on alleged violation of norms at the proposed construction site of the reservoir, across the Cauvery river at Mekedatu in Karnataka. Mekedatu is a Multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project, raising apprehensions that the state will be affected if the project takes shape. The project once completed is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighboring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power, and the estimated cost of the project is Rs 9,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-challenge-ngts-decision-to-constitute-a-panel-on-mekedatu-project-990769.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cabinet approves drinking water projects worth Rs 6,000 crore||The Cabinet on Thursday approved multi-village drinking water projects in five districts worth Rs 6,096.85 crore being implemented under the Jal Jeevan Mission. The scheme is expected to benefit 27 towns and 4,647 villages and small settlements. Two underground drainage projects worth Rs 672 crore at Holalkere and Byndoor were also approved. All this will cover a population of 57 lakh. The projects will be funded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). According to Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, the multi-village drinking water projects will be under NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance. Drinking water schemes at Raichur district are projected to cost Rs 1,988 crore, two projects in Vijayapura district will cost Rs 1,431.48 crore and Rs 954.51 crore. Projects in Mandya and Dharwad districts will cost Rs 690.36 crore and Rs 1,032.49 crore, respectively. These projects aim to provide 10.83 lakh functional household tap connections. This was first approved when the Congress-JD(S) coalition was in power. It was then called Jaladhaare. Back then, Kolar was chosen before it was replaced with Dharwad owing to the lack of a water source. The underground drainage project at Holalkere will cost Rs 276 crore and whereas the one in Byndoor will cost Rs 396 crore. The drinking water schemes are expected to be completed in 30 months, Eshwarappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-approves-drinking-water-projects-worth-rs-6000-crore-990805.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to offer more sops to EV segment, energy storage units||To lure investors in the electric vehicle segment, the Cabinet on Thursday approved amendments to the Karnataka Electric Vehicle (EV) and Energy Storage Policy 2017, offering production-linked subsidy and payment of 15% value of fixed assets to enterprises. According to changes proposed to the policy, the government will offer 15% of the value of fixed assets (VFA) for a firm. The land limit for the incentive will be 50 acres, and will be paid in five annual instalments. Apart from that, enterprises involved in manufacturing EV cells, battery pack and modules, charging infrastructure equipment and battery swapping equipment will get production-linked subsidy of 1% on turnover. This shall be for a period of five years, starting from the first year of commercial operations of a firm. The Cabinet also approved amendments to the Town and Country Planning Act. As per this, until the development of a layout is completed, all corner sites will be in the custody of local authorities. Once the layout is completely developed and sites distributed to applicants, the corner sites will be released to the developer, according to Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Other Cabinet decisions Rs 90 cr for ultra-high-temperature milk processing plant at Haveri under PPP model Rs 58.22 cr for Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences to facilitate increase in PG seats Rs 75 cr for commercial complex at Singasandra, Bengaluru Rs 26.30 cr for modern market at Kalaburagi Rs 144 cr for development of lakes in and around Hassan Rs 25.70 cr for white-topping Kenchenahalli main road in Bengaluru, which connects Mysuru Road to Uttarahalli||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-offer-more-sops-to-ev-segment-energy-storage-units-990808.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jobs given to family members of teachers who died of Covid-19||The family members of the 130 government school teachers, who died due to Covid-19, have been given the appointment orders for jobs on compassionate grounds. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar issued appointment orders to the family members of the deceased teachers here on Thursday. “Losing teachers is not just a loss for schools, but for the students and for society. To extend help for the families of such teachers, we have decided to give their family members a job in the department on compassionate grounds,” Suresh Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jobs-given-to-family-members-of-teachers-who-died-of-covid-19-990812.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi reeling under high Covid test positivity rate||As Covid-19 numbers officially recede from Bengaluru Urban, several districts have been bearing the brunt of infections. Among them is Belagavi, which has been reporting the highest test positivity rate in the state since the start of May. Initially starting out with a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of 1.1% between March 14 and 21, the district's Covid-19 cases began to surge and low testing resulted in the test positivity rate climbing out of control. Between May 13 and 19, as per data from the State Covid War room, the district's test positivity rate was staggering 61.59%, and has only recently reduced to 44.5%, after the district scaled up its testing to catch outlying cases. Covid-19 cases, which were initially low, climbed to 2,234 on May 19, before coming down slightly in recent days. Deputy Commissioner, M G Hiremath, said that the launching of house-to-house testing across 135 villages in the district had found new cases but had also reduced the test positivity rate. "The fact is that the number of cases that we were finding have come down as we increased our testing. Earlier we were getting about 2,000 cases. On Saturday and Sunday, we averaged only about a thousand new cases per day," he said. On Monday, only 747 cases were found despite the increase in testing. District officials believe they now have the situation under control. However, increasing testing in an area where cases are declining are not necessarily useful, experts said. "The test positivity rate is a reflection of several things and it depends on which stage of the curve the district is in. If case numbers are ascending, the test positivity rate will be high if testing is low. In the descending phase of the outbreak, the case numbers will be low but if testing is increased, the TPR will fall," explained the noted epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu.  Dr Babu said that he had also seen a trend whereby officials increase testing numbers after the surge is over, which serves to dramatically reduce the test positivity rate. "On the positive side, it helps with better containment," he said. Hiremath added that infection spread from people from neighboring Maharashtra had also been curtailed. “We have strict protocols at places along the border. Nobody is allowed to enter without a negative RT-PCR certificate,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-reeling-under-high-covid-test-positivity-rate-990813.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Labour department approves Rs 749 crore aid for construction workers||Following Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's announcement of providing Rs 3,000 financial support to all construction workers to compensate for the lockdown period, the labour department has given its administrative approval to release Rs 749 crore for the purpose. About 24.98 lakh construction workers, registered with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare Board, will benefit from it. The money will be credited directly to their accounts, the department said. The department has asked the Board to ensure that the amount is released to all registered workers without any delay, while at the same time crosschecking identity proofs of the beneficiaries to ensure that only genuine beneficiaries get the money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-labour-department-approves-rs-749-crore-aid-for-construction-workers-990814.html
27-05-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt opens up home delivery via ecommerce||The state government has tweaked its lockdown guidelines to allow the delivery of "all items" through ecommerce platforms such as Flipkart and Amazon. Till now, only essential items could be delivered. Also, movement of advocates, their paralegal personnel, clerks and other support staff is allowed during court working days only on producing ID cards or authorisation letter. Offices of advocates/law firms are permitted to function with 50% of staff strength.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-opens-up-home-delivery-via-ecommerce-990815.html
27-05-2021||West||Dharavi does it again, now battles second Covid wave||Considered to be Asia’s largest slum cluster, Dharavi has yet again shown the way in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The Dharavi model of Covid-19 management and the vaccination drive is working well in this Mumbai locality. On Wednesday, just three cases were reported in Dharavi while the total active cases are just 62. The progressive total cases in Dharavi stand at 6,798, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). For the Maharashtra government as well as the BMC, Dharavi is a matter of concern but during both the waves, the slum-cluster has come out successfully. Spread over 2.1 sq km, Dharavi, sandwiched between Central and Western suburban railway lines of Mumbai, is a sort of mini-India with over seven to 10 lakh people staying and working here. However, several of them have migrated back to their hometowns – because of the pandemic - waiting for businesses to start in full swing. The first Covid-19 positive case and death from Dharavi was reported on April 1, 2020, when a 56-year-old man died. During the first wave, the highest number of cases was reported on May 3, 2020 when 94 cases were recorded, while in the second wave, the highest number of cases was recorded on April 9, 2021, when 99 cases were found. “Only three new cases at Dharavi…it means Covid-19 is totally under control at Mumbai,” said Dr Rahul Ghule, the founder of One Rupee Clinic. Throughout April-May, 2020, the cases rose but then it was brought down in June-July. In Dharavi, the BMC had adopted the 4Ts strategy, Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating, as part of the ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative to break the cycle. On December 25, for the first time, Dharavi reported zero cases and then subsequently on January 22, 26, 27 and February 2. However, after that the cases are increasing gradually. This year, during the second wave, in April, there has been an increase in cases, however, it has been controlled with the same strategy of screening, testing and isolating. This was coupled with a vaccination drive. In fact, the BMC has set up a separate vaccination centre in Dharavi itself. Dharavi falls in BMC’s G/North administrative ward – and after it had successfully come out during the first wave, it won accolades from the World Health Organisation and the World Bank||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-does-it-again-now-battles-second-covid-wave-990542.html
27-05-2021||West||Bombay HC seeks Maharashtra govt's reply on plea seeking Z-plus security for SII CEO Adar Poonawalla||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to respond to a petition filed by an advocate seeking Z-plus security for Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of the Serum Institute of India (SII) which manufactures the Covishield vaccine against Covid-19. The petitioner will have to bear in mind while arguing this matter that "India has a good reputation and such proceedings will have an international impact", the HC said. A vacation bench of Justices S S Shinde and N R Borkar noted that Poonawalla was doing a great service to the nation. The Union government has already granted 'Y' category security to the Pune-based industrialist. The bench said, "He (Poonwalla) is doing a good job. As per our knowledge, he has been given Y-Plus security already. The petitioner is seeking Z-plus security. If it is necessary then the state will give (more security)." The HC directed the government to respond to the plea, filed earlier this month by advocate Datta Mane. It posted the petition for further hearing on June 1. Mane in his petition had also sought a direction to police to register an FIR and carry out a probe into the alleged threat to Poonawalla over the supply of vaccine. If vaccine makers feel unsafe, it could affect the vaccine production, the petition had said. It said Poonwalla and his family left India and went to London due to the threats they had been receiving. Poonawalla had said in a recent interview to The Times that he has been receiving threats and pressure from 'powerful people' seeking vaccine doses on priority. The bench on Thursday also sought to know what locus (standing) did Mane have in filing the petition. To this, Mane's advocate Pradeep Havnur said any person can set the criminal law in motion. The court noted that Poonawalla's father in an interview said he has gone to London for a break. "The petitioner will have to bear in mind while arguing this matter that India has a good reputation and such proceedings will have an international impact," the HC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-seeks-maharashtra-govts-reply-on-plea-seeking-z-plus-security-for-sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-990609.html
27-05-2021||West||Tejpal case: Bombay HC asks sessions court to redact references to survivor's identity in judgement||A vacation bench of Justice S C Gupte was hearing an appeal filed by the Goa government, challenging the May 21 judgement passed by sessions judge Kshama Joshi acquitting Tejpal in the case. Tejpal, former editor-in-chief of Tehelka, was accused of sexually assaulting his then-colleague in the lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in 2013 while they were attending an event. Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Goa government, on Thursday told the HC that the observations made in the judgement and most of the findings with regard to the victim were "astonishing". "The judgement, which is yet to be uploaded on the court's website and made public, also in various paragraphs discloses the identity of the victim woman. This is a criminal offence," he said. The judgement discloses names of the victim's mother and husband and also the victim's email ID which indirectly reveals her (survivor) name, Mehta said. Justice S C Gupte said he would take care of this and passed an order saying, "Considering the law against disclosure of identity of victims in such offences, it is in the interest of justice to have these references redacted." "The trial court is accordingly directed to redact the references made in the judgement that disclose the identity of the victim before uploading the judgement on the court's website," Justice Gupte said. Mehta told the court it was sad that the HC has to order this (redaction). "The trial court ought to have been sensitive towards these issues," he said. Criticising the observations and findings in the judgement, Mehta further mentioned that the sessions judge says a victim of sexual offences should display trauma and only then her testimony can be believed. "The system expects sensitivity apart from judicial jurisprudence while dealing with such matters. We owe it to the girls (survivors)," Mehta said. He also questioned references made in the judgement to the survivor's meeting with senior advocate Indira Jaisingh and other women lawyers to discuss the case before recording of her statement with police. "This girl, who is a victim of sexual abuse, had approached senior and reputed advocate Indira Jaisingh. The girl rightly took advice from a woman lawyer. What is wrong with that?" Mehta said. He told the court that the government, considering the seriousness of the matter, filed its appeal even before it received a copy of the judgement. "We received a copy of the judgement only on May 25. We would like to bring the judgement on record and also amend the grounds of challenge in the petition," Mehta said. The court allowed the same and posted the appeal for further hearing on June 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tejpal-case-bombay-hc-asks-sessions-court-to-redact-references-to-survivors-identity-in-judgement-990614.html
27-05-2021||West||Maharashtra govt announces paediatric task force to prepare for Covid-19 third wave||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday announced the setting up of a paediatric task force, comprising 13 experts from the state, to prepare for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, in which children are likely to be affected. Tope in a statement said noted paediatrician Dr Suhas Prabhu will be the chief of the 13-member task force, while Tatyarao Lahane, the director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, will be its member secretary. An order in this regard was issued on Thursday by Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of the public health department, it was stated. Anticipating a third wave of the pandemic, which is likely to affect children in more numbers, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had instructed the public health department to set up a task force of experts to make necessary preparations, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-announces-paediatric-task-force-to-prepare-for-covid-19-third-wave-990636.html
27-05-2021||West||Probe how celebrities procured anti-Covid drugs, Bombay HC tells Maharashtra government||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to investigate how celebrities and politicians procured anti-Covid-19 drugs and injections to help those in need when the same were available only in scarce quantities across the country. A vacation bench of Justices Amjad Sayyad and G S Kulkarni said such celebrities might have had the noble intention of helping others, but only the Union government was authorised to allocate those drugs. These people (celebrities) might not realise that they are acting in defiance of the legal set up, it noted. Therefore, an inquiry must be conducted to rule out issues such as illegal procurement, hoarding, black-marketing and providing spurious drugs. The court's order came after Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, submitted that the state had issued show cause notices to Mumbai Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique, actor Sonu Sood's charity foundation, and some others over the matter. Kumbhakoni said Siddique and Sood had sent their replies saying they neither purchased nor stocked the medicines and injections. "They said they had only acted as facilitators in some cases after paying the cost of the medicines, and in some cases without paying for them. They said that they got in touch with manufacturers," Kumbhakoni told the HC. He said notices had also been issued to Cipla and other manufacturers for allegedly having supplied Remdesivir drug to celebrities. The HC, however, asked how was it possible that celebrities got in touch with manufacturers to get the medicines when the drugs were to be allotted only through the central government. "Can your authorities accept this reply? Is this believable?" the HC asked. Kumbhakoni then said the state's inquiry into the matter was still going on. "We will take the probe to its logical end," he said. The Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, told the bench that the Centre has already questioned the manufacturers of Remdesivir and other anti- Covid-19 drugs and they had denied having supplied them to any politician or celebrity. The court noted that the Sood Charity Foundation said in its reply that it had contacted Cipla and other manufacturers. "Let the state take note of your (UOI) affidavit and carry on with its probe. If celebrities say they got it from manufacturers, but manufacturers deny, then this needs to be investigated," the HC said. The court said the celebrities and politicians in question might have had good intentions, but they could not help citizens while defying a legal set up. "These people (celebrities) might not realise that they are acting in defiance of the entire set up, the legal system," the HC said. The court was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs), seeking proper management of issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic, including streamlining the allocation of drugs and injections. Advocate Rajesh Inamdar, counsel for one of the pleas, told the HC that several such celebrities were even providing drugs for mucormycosis, or black fungus, a serious infection found in several Covid-19 patients. The HC, however, said all of these issues were for the state to look into. "They are not before us as parties so we can't pass any orders against them. But it is the state government's responsibility to caution them, to take undertakings from them," the HC said. "Let the state inquire into all this. All those who want to help, let them help through legal channels," it said. The HC will continue hearing in the matter next week||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/probe-how-celebrities-procured-anti-covid-drugs-bombay-hc-tells-maharashtra-government-990672.html
27-05-2021||West||Maharashtra aims for 10% of new vehicle registrations to be EVs by 2025||To boost electric mobility in the state, the Maharashtra government on Thursday announced that 10 per cent of all newly registered vehicles in its major cities would be electric by 2025. The Maharashtra State Transport Department on Thursday — during a virtual town hall organised to discuss the future of electric mobility — announced key highlights of the draft Electric Vehicles (EV) Policy 2021. Additional Chief Secretary (Transport) Ashish Kumar Singh said that the policy is currently awaiting the final nod from the state cabinet. Singh, who heads the committee drafting the new EV policy, said, “Today Maharashtra’s share of the country’s vehicle registrations is around 12 per cent (32,000) but the size is still not large enough to excite manufacturers. We are keen to take advantage of the schemes by the Government of India, and just like being the leading manufacturers of internal combustion engines, we will soon become a leading manufacturer of EVs too.” He also added that the transport department has already consulted with stakeholders but they are still open to suggestions to the policy from the public. Maharashtra’s new EV policy 2021 draft that targets urban agglomerations -- Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Aurangabad, Pune, Nagpur, and Nashik -- also aim to achieve 25 percent electrification of intra-city public transport and last-mile delivery vehicles by 2025. Under the draft policy, there is also an ambitious plan to convert 15 per cent of the existing fleet of 18,000 Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses to electric over the next five years. The town hall was organised by Climate Voices, a collective of three organisations, Purpose, Asar and Climate Trends along with the Maharashtra Environment and Climate Change Department’s 'Majhi Vasundhara' initiative. It was hosted by the non-profit Waatavaran Foundation & WRI India Ross Centre for Sustainable Cities. “The state intends on making the following four highways and expressways fully EV ready by 2025 including the under-construction Mumbai Nagpur Expressway, Mumbai Pune Express Highway, Mumbai-Nashik, and Nashik Pune,” said Dr Avinash Dhakne, Transport Commissioner, Maharashtra. Furthermore, leading the way, the state government has also proposed that starting April 2022, all new government vehicles will be electric across major cities listed under the draft policy. The share of EVs in new vehicle registrations across the state in 2025 is expected to be 10 per cent for all vehicles, 10 per cent for two-wheelers, 20 per cent for three-wheelers, and 5 per cent for four-wheelers. As per the target, at least one Gigafactory for the manufacturing of advanced batteries in the state will be set up, as per the draft policy. Maharashtra Pollution Control Board Chairman Sudhir Srivastava said, “As the new EV policy is being rolled out by the state, MPCB is undertaking a parallel exercise to build draft rules on recycling lithium-ion batteries and associated electronic waste.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-aims-for-10-of-new-vehicle-registrations-to-be-evs-by-2025-990682.html
27-05-2021||West||Gujarat Congress demands Rs 15,000cr relief package for losses due to cyclone Tauktae||The Congress' Gujarat unit on Thursday demanded that the BJP government in the state should announce an overall relief package of Rs 15,000 crore for people who have incurred losses due to cyclone Tauktae. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to assess damages caused by the cyclone last week had announced an immediate relief of Rs 1,000 crore. Apart from the Centre's financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore, the state government had on Wednesday announced a Rs 500 crore package for farmers who have lost their crops, especially mango and coconut trees, which were uprooted due to gusty winds. A delegation of the Congress, led by the party's state chief Amit Chavda and Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani, called on Governor Acharya Devvrat in Gandhinagar and handed over a memorandum in this regard. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Chavda said the party leaders had urged the governor to convince the BJP government to increase the size of the relief package, as the compensation was announced without taking into consideration the ground realities. "It seems that the relief package has been announced without conducting any survey in the affected areas. The package is negligible against the actual loss to property, houses, businesses and the agricultural sector," the Congress leader said. The state government should declare a package of Rs 15,000 crore to cover all kinds of losses incurred by people, he said. According to the Congress, over 70 lakh fruit trees were uprooted in the cyclone, for which the state government should pay Rs 7,000 crore to farmers. The party also demanded Rs 400 crore relief for cultivators who have lost their standing crops. Over 1 lakh families lost their houses or belongings worth Rs 2,000 crore, while boats worth Rs 500 crore were also destroyed or damaged by the cyclone in the coastal belt, the Congress memorandum stated. Earlier on Wednesday, the state government said it would provide Rs 95,000 to those who have lost their entire houses because of the cyclone, while people whose shanties were destroyed are also entitled to a relief of Rs 10,000. Unhappy with this criterion, the Congress in its memorandum has demanded that the compensation for complete house damage should be Rs 2.5 lakh and the relief for a damaged shanty should be Rs 25,000. One of the most powerful cyclones to hit the western coast in recent times, Tauktae, which made a landfall on Gujarat coast on May 17 and triggered gusty winds and rainfall, damaging crops in 2 lakh hectares in 86 talukas of nine districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-demands-rs-15000cr-relief-package-for-losses-due-to-cyclone-tauktae-990703.html
27-05-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 curbs to continue after June 1, relaxations likely in some areas||In Maharashtra, existing lockdown-type strict restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19 will continue after 1 June, however, in places where cases and positivity rate is less, some relaxations would be given At the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, issues such as the Covid-19 situation in the state, lockdown, and vaccination drive were discussed.  "Instead of lifting lockdown in one go, we will work out how to ease restrictions in the days ahead," officials in the Chief Minister's Office said. “We will allow some relaxations slowly in those districts where cases are very less. The Chief Minister will take a final decision on how these relaxations will be allowed after holding a discussion with the Covid-19 task force,” State Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters. According to Tope, in 21 of the 36 districts, the positivity rate is higher than 20 per cent. Hence, no relaxation would be given in these districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-curbs-to-continue-after-june-1-relaxations-likely-in-some-areas-990726.html
27-05-2021||West||MVA lifts liquor ban from Chandrapur in Vidarbha||In what could snowball into a major political issue, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Thursday decided to lift prohibition from the Chandrapur district in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. The decision was taken at the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who is the Guardian Minister of Chandrapur, informed that the liquor ban in the district is being lifted. The erstwhile BJP-led government of Devendra Fadnavis has banned liquor in the district on April 1, 2015.   After public representations, senior BJP leader and the then Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar had rooted for the ban. Chandrapur became the third district of the state to prohibit liquor after Wardha and Gadchiroli, both in the Vidarbha region. There is prohibition in Wardha because of its close connections with Mahatma Gandhi (he had stayed in the Sevagram Ashram for several years) and Gadchiroli because of public demand in the Maoist-hit district since 1992. After the ban, the then BJP-Shiv Sena government had assured to appoint a committee to study the issue following a discussion in the state assembly in July 2018. The MVA government in January 2021, set up a 13-member expert committee, headed by retired Principal Secretary Ramanath Jha which submitted its report on March 9, 2021. According to the findings of the Jha Committee, the implementation of the ban has been largely unsuccessful and illegal liquor and counterfeit liquor are becoming available on the black market in the district. The ban has also increased the black market of liquor. The spurious liquor was also affecting the health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-lifts-liquor-ban-from-chandrapur-in-vidarbha-990835.html
